ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-18-m0.u1	Good morning! I'm asking everyone to come into the hall and get ready for registration. So, are your colleagues ready? Colleagues, please take up your jobs. Conduct the registration. Please register. [[10:03:14]] 343 national deputies registered. The morning plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Today is the birthday of our colleague, National Deputy Roman Sergiyovich Romanyuk. Welcome to your birthday. [[Applause]] Colleagues, we also have to remember that in the Ukrainian city of Kerch, which is under Russian occupation, there was a terrible disaster: a crazy bloody tragedy took 20 people's lives, and most of them are children. There has never been such a thing in the Ukrainian Crimea. The madness of the Russian world struck innocent children. It's our pain, it's our children. And I express my sympathy to my family and to the closeness of innocent victims. Colleagues, we honor the memory of the dead. [[A Minute of Silence]] Thank you. I would like to remind you that we are continuing to consider draft Law 8060. But before I invite the head of the committee of Ivanchuk to the rostrum, I announce that I've come to the presidency for a break from two factions, they're willing to replace it for the performance, it's from the faction of Fatherland and the faction of Self-Help. Alexander Shevchenko is invited to attend. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-18-m0.u2	Dear colleagues of the national MPs, the patriots of Ukraine, last week, we lacked just a few votes to put into order the daily session of the draft ban bill in Ukraine on the propaganda of the Nazi-Shinist ideology of the "Russian world", an ideology that the Kremlin leaders today base their expansion in Ukraine on the basis of their conquest of war on our land. I am convinced that this bill will support the vast majority of the Ukrainian people. I know he's supported by most of the members of the Supreme Council. The bill prohibiting the propaganda of the ideology of the "Russian world" is expected and relevant, because after the victory of Maidan since the 14th year, the preachers of the "Russian world" have been disorganized and are said to have gone underground. But today they have taken courage to raise their head again, dreaming of a political rematch. Its relevance was demonstrated by the hysteria of the state-of-the-art propaganda channels of Russia TV. Once again, I would like to stress that the bill banning propaganda in Ukraine is not directed against people of all nationalities, only against the imperial, Nazi ideology, which is to blame, along with its Moscow-owned adepts, for the deaths of tens of thousands of patriots, Ukrainian citizens of all nationalities: Ukrainians, Russians, Jews, Georgians, Armenians, Hungarians, Romanians and other patriots and heroes of Ukraine -- all those who have always lived in peace and harmony on Ukrainian soil. I am convinced that this bill today must unite the Supreme Council Hall. Therefore, I ask you, the honourable Head of the Supreme Council, to put to the vote the question of putting into order the daily bill 9139, to consider it and to adopt it today as a whole. Glory to Ukraine! Glory be to her protectors!
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-18-m0.u3	Thank you. So, colleagues, we're continuing our consideration of the draft Ukrainian Code of Bankruptcy. And I invite Ivanchuk to the rostrum. And I want to remind you that we stopped at Amendment 1298. And now I want to invite the author of the amendment. If the author insists, we'll go to her. Yes, please, to the rostrum, Andrew Volodymyrovich, Ukraine awaits your position. And I'm going to read: 1298. The author does not insist. 1297, Demchak. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-18-m0.u4	Amendment 1297. In the first part of article 34, paragraph 4, the words “on the basis of a decision to pay wages, alimony, compensation for damage caused by disability, other damage to the health or death of the person, the author's remuneration, the return of unused and non-refundable public social insurance in due time to temporary loss of work, the decision of immaterial nature” shall be deleted from paragraph 8 and the words “if the retractor is included in the recovery plan”. Please bet on confirmation.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-18-m0.u5	To confirm, it's for the vote. Will you comment, Andry Volodymyrovich?
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-18-m0.u6	The committee. Mr. Head, distinguished national MPs, good afternoon. The committee did not support Mr. Demczak's amendment. So please place it on confirmation.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-18-m0.u7	So I'm voting on amendment 1297 of the Demchak People's Demchak People's Demchak. The committee turned her down. Whoever supports it, please vote. [[10:09:32]] For-56 The decision is not made. Next up, 1299. Alexeyev insists. Turn on Alexey's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-18-m0.u8	Dear Chairman, my 1299 revision provided for the order in which information about the discovery of executive conduct was to be formed. For this process to be normalized, a clear line was defined, who, where, and how to send the relevant information. Requesting a 1299 amendment for confirmation.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-18-m0.u9	Thank you. Please, I'm putting this amendment to the vote because it was rejected by the committee, and author Igor Alexeyev is asking us to support it. I'd like to make a statement, colleagues. [[10:10:46]] For-60 60. Correction rejected. Was it 1299, Mr. Igor? Yes. Next, too. Next Sergey Alekseyeva, 1300. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-18-m0.u10	Dear colleagues, this is a bill that applies to the system of automatic detention. The point is, when the court approves, it takes a long time to execute an arrest warrant. And so the debtors, the non-lethal debtors, have the ability to avoid carrying out this decision about the arrest of funds. The automatic detention system allows automatically after the judge has issued the approval to arrest the funds at the same time, and this ensures the rights of creditors. Please place my bill to confirm and vote for it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-18-m0.u11	Dear colleagues, please proceed with amendment 1300. But before that, a comment was made by the committee head. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-18-m0.u12	Dear colleagues, we have simply removed this cluster of issues completely from the bill, and we have therefore rejected the amendments in view of the fact that there is no subject in the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-18-m0.u13	I'd like to make a statement, colleagues. It's 1300. [[10:12:11]] For-56 Correction Rejected The next one is 1301. Please, Demchak microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-18-m0.u14	My 1301 bill relates to the arrest of the bank's debtors. If there are cases where the debtors are deliberately closing, knowing that there will be an arrest of the account, their accounts, and then when the arrest is made, it's like there's no bill and they're opening it up again. In order to avoid such cases, I propose that banks keep information on how to block funds for the entire period of bankruptcy. That is, if the debtor opens such an account in the future, it will be immediately blocked by this order of arrest. Please support my amendment by voting.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-18-m0.u15	Thank you, Your Honor. Please determine for Amendment 1301. [[10:13:30.]] For-66 The correction is being rejected. The next amendment is 1305. The author does not insist. 1304. Please, Igor Alexeyev.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-18-m0.u16	The 1304 edition envisaged changes and additions to the Banking and Banking Act in the context of creating additional mechanisms to ensure an effective process of debt collection in the context of implementing implementation. Edit rejected by the committee, please support.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-18-m0.u17	Please determine for amendment 1304.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-18-m0.u18	It's not rejected, it's counted elsewhere. Thank you. [[10:14:31]] For-48
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-18-m0.u19	Thank you. Another comment was that the committee’s esteemed head was included in the other part. And that's probably why it's supported by 48 deputies. Edit rejected. 1306. A boy, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-18-m0.u20	Once again, 1306 refers to the blocking of funds in the account. And in order to define clearly for banks what information they have to provide upon request by the arbitral officer remaining in the account, please add in article 62 the first part to the following new paragraph: “Part one point 6 after the words “regarding the status of the accounts of a particular legal person or natural person, of a natural person — the subject of entrepreneurial activity” to add “(the status of the account includes: information on the availability or closing of the account, the balance of the accounts, the arrest of the funds held in the account and the suspension of the expenditure on the account)”. Please determine how to vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-18-m0.u21	Thank you, Your Honor. I'm asking you to determine for amendment 1306, colleagues, please identify yourself. [[10:15:43]] For-53 The correction is being rejected. Please, Nestor Schufrich. 1307, please. It's not your amendment, but you insist, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-18-m0.u22	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman. I would like to thank all the Ukrainian people's deputies and today's chairman for having responded in a human way to the tragedy that has happened, unfortunately, in Kerch. Perhaps it would be appropriate to ask the President of Ukraine to announce the day of the complaint in Ukraine tomorrow. I cannot help but remind myself that the extraordinary situation where more than 10 people have died is an extraordinary state-level situation. But it's not about formality, it's about human pain. All of us are in pain at what happened to those children and their teachers and adults in Kerch. Please support the initiative and ask the President of Ukraine to announce the day of mourning tomorrow throughout Ukraine. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-18-m0.u23	Fellows, we once again express our sympathy to all those who have died in Kerch and their families, we want the courage to survive this grief, but at the same time I ask everyone to speak solely on the subject of amendments. You don't insist on correction. And we're moving on. 1309, Demchak. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-18-m0.u24	Amendment 1309 refers again to the arrest of accounts. It is proposed in section III, paragraph 8, of the Final and Transitional Provisions after the words “other” to add “in the ranges envisaged by such a resolution” and after the words “by means of an automated cost arrest system” to “in the ranges provided for in article 62, paragraph 6 of the Act”. Please support the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-18-m0.u25	Please comment to the committee head, Amendment 1309. Please identify yourself as amended by 1309, Your Honor. [[10:18:19]] For-54 The correction is being rejected. The next one is 1310. Please, National Deputy Dovbenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-18-m0.u26	Thank you. I also want to make a statement about the removal of the funds in the bank accounts, and here I am supporting my colleague, Mr. Ruslan Demczak, in this discussion. And I want to say that my application relates to how we can secure a lawsuit. What I'm trying to say is that I'm here on the basis of a court order. And what's more, in this direction, I'm proposing that not only, so the decision to arrest the debtor's funds should come in electronic form, I suggest that this is possible. is made both paper and c. or in electronic form. And I think, given the circumstances in today's banking system, that would be a more correct solution. And I want us to put it to a vote and support this amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-18-m0.u27	Thank you. Please proceed to line 1310. [[10:19:43]] For-53 The correction is being rejected. The next is 1311, Alekseus Sergey. Don't insist. Next amendment to Demchak 1317. I ask the committee head to comment on the amendments. 1317. Are you insisting?
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-18-m0.u28	Yes. Regarding article of the Criminal Code of Ukraine, article 219 c. 1, put it this way: "Responsibility of the debtor to submit knowingly unreliable information in the declaration regarding his property and his family. Paragraph 1: The debtor is informed of unreliable information in the declaration regarding his or her property status and/or his or her family is fined between 2,500 and 3,000 untaxed minimum citizens' income or public works for a term of up to 150. Between 150 and 240 hours. Note. The term "borrower" is used in the sense of Section X of the Code of Bankruptcy. In this regard, paragraph 12 is considered to be paragraph 13. Please support the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-18-m0.u29	The honourable head of the committee, please, your position, the committee, why Amendment 1317 was rejected.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-18-m0.u30	Mr. Ruslan, I completely agree with you. But. Well, we can't be responsible, it's a social law, we're proud of it. And if we start predicting responsibility, punishment, and so on, we are. Yes! That's why we, the committee, rejected your amendment, but we morally support you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-18-m0.u31	Please determine for Amendment 1317. My colleagues, we have literally three adjustments left. I very much ask everyone to return to the session room. And to the heads of factions, please inform the deputies that there will be a vote in a few minutes. Please identify yourself for Amendment 1317. [[10:22:14]] For-55 The correction is being rejected. The next amendment is 1318, Igor Alexiev. A microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-18-m0.u32	The honourable presiding, regulation 1318, was inextricably linked to my previous 1304 bill and envisioned the creation of effective mechanisms to collect information on the accounts of natural and legal persons to ensure that the work of this law was carried out. Unfortunately, she was rejected by the committee. Please be supportive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-18-m0.u33	Please comment to the committee head.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-18-m0.u34	Dear Mr. Alexeiev Igor, we absolutely support this idea. On the committee, we wanted this novel and this institute to be in the codex. But it was also very important for us to reach consensus so that the bill could find support not only in the committee but in the session room. So we decided to remove this block from the law in general, and so your amendments, they stopped being relevant because there's no object. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-18-m0.u35	Thank you. Colleagues, please identify yourself for Amendment 1318. And go back to the session room. The vote will take place in a few minutes under an important codex. [[10:23:51]] For-53 The correction is being rejected. The next one is 1325. National MP Demczak, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-18-m0.u36	Well, there's a whole new entry point on account of the time of entry into force. The main position is: "This code takes effect the day after it was published. Part of the code on bankruptcy of natural persons becomes effective as of January 1st 19th." Please determine how to vote and support it.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-18-m0.u37	Please comment to the committee head, 1325 amendments.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-18-m0.u38	Please bet on confirmation.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-18-m0.u39	I'm betting on the 1325 vote, she was rejected by the committee. Ruslan Demczak is asking his colleagues to support him. Please Be Determined Dear colleagues, please make up your mind. And I remind everyone who's still in the towers that the vote will take place in two minutes literally. [[10:24:54]] For-57 The correction is being rejected. We're left with 2-3 revisions. I very much ask my colleagues to return to the session room. And now Amendment 1332 is the amendment of Igor Aleksiev. I'm sorry. Please, Igor Alexei's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-18-m0.u40	This is my last amendment to this bill. Taking this opportunity, I would like to thank the committee of profile, all the people who were involved in this process, the head of the committee of Andria Ivanchuku, who did the titanium work on the draft bill, and I would like to urge all the deputies to vote in favour of this law. Only one law will allow Ukraine to rise in the Doing Business rating by 10 positions. This is a very important initiative for investing and creating a favourable legislative field in this area. And I don't insist on this amendment, because the previous two of my amendments have been rejected and actually this amendment doesn't make any sense. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-18-m0.u41	Dear colleagues, please determine for amendment 1332. Oh, don't insist, I'm sorry. Colleagues, so loud and loud in the hall that even the presiding officer does not hear the speakers. I'm asking you, who doesn't care about repairs, just be nice. Two last amendments. The Dove People's Deputy. Please turn on the microphone. 1334.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-18-m0.u42	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Vladislav Dove, 197th constituency, Cherkashina. Mr. Chairman of the Committee, I would like to ask for confirmation of my amendment, which concerns the order of validity of Book II, as well as the position in Book I as regards the institution of bankruptcy of a natural person, because it will be a new institution, and yet I propose that we postpone the order of validity of the marked standards for January 1, 2019. So, dear colleagues, I'd like to ask you to support my amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-18-m0.u43	Thank you. Let us put to the vote the amendment of 1334 of the People's Republic of the Pigeon. I'd like to make a statement. [[10:27:22]] For-66 The correction is being rejected. And the last amendment is 1336, the People's Deputy of the Pigeon. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-18-m0.u44	Thank you. Dear Andrey Volodymyrovich, come on. Andrew Volodymyrovich! Andrew Volodymyrovich, with all due respect to you. Right now, we're being presented in the session room with proposals for the Ukrainian Bankruptcy Codex, where some amendments will be proposed for reading under the transcript. Well, I'll say it's written in gray -- it's very hard to tell in this booklet what gray is. But what I want to remind you, however, is that under the Ukrainian Act on the Rules of Procedure of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, there is order and procedure for the third reading. If we have any problems by any standard or position, please send the bill for a third reading in a separate article. And not again, we're going to be in the stenographer's voice to accept some kind of editing -- here's 23 pages. I think it's absolutely wrong, and we have to respect the Ukrainian Act on Rules of Procedure of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-18-m0.u45	Please, Andrew Volodymyrovich. And I'd like everyone to come into the hall, colleagues. Please invite everyone into the hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-18-m0.u46	Dear Mr. Head, dear Mr. Head, distinguished national MPs! Yesterday, when we went through the amendments, I reported that the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s Chief Legal Authority had drawn its conclusion. We were gathering a committee yesterday, gathering a working group, working very long hours to take note of the comments. That's why you're given a board. Attention, distinguished national MPs! The right column, the left column, if you look at the table, is a note by the legal department. In the middle is whether or not we count. Mr. Dove, Mr. Dove, I'm addressing you. This column on the right-hand side is the same thing as the compare table. The committee, we worked late last night, this is all considered very useful by our lawyers at the Supreme Council's Apparatus. So I gave you guys so you wouldn't have to listen to this board, like we agreed yesterday. And to comply with the Rules.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-18-m0.u47	30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-18-m0.u48	before the vote, I will read literally up to 10 minutes 5 pages of text that you can check. If Parliament is determined, it has the right to make this decision, if not - we will vote in favour of the committee's proposed editorial opinion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-18-m0.u49	Do you insist on voting in your turn? I'm putting 1336 to the vote, and the committee rejected it. Whoever supports it, I ask you to vote. [[10:30:36]] For-64 The decision is not taken. This act, your honor, we've completed our discussion of the rights. As noted earlier, and noted the chairman of the committee, Andriy Volodymyrovich, that following the actual long discussion on the committee yesterday, a number of comments were made that came from the National Deputies and a number of comments that were noted by scientific and expert authorities to include in the body of the law. I insisted that these amendments be printed and distributed so that no one would take a vote so that everyone could see and have a text before them, for which the committee would propose to vote. So now, colleagues, I give the floor to the finale of the committee of Ivanchuk Andry Volodymyrovich. He's asking for 10 minutes. And then we go to the vote. Colleagues, we're having a busy day today, so I'm asking everyone to work as hard as they can. Andrew Volodymyrovich, final word, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-18-m0.u50	Thank you. Dear Mr. Head, Andry Volodymyrovich, as we agreed yesterday, we have followed all your instructions. That's why I'm going to read it under the transcript. I want to say, first of all, thank our lawyers at the Supreme Council for helping us to improve and for pointing out the inaccuracies and mistakes, because the bill was very large, understand. Now. In the first part of article 2 of the Code, replace the word "legislative acts" with "laws." In the second part of the second section of the second draft of the Code, the word "reciprocal" should be changed to "reciprocal principle." Paragraph 3 of the second part of article 7 of the draft Code of Showing and Commanding Exclusion. In the first part of article 8 of the draft code, the word "place of residence of the borrower, or of the natural person of the entrepreneur" is replaced by "person or natural person of the entrepreneur." In part four of article 10 of the draft code, replace the word "legislature" with the word "law." In the first part of article 11 of the Code, after the words "economic education," complete "second master's degree." In the codex, the word "examination" is replaced by "adoption." In part eight of article 12 of the Code, the words "the Ministry of Justice of Ukraine along with the authorities" are replaced by "central authorities of executive power." In the second part of the fifth part of article 30 of the Code, after the words "household court", add "at the request of the creditor". In the fifth part of the first part of article 37 of the Code, replace the word “legislature” with “law”. In a code that deals with the cessation of a legal person, the word "legislature" should be replaced by "law." In part three of article 49 of the draft code, the word "accepts" replaces "adopts." In the first part of article 58 of the Code, "adopts" to replace "adopts." In the first part of article 61 of the Code, the text "invents and assesses bankruptcy property" replaces "invents inventory and determines the initial cost of bankruptcy property". In part seven of article 61 of the Code, the word "legislature" should be replaced by "law." Part of article 62 of the Code reads: "The intellectual property rights, exclusive property rights reserved under the higher education facility of the state form of property, are not included in the liquidation mass and are returned from the higher education facility of the state form of property, which contributed them to the statutory capital of the household." In part 10 of article 77 of the Code, replace the word "legislature" with the word "law." In the second part of article 14, paragraph 2, of the Code, delete "responsibility". In the second part of article 14, paragraph 2, of the Code, the word “work as an assistant to an arbitration officer is likened to an internship period” is added to “the envisaged part of the first part of article 11 of this Code”. Read the whole article 6: "In one year from the date of entry into force of this Code, the Ukrainian law "On the moratorium on the acquisition of property of Ukrainian citizens granted as collateral in foreign currency" No. 28. In the five years since the Code became effective, the debt of a person with foreign currency loans that arose prior to the entry into force of the Code and which is secured by the mortgage of an apartment or residence, which is the only place of residence of the debtor's family, is restructured by the insolvency procedure of a natural person according to the restructuring plan or the peace agreement, taking into account this paragraph of the Code's Final and Transitional Regulations. The composition and size of the cash requirements of the secured creditor under liabilities arising from a foreign exchange loan and secured by a mortgage or an apartment. What is the sole place of residence of the debtor’s family is determined in the national currency at the rate set by the National Bank of Ukraine at the date of the opening of the conduct in the case of the insolvency of the individual. The size of the claims of such secured creditor does not include fines and foams. The claims of the secured creditor recognised by the commercial court shall be repaid by the borrower in the size of the commercial value of the apartment or the residence that ensures the requirements of such a creditor, which shall be determined by the assessor designated by the creditor. The balance of such a creditor's debt is subject to forgiveness, write-off in the order defined in this paragraph in the Final and Transitional Regulations. In the event that the debtor has partially repaid the loan before opening the insolvency proceedings, the size of the secured creditor's claims, which are subject to repayment in accordance with this paragraph of the Final and Transitional Provisions Code, is reduced in proportion to the part of the loan that the borrower has repaid. If the total area of the apartment. Dear Deputy Moskalenko! If the total area of the mortgage - laden apartment does not exceed 60 square feet [60 sq m] or the housing area of which does not exceed 13.65 square feet [1,365 sq m] for each member of the debtor’s family, or if the total area of the mortgage - laden dwelling does not exceed 120 square feet [120 sq m]. The debt code, restructured according to this paragraph of the End and Transitional Provisions, is set at the interest rate of the Ukrainian rate index for 12 months of deposits of natural persons in a bracelet increased by 1 per cent. The maturity of the secured creditor’s claims is 15 years. If the total area of the mortgaged apartment exceeds 60 square feet [60 sq m] and exceeds 13.6 per family member, the total area of the mortgaged house exceeds 120 square feet [120 sq m]. The debt code, restructured in accordance with this paragraph of the End and Transitional Provisions, is set at a interest rate of a 12-month interest rate in an increase of 3 per cent. The maturity of the secured creditor’s requirements is 10 years, whose restructuring plan complies with the requirements set out in this paragraph in the Final. The maintenance of secured creditors is considered to be part of the requirement of such a secured creditor for liabilities arising from loans in foreign currency that are secured by a mortgage on an apartment or residence that is the only residence of the debtor’s family. The borrower and the secured creditor may establish a restructuring plan or a peace agreement. other terms and conditions of repayment of the secured creditor's claims, but only those that are worse for the debtor's interests than. They are no worse, no worse for the debtor's interests than those set out in paragraphs 2 to 12 of this section of Article 6, "The Final and Transitional Positions." The forgiveness of the residual debt under a foreign currency credit agreement secured by a mortgage, defined as the difference between the size of the secured creditor’s claims recognised by the commercial court in the insolvency case by the size of the secured creditor’s claims, which are subject to repayment under this paragraph of the “Final and transitional provisions”, shall be effected after the debtor’s commitment to a restructured liability has been fully discharged. If the debtor does not have the financial capacity to start. the secured creditor under the conditions provided for in this paragraph of the Final Provisions, the debtor's concern shall be denied approval of the debt restructuring plan and shall terminate the conduct of the debt resolution case. For the purposes of this paragraph, the “Conclusion and Transitional Regulations” are considered to be members of the debtor's family who have lived in an apartment or in a residential house, which is the subject of collateral at the time of the conclusion of the mortgage contract and are living at the time of the opening of the insolvency proceedings, as well as the children of those persons born after the mortgage agreement has been concluded. In article 11 of the draft Code, delete part three. In the first part of article 93, paragraph 1, of the Code, the word "special legislation" should be deleted. In part four of article 44 of the Code, after the words "executing their powers" replace the words "in accordance with Ukrainian law" with the words "in accordance with the law." In the first part of article 21 of the Code, after the words "arbitrators are responsible for their actions, words and damage done to third parties," replace the words "that inaction." In part four of article 4 of the Code, after the words "the estate manager is responsible" to replace "implementation or improper performance" with the words "for his actions and inaction." In article 3, paragraph 13, of the Code, the word “legislative” should be replaced by the word “law”. In article 3 of the draft Code, after paragraph 12, “makes and approves the standard documents for the conduct of bankruptcy procedures in methodological recommendations” to be supplemented by a new paragraph of such content “determins the requirements for the form and order of keeping the register of creditors’ claims”. Paragraph thirteen "implementes other statutory powers" becomes paragraph fourteen. In part four of article 24 of the draft code, after the words "order and conditions of professional risk insurance of an arbitrator, the word "law" is inserted, replaced by the words "Office of Ministers". In Section II of the Final and Transitional Provisions, delete paragraph 9, since paragraph 9 refers to changes to article 62 on banks and there are no changes themselves. In chapter III of the Code's Final and Transitional Positions, replace the words "legal and legal acts" with "laws." According to the bill, the word "foreign state law" is replaced by the word "foreign state law." Delete changes to the Civil Procedural Code because they are not available. The word "removal of the arbitrator" is replaced by "removal of the arbitrator. " Amendments proposed by a group of national deputies for reading under the transcript: "Accusation of court decisions in bankruptcy proceedings. The rulings of the Court of Appeal that were taken as a result of the review of court decisions, other than those concerning the opening of bankruptcy proceedings, the findings of the review of creditors’ financial claims, the conclusions on the closure of bankruptcy proceedings, and the decisions on the determining of the debtor of bankruptcy and the opening of liquidation proceedings, are not subject to appeal. Complaints and rulings of the Court of Appeal have been accepted." I've got one more minute. One minute, I won't sing. One minute! One minute, come on, Andrew! "Courts and rulings of the Court of Appeal."
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-18-m0.u51	Please, 30 seconds. Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-18-m0.u52	"..the approval of the Master Court in bankruptcy cases which are not subject to prosecution may be included separately in a cassation complaint and passed bankruptcy orders, which are subject to prosecution. Part two of article 80 of the project after the words "consent for execution" are completed by the words "first time again." And complete article 44 with paragraphs 13 and 14. Dear friends, I've replaced the words our lawyers said, and that's very correct. Maybe that's hard for you to understand, but I gave you the tablet. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-18-m0.u53	30 seconds. Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-18-m0.u54	Dear friends.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-18-m0.u55	Andrew Volodymyrovich, pay attention! Attention! Colleagues, in 30 seconds, we're moving on to making a decision. I'm asking all the national deputies to come into the hall and prepare for the vote. I ask the factions to invite the deputies to the Hall and the Secretary of the Supreme Council to inform the deputies that in 30 seconds we are moving on to the decision-making process. Please, 30 seconds, the head of the Ivanchuk Committee. And let's move on to making a decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-18-m0.u56	Dear friends, I thank all the co-authors of this bill very much. I thank all the staff of the Economic Policy Committee, the Chief Legal Authority of the Supreme Council, all the representatives of all factions and groups. It was a titanic work, and we worked for a year and a half and a half, and Ukraine today, I hope, will get a very high-quality and professional document. And the state itself and the economy in the eyes of the world community, we're going to raise 10 places in the world's rating.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-18-m0.u57	So let's move on to making a decision. I'm asking everyone to take their jobs. So, colleagues, I ask all those who support the law to return from bed and prepare for the vote. So I'm voting on the draft Ukrainian Code of Bankruptcy Procedures (No. 8060) in the second reading and in general with the amendments that were handed out in the hall and read by the head of the committee, Ivanchuk Andri Vladimirovich, under the transcript. Colleagues, this is an important progressive document, let's support it as a group. Vote please, colleagues. And please support the Codex 8060 draft in second reading and in general with the transcripts. Vote. Please be supportive. Vote. [[10:45:09]] For 237 The law is passed. Colleagues, we have come out of the time that was foretold in us. And I want to say right now that we now have a chapter on "inclusion in the agenda of the session" is questions that have great significance and resonance. The first is a draft law on the characteristics of the use of the Andrian Church. The second is about the anti-discrimination activity that we've been preparing for a long time, and this is one of our priorities for this session. Next, on the draft Law 9069 on rail transport. Next: Bill 9139, released in the morning by Alexander Shevchenko. By the way, I would like to emphasise that there is also a proposal to include another law in the agenda that is actually identical: the condemnation of the communist and the national socialist regime. Colleagues, these are five votes, but for that to happen, there must be full concentration in the hall. And I very much ask everyone to come into the hall and prepare for the vote. And before I put to the vote a draft law on the characteristics of the use of the Andrian Church, I'd like to take down certain stereotypes, colleagues, because the adoption of this law is a historic act. You know, last week, October 11, in his decision, the Son of the Universal Patriarchy pointed out the second point about the restoration of the Storopia of the Ecumenical Patriarch in Kiev. The Ecumenical Patriarchy at various times, according to historians, had up to 20 different staphs in its canon territory of Ukraine-Russia. The most famous among them are the Spanish Kyewo-Pecher laurel, the Spent Brotherhood of Lviv, the Inter-Igorian Presbyterian Monastery, the Kyiv Godojalen Brotherhood, the Manava Monastery. Today, by its decision, the Supreme Council of Ukraine restores the Storopiology of the Ecumenical Patriarch in Kiev, and the new staropiology, which will serve as the residence of the Space Patriarch Bartholomew and the representation of the Universal Constantinople Church, will become the Andriev Temple at Andriev's Export in Kiev. The one who says that we're giving our state property to the Universal Patriarchy today, he's either telling lies, or he's just repeating Moscow fairies. The Andrivian Church remains the property of the state, I emphasize this, we restore historical justice and we return the centropy of the Mother Church of the Universe Patriarchy in Kiev. There is no church conflict here. This initiative was supported by all the hierarchy, all the churches. And that's why I urge my colleagues to reject any manipulations and to put the draft Law 9208 into the agenda of the day for decision. This is one of the fundamental steps we have taken to create a local Ukrainian Orthodox church in Ukraine and to obtain Tomos. So let's move on to the vote, and I ask everyone to vote with care and responsibility. I first place the inclusion in the agenda for decision-making today, immediately after consideration of this block, of the draft law on the specialities of the use of the Andrian Church of the National Reserve "Sofia Kyivska" (9208). So getting into the agenda of the day session to make a decision now. Please vote and please support, colleagues. Every voice, I'll wait. Please vote, please support, vote. [[10:49:31]] For 216 We didn't make it. I'll do it again, colleagues. The factions. So I'm going to do it again. Once again, colleagues, I propose to include in the agenda a day session for decision-making today, now, a draft law on the specialities of the use of the Andrian Church of the National Reserve "Sofia Kyivska" (9208). This is the restoration of the Storopia of the Space Patriarchate. Please vote, colleagues, and I ask you to support everyone. Vote, colleagues, carefully, responsibly. Each voice, please support, please vote. Let's vote, colleagues. Vote. [[10:50:28]] For 232 232. Decision taken. And we'll move on to it after this block. Next: draft Law on Opposing Activities. These are four laws: basic and alternative. We'll look at them all together. So I'm asking you to support the inclusion in the agenda today, most likely after lunch, but today. Please vote, please support the inclusion in the agenda for the decision-making session today. Vote. Please support anti-discrimination activities is an important humanitarian mission in Ukraine. [[10:51:14]] For 244 244. Decision taken. Next: a draft Act amending some Ukrainian legislation on railway undertakings, whose assets are located in the area of secession and deterrence of Russian aggression in the Donetsk and Lugansk areas, and in the area of ATO (9069), the inclusion in the agenda of the day session for decision-making. Please vote, please support. Vote. [[10:51:57]] For 237 237. Decision taken. And, colleagues, next. We have two laws that are actually similar to each other, but they haven't been registered as alternatives. This is 9139: a bill amending the Ukrainian Law on the Prohibition of Communist and National Socialist Totalitarian Regimes in Ukraine and prohibiting the propaganda of their symbolism. And 9200: draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on the Conviction of Communist and National Socialist Totalitarian Regimes in Ukraine. Let us unite the hall, and I will put them both in the order of the day session. Today we will not be able to consider, there is no committee, only inclusion in the agenda. So I'm voting for the proposal to put in the agenda of the day session 9139 and 9200, just in the agenda of the day session. Please vote, please support. Vote. Yes. It's just getting into the agenda of the day session. [[10:53:12]] For 234 Decision taken. And, colleagues, now we have the possibility to go to the draft law on the specialities of the use of the Andrian Church of the National Reserve of Sofia Kyivska (9208). And I ask you to support the consideration of this law by a reduced procedure. Please vote, please support. It's a short-term procedure. Vote. [[10:53:50]] For 181 Decision taken. I'm assigning technical personnel to deal with it. And I invite you to the report of the President of Ukraine on the Supreme Council of Lucenko Irina Stepanovna. Please, Mrs. Irina.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-18-m0.u58	Dear Ukrainian people, distinguished voters, dear Mr. Head! Since gaining independence, we have fought for the creation and recognition of the Ukrainian locality to the world Orthodox Church. One decisive step in this direction was the appeal made by President Peter Alexiyovich Prashenko of the Space Patriarch to the Orthodox Church in Ukraine, and it was supported by Parliament. Tomos on autocephaly is another act of proclaiming Ukraine's spiritual independence, which will form the basis of its own path of development of the Ukrainian nation, which will strengthen religious freedom in Ukraine and interfaith peace, strengthen the rights and freedoms of citizens. In 988, Ukraine-Russia received the Holy Baptism from the Constantinople Orthodox Church of the Universal Patriarchate. Following the appeal of the head of state, the Ecumenical Patriarchate sent his authorized exarch representatives to Ukraine. Not only do they formally represent the mother Church for Ukraine, but they also carry out a mediation function in the process of creating the only local Orthodox Church in Ukraine. The full functioning of this representation requires the provision of a building in which ambassadors of the Universal Patriarch will be able to perform regular service. In view of this, the President of Ukraine introduced a draft Ukrainian Registration Act No. 9208 aimed at settling the issue of the transfer to the permanent use of the Andrijavska National Reserve Space Patriarchate. It is at the temple of the apostle Andrew that the creation of the first - begotten spiritual headquarters of the Space Patriarchate will have a unique practical and symbolic spiritual significance, since it will be so.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-18-m0.u59	30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-18-m0.u60	The adoption of this law will show exceptional respect for the authority and role of the mother church on the part of the Ukrainian State, and its adoption will contribute to the process of granting Tomos to the autocephaly of the Ukrainian Orthodox Church and the definition and support of the world Orthodox Orthodox Church in Ukraine. In view of the above, please support the legislative initiative of the President of Ukraine and accept Bill No. 9208 for.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-18-m0.u61	Thank you. The co - report invites the head of the Committee on Culture and Spirituality, Princely Nikola Leonidovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-18-m0.u62	Dear colleagues, the Committee on Culture and Spirituality at its meeting on October 17, 2018 (Protocol No 79), reviewed the draft Law on the Specialities of the Use of the Andrian Church of the National Reserve "Sofia Kyivska" (No9208), introduced by President of Ukraine, Poroshenko. The purpose of the draft law is to regulate the relationship between the transfer to the permanent use of the cultural building of a significant monument to the architecture of the Andrian Church of the National Reserve "Sofia Kyivska". As a result of the review, the Committee on Culture and Spirituality recommends the draft Law on the peculiarities of the use of the Andrian Church of the National Reserve "Sofia Kyivska" (No.9208), introduced by the President of Ukraine, Peter Poroshenko, to be accepted as a basis and as a whole. I would like to add that there was a committee meeting with the director of the National Institute of Sofia Kyivska. We discussed this bill. It is indeed written within the framework of legislation. He entrusts the Cabinet of Ministers with the use of this monument of architecture — for use only. It does not conflict with Ukrainian legislation, but testifies to the political position of both the President of Ukraine and the Ukrainian Parliament. I therefore reiterate that the committee recommended that the bill be supported on the basis and in general. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-18-m0.u63	Thank you. Please record: two in, two in. From the "Fatherland" faction Krulko Ivan Ivanovich. Igor Lucenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-18-m0.u64	Dear colleagues! The "Fatherland" faction will, of course, support this bill, but we should stress the following. It is a pity that we mention our national shrines, our national monuments, only when there is a need for someone to build their political combinations on them. The Andrian Church is part of the "Sofia Kyivska" Reserve. Dear colleagues, the reserve of Sofia Kyivska continues to be destroyed. The construction of the Potter, 17/23, was not eliminated. Similarly, there are about 30 of the remaining landowners who are at one stage or another in the planning of high-rise construction that threatens the physical and aesthetic destruction of those objects that make up the "Sofia Kyivska" reserve. The Andrivian Church itself, I'm telling you, since the 1990s, has been a candidate for a single monument of universal significance, that is, under UNESCO's protection. No step has been taken during this period until we are with you in power to "put" it on this path, so that the world can protect it, not just our Ukrainian state. Similarly, I would like to remind you that Janukovic has passed on to another religion of Caverska Lavra in his time, and that is where the process of destruction continues. And a completely illegal new street was built, new buildings were created, new buildings that were directly banned by UNESCO. A number of monuments were destroyed, including parts of the Near Caves, some churches partially losing their frescoes and other elements. It's not stopping now, it's not defending our state right now. Instead, we will now vote, of course, this bill, we will support it, but we remember that we must take responsibility for the preservation of our Christian shrines. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-18-m0.u65	Thank you. The High Sergey gives the word for a speech to the Yelen. Please, Mr. Victor.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-18-m0.u66	Dear colleagues, the Supreme Council of the Eighth Call twice addressed the Universal Constantinople Patriarch with a request to return to Ukraine and return justice to Ukraine. The Supreme Council of the Eighth Call twice requested the Constantinople Patriarch to give the Ukrainians in Orthodox Ukraine what is theirs in justice, and what is theirs under historical law, the autocephaly for its Orthodox Church. The Ecumenical Patriarch returned to Ukraine, he returned to where he had been brought, his predecessors brought the light of the Gospel, where he belonged, as Mr. Parubius had said, over twenty centipedes, where he had numerous temples and monasteries, fraternity, mission, and so on. Today, we need to resolve the issue of making it available to his people in the Andrian Church in Ukraine. This will be a visible sign of the presence of the Universal Patriarch in Ukraine, a visible sign of the presence of the fullness of Orthodoxy in our country. I urge you to support this decision and to bear in mind that it is not only the justice of recovery, but it is fully in line with the Constitution of Ukraine and is fully in line with the international understanding of freedom of conscience. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-18-m0.u67	From the Radical Party of Oleg Lazko.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-18-m0.u68	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Our team voted in favour of addressing the Universal Patriarch for autocathalism and support of the Ukrainian local church. At the same time, I would like to tell the Ukrainians that today the question of the church is being used by President Dustenk exclusively as part of the pre-election campaign. [[Applause]] We consider this to be a low, disorderly and misbehaving behavior that does not deserve to be done by the President of Ukraine. The President of Ukraine grossly violates the Constitution of Ukraine, which envisions the State’s failure to intervene in church affairs. In addition, the bill proposed for Parliament's consideration violates article 16 of the Fifth Constitution of Ukraine, which stipulates that the powers of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine are governed by the law. The Andrian Church is an object of state property that belongs to the "Sofia Kyivska" Reserve. The Cabinet of Ministers has the full right to decide on the transfer of this church to the Space Patriarchate. And we will support this decision of the Cabinet of Ministers. The bill proposed by President Dustenk is in fact for Parliament to serve its pre-election strategies and pre-election campaign. We think it's unworthy to use the question of the church, the question of language, the question of an army that is being stolen from the President in its election campaign. That's why we're talking to Dusty. To raise the issue of raising the standard of living of citizens, lower tariffs, lower gas prices, higher wages, recalculation of pensions for Ukrainians – that is what the President of Ukraine has to go to the voters. Now what we're seeing is pre-election speculations that have nothing to do with conscience, no. and contradict the Constitution of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-18-m0.u69	From the Opposition Block, Yuri Boyko.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-18-m0.u70	Dear Mr. Head! Dear National Deputies! We've seen a lot of things in this room. But there has not been such cynicism in the eyes of the entire country when Parliament is trying to engage in the electoral campaign of the President-in-Office, and that is what everyone sees. And a special cynicism is that they're trying to account for state property in a person of the Andrian Church for pursuing one of the ideological directions of the pre-election campaign, for a promise to pursue the ideological direction of the President's pre-election campaign. And that's what the whole country sees, that's what everyone sees. That today’s parliament, if it rejects all the covers, is trying to make it a campaigner. There is no need for a decision by a parliament that, by the way, contradicts legislation in order for the Cabinet of Ministers to resolve such matters. But I believe that politicians should stay as far away from church issues as possible and participate in church life only as regular residents, only as believers. And then there will be order and order in the country. And when politicians use the church in pre-election agitation, that's the way to go. Our faction will vote against this decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-18-m0.u71	Thank you. Before I give the floor to the representative of Peter Prashenko, my colleague, I have some clarifications to make, because there's information in the room that doesn't fit the reality. After our historic first address, which we made together, I had a very long encounter with the Space Patriarch. And since then, the question of the restoration of santhropy in Ukraine has been raised. It's a two-year-old question and it's been working for two years. And it has nothing to do with any election campaign. This is also the request we made with the exarches. It's just that the President has passed the law so that he can be included as an urgent matter. But I'm asking you very much, colleagues, this is a question beyond us and above us. Don't give him political significance, it's a fundamental issue for the Ukrainian state. We have to vote on this, and we have to hold political debates on other issues. So I ask you, colleagues, that we unite and vote. This is historical justice, this is the restoration of the Storopygia of the Space Patriarch in Ukraine, the historical practice of stroping in Ukraine. So let us unite and vote. Please, Irina Lucenko, from Peter Dustenka's Block. And in two minutes, we're moving on to making a decision. I ask everyone to come into the hall and prepare for the vote. Please, Mrs. Irina.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-18-m0.u72	Finally, in 332 years, it was recognized for the first time that the hybrid religious war of Russia was lost in Ukraine. The decision of the Space Patriarch tells us that the Ukrainian local church in Ukraine is to rule, not the Moscow religious community. The best effort has been made by President Porzenko to make this happen. So this symbolic gesture means that we are now starting to sign an act of spiritual independence in Ukraine. Dear colleagues, if you are in a stately position, if you want to unite the Ukrainian people in your union and in spiritual union, in a patriotic way as the Ukrainian Orthodox nation, please make this symbolic gesture. Replying to our opponents, I say: 35 articles of the Constitution together with 17 articles of the Ukrainian Law on Freedom of Conscience and Religious Organizations, as well as commitments made by the Ukrainian State during its accession to the Council of Europe in 1995, are interpreted as saying that the authorities of the Ukrainian State, based on the fact that the transfer of cultural property is an integral part of ensuring the citizens' right to freedom of conscience and religion, guaranteed by the Constitution and the Ukrainian Law on Freedom of Conscience and Religious Organizations, is, in fact, an opportunity for the Ukrainian public to join the services of the Church of the Mother of Universal Patriarchate. Let's do it, ladies and gentlemen, let's do it.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-18-m0.u73	So, colleagues, I'm asking you to come into the hall. Now. Please, Irina Heratchenko, two minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-18-m0.u74	Dear colleagues, I am part of that radical minority in this Hall, which does not go to the presidents, the prime ministers, and other emperors. And so I would like to remind all of the candidates, whose radical majority in this room, that the President of Ukraine, under the Constitution, is obliged to engage in the army, not in sewage, tariffs and other activities that the government and the local authorities should do. And I wanted to think, in fact, that those who are candidates for the highest position would know what they're planning to do -- not in the sewers, but in the unity of the country, which is what President Poshenko is doing. And, indeed, not a state, especially a foreign neighboring state, will be involved in church affairs, and this will be done by the Ukrainians. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-18-m0.u75	Thank you. So, colleagues. So, colleagues, please take up jobs. Please come into the hall. Please prepare for the vote. Colleagues, every voice. Please prepare for the vote, go to the hall. And I'm voting on the draft law on the features of the use of the Andrian Church of the National Reserve of Sofia Kyivska (No. 9208) as a basis and as a whole. Please vote. Please be supportive. Every voice matters. I ask everyone to vote responsibly, to vote and to support. Let's vote, colleagues. Voting, supporting. Please vote. Vote. We support you, colleagues. We'll keep it together. All Ukrainian forces. God damn it, he's in a fight, and the Ukrainian forces are voting for it. Let's vote, colleagues. [[11:12:55]] For 216 We didn't make it. I'm asking you, colleagues, to vote for the return. To return. Every voice! Please vote. Please support the return. We're voting for the return. Vote. Colleagues, every voice. [[11:13:26]] For 235 We're back. And now I'm putting draft Law 9208 on the ground and in general. Please vote. Please be supportive. We support you, colleagues. Vote. Let's vote, colleagues. Every voice. We're voting carefully. Every voice. Vote. Please vote. Vote. Colleagues, carefully, responsibly, each voice matters. [[11:14:00]] For 237 The law is passed. Congratulations, colleagues. Glory to Ukraine! [[Applause]] So, colleagues, we are currently looking at a bill amending the Criminal Code of Ukraine on the responsibility for illegal crossing of the state border. Colleagues, there's a small number of rights, three revisions of everything, and that's a second reading. So I'm asking you not to break up, colleagues, don't break up, it's going to take five to seven minutes, just three adjustments. So we're going to Bill 7017. And I invite you to report to the head of the Legislative Security Committee, Kozemyakin Andrija Anatoliyovich. And I'd like everyone to stay put.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-18-m0.u76	Dear colleagues, the Committee on Law Enforcement last night at the committee meeting, considered a comparative table prepared for second reading before the draft Ukrainian Law amending the Criminal Code on Responsibility for the Illegal Crossing of the State Border (No. 7017). The second read came with 33 amendments and proposals from national deputies, including 20, 13 — rejected. The justification is in the table that you have just been handed out. I'm going to point out that the concept of the bill, adopted in the first reading, has been preserved and taken into account by the stenogram at a meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine during the first reading of this project. Thus, we have a draft bill that proposes to establish criminal responsibility for the illegal crossing of the state border of Ukraine, done to harm the interests of the State, or a person who is prohibited from entering Ukraine, or representatives of the armed forces or other aggressor forces in any way outside the border of Ukraine, or at points of entry through the state border of Ukraine without appropriate documents, or behind documents that contain unreliable information. The investigation of this crime is determined by the Ukrainian Security Service. Therefore, the committee unanimously approved the decision to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine the adoption of draft No. 7017 on second reading and generally as a law. Please make up your mind. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-18-m0.u77	Thank you. So let's go to the right. There's not many of them, I remind you, I read them. Four. 6th. Don't insist. 8th. Don't insist. 10th. Don't insist. 11th. He insists. Please, Lechchenka. Levchenk has two axles, and so immediately two minutes, please turn on two minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-18-m0.u78	Thank you. Lewchenko, Freedom, 223 District of Kiev. First of all, I would like to say a word about the previous Bill on the Andrian Church, because I was not given the opportunity to speak. "Freedom" voted in favour, of course, but I point out that it's completely empty butaphoric, because the Cabinet of Ministers had every authority to do it without a bill. There was no need to adopt a bill here, it could have just been the Cabinet of Ministers, the Ministry of Culture. Instead, they made this whole pianist circus to show that someone seems to be fighting very hard for the autocafalia of our Orthodox Church. That's the first thing, according to the last bill. Now, here's the question. Unfortunately, this bill once again provides, in fact, a positive butaphorism, tells us that it's supposed to be a fight against an illegal cross-border crossing, and in fact we're reading a version that's proposed for the second reading. It is written that it is a criminal act: "The crossing of the state border of Ukraine with the aim of harming the interests of the state." - and still in the text. So the question of "for the purpose of harming the state" is absolutely legal uncertainty. In fact, no one will be punished and no one will be put in prison because no court can normally prove, in most cases, sometimes very rarely, but in 90 percent of cases it is impossible to prove that a person had a criminal intention. That's why our amendments, mine and freedom, have been proposed to criminalize any illegal crossing of the state border. Any illegal cross-section without appropriate documents should be criminalized, it must be criminal activity. And all of our amendments worked in this direction, we made a series of amendments in this direction, actually. By the way, including counting, what happens if, for example, refugees come back without documents or come back without documents; or Ukrainian citizens or. Those who have lost their documents come back and so forth. We've been working on all of this in a series of our amendments. Please let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-18-m0.u79	Please, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-18-m0.u80	I understand.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-18-m0.u81	Give me a minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-18-m0.u82	There is no point in insisting, I understand that if this amendment is not adopted, there is no point in insisting on other amendments. So I'm now addressing the House: People's deputies, you have to understand that if we vote in this version, as is now proposed, for second reading, without approval of this amendment, it's actually a dead law. In fact, there will be no real punishment for an illegal crossover, since it is impossible to prove the subjective point of: the target of harming the interests of the State. So I urge you to vote in favour of our amendment number 11 and to support the position that any illegal crossing of the state border without appropriate documents should be criminalized and this should be considered criminal activity. Only then will we really be able in the warring state, by the way, which is now at war with the Russian Federation, can we at least secure our border a little bit. Otherwise, it's just kind of a positive butt thing to have someone back on it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-18-m0.u83	Do you insist on voting?
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-18-m0.u84	Yes.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-18-m0.u85	Will you comment, Mr. Andrey?
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-18-m0.u86	What's that? 11th?
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-18-m0.u87	11th.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-18-m0.u88	The thing is. Dear Mr. Jury, we have really discussed the discussion on the committee, but we have agreed, in the end, to the position of scientific and expert government and legal administration, that there are no signs of crime as a socially dangerous act in your amendment, yes, well, what you're proposing. And the proposal comes under administrative misdemeanor and all. Period.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-18-m0.u89	So I'm voting on Amendment 11. The committee rejected her, the author insists on her support. Please vote, please identify yourself. [[11:21:21]] For-89 The decision is not taken. So 16th. All of it. Yes, colleagues, 24th. Don't insist. 28th. Don't insist. So, colleagues, we're done discussing the rights. And I invite all the people's deputies to the hall, and I ask the factions to mobilize as much as possible, and in a minute we're going to the vote. I ask the Secretary of the Supreme Council to inform the deputies. Please, let's go into the hall and take up jobs.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-18-m0.u90	May I? Yes. One minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-18-m0.u91	One minute, the head of the committee, Andrew Cosemiakin.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-18-m0.u92	I would like to remind you once again that this bill has been drafted to promote the protection of Ukraine's sovereignty and territorial integrity by criminalizing the illegal crossing of the state border by the representatives of the aggressor State. The project proposes to establish criminal responsibility for crossing the state border by a person who has the nationality of an aggressor State or another person in the interests of an aggressor State that is contrary to the national interests of Ukraine, in any way outside the border crossings of Ukraine or at points of entry through the state border of Ukraine without appropriate documents or documents that contain unreliable information. As far as I know, many factions and groups support this bill, so please support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-18-m0.u93	Thank you. So let's move on to making a decision. Colleagues, please come into the hall. And I am voting on the draft Act amending the Criminal Code of Ukraine on the responsibility for the illegal crossing of the State border (No. 7017) on second reading and in general. Please vote, please support. We vote, colleagues, we vote responsibly. Vote! [[11:24:14]] For 243 The law is passed. And, colleagues, now we're moving on to budget issues. And I'm asking everyone to focus now. Next in line is the Draft Law amending the Ukrainian Budget Code (the legal basis for the implementation of the midterm budget planning) (No. 8044). And I ask you to support the consideration of the reduced procedure. Please vote. Please be supportive. Vote! [[11:24:58]] For-161 Decision taken. And I invite you to report to the First Deputy Minister of Finance, Marcarov Oksana Sergiyevna. Manny Oksano, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-18-m0.u94	Dear Mr. Head, dear colleagues! Today we have a chance to implement, without exaggeration, the most important budgetary reform for Ukraine and to start implementing medium-term budgeting, i.e. budgeting for three years. You all have an excellent understanding of why a longer horizon of government funding planning is an extremely important thing, especially in our circumstances, especially in the electoral year. Everyone wants foresight from us -- both our citizens, our business, our investors, and our creditors. The very understanding of where we're going to move and how quickly it will enable us to build a normal, predictable relationship with our partners and enable us to restore actual trust. The publication not only of the strategies we are doing but also of the financial plans, and the clear understanding that the priorities of the government, the parliament, the President not only exist in terms of strategies, but also in terms of financial resources, will allow us to talk about this in a clear way, with clear steps towards their implementation. This will allow us to show how we plan to manage government debt, how we plan to reduce fiscal risks, where we plan to transform education, health care, other sectors, as we will generally support economic development, so that the three percent increase in GDP that we are talking about next year is not just a good figure, it's a real figure, which is then broadcast to raise wages and improve the well-being of our citizens. What's inside this bill? They're three years old. The budget statement is a three-year financial plan for local budgets, it's a specific ceiling of expenditure, it's a cost review, it's a greater responsibility. The proposed changes will increase the responsibility of officials for the results of their work. We'd better prepare the budget, when we come to you, we won't be able to just change the numbers you've confirmed for three years. Finally, we will allow three years of budgeting to move on to a civilized approach and a systemic dialogue to.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-18-m0.u95	Please finish for two minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-18-m0.u96	When we have clearly funded targets for 3 years, we will not be "tortured" every time we consider a budget once a year, you will not be asked whether the reform that started last year will be continued or whether the reconstruction of any object that started last year will be carried over to the next year. This will be taken into account in our three - year goals. The whole civilized world is already taking this approach. The European Union, most European Union countries, have been doing so for more than a year. So I don't doubt that you all realize that this approach, it's not just better, it's only right if we really want to move from year-on-year planning to continuous development and support, and finance this development. So today is a unique opportunity for us to start this reform. Please support our bill on the basis that we, together with the committee, have worked on it and have moved to a three-year budget in Ukraine since 2019. Thank you very much. And I'm asking you to back me up.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-18-m0.u97	Thank you, Mrs. Oksana, please take your place. And we invite the head of the budget subcommittee, Constantine Ischeykin, to report. Mr. Constantine, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-18-m0.u98	Good afternoon, dear fellows! Good afternoon, Madam Chairman! On September 14th, the Committee on Budget Affairs reviewed government bills 8044 and 8043 – on the introduction of medium-term budget planning. Since the draft legislation substantially changes budgetary legislation, along with the conclusion of the General Scientific and Scientific Administration, to the Committee, the conclusions of the Supreme Council Law Institute, the Association of Cities and the Institute of Economic and Social Research, which made proposals and observations to these bills. As a result of the drafting of draft laws and their conclusions, the committee draws attention to the following. The main risks that may hinder the effectiveness and effectiveness of medium-term budgetary planning are: firstly, the lack of legislative regulation of a comprehensive state strategic planning system, which would include the listing and classification of State strategic planning documents, their hierarchy and harmonization, the main stages of development and implementation, and the authorization of government authorities and local self-government in such a process. At present, the government has not yet submitted to Parliament an appropriate bill on State strategic planning. The second is the failure to provide realistic indicators of medium-term budgetary planning, taking into account the unstable macroeconomic situation, the unpredictability of legislative changes and the implementation of the reforms introduced. This is evidenced by an experiment last year on the Government's preparation of a draft basic guidelines for 2018-2020, where the key parameters for 2018 differed significantly from the draft State Budget and the Law, although only three months had passed between the dates of submission of such a document and the draft State Budget, and only six months had passed before the adoption of the State Budget Act. The proposed amendments to the Supreme Council Rules do not contain a clear legal definition of the form and content of Parliament’s decision on the budget declaration.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-18-m0.u99	Please finish one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-18-m0.u100	30 seconds to complete.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-18-m0.u101	One minute, please. The microphone's on.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-18-m0.u102	Thank you. The proposed amendments to the Supreme Council Rules do not contain a clear legal definition of the form and content of Parliament's decision on the budgetary declaration and the consequences of such a decision or its rejection for the further drafting of the State Budget Bill. The content of the budget declaration also needs further discussion. For example, consideration should be given to including provisions on the features of the State Budget Special Fund as well as indicators and types of inter-budget transfers. Questions arise about the relevance or clarity of the proposed individual changes to the codex. This is especially true of the refinement of budgetary terminology. The proposed revisions to the Budget Code on the software and target method, such as the performance assessment of budget programmes, are also discussed only by the main cost managers, and not by all participants in the budgetary process within their competence, as provided for by valid standards, the normalization of expenditure reviews, which are initiated by the government only this year and have no results. At the same time, with amendments to the Budget Code, the government has made binding changes to only two legislative acts, although several laws, such as the NATIONB and the Higher Council of Justice, need to be amended in order to ensure compliance. Since Bills 8044, 8043 are systematically binding, in view of the requirements of article 90 of the Rules, it is appropriate to bring them together in a single bill when such a bill is further elaborated before the second reading. Taking into account the above, the Committee on Budget Issues recommends to the Supreme Council bills 8044, 8043, to be adopted on the basis of the mandate of the Committee on Budget Questions to redraft them by merging them into a single bill and submitting them to the Supreme Council for consideration on a second reading. Please support the committee's decision and the corresponding draft Order No. 8044/P. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-18-m0.u103	Thank you, Your Honor. I ask the factions to sign up for a draft Act amending the Ukrainian Budget Code (the legal basis for the implementation of the midterm budget planning). Please, National Deputy Bobov, Rebirth Group, pass the word to Mr. Yatzenka, National Deputy Yatzenka from the place.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-18-m0.u104	Dear friends, it's been a long time since this bill. Since we have been left with a Soviet model for many years, we often have problems. For example, we all know the situation where they're spending money, for example, in the late fall, and when people don't actually get it, or they burn, they go into the budget again, or they sign some kind of sticky act. And it's really the same thing with the State Regional Development Fund, with other programs, with conservation measures. Therefore, this law must be passed immediately. And on my part, I would like to ask Mrs. Markarov to also work on the second reading of the budget, if we vote on it today, taking into account this year, we're the money that people won't be able to use -- I mean the socionomy, I mean the DFRD, the conservation measures, and so on -- so that we can keep them, too, they're the special fund. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-18-m0.u105	Please, the next speech is the People's Deputy Kaplan on the bill. We are now discussing not ordinary people, but the draft Law on amending the Budget Code. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-18-m0.u106	Dear colleagues, as soon as we were with the trade unions, together with the Chernobyl organizations, Afghan organizations, military pensioners, children of war on a large social council, we had a discussion of the State Budget. And what about this bill, the long-term planning aspects of budgeting, I would like to express the position of the common people. And first, the budget should only be written when the government and the government's head of government, represented by the coalition, proposes its vision of Ukraine's development for the next 10 to 15 years, when it formulates a clear course of implementation of key priorities for each ordinary Ukrainian family. And it's health care, of course, it's education, it's industrialization, it's new jobs, it's modernization, it's innovation, it's security, it's systemic meaningful internal policy and it's the same systemic dialogue, the connection, the responsibility of government authorities to ordinary people. We need to understand clearly what global state institutions we need to develop, what these global state institutions should produce programs and projects. We need to understand clearly the place of our state in the world, the current place of our state in the world in terms of socio-economic development, the security platform and other important factors that are extremely sensitive to the ordinary Ukrainian family. What is being proposed today is wrong from the point of view of the principles of country-wide design, and we must arm ourselves with other practices that are governed by major states, which are successful, which today precede countries at the pace of development. So I'm going to vote against this bill. And I urge Groysman to support more.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-18-m0.u107	It was not a faction's position, I understand. It was just one act. And please, the Opposition Block. Dudenkov, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-18-m0.u108	Alexander Doubenkov, Opposition Block. Dear colleagues, honourable citizens of Ukraine, we are now considering a bill that, according to the finance minister, will lead to greater stability in the budgetary process, according to the coalition and the factions that will vote for it. Yes, indeed, on the basis of the draft legislation, medium-term planning is three years, the main macro indicators of the country's socio-economic development, it's a plus plus for stability. But is it a valid government, a coalition that votes in favour of the budget, factions, groups that join in this vote, the standards of effective legislation? What is the point of this bill? It is proposed that the budget declaration be put in place. Instead of a budget declaration, we have the basics of fiscal policy. According to the current legislation of the budget office of the Ministers of Ukraine, by April 1st, it develops the main directions of budgetary policy, which are approved by the Supreme Council by 30 April of the year leading up to the planned budget year. What does that mean? The Supreme Council is taking part in this budgetary process. And already, based on the main directions of fiscal policy, the country's main financial document is the State Budget for the following year. I have a question to ask the coalition, to the government: have you implemented the norm, not as regards medium-term budgetary planning, but as regards the development of the Basic Directions of Budget Policy for 2019? No, it's not. Here is document 8457, registered on the site of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. This is a project of the main directions of budgetary policy for 2019-2021. So I would like to point out that the State Budget for 2019 was developed at all without the existence of an appropriate draft Decision on the Basic Directions of Budget Policy.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-18-m0.u109	30 seconds to complete.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-18-m0.u110	So we're not that medium-term budget planning, we're not now implementing the rule of law, because in fact, the basics of fiscal policy are not designed. And now, as a free writer, the Cabinet of Ministers is shaping macroeconomic indicators.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-18-m0.u111	So, colleagues, now there's going to be a final performance. That's why I'm here. Okay, first Kugel, then you. But you have one minute, okay? We just can't make it. Yeah, we didn't sign up. So, colleagues, in three or four minutes, there's going to be a vote. I'm asking the factions to invite deputies into the hall. And I'm asking the Secretariat to invite the deputies to the hall as well. Alexander Kugel, from Fatherland, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-18-m0.u112	Alexander Kugel, "The Fatherland" faction. I want to pay attention to the date of this bill -- February 18th. That is, if the coalition that represented and created the government today had to work out their vision of the formation of a new budget with a new budget. changes in the budget code. But what I'm trying to say is that these changes are, you know, some kind of a bit of a buttock because they're in no way related to this budget anymore, so it's going back to being less than a year of planning a three-year budget statement, and a budget per year. There is no complete connection between the Budget Code and the budget. the budget code. In addition, such a financial, mere financial ceiling is built there. I would like to say to Mrs. Markarov that the most important changes to be made to the Budget Code are the implementation of the Prime Minister's programme, which he has always introduced as Head of the Supreme Council, is the question of decentralization. If you leave a horizontal alignment for united territorial communities, the whole decentralization lie ends there. There is no interest in creating new jobs and increasing income to the budget. The Fatherland faction won't support this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-18-m0.u113	And, colleagues, the closing act. I'm asking everyone to come into the hall. I, the heads of factions, point out that I see a lot of people coming out of the hall. I'm asking you to mobilize, bring the national deputies back to the hall. Now we're closing, and then we're going to the vote. Please, Ostrikova, two minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-18-m0.u114	Good afternoon, dear colleagues. This is certainly an important initiative taken by the government. But I want to ask you, what's the point of all these nice words and all these nice definitions that are written in this bill, if in practice the government itself is violating them? An excellent example. The budget resolution of the 18th, 19th and 20th years recorded the deficit of the Pension Fund of 139 billion dollars. This is the budgetary resolution that was made up of this government. At the same time, the government’s National Budget project for 2019 has already made this deficit 166 billion dollars. What is the purpose of planning if it is not budget planning and strategic, but budget funding? So we have a clear requirement for the government: if you're making some strategic planning, some budget figures for three years, please do them, or you're saying one thing, and you're doing something completely different. So let me give you another example. This year’s budget expenditure according to this three-year strategic planning should not exceed the amount of the three-year declaration. But this is only possible if the government is very clearly controlling the expenditure of this year. Instead, the government in the second year in a row is making increased expenses on the force, on the guardians. For example, by the 2018 level, the government is proposing to add an additional 18 billion dollars in the 19th year budget to the financing of the police state. It's a budget campaign again. It's the same thing with the adjuvants. Despite the stated budgetary decentralization, and this is the principle of the Budget Code, and we are once again writing down the principle of justice, the impartiality of the distribution of social wealth between citizens and territorial communities. It's in this bill. So what do you do?
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-18-m0.u115	30 seconds to complete.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-18-m0.u116	So what do you do with these principles, with budget decentralization, and in the budget, you do centralization, and you increase spending not on the community, but on the government?
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-18-m0.u117	So let's move on to decision-making, colleagues. Please prepare for the vote. And I'm voting on the draft bill amending the Ukrainian Budget Code (the legal basis for implementing the midterm budget planning) (number 8044) on the basis of the committee's proposals. Please vote, please support. Appropriately, we vote in unanimity, we support. Let's vote, colleagues. Please be supportive. [[11:45:54]] For 222 222. We didn't make it. Therefore, we should be on the scene during the vote, not the third time. Now I'm going to put the bill back on the table, and then I'm going to put the bill back on the vote. So the first vote is to go back to the draft Law amending the Code of Budgets of Ukraine 8044. It's a comeback. Please vote for the return. Vote, colleagues, support. To return. [[11:46:44]] For 225 We didn't make it. I see. I bid you return and ask you all to take your seats and take part in the vote. So return. Let's wait, okay. We'll wait for Mrs. Ola. So I'm proposing to go back to draft Law 8044. Please vote and please support. Vote. Every vote we make is a very careful vote. [[11:47:37]] For 232 We're back. I am now putting the draft Law amending the Code of Budgets of Ukraine (No. 8044) on the basis of the Committee’s proposals. Please vote. Please be supportive. Vote. [[11:48:05]] For 245 Decision taken. And, colleagues, the next draft of the Act amending some of Ukraine's legislative acts on the introduction of medium-term budgetary planning (No. 8043). I ask you to support his consideration of the reduced procedure. Please vote. [[11:48:40]] For 190 Decision taken. And I invite you to the report of the First Deputy Minister of Finance, Marcarov Oksana Sergiyevna. But please, if possible, be more concise, because there's not much time left until the break. Please, Mr. Oksano.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-18-m0.u118	Dear Head, dear colleagues, thank you very much for supporting the changes to the Codex Budget. It also requests support for amendments to certain laws related to the introduction of medium - term budgeting. These changes are made to the Rules of the Supreme Council and also to the Law on the Cabinet of Ministers. They will allow legislation to regulate procedures related to the making up of a budget declaration, its approval and submission, according to the passage. In fact, that budget calendar, which is introduced by the Code of Budgets, we will bring these two laws into complete harmony with the new terms, new mandates, consistency and coherence between the executive and legislative actions in the new budgetary process. A request for support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-18-m0.u119	Thank you. The co-report invites the head of the Committee’s Committee on Budget Affairs, Ischeikin Kostin Evgenovich. Budget Committee, will the report be from you? Please. And I'm asking you as concisely as possible, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-18-m0.u120	Dear Andrew Volodymyrovich, distinguished national deputies and invited! The Committee on Budget Issues has considered a government bill amending the Budget Code, whose main tasks are to address issues related to the implementation of the 2019 State Budget Project. The bill also aims to regulate a number of issues related to the formation and implementation of local budgets, including the most important provisions for the inclusion in local self-government budgets of 5 percent of the rent for the use of public value mining gears, the granting of the right to district councils to carry out external borrowings and to provide local guarantees for the purpose of restoration, and the reconstruction of property-sharing facilities of local communities, the introduction of a resource that preserves technology.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-18-m0.u121	8043. 8043.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-18-m0.u122	Colleagues, regarding Law 43, we're just asking for support, there's nothing to report on.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-18-m0.u123	Thank you. Please: Two in, two in the opposite. Please hold the recording. Barbinenko Vitaliy. Passes the word to Bondar.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-18-m0.u124	We passed two bills immediately. Oxana Sergiyevna duplicated the report twice, and 44 and 43 were reported immediately, so she asked for support and a vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-18-m0.u125	Thank you. Please, Bondar.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-18-m0.u126	Dear Andrew Volodymyrovich, distinguished colleagues! Of course, I'm glad that in the government, the Ministry of Finance has begun to develop and submit some drafts that shape the logic of the budgetary process, and in general, some priorities can be formulated for two or three years. That's why this bill has been supported and voted by our group. But in general, when we talk about the budgetary process that's started, which is happening, and looking at the budget that the government has offered us, there is absolutely no logic in this budget and there are no priorities. If you look at the priorities, and we've seen it, slides have shown us a lot of different things, they're saying that the priorities of the tens that the government has drawn for us. It is also a defence, and energy independence, energy efficiency, roads, agrarian complex, decentralization, education, health care, social protection, culture, and whatever you want. This suggests that there is no priority in the government at all. And this bill, which is currently under consideration, is going to force the government to take priority for at least three years, to show the whole state that is the state's top priority. Not the competition that the first one on which side opens a piece of road, there two kilometers, is not a national priority. Road construction is an ongoing, real task that the government has to solve. The priority should be to restore the economy, restore the industry, aviation, space -- those sectors that will push the economy up, which will enable the country to earn taxes, to earn monetary, export, which will enable pensions, wages and then to make one or two priorities a year, or to raise education from its knees, or to actually reform health, not this pseudo-reform that destroys health and prevents people from being treated. Then there must be one priority that affects spending, and two priorities that give an extreme opportunity to earn, to put Ukraine's economy on its feet, to restore industry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-18-m0.u127	Thank you. Gregory Timish gives the floor to Sergey Kaplin. Please. Turn on the microphone, Caplin.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-18-m0.u128	Dear colleagues! I would like to stress once again that any budget planning, budget format, algorithm development, how the funds that will be collected from ordinary Ukrainians will be distributed, should be done only after the government, together with the coalition, has introduced a clear long-term programme where medium-term planning will be part of a separate sector of this design. Only in these circumstances will you, dear fellow countrymen, be able to get away from the coalition and the government to understand the government's policies in terms of increasing pensions, raising wages, raising the minimum of living and other important elements that are as relevant to you today as possible. The bill states that the government will manage fiscal risks so that there is no balanced budget. This will mean that excise duties will increase, taxes will rise, indirect taxes, hidden taxes, especially through increased municipal payments to Ukrainians. In fact, the government is working out its hands to manipulate and juggle taxes paid by ordinary Ukrainians. It says here that the government is going to take care of strategic goals, and I want to stress, they are known: for a simple Ukrainian, it's health, it's jobs, it's education, it's security, it's meaningful internal policy and it's responding to the key risks, particularly the terrorist ones that are in the country today. We need to develop institutions such as the U.S. Attorney's Office, the Ukrainian Security Service, the National Police, reform, push into the neck of those who actually turned these organs into corporations that make money, tear down the shares of the trade unions, the shares of the trade unions that make sure that there is a pension, wages, a living minimum in the ordinary Ukrainian. Also, note the importance of childishness. We fill the budget.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-18-m0.u129	We don't have time, colleagues, we have three minutes left, three factions left, so I'm not adding 30 seconds, colleagues, I'm warning you. Sergei Sobolev, Fatherland, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-18-m0.u130	Sobolje, Fatherland. I would like to contact the representatives of the Ministry of Finance who have submitted this document. On the one hand, we see clear norms that set the government deficit limits of 3 percent, and that's good. But on the other hand, if we understand what the budget declaration is carrying for two months: from April 1st to June 1st. How, then, will the government plan the whole policy of amending tax legislation, customs legislation to be introduced six months before the beginning of the new financial year? Then let's change the start of the financial year: from January 1st to another date, so that entrepreneurs, businesses and the public sector can prepare for the changes that we're going to be planning in one way or another. We all realize that even this year's budget cannot be approved without amending the Customs, Tax Code. How, then, will this continue to harmonize with those lines? We understand why you're doing this: you want a long-term forecast for macroeconomics, you want a forecast for the National Bank. But that's how you go to the National Bank, but you kill your own entrepreneur who doesn't understand how finance policy, customs policy, tax policy will continue to develop. That's why we think this document is not ready, our faction won't vote for it. And the second policy is government debt policy. In our view, we need to move immediately to a new stage of negotiations with our creditors, because everyone understands that these three years, as planned, are in fact impossible for future budgets. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-18-m0.u131	From the opposition block of Dudenkov. I will continue this session until the issue is resolved. Then there's Ostrikova.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-18-m0.u132	Dear colleagues, respected citizens of Ukraine! Now we're going to continue to consider a bill that relates to medium-term planning. By silent but sure steps, we return to the good old ways. Formally, this is a testimony to the country’s stability in budgetary planning, forecasting tax policy, fiscal policy, and financial policy. What is really going on? Here's a concrete example of what the Ukrainian government is introducing this year: the draft Ukrainian State Budget Act for the following year -- without the main thrusts of budgetary policy. The main directions of fiscal policy are developed by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, with the participation of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, which foresees: the level of GDP, the unemployment rate, the minimum wage, the level of living, the level of inflation, the level of prices of industrial producers, i.e. those macroeconomic indicators that are budgeted. Now the government is talking about the need to put in place a three-year budget planning plan, but now it's not doing it at all, formally it's good again. With regard to the promised indicators that are formed by the government in this bill, you have to figure out the following, a few figures. I realize that a lot of people are not interested in this, but more probably this information is directed to the citizens who are listening to us. The level of government debt they're planning to service in this budget is a lot or less of 417 billion dollars -- 40 percent of the revenue part of the budget, and now they're saying it's a development budget. How can we develop when we have to give 40 percent of the money to internal and external creditors? Here's your planning. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-18-m0.u133	So, colleagues, in three minutes we're going to vote. I ask the heads of factions not to have to put a few votes on the table, invite the deputies into the hall, and in three minutes we will move on to the decision. Ostrike's Self-Help, please. And then one minute, Lechchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-18-m0.u134	Dear colleagues, the main content of this bill, as we have seen, is the change of the title "Basic Directions of Budget Policy" to "Budget Declaration," which is certainly a substantial change that will improve the well-being of Ukrainians. When the government imposes upon itself the obligation to submit this budget declaration no later than June 1, you and I understand that this responsibility will be violated in the first place. It breaks year after year, year after year the budget schedule is disrupted, year after year the government violates the budget code specifically for the financing of key budget articles. So we need to understand with you that if the content of this bill isn't filled with a real desire to do it, even though it's a key article in the state budget spending -- and this is debt service, this is a deficit in the pension fund, this is an army and defense, this is decentralization, this is medicine and education, this bill is unfortunately going to remain the same paper that the government today considers the budget code to be in violation of its requirements, every year. And as for the priorities that the government puts in the budget resolution, whether now it will be called the Budget Declaration. Even though decentralization is declared, support for agriculture, energy efficiency, care for the army, in fact, we don't see these priorities from the budget. We see the priorities of building a force police state, financing the police and the BSS, the ministries and the authorities, and we don't see funding already voted by the Supreme Council, medical reform, pension reform and education reform with you. If the government can't even find money to finance the natural cabinets, and all of us here have listened to the deserved teacher of Ukraine and applauded him madly, instead, in the budget of the natural cabinets and the restoration of natural science for the government is not a priority.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-18-m0.u135	Thank you. So, colleagues, please take your jobs, come into the hall. We'll vote in a minute. Invite someone who's not in the hall, come back to the hall. One minute, Lechchenko. And we vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-18-m0.u136	Lewchenko, Freedom, 223 District, Kiev City. The problem with this bill is 8043, as with the previous one, which was just, unfortunately. voted, 8044, that it is in the parliamentary republic that Ukraine is today, is even more remote, or is in general a failure to exercise parliamentary control over the budgetary process as such. This is according to the proposed amendments to part four of article 154 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Rules of Procedure in this bill as a result of the discussion of the State Budget Bill, Parliament will be deprived of the right to reject such a bill if it fails to comply with the budget declaration. Today, according to valid rules, such a right is the main thrust of budgetary policy for the next budget period if such a bill is not in line. So essentially Parliament can't even reject the draft budget if it doesn't meet these very planning standards, yes. Furthermore, the draft amendments to the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Rules do not contain a clear legal definition of the form and content of the Supreme Council's decision on the budgetary declaration and the consequences of such a decision, or the adoption of a further State Budget Bill. So essentially, as in the previous bill, where they were negligent.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-18-m0.u137	Thank you. So, colleagues, let's move on to making a decision. And I am voting on a bill amending some of the Ukrainian legislation on the introduction of medium-term budgetary planning (No. 8043) on the basis of the committee's proposals. Please vote and please support. Vote, vote, support. Vote. [[12:06:19]] For 231 Decision taken. Now, colleagues, please read Irina Heratchenko's message.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-18-m0.u138	Dear colleagues, I'd like your special attention. Every year in October, World Breast Cancer Day takes place. And today, the "Equal Opportunities" interfractional merger, along with the "Women's Health and Family Planning Foundation" are in the fifth place conducting such informational action in the Supreme Council of Ukraine, calling on all Ukraine. Dear Ukraine, you work hard, work hard for your families, men, children, but do not forget yourself! You need countries, families, children, and most of all yourself, healthy. Please, Ukrainian women, we urge all of you to take care of yourself, to take care of prevention, and to go through mammography every year. And all the men and women MPs and deputies of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, I ask of the IFO "Equal Opportunities" to join this informational, slaughtering, please, on your jacket, such a pink ribbon that symbolizes our attention to this terrible disease, one of the most common oncological diseases, and we thank the men and women who have already joined this action. And a little announcement. Our colleague, Mrs. Korchinska, the national deputy of Oksana Korczynska, asked to count her voice as being held in favour of the draft Ukrainian Code of Bankruptcy on second reading and in general because her card did not work. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-18-m0.u139	So, colleagues, right now, according to the Rules, I have to declare a recess. At 12:30, I ask everyone to return to the hall to continue our work. At 12:30, everyone be present in the hall. We are moving to the draft Law on amending the Ukrainian Budget Code (9084) and it is important that we be able to discuss and adopt a budget resolution by lunch, the draft Law on the State Budget of Ukraine. So no later than 12:30 in the hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-18-m0.u140	Colleagues, heads of factions, invite deputies to the hall. And the Secretariat, invite the deputies to the hall. Colleagues, we need to work. We have to work. Said classic Ivan Yakovic: "Work, work, work." That's why I'm asking everyone to come into the hall. Please invite the deputies to the hall. So, colleagues, we have the next draft of the Law amending the Code of Budgets of Ukraine (9084). I'm going to propose to the committee that we take it up with a reduced procedure. But if we don't have 150 votes, we're going to go into full procedure and then, of course, we won't be able to look at the budget by noon. One minute, invite the deputies to the hall. If we don't have enough votes for the abbreviated, we're going to go into full procedure. So, colleagues, please take up jobs. We next have before us the draft Law amending the Code of Budgets of Ukraine (No. 9084). And at the suggestion of the committee, I'm voting on the proposal to consider it as a reduced procedure. Please vote, please support. If we don't vote, we'll go in full. [[12:35:11]] Z-85 For factions, please show: "Block of Petra Poshenko" – 42, "National Front" – 23, "Block of Opposition" – 0, "Help" – 0, Radical Party – 4, "Fathership" – 1, "Will of the People" – 2, "Party of Rebirth" – 5. My colleagues, once again, as we plan, we have to consider the changes to the Budget Code that the Budget Committee has prepared and then move on to the review of the State Budget Act of Ukraine. We'll be able to do it by noon if we now vote in favour of a shorter procedure. If we don't vote, we're actually only going to consider making changes to the Budget Code by noon, and we're going to go into the budget after lunch. So, colleagues, I'm re-voting the proposal that we consider a draft law amending the Ukrainian Budget Code (9084). Please vote, please support. Vote. Please vote. [[12:36:42]] For 1052 All right, colleagues, I'll put it back on. And I'm addressing the factions' heads now. I'll reread the factions for you. Look at the factions and then there'll be no questions about why we didn't look at the budget before lunch. Because factions are responsible for the discipline of factions. So if you'd like to come into the hall and take your jobs. Once again, we have a precedent when committees are in session. I'm asking you to come back from the committees. You had time to hold the committee. Go back to the voting room. It is a bad practice to hold committees during plenary meetings. So did they come back from the committees? Give me a minute. One minute. Please invite the deputies into the hall. In a minute, I'll put the motion for a reduced procedure to the vote. Look at the factions that are in the towers and invite you to the hall. So, colleagues, take your jobs, please, I see they're back. Take your seats, I'll put you on the vote again. So please take your seats and get ready for the vote. Colleagues, come back to the hall, I'll explain the logic. Once again, we will be able to review the budget by noon, provided that we consider the changes to the Budget Code by means of a reduced procedure. So, please, every vote has a weight, a job, a vote, and a vote, not a debate. So I'm putting to the vote the proposal that we consider the draft Law amending the Ukrainian Budget Code (No. 9084). Please vote and please support. Colleagues, every voice has weight. Please vote. Please be supportive. Vote. [[12:41:38]] For-144 A few votes. All right, I'll put it up again, colleagues. I'm asking you to come into the hall and I'll put it back in. We didn't have six votes. I can see that they haven't made it, so come in and take your seats and vote. So, colleagues, I'm putting to the vote the proposal that we consider a draft law amending the Ukrainian Budget Code (No. 9084). Please vote, please support, colleagues, every vote matters, please support. We vote yes, we vote yes. [[12:42:49]] For-163 Decision taken. And I invite you to report to the First Deputy Minister of Finance, Marcarov Oksana Sergiyevna. Please, Mrs. Oksana.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-18-m0.u141	Dear Mr. Head, dear colleagues! Asking for support in the first reading of the Bill on Changes to the Budget Code, which is also systematically linked to the Ukrainian Law, to the project on the State Budget for 2019. This project proposes to bring a number of issues of the code into line with these categories of issues. It's the formation and implementation of local budgets, the inter-budget relations between our state and local budgets, especially the issues that we've discussed here a long time ago. This is the spread of 5 percent of the rent distribution for the use of nadrama on resources other than natural gas and oil. It is the regulation of the arrangement of the arrangement for the implementation of district councils in addition to external borrowing and the provision of local guarantees and the addition of a list of costs that subsidies may provide for benefits and housing subsidies. We also suggest that the financial security of health be addressed. In particular, the most important thing is to identify and address the protected expenditure of the State budget for public health care guarantees and a number of other provisions. Financial provision of education for the introduction of educational subsidy from higher education institutions at the I-II accreditation levels. Social protection expenditure. There are a lot of fundamental issues, as well as many technical issues that specify the authority of the central authorities to approve the essential terms of the contract, such as the energy service. In fact, all the issues that we have discussed with you over the course of the year that really need to be settled in order to improve inter-budget transfers and the relationship between local budgets and the central budget and to bring the code rules into line with the already legislative new rules that have been adopted over the year. Asking you to support us as a basis for us to continue, for the next few weeks along with the work on.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-18-m0.u142	Please finish 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-18-m0.u143	Request to support the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-18-m0.u144	Thank you. Ishcheikin, a member of the Committee on Budgets, is invited to the report, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-18-m0.u145	Dear Andrey Volodymyrovich, distinguished national deputies! The Committee on Budget Issues has considered a government bill amending the Budget Code, whose main tasks are to resolve the issues related to the implementation of the 2019 State Budget Project. The bill also aims to regulate a number of issues related to the formation and implementation of local budgets, including the most important provisions for the inclusion in local self-government budgets of five per cent of the rent for the use of public value mining gears; the right of district councils to carry out external borrowings and to provide local guarantees for the restoration and reconstruction of community property facilities, the introduction of resource-saving technologies, and the development of public highways. It should be noted that during the discussion of the bill, the committee noted the need for a thorough revision of its provisions with a view to further improving budgetary procedures. At the same time, the proposal to complete paragraph 42 of the Code of Final and Transitional Provisions, as reflected in the draft decree, was supported. Generally speaking, considering that the legislative initiatives proposed in the bill are included in the 2019 draft State Budget, the consideration and adoption of such related bills should be mutually agreed. As a result of the review, the committee adopted the following decision: recommending to the Supreme Council, on the basis of the first reading of Bill 9084, to adopt, on the basis of the committee’s proposals, and entrust the committee with the task of redrafting the bill for the second reading, taking into account the proposals made by the legal entities of the legislative initiative. Please support the relevant draft decision. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-18-m0.u146	Thank you. We're moving on to the discussion, please prepare for the recording: two for, two against. Dear colleagues, please record. Welcome to the speech of the Melnik People's Deputy of "Peter Prashenko's Block."
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-18-m0.u147	Sergey Melnik, the city of Hmelnick. Dear colleagues, in fact today we are considering three draft laws amending the Code of Budgets. And the last law, which was about changing the deadlines for the submission of the budget declaration, is actually the main issue of these issues, is the format of the new budget declaration. As you recall, in the past year, the government submitted a pilot draft of a budget declaration, which made many objections to the national MPs. And so today, when the State Budget project is being drafted for the next year, we have again a lot of questions about how the budget declaration should be answered. I'd like to call two main things today: first is the support of the agricultural sector. We should not define in the last days mechanisms, principles of support, limitations, and inclinations. So is the question of the third level of accreditation of institutions, which are the structural units of higher education institutions and which are within the national universities. Today it costs 800 million. The main proposals that the MPs make are to partially settle this issue by reviewing the government's procurement of the university. And, of course, next time. I'll take it from here. by increasing the accreditation of these institutions so that they can actually become real institutions. Every year we have a number of questions in our budgeting, so I would very much ask the Ministry of Finance when these three bills are being finalized, and the main thing is that we have to be clear about the format. What's more, I'll say that.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-18-m0.u148	Please, 30 seconds, finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-18-m0.u149	What's more, today, if you look at many questions about treatment abroad, I'm going to tell you the secret that the Ministry of Health's budget statement doesn't contain any information that we have on this issue.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-18-m0.u150	Thank you. I invite you to speak to the "Fatherland" faction of the People's Deputy Sergio Sobolev.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-18-m0.u151	Fatherland, Sobolev. I would like to ask the Ministry of Finance to confirm that this is a vote in the first reading exclusively of these regulations. And secondly, I would like to caution against the key issues that will now be voted on. The first question is a 5 percent increase in local budget wage. The second is actually the protection of budget expenditure on protected articles of medical subsidies, which allows us to survive next year in conditions where this so-called "medical reform" does not work, but on the other hand, it does not rule out the possibility next year under such standards of transition to health insurance. And the third thing that really sets us up here -- I want Minfin to confirm it -- is loans that will be taken by the district councils, can be exclusive only if it concerns international financial institutions, such as the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, so that our district councils don't go into debt where they can't do it. So if Minfin confirms these decisions, and we think that this vote is only on the first reading, then we're willing to consider these proposals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-18-m0.u152	Thank you. I invite you to the floor of the People's Deputy Bodnar. Bondar is a yes-yes! Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-18-m0.u153	Thank you, fellows of honor! Dear citizens of Ukraine, one of the most important issues to be addressed is the preparation for the consideration of Ukraine's budget. I want to tell you, we've briefly analyzed the project that's being submitted. If you have two words, this is the country's undernourished budget. It's a social capital budget, it's a social security budget, it's an on-site economic wake-up budget, it's an IMF budget, well, not for Ukraine, it's essentially a debt growth budget. The budget is completely unbalanced. The government doesn't give us the answer to what priority in this budget that we change in a year. We've been given a dozen priorities: both culture, health care, and defense, and whatever you want, it means there's no priority in the government, I've already talked about it. There's no growth in the economy, there's no industrial support, there's no support for the Aythic sphere, there's nothing for Ukraine to grow and there's nothing for Ukraine to grow. Next. Let's see what's going on in general. Debt growth: we're going to invest 346 billion and we're going to pay 292 billion. In fact, debt increases by 52 billion. This means that we pay new debts to the debt pits. There's no answer, and what we're going to earn. We were promised a government that would increase the economy by 5 to 7 percent, we see 3 percent in the budget. Inflation indicators: they have set 7 percent, and they are much more now. Tariffs rise by 23 percent and subsidies decrease by almost 20 billion dollars for the population. Well, what's the economy in this? Where's the population? How do they plan to survive after that? We're offered an energy conservation programme of 2 billion, while subsidies of 55 billion. We ask, where is the energy conservation program? How are we going to reduce the use of gas, electricity? There are no such answers in the budget. That's why we insist. Give me 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-18-m0.u154	30 seconds, please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-18-m0.u155	That is why we require the government to review the budget carefully, to give one or two priorities for the following year, which makes the country useful, and what it will be different from the country in 2018. And you don't have to compete with the President, who's going to open up the road faster, this is the current task of the government, this is not a strategic priority. The strategic priority is that it can be industry, it can be the sector, it can be the agricultural sector, it can be the things that will raise the economy and make the country's monetary return. And the main thing is that the budget has to be balanced. You're showing us.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-18-m0.u156	Thank you. And they haven't been able to sign up yet, and they're asking me to come forward, please, with Shurma's Opposition Block and Self-Help. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-18-m0.u157	Igor Shurma, Opposition Block. Dear colleagues, you just have to understand that right now. At least listen a little bit to what's going on in the hall right now. Now your hands are being manipulated by government magicians. They were very good for people to say that we are making big changes that will help us improve our health. These changes include making changes to article 55 to the protected costs of medical matters. So I want to tell you that this was to be done long ago when Bill 6327 was passed. At that time, the government was obliged to make the expenses protected within a period of three months. And I must say that the government today realizes that 5 percent for health care, as stipulated by the law of Ukraine, for which it saved acceptance, will not be executed. The question of the level of salaries of medical personnel, medical personnel, is a big question. And here's the interesting part. The minister was silenced. She's not saying that these changes are for the government to reason on, think about it! - to the government's discretion to fund a state guarantee programme, depending on the funds available, which restrict and violate Law 6327, or what we're talking about medical guarantees. What does that mean? In this budget, 5 percent is out of medical care, as stipulated by law, is 3. And then, in manual mode, they're going to correct all kinds of tightenings and they're going to say that this is the same Supreme Council that voted for it, and we're just doing what's prescribed. Therefore, if this bill does not remove these additions, which allow the government to make such a decision by hand, it is not possible to vote in the first reading at all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-18-m0.u158	Thank you. And last of all, I'd like to ask of the Self-Help faction of National Deputy Sissyenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-18-m0.u159	Dear colleagues, the self-help faction suggested not to include pilot projects relating to emergency medical care for five areas of Ukraine. By amending the budget code, the government decided that only five areas of Ukraine would receive funding for emergency medical care in the following year. We believe that this is discrimination as regards health - care workers, why it is the five areas of Ukraine that will receive more wages, and other health - care workers of the other 19 areas will not receive more. Similarly, this is discrimination in relation to patients, where ambulances in five areas of Ukraine arrive at the right time, while the other 19 areas, patients can wait for hours to come. This is unfair. Another important question. The Self-Help faction suggested that the Budget Code should be amended, and all the costs arising from corruption should be spent directly on the construction of new hospitals and the construction of schools. I think that if it really were the Prime Minister's political will to fight corruption, the money that could be recovered from corruption would be enough to build new schools and modern hospitals on every street in Ukraine. We therefore demand that these changes be included in the draft budget code for the following year. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-18-m0.u160	Thank you, colleagues. So we finished the discussion. I ask you to contact Mrs. Oksana, and Oksana will tell you this position publicly if she supports her. I'll give it to Oksani. Please, colleagues, please come into the hall. Please prepare for the vote 30 seconds, Ivan Krulko. Please come in, take your jobs. Heads of factions, invite the deputies to the hall. Cool.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-18-m0.u161	Ivan Krulko, "The Fatherland" faction. I would like us to clarify one very important position when we vote in favour of the Budget Code. We have a problem with funding higher education institutions at the 1st level of accreditation. And I'm asking that we talk about this right now, so that we have a second reading position on what the state is. The State budget can finance the education institutions of the 1st and 2nd levels of accreditation, as is the case in the current year, has remained in the Budget Code. I ask that we agree to this proposal on second reading of support, and in this case we are ready to consider the Budget Code for the following year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-18-m0.u162	Thank you. Mrs. Oksana, 30 seconds. 30 seconds, actually. And I'm going to ask you to take up jobs. Turn on the microphone. Talk to me.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-18-m0.u163	Yes, dear colleagues, we are ready for a second reading of this rule to discuss and find a balanced solution with the committee as discussed on the budget committee. So the request to support the first base is now, and we'll find a solution to these colleges by the second reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-18-m0.u164	So the position is clear, it's publicly confirmed. And we can move on to making decisions, colleagues. Mr. Alexander, we've finished the discussion. Excuse me. So, colleagues, I'm putting it to a vote. [[General Discussion]] Let the committee say that. Is this confirmed by the committee? [[B in m in s a l in]] So, colleagues, let the committee know if he supports this proposal. Committee, do you support the position that Siewakovsky is making? Please, colleagues, the committee has to say, and I'll tell you what, with the committee's amendment. Please take up jobs. Very short, please, Constantine.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-18-m0.u165	Dear colleagues, I'm going to ask Minfin to comment on this position because she's on the committee in that form. And if Minfin supports that position. Oksana Sergiyevna!
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-18-m0.u166	Mrs. Oksana, we have an education dispute.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-18-m0.u167	There was a proposal from the Committee on Education and Science to support the bill, except for the provision of higher education costs for the provision of services for the preparation of professionals, scientific and scientific and pedagogical personnel, under the conditions of public procurement of higher education institutions III-IV, the accreditation of private property in structural units without the status of a separate legal entity, which are part of the national higher education institutions III-IV, the level of State ownership accreditation.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-18-m0.u168	You'll support it, won't you? Will you support me?
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-18-m0.u169	An offer to exclude. Exclusion.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-18-m0.u170	Mrs. Oksana, why couldn't you say that before the vote? Mrs. Oksana, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-18-m0.u171	We will not deny the position of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-18-m0.u172	It's a deal, it's a deal. So, colleagues, I'm putting to the vote the draft Law amending the Ukrainian Budget Code (No. 9084) with an amendment that Ischakin Kostantin Evgenovich made under the transcript, and also the one that Krulko gave and confirmed by Markarov, based on the committee's proposals. I already said that. Be careful, please. Please vote. Please be supportive. Please vote on Ischeikin's proposal, which he sounded in education and in the committee's editorial form, in the committee's presentation. [[13:03:59]] For 215 Colleagues, what's the matter? Peter Prashenko's Block 86, People's Front 56. What's the matter, coalition colleagues? I'm betting on my return. I ask you to vote in favour of returning to draft Law 9084. Everyone, please take part in the vote. Please, colleagues, don't come out of the hall or go into the hall. Please vote for the return to draft Law 90. Therefore, vote in favour of the return to draft Law 9084. Please vote. Please be supportive. We're voting back. Please be supportive. [[13:05:08]] For 237 We're back. Now, colleagues, I emphasize. I am voting on the draft Law amending the Code of Budgets of Ukraine (No. 9084) with proposals that were made by Constantine Ischeykin on the recommendation of the Committee on Education of Spiowakovsky, as well as the amendment of Krulk, which was confirmed under the transcript of Oxan Markarov, on the basis of the Committee's proposals. Please vote and please support, colleagues. Each voice has a weight. Please be supportive. Please vote. Vote! Please be supportive. Vote. [[13:05:58]] For 244 Decision taken, colleagues. And this allows us to go to the draft Ukrainian State Budget Act 2019 (No. 9000). I would like to remind you that a special procedure is under way under this bill: we are considering the draft National Budget Act of Ukraine in the first reading, and in accordance with article 157 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Rules, the matter is being considered in full discussion. And I invite you now to report to the deputy head of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the budget of Sergio Ivanovich Melnik, in five minutes. But I'm asking everyone as concise as possible. And we're left with an hour, and that's actually the term that follows the full discussion procedure. So please, Sergey Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-18-m0.u173	Dear Andrew Volodymyrovich, distinguished national deputies, invited! The preparation of the National Budget Bill for 2019 for consideration in the first reading was carried out in accordance with article 156 of the Supreme Council Rules. The draft budget for 2019 has been prepared taking into account government bills 9084 on changes to the Budget Code and 9085 on changes to the Tax Code. Thus, before the adoption of the State Budget, it is necessary to adopt the bills in question, ensuring that their positions are reconciled in order to maintain the balance of government and local budgets. There's an increase in the forecast of some revenue. There are risks to the implementation of individual planned indicators, particularly with regard to privatisation revenues. When processing the cost indicators of the draft budget, the state of budgeting for most of the main cost managers has been analysed, drawing attention to the cost constraints for their proper functioning. When considering inter-budgetary relations with representatives of local self-government authorities and their all - Ukrainian associations, the greatest concern was the lack of financial resources for the execution of powers delegated by the State, particularly in relation to the proposed transfer to local budgets of public budget expenditure, which would divert local government resources from their own resources, with partial compensation for the loss of local budgets as a result of tax benefits. The committee's report contains a general analysis of the bill, including a comparison with the budget figures this year and an assessment of compliance with the rules of the Budget Code and other legislation. In preparation for the first reading of the bill, the budget committee, with the participation of the Ministry of Finance and the Court of Auditors, dealt with 2 000 71 proposals from the National Deputies and the Committee, which were generalized in the table of proposals. It should be emphasized that, according to the requirements of article 156 of the Rules, the proposals after October 1 were not considered or included in such a table. It should be noted that most of the proposals do not meet the regulatory requirements for their balance. According to the results and a preliminary estimate for the proposals, the overall budget requirement is about 2.2 trillion. You remember that if last year there was an additional budget for one proposal, this year there were two budgets. As a result of the committee’s work, a draft Supreme Council Regulation on Conclusions and Proposals for a Bill and a table of proposals for legislators has been prepared. The committee proposes to take fully or partly 922 proposals into account and to reject 1 thousand 249 proposals. The names are basic. Clarification or exclusion of individual provisions of the bill to comply with the rules of the Budget Code. Strengthening parliamentary control in the implementation of the State budget; increasing the expenditure on centralized medical arrangements by 626 million for the purchase of medical supplies, medical devices for the treatment of patients with cardiovascular diseases, cardiovascular diseases and cancer patients; increasing the medical subsidy by 199.9 million dollars for the purpose of treating patients with chronic renal insufficiency by haemodialysis and sugar and non-sugar diabetes; increasing the cost of treating citizens abroad by 200 million dollars; increasing the cost of diagnosis and treatment of diseases in medical institutions of the Ministry of Health by 60 million dollars; increasing the cost of treating citizens abroad by 200 million dollars; increasing the cost of health expenditures for the development of health-related diseases by 2 billion dollars; and the cost of contributing to the health-care sector by 422 billion dollars; increasing the financial provision of high-specialized medical assistance to the development of the health sector. The source of additional expenditure is the increase in costs from the National Bank and the reallocation between individual expenditures, programs. Prophecy in the End Positions of the Bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-18-m0.u174	Please finish 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-18-m0.u175	The Cabinet of Ministers will consider the possibility of an additional solution to the minimum cost of living and the increase in educational and medical subsidies, as well as any suggestions made. Thus, the Committee on Budget Affairs has adopted a decision to recommend to the Supreme Council to adopt, as a whole, a draft of the 90-P regulation on the conclusions and proposals for the bill. Please support the committee's decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-18-m0.u176	Thank you. Three minutes of questions. Please record the question. Oksana Sold, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-18-m0.u177	Dear Sergey Ivanovich, thank you so much for the report. At the same time, I would like to draw your attention to both the Hall and the Ministry of Finance that a large number of proposals from the Association of Ukrainian Cities have not been taken into account in the preparation of the project on the profile committee. And it's not just an offer to make better or even better living conditions. We're asking for two things. First, I am now asking the Minister of Finance, unfortunately, that there is no Prime Minister, but to organize a meeting with the Association of Ukrainian Cities in the drafting of a bill between the first and second readings in the government to take into account all the proposals that are primarily related to subsidies: subsidies for medicine, subsidies for education, medical matters. Because when you count it, Sergei Ivanovich, hemodialysis and insulin is actually not enough. And I want to clarify the budget issue right now, so we've just voted. Is the funding of the III-IV educational institutions planned for this year 2019 at the expense of the district budgets? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-18-m0.u178	Thank you. So in terms of funding the I-II level of accreditation, which are the structural units of level III-IV higher education institutions, the overall position of the committee. We're commissioning the government and we think the whole price of the issue is 800 million dollars. How do we see the solution? We can see that part of the resource can be redistributed inside the main cost manager by changing the re-profile when a government order is made. In part, we think that we can increase the additional resources, about 500 million dollars, and so we can leave the financing of the I-II facilities, which are the structural units of the higher and in the national structures as they are. At the same time, offer the mechanism a regional order. I mean, to profile higher institutions, profiled, III-IV, they support the preparation of Level I-II, to give the areas an opportunity.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-18-m0.u179	Thank you. Vojcitsky Victoria gives the floor to Irina Sisoyenko’s question. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-18-m0.u180	Please tell me why the Budget Committee has agreed to five areas of emergency assistance to the government. What can the other 19 areas of Ukraine that will not receive rapid assistance financially be done? The second question. Why is there no government program to combat trauma? 4.5 million people are injured in Ukraine every year, and there is no amount to combat trauma. There's not a penny to do early diagnostics and oncology screenings. There is no government program for the treatment of children. For many years these government programs have always been in expenditure on the health system, and no money is being spent on it. What is this budget, an increase in the mortality rate of the population of Ukraine next year?
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-18-m0.u181	First of all, I think the key to health issues should be the Health Committee, which should determine the procedure, the directions, and the priorities. As for the position of the budget committee, our position was, in fact, to exclude areas, but the position of the ministry, which is actually a centralized service system in eight areas today, and they're going in stages. The position of the committee was not to be that recently the White Church was going out here, that is, some part of the program to give, really to some lower level to raise, and part to define certain areas, that's their position to fully provide this program. Today, in addition to other areas, the program does not include three areas that have met the requirements. So I think, in principle, you can make changes to the second reading on this program, and we would be.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-18-m0.u182	Thank you. The closing question is the Jurassic.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-18-m0.u183	Oksana Jurinec, 117 constituency, city of Lviv Sergey Ivanovich, it is very important that this year should have been the 1st of January allowance for assistants, professors, science and teaching staff, state and municipal institutions. Unfortunately, this hasn't been done this year, and this budget doesn't have the same proposal. There's an offer by the Education Committee to take this amendment into account to pay people off. They go out and strike, it's people who have a minimum wage, and when you're an associate and a professor, but you're in line to get money so you can feed your family, and for a subsidy in turn, it's not normal. And secondly, what's important is cross-border cooperation. A proposal from our committee that is out of the question. There's one bracelet that would give you plus ten bracelets from the European Union. Actually, these two points are the most important and priority, so I'd like to suggest that. Because last year it just came out after the signing of the Budget Act.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-18-m0.u184	Look, a lot of the suggestions that relate to these general issues, we're still giving you the opportunity to work on the second reading. In many positions of the committee, we see, in principle, a certain additional resource today, we estimate it there about 8 billion dollars. Of course, there's a need to make calculations, to confirm these income sources, and I think that in conjunction with the government before the second reading, you can count on the individual priority issues that are presented in the proposals of the national MPs.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-18-m0.u185	Thank you. I would now like to invite you to attend to the rostrum of Ukraine’s Finance Minister, Ms. Oxana Sergiyevna Markarov, please. In five minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-18-m0.u186	Dear Head, dear colleagues! Today we're actually just starting our work in broad-based terms with the State Budget. I want to thank the Committee on Budgets for the very difficult and difficult discussions that we have had in the last two weeks. I want to thank everyone who made the proposals, and they're given to us for 2.2 trillion dollars. That's two more budgets compared to what we put in. I understand that the budget is the art of possible, and I understand that our main task now is to adopt a balanced budget, where each of the spending amounts is provided by real income, so that you and I can understand and fund fully from January 1, 2019. Are there issues in this budget that need to be worked out? Absolutely. And that's why we're asking you to support today's adoption of this State Budget with you in the first reading of the proposals and conclusions prepared by the Committee. And I also want to thank the committee for being sufficiently balanced and restrained so that we can work with you and get out, hopefully this year, before December of the month for the adoption of our country's main financial document. Request for support, ready to continue to work constructively on this document. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-18-m0.u187	Thank you. Please, three minutes of questions. Mrs. Oksana, please go back to work. You'll have to answer the question. Please, Gregory Timish.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-18-m0.u188	Timish, 203 constituency, Chernobyl. Dear Volodymyr Borisovich, thank you very much for the cost of rebuilding the bridge across the Prut River in the March-Hertz area. This is very good news. But we forgot about the pass point "The Thank you" and "Krasnollskik." I don't understand why they're not in the expense section, why they're not listed. These are strategic objects that we speak of long ago. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-18-m0.u189	Please, Mrs. Oksana.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-18-m0.u190	Dear colleagues, we'll work on the second reading. In fact, there is a huge number in the State budget — 56 billion of them are invested in a road fund, including roads and bridges, and other road infrastructures. Let us work with you on the second reading and see what objects can be settled there. Plus, there are regional subsidies, and there are certain objects that can be financed during the year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-18-m0.u191	Thank you. Denisenko Anatoly Petrovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-18-m0.u192	Please pass the word to Pisarenko Valerius.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-18-m0.u193	Turn the urinal on.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-18-m0.u194	Thank you. I have a request, of course, that we work for the second reading. We've given our suggestions that the budget is substantial enough, for example, to increase the support of law enforcement agencies, prosecutors and so on, but we see that most of the programs that we're talking about here in the session room are underfunded. We're going to talk to you about supporting regional policy on, above all, the cities of Kharkiv, but we will also talk about supporting internally displaced persons, who today also need additional support, about correcting social standards. I hope that you and I will be able to work together, because in the second reading, we will be very careful to see what will be in the budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-18-m0.u195	Please, Mrs. Oksana.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-18-m0.u196	Thank you, Your Honor. As you know, the security and security costs in the budget are allocated according to the National Security Council recommendations, all the rest of the expenses she said were balanced. And we're ready to work constructively with the committee further to find the right solutions for the second reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-18-m0.u197	Thank you. And the final question is Juryn Oksana Vasilovna, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-18-m0.u198	Oksana Jurinec, 117 constituency, city of Lviv Mrs. Oksana, I want to emphasize again the important points that we have made in the amendments. The first is education: it's paid to professors, to assistants, to teachers today who are minimal and meager, and it's not fulfilled by the Cabinet of Ministers for this year, and it's supposed to be paid for this year, the 18th, and in the 19th year, it's got to be what you promised back in the year. And secondly, this is the cross-border cooperation that our European Integration Committee has tabled this amendment. In fact, the projects that were won, in fact, very many local communities, the territorial communities that today are chosen by the OTG, they worked very actively with the European Union today. We have to support them with this one bracelet to get these 10 from the European Union. And so I'm asking you very much not to be like last year, when we voted for the budget: this tape was 500 million, and then it fell, that's insane. Because we actually attract a lot more. And today our committee has made every effort to take this into account. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-18-m0.u199	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-18-m0.u200	Education is a key priority for both government and parliament. Of course, the figure that is now in the 19th year budget is actually even higher than the average for OECD countries as a percentage of GDP. Yeah, that's not enough, if we're talking about specific knots, specifics, we know that there are really issues that require settlement, let's go together to the second reading, we'll find mechanisms like in the middle of the digit that we are, we'll be able to find and rebalance. As far as cross-border cooperation is concerned, international projects and increasing sampling are actually the key priority of the Ministry of Finance that we are working on. We've already switched jobs with you at the Ministry of Finance on cross-border cooperation, so we're dealing with this issue in the second reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-18-m0.u201	Thank you very much. So please, you can take your place now. I now invite the head of Valery Vasilovich Packan's Chamber of Accounts to speak. In five minutes, but I'm asking too, Mr. Valérie, as concise as possible.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-18-m0.u202	Dear Andrew Volodymyrovich, distinguished national MPs, members of the government, are invited! The Court of Auditors conducted an expert study on the draft Law on Ukraine's National Budget for 2019 and approved the relevant conclusions and proposals it has sent you. The bill is based on an increase in real gross domestic product to 3 percent. First, it's less than the growth of the world economy, so Ukraine's backstopping from the world will get deeper. Secondly, this growth is projected to be achieved by expanding domestic consumer investment demand, but this is not reinforced by the realities of today. Consider for yourself that this year is slowing down the real income of the population, stagnation is taking place in areas where consumer demand is produced, and the volume of foreign investment is declining. Under rising gas prices, it will be difficult to maintain inflation, which is set at 7.4 percent by the government. Under these conditions, the increase in the revenue of the State budget is primarily due to the increase in imports, prices and devaluations approved for 2018. At the same time, without taking into account the price factor, the government’s income in 2019 will fall by 0.8 percent. The Court of Auditors reviewed the accounts of the Ministry of Finance of the most budgetary enterprises and found high risks of non-recovery in the proposed amounts of individual income. This year, we did an audit of the electronic fuel management system to control the excise tax. Violent facts. He testified that there could be a significant increase in these revenues. But for a government that has to do its best to reduce the shadow flow of fuel. At the same time, the existing additional reserves of income are not included in the bill. According to our estimate, national MPs are able to increase the income tax on companies and excise taxes on imported excise goods by a total of more than 17.6 billion dollars. In 35 proposals, your proposals, the honourable national deputies, the budget in the part of the increase of their expenditure, the source of the proposed revenue reserves proposed by the Court of Auditors, and they are better directed, not to an increase in expenditure, but to a reduction in the budget deficit. Government debt has remained a key issue of the budget for a few years. The following year will be a year of considerable debt payments, with 145 billion dollars for public debt service alone. In addition, 272 billion dollars are planned to repay the government debt. These costs are twice as high as the projected total cost of the budget for economic activity, housing and utilities. These costs could be an investment ground for economic development and improving the welfare of citizens. The government will also be borrowing new loans in 2019 to pay off government debts and cover government deficits. It is planned to borrow 346 billion dollars, a quarter of the financial resources of the State budget of Ukraine. However, this is not an overly reliable and affordable source of income that will depend on situations in the external markets of the capital, the continuation of cooperation with the IMF, the demand for domestic government loans. Instead, the implementation of investment projects made at the expense of the State’s funds from foreign states, banks and international financial institutions at a relatively low price is extremely ineffective, as the Court of Auditors has repeatedly pointed out in its audits. As a result, the potential for infrastructure upgrades is lost. I'll stop something at decentralization. In recent years the term "decentralisation" has become very popular. Since the beginning of the reform in 2019, it has been planned to reduce by 5.3 billion the volume of transfers from the State budget for the first time. It is also predicted that local budgets will increase by 46.8 billion dollars. In general, this indicates an increase in the financial autonomy of local budgets. In practice, however, this autonomy remains eloquent for most. As in previous years, in 2019 more than half of the revenues of local budgets will be generated by transfers from the State budget, most of which are subsidies that have a target. Dear National Deputies, the Court of Auditors is ready to continue working with you, along with the government, to prepare a high-quality state fund for 2019 and.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-18-m0.u203	Please, 10 seconds, finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-18-m0.u204	all participants in the budgetary process. Thank you for your attention. Thank you, Andry Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-18-m0.u205	Thank you, Mr. Valérie. Thank you. And so, colleagues, now come from factions, groups. Please record statements from factions and groups. It's from Oxana Prodan's Peter Dustenk Block. Yeah? Please, Oksana Sold from the Peter Dust Block. Turn on Mrs. Oksani's microphone. Is there a card in there? Look, Mrs. Oksana.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-18-m0.u206	There you go.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-18-m0.u207	It's okay. Talk to me.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-18-m0.u208	Yes. Dear Andrija Volodymyrovich, I would like to take advantage of the opportunity, the presence of the Prime Minister and contact Vladimir Borisovich. Dear Volodymyr Borisovich, the Association of Cities' budget project has been completed from the beginning of its work in the government until tonight. Thank you, part of the proposals were taken into account at the time of preparation. At the same time, there are many questions that concern first the financing of medicine, education, and the roads that we have left behind. So I very much ask you, during the preparation period between the first and second readings of the project, to meet with representatives of the Association of Ukrainian Cities, to find time and work out all the questions to ensure that the decentralization that the government is conducting today is done. And the Supreme Council, so that it will actually take place financially. That's one question. And I want to raise two specific questions. It's not expensive, but it's very important. The first is Clean Water, which was this year, which works very effectively and is distributed precisely to take into account the position of local self-government authorities, but is now transferred from local authorities to the DFRD. And the second question. I'm asking you to bring her back. And the second issue that's very important is the support and funding of those areas that are still black and white today, they've been removed in the draft budget, unfortunately. There's a few points in End Positions. So I also insist that they stay because people have the right to adequate funding. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-18-m0.u209	Thank you. The Prime Minister will summarize the discussion after all the speeches have been completed. And now, please welcome to the floor the head of the People's Front faction, Maxim Burbak.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-18-m0.u210	Dear colleagues! Today we are looking at the State Budget in the first reading. The main thing for all of us is for the country to enter the following year with the State Budget. We need to stop this practice, vote for the tree budget, and work thoroughly to make it a professional document. The main thing is that this document is balanced so that the budget is balanced so that we can secure the expenditure from the State budget on basic programmes. For the People's Front faction, the main task was to continue and in this budget, the practice was proposed by the government of Arsenius Yatsenyuk, that 5 percent of the gross domestic product would be funded by national security and defence measures, and there was. Thank you for that. Next. The main thing for the People's Front faction is to continue those reforms that were initiated by the government of Arsenius Yatsenuk. These are reforms in education, in health care, in construction, and in major road repairs, in decentralization. That's what this budget provides. Thank you for that. Our faction served a great deal of rights from our deputies, from factions. And I'm sure they'll be taken into account in furthering the second reading. Dear colleagues! I urge everyone to vote for the State budget in the first reading so that the coalition government can work out all our proposals. In order for us to vote for a balanced State budget. And with our country to be with the State Budget next year, where social benefits will be provided, and social expenditure for the population, where expenses will be projected for our Armed Forces of Ukraine to reflect Russia's aggression. In order for our nation to move forward, economic growth has progressed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-18-m0.u211	Thank you. Please, from the Self-Help faction of Tetjan Ostrikov, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-18-m0.u212	Dear colleagues, dear Ukrainians! The state budget is the document that our country will live on for the next year. And it must take into account and ensure the interests of all Ukrainian citizens. Instead, after learning about this project of the State Budget, as in fact the next two years, it should not be surprising that taxpayers are leaving the country for millions. Such genuine concern for themselves from the government simply cannot stand. Instead of the promised tax business on the output capital, which will stop offshoring, at least 1 percent of GDP growth per year and at least 110 billion investment in domestic and external investments per year, we have a tax drop on a large business from a tax on the income of enterprises of 13 billion dollars, as the head of the Court of Auditors has just said. Instead, the government has increased the tax plan for individuals’ incomes. From whom will this money come if we have a catastrophic increase in the pace of labour migration? It is clear that three skins will be removed from small businesses. And let's not forget the business pressure from the rapists who, again (right-holders, police, S.B.I., prosecutors) are increasing funding by 18 billion, although the crime rate has not improved, and the public activists are not feeling free in our country since the Dignity Revolution. Instead of the government's promised anti-trafficking in customs, we have a reduction, a reduction in the payment plan, especially the excise duty, of 4 billion dollars, which is likely to go into someone's pocket, not into the state budget. And where are the government and Prime Minister promised 100 billion more than the tariff cuts? They're not in the 2019 budget, unfortunately. Medical, educational, subsidies are insufficient even for the current costs of schools and hospitals. According to the community pocket, 27 additional billion will be removed to cover these expenses. The total amount of grants and subsidies to local budgets has been reduced by 5 billion. Self-help was making amendments, and we're demanding that the salaries of medical personnel be raised by at least 2-3 tariff rates, that they should be allocated for emergency medical care, in all areas, and not just for a pilot project. Otherwise, the speedboat will only travel to one in four patients. There is a shortfall in funding for emergency assistance of 8 billion. Well, most of all, it's the Armed Forces. We demand the approval of a state programme to pay 100,000 dollars to every ATO participant, every fighter who has defended our territorial integrity. Today this is done in Lviv. If this is by the power of the city of Lviv, it should become a national program. But we didn't see that in the State Budget project. Just like we didn't see the energy efficiency declared by the government, because only 400 million were allocated to "heat loans" at a time when Self-help asked to allocate at least 2 billion and give.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-18-m0.u213	30 seconds, complete.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-18-m0.u214	And give our people a tool to reduce the cost of utilities. However, all of our adjustments to the acquisition of housing for military personnel, to the allocation of "hot loans" for people, to the raising of wages for medical personnel, to the natural cabinets in schools, all of our amendments have been removed because the funds went to the financing of ODA and to the financing of muscle.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-18-m0.u215	Thank you. Please, from the Opposition Block, the People's Deputy of Doubenkov. I'd like to have a word with you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-18-m0.u216	Dear colleagues! Dear citizens of Ukraine! The Opposition Block faction will not vote in favour of this antisocial bill. This is actually the main financial document of the country. The government of Ukraine, a strong coalition, those groups and factions that will support coalition and government initiatives, say that the development budget. Much can be said of this budget, but it has nothing to do with its development. I don't understand how we can support, more precisely, how you will support the budget of the prosecutor's-police country. The following year, funding for the IMF, the Attorney General's Office, the Ukrainian Security Service is 100 billion dollars, while this year it is slightly over 80 billion dollars. So there's not much increase in 20 billion dollars. I don't understand how we're going to support the State Budget Bill for the following year, and that's what we've heard from the findings of the Ukrainian Court of Auditors, the unprecedented amount of service and public debt payments in Ukraine's history -- 417 billion dollars -- is 40 percent of the revenue part of the budget. These are 40 percent that could be geared towards economic development, infrastructure, generally raising the social level of the population, social standards. Where is the development? I can't understand how you're going to support a bill that envisions a reduction in social spending. Coalition representatives said it was a social bill and it was aimed at supporting and protecting the social policy of the state. But in the end, we can see that the cost of housing-communal subsidies was reduced. This year, there were 70 billion, and next year, the bill, which is now presenting 55 billion dollars. What does this mean for citizens, ordinary, average citizens? And that means that in the background of the increase in natural gas tariffs by 25 percent, that's to about 10,000 dollars per thousand cubic meters, when in the 13th year, that was 800 dollars per thousand cubic meters. So in five years, it's going to be 12 times. The number of recipients of grants will not be much. This budget is a fair decentralization. There is no expenditure on socio-economic development in the regions, when even this year an amount of 5 billion dollars was foreseen. And finally. This budget, which at its macroeconomic rate does not even reach the 2013 budget for the following reasons: first, GDP is a little over 110 billion dollars this year. That was $100 in 2013.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-18-m0.u217	30 seconds. Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-18-m0.u218	billions of dollars. The minimum wage of $152 in the 13th year is now $141. The minimum pension is $118, and they're offering $55. The minimum subsistence minimum is $147, and now it's $68. Where is development, and where is social protection? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-18-m0.u219	Thank you. Next speech from Rebirth Group, National MP Anton Yatzenko. Colleagues, let me remind you that we're discussing a draft budget for the 19th year. Let's just keep it a little bit quiet in the hall so there's a sense of sound. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-18-m0.u220	Dear colleagues, Madam Chairman, Mr. Prime Minister and members of the government, this draft budget raises a great deal of attention. I'm just going to point out in the figures that we're proposing today, for example, on the IMF by 16 billion 300 million. The 14 billion are the Mini-Defense. The state of television is a very important organ, but it's a billion dollars. The National Police is another 5 billion. The National Guard is one and a half billion. Court administration is 150 million. The Supreme Court is 291 million. And so on. So in fact, we have a huge budget load today at the expense of the force organs. And instead, we don't actually have many of the things that are being proposed by the people's deputies today, and directly, we've been serving with Mr. Bondar, our faction leader, these proposals, I'm going to point them out right now. First, purely for the stenographer, medically. Proposal 96. We suggest that the development of an emergency medical system be extended not only to pilots but also to other regions of Ukraine. Next, it's 646: allocate 500 million dollars of funding for the reconstruction and expansion of the National Cancer Institute. We don't have to explain how important this is, because these are our citizens. Next: 647. To allocate 61 million dollars of funding to improve the quality of radiation therapy for cancer treatment in the Cancer Institute is the same. We further propose a billion (proposal 926) to increase the funding of specialized and highly specialized health care provided by public health institutions — that is, the need for twice as much in this budget is based on our citizens. We further propose an increase of 5 billion 679 million (proposal 930) to finance the budget programme "Diagnostics and Treatment of Diseases with the introduction of experimental and new medical technologies in health institutions, research institutions and higher education institutions." Next is an offer of six, 944, to increase by 310 million the funding of a budget program for the treatment of citizens abroad. Everyone knows how tent gardens are under Minsvrat, and that's an outrage, and we have to decide that right now. Next, the seventh offer, this 958 has: an increase of 300 million dollars in funding for joint endothelials and implantation kits. 957 offers: 16 billion proposes to increase the programme for government programs and integrated programming. It's actually funding orthopaedic diseases, cardiovascular diseases.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-18-m0.u221	30 seconds, 30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-18-m0.u222	Criminals, other diseases. Next: by 1 billion, to increase, 300 million funding for direct centralized purchase of medical supplies and supplies to health care facilities to provide treatment for patients with cardiovascular and vascular diseases. For 5 billion to increase funding for primary health care, it has already been said to increase by 100 million PDPs, increase by 4 billion the funding of the Medical Subvention programme to local budgets further, further, further.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-18-m0.u223	Thank you. Please give the next speech from the People's will, National Deputy Shahov. And then the last performance by MPs and factions.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-18-m0.u224	People's Will Group, Sergey Shahov, political force "Our End". Dear colleagues, our group will support in the first reading the main financial law that we are considering in this room today, but there are a few observations. First. It's an experiment that's done in medicine. Why five areas, why are there not five areas in the Luhansk region? Isn't there a war going on, or is there a speedy one, which is still supposed to be in the Luhansk region and has to be the primary aid fast? And you don't have to experiment, just put the Lugansk area into five areas, please. Secondly, when are we going to build up and get our Ukrainian gas? Why is there no money in this budget, no money to build up ours and get Ukrainian gas? Why are you looking at the price of gas for the population today and not looking aside at how to construct and put on the mountain today Ukrainian gas? Next. Third: regarding the coal sector. Today, the coal sector is practically on its knees. Not only is it not to build state mines, not to pay miners, sit under the Supreme Council with helmets, sitting under the Kabmin with helmets. Please, Volodymyr Borisovich, we need to add money to this budget today to build our Ukrainian mines and put Ukrainian coal on top. Stop bullying miners. That year, 4 million tons of gas were collected, today a million. A ton of coal, only a million coals this year, and we can give 18 tons. 18 million tons of coal. Next. As far as subsidies are concerned today. There were 55 million in that year. 71 billion are allocated to subsidies, this year you want to make people beggars at all, 55 billion are allocated to subsidies. Add money to people’s subsidies, and don’t make Ukrainians today. Don't throw away a beggar's life at all. Thank you. Sergey Shahov, the political power of Our End.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-18-m0.u225	And a closing statement from the faction. From the Radical Party. More Fatherland, yes. From the Radical Party of Oleg Lazko, then from Fatherland. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-18-m0.u226	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. During all the years of independence in Ukraine, there was never a social budget for one reason6 because Ukraine never had a President or a government that cared for citizens, for economic development, for working people. Each authority cares solely for itself, for its own interests, for its offshore accounts, and for its own riches. The Radical Party team proposes changes to the budget that will make it a country's economy budget, economic growth, job recovery, poverty eradication, and, crucially, this budget will work to address the social problems of citizens. Last night I was on the Plains and in Volin, people on TV ask me questions, Mrs. Galina from the Korean region: 1 thousand 460 dollars of pension grants were not received. Mrs. Tamara from the Kostopil region: 2,000 dollars of pension -- no subsidies. The government has reduced, made decisions, reduced the rights of at least 3 million Ukrainians to receive subsidies, while wages and pensions are not raised or counted. So our requirement for this budget is a key one is to increase wages. Four million people receive a minimum wage that does not meet their basic needs. We demand a minimum wage of 6,000 dollars per month. This will allow millions of Ukrainian pensioners who have worked hard their entire lives to be able to count their pensions, and today they receive an estimated half a thousand dollars of pension. Recalculation of the pension will allow a thousand dollars to raise pensions for Chernobyl, for former colporteurs, for other categories of citizens. In addition, the restoration of children’s diet is at the expense of the State Budget in schools. Today, feeding a child in school is a big problem for parents because they have no job, no money. This must be done by the authorities. We're demanding an increase in funding for the "Affordable Drugs" program, at least a billion dollars to add to oncology medicine. Today, hundreds of thousands of people are diagnosed with new cancers each year, people are unable to buy these expensive drugs, and so they refuse treatment. We demand that the government, President Prashenko, be fully responsible for the impoverishment of Ukrainians, for raising tariffs, for space gas prices. We demand that this power and this coalition stop treating holes in the budget at the expense of the least wealthy citizens of Ukraine. Take your hands out of the Ukrainians' pockets, grab your own pockets, and you'll find billions in your accounts, which can be directed towards developing Ukraine, to overcoming poverty.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-18-m0.u227	From the Fatherland faction, Sergey Sobolev. Then it'll be from the deputies. But there is a limited amount of time.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-18-m0.u228	My dear colleagues, the distinguished Prime Minister, the distinguished representatives of the government, I think the way the discussion went in this sessionary room is completely out of line with the stage in which we are looking at the budget. Now each faction is going to offer hundreds of billions more to be thrown into a program. Mr. Prime Minister, we need to talk about the budget filling at this stage, and this is crucial. And then, when we look at the next reading, we're going to have language and how we're going to spend it. So our first warning, in the form of legislative initiatives and budget proposals, is the introduction in the full scope of the Transfer Price Act, which allows, not for six months, as was the case with Yanukovich, to enter, get credit, and then cancel this law for key areas, but which allows, in reality, tens of billions of dollars to fill the budget at the expense of shutting down all offshore schemes that this law stops. In fact, this law was developed in its own time with the help of international financial institutions, including the World Bank and IMF, and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development. Is this law in the government’s proposals? None. The other one. Once again, it is proposed to follow the wrong path of additional funding for the National Medical Service, yes, an additional nearly 30 billion. Where it leads, we see after this year. Where is the additional resource in the budget that can be directed towards medicine? Our proposal is an urgent government commission along with parliament and, finally, a step-by-step transition to insurance medicine. The path that is now proposed is nowhere to be found. See if there's any extra bracelets that you involve from employers, I don't say from the population anymore. What may be the added value if budget expectations are restored? Our suggestion is to abandon this catastrophic scheme that you have been involved in. Insurance will allow nearly 30 percent of those who hide their income to get the real resources of the employer out of the shadows in the first year. Third. This is a pension for pensioners. So here I'm going to talk about costs, unfortunately, again we don't see a way to solve this problem either through legislative initiatives or through an additional budget resource. This proved to be the least protected population. So our proposal is to go back to the proposals made by Fatherland.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-18-m0.u229	Ten seconds to complete.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-18-m0.u230	and this allows us to consider actually the growth of the budget and its distribution, not the distribution and patching of holes that do not exist. So our faction invites you to return.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-18-m0.u231	Thank you. So, colleagues, I'm continuing the session for 15 minutes. And now the final stage is the performances by the national MPs. I'm giving you a minimum time, six minutes to make speeches from the national MPs. And while the recording is being done, please sign up, and I want to inform you that there are now leaders of the best Ukrainian publications in the room who are today promoting the Ukrainian book in both Ukraine and around the world. Let's welcome them, they're in our hall, Ukrainian publishing. [[Applause]] Welcome, my friends. We'll be after the budget, we'll reward you with literacy. Now, please turn on the microphone. It's transmitting. Turn on Dudenkov's microphone
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-18-m0.u232	Please pass the word to Scorch.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-18-m0.u233	Mr. Chairman, distinguished colleagues, respected citizens of Ukraine! It was very easy to speak at the end of the discussion, when all the factions expressed their point of view, there were a lot of epithets about this budget. The pro-powered factions said it was a development budget, sort of. opposition factions seem to have criticised the budget. But I want to go to all the MPs who don't belong to the so-called non-existent pro-power coalition, if you vote for this budget, you're going to be part of everything that's going on in the country right now. One of the leaders of the conquered faction, who said that, said very key words. thanked Vladimir Borisovich for continuing the reforms of his predecessor, Arsenius Petrovich Yatsenyuk. I can only say that the positive effect of this budget is that, unlike Arsenija Petrovich, Vladimir Borisovich is implementing the Rules and has submitted the budget to Parliament in a timely manner, not as the predecessors did on New Year's Eve. It's the last one. The last thing you can talk about is the negatives of this budget, starting with macroeconomic indicators and ending up funding specific sectors. When it comes to a very important issue — the issue of debt raising — there are several figures for citizens to hear and understand. In the 13th year, our commitment amounted to 584 billion dollars. Now it's 2 trillion 260 million dollars, and you haven't exceeded the limit this year. In total, 40 percent, 400 billion dollars, will be directed to pay and service our debts. And the stories of today's government that it's kind of like "the bad guys." And no, Arseny Petrovich, it's a complete nonsense, because everything that's been going on has been growing in this power, this coalition. Very important questions about the situation involved in financing our agricultural sector. They left the exact same figure in this budget for 2018, not realizing that there is inflation, which is a change in the national currency. As far as European countries are concerned, 50 percent of the budget is focused on supporting the agricultural sector. We have almost nothing. A lot of the important question that has been raised from this rostrum today is the question of the gas price ratio and the question that the government is planning to raise it, and the question that instead it is planning to reduce the amount of subsidies by 20 billion dollars. It's unacceptable. Dear colleagues, non-committal colleagues, don't vote for this budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-18-m0.u234	Please, Gulak gives the speech to Linkov. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-18-m0.u235	Dmitry Linko, Oleg Lachka Radical Party. Dear Ukrainians, before the adoption of the budget, everyone is talking about how to share money better, but few people are offering tools, and how we can make that money and what tools are real economics that can be implemented. Our team is offering these tools, and we're looking for, both by purchasing and by industrial parks, a whole bunch of bills that we're breaking through. The most important sector today is the agricultural sector, which is increasing the economy that is working today in Ukraine. These are farmers with economies and monetary income on their shoulders today, including, have received no help this year. Five billion so - called subsidies were allocated to farmers. My team and I went all over Ukraine, across every village, to find no farmers who would receive real support from the state today. Since the procedure is not prescribed, the procedure is prescribed that half be given bribes before they are received. As a result, we have a reduction in livestock production, the elimination of farms, the raiding of raiding delights that are already in the grip of a difficult situation with farmers, and they are actually destroying the sector. We have huge crops from which we get, compared to, for example, neighbouring Poland, last year we made 3 billion euros, and Poland made 20 billion euros on smaller hectares of land. So how do we support agrarians? That's why our faction of Oleg Lachka, the Radical Party, is proposing to introduce, firstly, a transparent system of subsidies for farmers, to increase these subsidies, to support those who are today producing processing, who are holding animals. And we offered 1 hectare 1 cow to have a cow in Ukrainian villages. Because, for example, in my town of Kirovograd in the last year alone, a 6 - percent reduction in livestock is the result of today’s chemical supply, the introduction of artificial milk, and the loss of opportunities for Ukrainians to buy natural products. If we want to see real revenue in the budget, if we want to see where we're going to distribute this money, we need to support the sectors that give us revenue. This is primarily farming. We have adopted in our first reading changes to the Constitution, which is the basis of farming, but we need real economic support for these farms. That's why we call for our economic programme to regenerate the village, to return processing and livestock to the villages, and to create real grants, and to anticipate it in the 19th year budget. Not 5 billion dollars that nobody gets a penny from, but actually twice as much so that ordinary Ukrainian peasants and farmers who hold cows who create jobs get that money. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-18-m0.u236	Thank you. And the final performance is Anna Hopko. Colleagues, in five minutes we're going to go to the polls, so I'm asking the factions to invite the deputies into the hall. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-18-m0.u237	Good day, fellow officials, we are discussing a very important issue, and we see different factions and deputies trying to present their important regional issues. I would like to say here that we from the Committee on Foreign Affairs have been looking at the budget of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. So the budget for the Ministry of Foreign Affairs next year is 4 billion and 419 million dollars. At the same time, in this version of the budget that we see, 4 billion -- state support for the livestock sector, and 800 million -- financial support for farms. I want to ask the government a question. Tell me, please, 4 billion state support for the animal industry is almost like the entire Ministry of Foreign Affairs. Vladimir Borisovich, so the question is, these 4 billion farm support are who? Is that a big latifundist? They're the ones who buy expensive ones. And they're building houses under Kiev? I'd like you to look at the committee's proposals and increase the budget of the Foreign Ministry, take into account the important costs of maintaining the border numbers of foreign diplomatic officials, financing the Ukrainian Institute abroad, representing our Ministry of Foreign Affairs at Zakarpatta, the additional costs that will help us to protect our national interests more effectively. And as for the state support for the 4 billion-dollar animal industry, I'm not going to call it the oligarchs, who then buy huge villas, who then buy themselves what they call 150 million yachts, for our money with you. So I encourage you to review this budget. Those grants that have been for the great latifundists for years, it's time to finish. And one more question. We're taking money from international funds like the European Investment Bank. 400 million euros. In 2016 the Ukrainian Parliament ratified the Agreement to support small and medium-sized farms. Why has not one farmer received low percentage access from the 400 million euro so far? We were traveling with Lithuanians, campaigning for the European Investment Plan for Ukraine. But the government has not yet presented those strategic areas. We boast that we have lithium genealogies. When the whole world, Ilon Musk and the rest talk about electricians, talk about the future, let's talk about, in our budget, where the strategic areas are: space, lithium genealogies that will give Ukraine not 3 percent of GDP, but 7 percent of GDP! Let's look to the future. What are we talking about here? How to make a deal with huge agrooligarchs in 2019 on the way back to the polling campaign. Another issue of excise duties on tobacco products, alcohol. The issue of increasing salaries for military personnel is one of the key. Cross-border cooperation. 1 bracelet, which will give you 10 bracelets. Why does this string not include? Please take a look. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-18-m0.u238	So, colleagues, I'm asking you to come into the hall and prepare for the vote. I'm asking you to take up jobs. Two minutes now, Oksana Siroid. Then there's Vladimir Groissman. And we're going to the vote. I'm asking everyone to come into the hall and take jobs.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-18-m0.u239	Dear colleagues! People want to be safe. And they're willing to pay a great price to the state to be able to live in security. Today, the Ukrainians pay tithes of their taxes to the state in order to protect themselves from the army. What does the state do with the money? And the state cheats, the state promises and does not. The promised payouts, the so-called "fight" or the destruction of the enemy technique, have in fact become the object of the corruption of the commanders. The State’s promised transportation benefits, the promised medical benefits, were transferred to the local authorities. Even worse, a humiliating situation with the earth. It takes an honest payment to the soldiers. Just as the city of Lviv does today. But why is this not in the State Budget? Why isn't that? Why were all the proposals for increased self-help payments rejected? I'll show you the answer. This is the defense budget of Ukraine. This is ten ruleres -- this is Ukraine's defense budget. This is the U.S. defense budget, where every article is written, where every taxpayer and every soldier can see why and how much money is spent on it. A year and a half ago, self-help proposed a bill detailed for defense, but it's not accepted. All MPs swear in love for the soldier and for the army, but it's not love. If you want to love, let people understand how much money they will receive and why. Just as Ukrainians should know what they are paying their taxes on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-18-m0.u240	So, colleagues, I want to remind you that we have two votes. The first vote will be in favour of the draft Decision on Conclusions and Proposals for a Draft State Budget Act. And the second vote is the draft Decree 9000-P on conclusions and proposals for the draft State Budget Act as a whole. These are our proposals. So two votes, so that after the first vote there is no temptation to leave the room. Two votes. Everyone, please stay in the workplace. Two minutes now, Prime Minister of Ukraine Vladimir Borisovich Groysman and we vote. Take up jobs. Please, Vladimir Borisovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-18-m0.u241	Thank you. Thank you, Mr. Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I would like to thank you for this discussion on the State Budget for 2019. According to the presentations, we now have a consolidated budget of 1 trillion slightly more than 200 billion dollars. Additional supply of 2 trillion more 200 billion. This means that the proposals are much more and perhaps they are very bright than we can afford. So our job is to develop a national economy, and I totally agree. But the budget we've prepared is now balanced. And certainly we're ready for the second reading constructively with factions and committees to work on making this document better. But it has to be balanced, it has to be realistic, and it has to ensure that our nation is built. We have foreseen expenditures on both the Ukrainian Armed Forces, security and defence, and education, and medicine, and decentralization, and the modernization of Ukraine's infrastructure, and the construction of roads. We're ready to move on, do our job well, we need your support. Let's make our economy and country strong. And today we are taking the first step, and I ask everyone to unite, to support the decision on the basis and in general, so that we can work with you in the coming month and make this budget better, but I stress that it is very important and realistic. Thank you, and I will thank you for your support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-18-m0.u242	So the discussion is over. And we're moving on to making a decision. In accordance with article 157 of the Supreme Council Rules, I am voting on the draft resolution 9000-P prepared by the Committee on Budget Affairs on conclusions and proposals for the draft Ukrainian State Budget Act 2019 for adoption as a basis. Please vote, please support. Vote. Please be supportive. [[14:13:08]] For 242 Decision taken. Pursuant to article 157 of the Draft Decision on Conclusions and Proposals for a Draft Ukrainian State Budget Act for 2019 for adoption as a whole. Please vote, please support in general. Vote. Please be supportive. Please vote in general. It's not a budget, my friends! It's not a budget! This is our decision, our budget recommendations. [[14:13:41]] For 214 Colleagues, it's not a budget in general, it's a budget resolution. [[B in m in s a l in]] I'm asking you to come back. [[B in m in s a l in]] before the vote. Please return to the vote. Please support and return to the vote. Please vote. Please be supportive. [[B in m in s a l in]] Please vote. We vote return, we vote return. It's a budget resolution, it's not a budget in general. We're voting for our return. To return. [[B in m in s a l in]] For the decree. It's a decree. This is a whole regulation, not a budget. We're voting for our return. We're voting for the return. Vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-18-m0.u243	It's a decree. Vote. It's not a budget. It's a show. Please be supportive. It's a show. [[14:14:31]] For 236 We're back. Now I'm putting in the 9000-P draft for adoption as a whole. Please vote, please support. We're voting on the whole decision. Vote. That's what we're handing over to the government our recommendations. And we generally accept the recommendations of our committee and pass it on to the government. [[14:14:54]] For 240 240. Decision taken. [[Applause]] And according to article 157 of the Ukrainian law, the conclusions and proposals for the draft State Budget Act of Ukraine for the 19th year become the budgetary conclusions of the Supreme Council, and we're handing over to the government for further work. And I want fruitful work in common with both the committee and the government in furthering the second reading. So, colleagues, 14:15. I declare this morning's plenary session of the Supreme Council closed. At 4: 00 p.m., I ask everyone to come to the hall to continue our work. We had a hard time working, but we were able to make a key decision for our country. At 4:00, I'm expecting everyone in the hall.
