ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-17-m0.u1	Good morning, dear fellows! Please enter the hall, prepare for registration. So I'm going to ask you to take up jobs. So I'd like you to run the registration. Please register. [[10:02:59]] 326 national deputies registered. The morning plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Today is the birthday of our colleague Oleg Mikolaiovich Dmitrenko. Let's welcome our colleague. [[Applause]] And I want to remind you that we have 30 minutes of performances by the National MPs on Wednesday morning. Today, too, a large document is a draft of the Ukrainian Code of Bankruptcy Procedures. The idea is for us to go through today, and there's a lot of rights, and tomorrow morning we were able to go to the vote and make a decision accordingly. I now invite all the national MPs who intend to speak to participate in the discussion. Make an entry to participate in the discussion. Please be 30 minutes for the national MPs. Please hold the recording. Guilty father Vadim gives the floor to Irina Lucenko. Mrs. Irina, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-17-m0.u2	Good morning, dear colleagues! Good morning, Ukrainian people! In recent times, the work of the diversified groups of the Russian Federation has intensified very seriously. I'm going to name just a few messages that sounded, and they cut them off from the press: The Bureau established a person who runs a diversified group on Donbasa; Ukrainian border guards prevented the entry into Ukraine of a diversified Russian group; and on August 23, Ukrainian border guards discovered a diversified intelligence group in the area of KrasnaTilivka (Lugansk Region). And there are many and many such messages. We have concluded our consideration at the Committee of the Supreme Council for the second reading of Bill 7017. This is a bill that criminalizes the illegal crossing of the Ukrainian border. On the basis of the situation that Ukraine is in now, the activation of Russia's diverse manifestations, the introduction and introduction here, and the launching of diversification groups here, I would like to ask, honourable Parliament, tomorrow we will have an active phase of the budgetary process, tomorrow we will have a large number of national deputies, not to look at opposition or pervasive powers, not to compete in anyone who speaks more eloquently from this rostrum, but to settle down and accept this bill 7017 in a second reading. When we reported this bill from the rostrum, there were a lot of proposals from the national deputies, and they came to the committee about 30, including 20. We've had a very active phase of talking to our border guards, and they've made a lot of suggestions. Therefore, the distinguished national MPs, taking into account our pre-election period, taking into account that Russia, after receiving Ukraine Tomos, after other positive news that is, will now try to destabilize the situation in Ukraine, ask you to consider this bill immediately tomorrow, to listen to the proposals that we have made to the group of national deputies – and I am particularly grateful to them because the bill has come out very successful, very extensive – to give these instruments through the legislative initiative of our Security Service, to our border guards to keep those diversion groups to rest in the Ukrainian state. We know very well how many explosions of various military infrastructure objects have been caused by the penetration of diversified Russian groups. So please reject the political ambitions and support this bill. This was emphasized and urged by the Parliament and the President of Ukraine, Peter Poroshenko, where they discussed the situation with the border guards and decided.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-17-m0.u3	30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-17-m0.u4	Sign it immediately as soon as it's accepted in the hall. I believe in your political consciousness, the state's position, and I urge him to vote tomorrow. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-17-m0.u5	Thank you. Andrew Antonystak gives the floor to Musia. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-17-m0.u6	Good afternoon, distinguished national MPs! Oleg Musei, 124 constituency, Sokoland, Red City, National Control political party. You know, it seems very strange that our executive authority is in a position to completely ignore the activities of the Health Committee. I want to see you. To draw your attention to such, especially to the Marjorie MPs as I am to the eerie fact that comes in the coming months, or perhaps the days: to provide our people with insulins. You know, the Ministry of Health for the second year in a row is betting 70 percent less than the need for insulin people who, because of the failure to introduce this very important drug that the State is obliged to provide, because there is a government program because all 27 years, the state has always allocated the necessary funds for these people when the lack of insulin can lead to the death of a person the next day. Thus, these reformers and these officials came to their senses before insulins are not available at all in all health care facilities for the fourth quarter of this year. In addition to transferring the re-imbursation or the reimbursement of funds, the central budget did not have the funds invested. And the local budgets are now instead of developing infrastructure, they're coming out of the last skin to prevent another thousand or millions from dying, probably Ukrainians, because we have about 3 million people with insulin to make sure that people are able to provide their basic existence. The Health Committee has repeatedly called the government’s attention to the absolute inadequacy and inadequacy of the current position of the Ministry of Health. And, you know, at the last session of the committee, the ruling that was made on the initiative of almost all the factions of Parliament, number 8587, has not been put into the agenda to date on the complete irresponsibility of the occupied position of Uljana Suprun and its deputy Linchevski, that the government is in a completely unconstitutional and illegal way, and by the way, it is a stone in the garden of most of the "Peter Prashenko Block" and "The People's Front." You were obliged to appoint your prime minister, whom you have chosen, to present the minister's candidacy, because you will be responsible for the deaths of those people who will soon be provided with insulins. In addition, the exact same situation as the ion medicines, with the 6 billion Suprun being brought abroad and not bought -- zero drugs -- at the expense of this year's budget that we were supposed to get with you. So once again, I turn to the Prime Minister and to conscience, the rest of my conscience.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-17-m0.u7	15 seconds to complete.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-17-m0.u8	To the conscience of government officials, immediately release these pseudo-reformators from office and, above all, allocate immediately 200 million, as a minimum, to provide for patients all over Ukraine with insulins.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-17-m0.u9	Thank you. Please give the next speech, People's Deputy Pisarenko. Please, Mr. Valeria.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-17-m0.u10	Dear colleagues, respected citizens of Ukraine! Just nine months ago, at the end of last year, we passed the Bill on counters, and it came into force on January 20. This is the Law on the Order of Counting for Natural Gas Consumers. What has changed during this time? I mean, a little bit: the general building counters were not allowed to set people's minds apart, but the apartment's gas accounting devices didn't start to set up on a mass scale. From the Cabinet of Ministers, there is still no sublegal act to determine the order and size of compensation and the cost of purchasing and installing individual counters. There is no financial support for people. So the question of fair pay for gas has remained unresolved. Indeed, it is one of the greatest problems facing mankind today. Most of the people who come to me, the Harkians, at my reception, talk about this particular problem. Why, I'll explain. Gas - distribution companies install general gas counters without the consent of the occupants of the house. Yeah, by the way, it was until the end of last year when you and I didn't make the right decision. Today, the law works, it prohibits people from doing it without consent, but on many houses, the counters are already standing, before the law becomes effective, and the total amount of gas consumed by the entire house is distributed to all consumers. Someone lives, pays for his apartment, and someone does a small business in his apartment: cooks, steams, runs his business, or settles. Makes mini hotels, settles a lot of people in apartments. And the total gas count is proportional, that is, people are unfairly paying for themselves and for a few more neighbors. So we need to change this situation. We have registered the corresponding Bill 8092 and will demand its approval in order to stop the unjust defrauding of people today. And to consolidate the European directives that lay down the general principle: "pay only for what you consume", as enshrined in Directives 27 and 31. I also ask that this statement be considered a request to the Cabinet of Ministers to clarify when the appropriate funds will be used to set individual counters for people in order to set a level and fair price for gas and consumption. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-17-m0.u11	Thank you. Please form a statement by MP Pisarenko as a parliamentary address. And I remind Deputy Pisarenko that the request is made by another procedure and is published in the session hall only on Friday. Please make the next statement. National MP Derevyanco, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-17-m0.u12	Dear colleagues! Dear Ukrainians! Yuri Derevyanko, "The Movement of New Forces". Dear colleagues, do you know that the law voted in the Supreme Council Hall may not be signed for more than two years? Do you know, Your Honor, that the law that we have voted here in the Supreme Council may, for some technical reason, be "hanging" for 2.5 years in the Supreme Council's apparatus and not signing at all? And do you know that this law applies to our security and defense? This is a law that deals with the imposition of criminal responsibility for the inadequacy of supplies to our Armed Forces of goods, services, jobs; criminal responsibility for violations of regulations in the field of the corresponding goods, jobs and services that are produced and supplied to the Ukrainian army. This is Bill 1793, which the President passed back in the 16th year, and the Supreme Council voted in the 16th year. And until now, just because one of the members of the Peter Prashenka bloc has made a decision to rescind such a vote, this ruling has not been revoked until now. And this important law for the Ukrainian army, it's not signed for our defence at all, and it's been in Parliament for 2.5 years. Dear colleagues, the fifth explosion in our ammunition stores is over 80 tons. 80,000 tons of ammunition is according to state emergency services. And the Ministry of Defense says that this amount is too much, twice as much, is about 40,000 tons destroyed by the fifth time. If you count the cost of one ton, for example, of cartridges, it's about $60,000. Even assuming that other munitions are cheaper, for example, twice as much as $30,000 is one ton, at least $2.5 billion, or $1 billion 250 million, has been destroyed. Please tell me, who took responsibility from the Ukrainian Armed Forces, the General Staff, for destroying the fifth stockpile of ammunition? Please tell me, who will supply goods, jobs and services to the Ukrainian army, namely ammunition destroyed, which has been destroyed by more than a few billion dollars in Ukraine in the past four years? Do you know of cases where in our territory, temporarily occupied by the LNR or the DNR, stockpiles of ammunition were destroyed among the fighters or the Russian aggressor? I don't know. But I know it's the fifth. Five ammunitions. The fifth stockpile of ammunition was destroyed in Ukraine. That is why I demand: first, that this decree be repealed by the disgraceful one that blocks this law; second, that it be removed from the general staff's office for a temporary stay. During the investigation, an official investigation into the destruction of our munitions. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-17-m0.u13	Thank you. Please welcome the next talk of the national MP Dunyev.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-17-m0.u14	Ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of the citizens of Ukraine living in the Lugansk region, the President of Ukraine and the government, on account of the critical socio-economic situation in the area, which is causing poverty and exacerbating all social problems in the area of military conflict. In Luhansk more than four years of survival, most of the industrial enterprises in the energy, carbon, chemical, oil, and construction sector are on the verge of survival. Procrastination to solve industrial problems will result in its complete destruction and transformation into scrap metal. This causes despair in people, the draining of skilled personnel, and the disheartening of the future. For example, the Luhansk Region now has a payroll debt of over 600 million dollars and has the latest lines of rating for economic development. The Supreme Council of Ukraine adopted Bill 8362 on the proper financing of the coal sector, but the miners did not receive the money. The country’s economy is not protected today, the authorities have dragged the country into a debt gap and made the next generation of debt debtors. The only solution to this crisis is the policy of supporting and developing the country’s scientific and industrial potential. One of the pillars of economic development is the energy security of a nation whose main component is the constant functioning of a single energy system. The Lugansk region has been an energy island for four years that has made it impossible for industrial enterprises to operate in a stable manner, and since 2014 the area has been at the brink of collapse, and residents are at risk of becoming in the middle of a technological disaster every day. Lugansk has been deprived of the opportunity to solve its immediate problems on account of its own arrivals. One reason for this is the blockage of goods through the line of delimitation, which resulted in the failure to receive two billion customs and tax payments each year. This politically-motivated decision of the LNB leads to a deterioration in the socio-economic situation in the area. When considering the 2019 budget, the government should find mechanisms to compensate for the loss of local budgets by direct subsidies from the State budget. The long - term solution to the problems of vitality in the conflict zone is a source of just indignation and widespread protests. People do not have the capacity to exist in conditions of total beggary, unwavering tariffs, and social guarantees. The government distracts people with questions that have nothing to do with uniting society and protecting national interests, fueling hostility, sharpening language issues, emitting reforms, and persecuting opposition politicians. The Opposition Block has prepared a draft Supreme Council ruling requiring the government to hold an exit meeting in the Luhansk region before the budget is approved by 2019 to address the extraordinary issues of socio-economic development in the region. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-17-m0.u15	Thank you. Please welcome national deputy Yegor Soboljev. Please, Mr. Yegor. You'll be out of town? From the rostrum, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-17-m0.u16	I would like to draw Parliament's attention to the fact that the Ukrainian Security Service has initiated investigations into exposed journalists into the facts of illegal enrichment and possible links with Russia by the first deputy head of the Ukrainian Foreign Intelligence Service. Remember, we discussed in Parliament that we cannot keep quiet about this situation, that we need an effective investigation. Thank God that it began at least the second week after the full silence of the entire nation’s leadership and no reaction from the External Intelligence Service itself. I would like to remind you that earlier this same investigation was initiated by the anti-corruption office of Ukraine, since the facts of illegal enrichment, namely, the acquisition of property by an owner without any source of income, have been initiated by the anti-corruption office of Ukraine. I want to speak to President Peter Prashenko, who has assigned Semocka to this post, because it is the President who decides who runs the services. There is much to be said about your patriotism on television and on the boards. But in fact, politics always speaks for his actions, his voting or his signatures, as in your case. Your signature is under Semoczka's appointment, Mr. President. You've had water in your mouth for the second week and you're pretending it doesn't apply to you. Although I repeat, it is illegal enrichment during the war for the independence of the second Ukrainian spy and the likely links with the Russian Federation. Journalists have uncovered facts that may indicate that this spy’s family is running a business in the occupied Crimea. Which means you don't have to tell. How can a spy earn during a war for independence — and the cost of his assets that came with him was estimated at $7 million — rhetorical questions. Mr. President, you have to give a clear answer to society: you're covering for illegal wealth, whether you're covering for treason or not. And the answer can only be in action. In any successful, European, civilized state, such an officer himself would resign. If he does not, he should be removed at the time of the test and held accountable if the facts are confirmed. Otherwise, you're on your own for illegal wealth and treason.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-17-m0.u17	Next performance. People's Deputy Wojcietski. Please come to the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-17-m0.u18	Good morning. Victoria Wojcietsky, Self-Help Unit. And today we're going to talk about "warm loans." More than half the money that the Ukrainians will spend on the heat this winter will, unfortunately, just be thrown out in the wind. Why? Because most of our houses -- cartilages, Czechs -- were built 30, 40, 50 years ago. The thin walls, the roofs through which all the heat comes out are the conditions under which the ordinary Ukrainian lives. We continue to warm up, warm up the atmosphere, instead of making our own homes warm. At the same time, we understand that the government is telling us today, "Be ready, dear Ukrainians, for the gas to go up to at least 9,000 dollars per thousand cubes." What, then, does the government offer? Yeah, we've had a very effective program of state-owned "hot loans" since 2015. This program allows us to warm up our dwellings with you, only external warming will save 10-15 percent, and by 20 percent of the costs that we spend on heat. The replacement of windows, boilers -- all of this can lead to us, ladies and gentlemen, spending two thirds less, our payments will become smaller. But at the same time, you and I also understand that according to the Energy Efficiency Fund, it takes 45 billion dollars to warm up our old homes with you. What does the state offer us in the state budget? Deploy a measly 400 million dollars. Just think about it -- 400 million dollars for a hot loan program that's already demonstrated its effectiveness. At this rate, we will not drown our own dwellings in a thousand years. And what is happening to us? On one side of the increase in gas and heat prices, and you have money left to warm your own homes. On the other hand, the state is using our money with you to channel this money to subsidies, to the things that make up this year's 55 billion dollars, about 4,000 dollars for each family. Let's compare "heat loans" to "25 bucks," 25 bucks. This is what the government is offering us, how to make effective use of our money with you. It's a disgrace and it's really a strategy and a policy where it's much easier for Ukrainians to keep hostages of the subsidy system, Ukrainians to keep slaves of the state control system rather than to invest our money with you in making us energy efficient, energy independent. Self-help requires an increase for the following year in the "warm loans" programmes to at least 2 billion dollars. This number should be placed in the budget. And it's actually going to be a top priority for that.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-17-m0.u19	Thank you. Please, the next speech is the People's DeputySažko. I'm sorry, National Deputy Sažko. Please, Your Honor, please. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-17-m0.u20	It's okay. SergeySazko, 59th constituency, Donetskina. I have to go back to the government of Ukraine from this high rostrum on behalf of the multi-thousand community of the Selidowogil State Enterprise in the face of the extremely difficult situation there: 2 months of miners don't get paid for their wages at all. Today, $230 million is owed on wages. Not even June paid for, but October ends outside. And that's because last year, Minister Nasalik presented a new concept of coal industry development, but it was just a presentation. With Parliament's adoption in the summer of Bill 8362 on the allocation of 1.4 billion dollars to government mines to pay off debts, equipment, new discharges, but still only on paper. There's no money in the business as yet. There hasn't been any lava on the two mines of the four for six months, enough of the working lava resources for two to three months, and what's next? Not even basic equipment: self - rescue. As early as July, Volodymyr Groissman said that he had taken over a situation that had developed in the coal sector, such as the problem of repayment of debts to miners. We've also heard from the department of profile that money will be counted as an enterprise from day to day, but the situation with each day is only getting worse, the total debt in four months. The miners no longer believe you. Once again, they are forced to go out on the street and cover the road, stop their businesses in order to protect their legal rights, claim themselves to be a government. Social tension is increasing because the coal sector of Donetsk has a direct impact on the socio-economic development of the entire region. They don't get the miners' money -- they don't fill local budgets, they don't get the future of our cities on a very big issue. What reforms can be mentioned under such conditions? The officials of Minfin and Minenergo cannot find a common language, which is extreme? How, though, can you answer the main question when money is promised? I'm addressing the Prime Minister. We urge you to intervene immediately and to resolve the matter in substance. Sailors strike again, they're back in Kiev. We're going to starve them to death. Shame on that authority that has led its citizens to hunger riots! Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-17-m0.u21	Nechayev Alexander gives the floor to Igor Shurma. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-17-m0.u22	IgorShurma, the Opposition Block. Good afternoon, citizens of Ukraine! You know, unfortunately, unfortunately, too much of us all -- power and executive and representative -- have been struck by the virus of unprofessionality and complete irresponsibility. And I am now addressing the Pharisees who are sitting in this session hall, unprofessional and irresponsible. Do you know why I'm talking about this? I'll tell you. See, what can we call those people who vote for new laws here, say they're reform laws, then they're not controlled, and they're not yet enforced? Do you need an example? Please, medical reform is 6327. The majority voted to put 5 percent of the gross domestic product on medical treatment. This means that 190 billion should be allocated as a minimum in 2019. How much is going on? 90! Is there gonna be a reform? It won't. On the original chain, you are happy that at individual points, people get 18,000 dollars of wages. Doctors, that's good. What did the patients get out of it? Have you looked at 2019? To run the primary chain, how much money does it take for residents? Twenty-four billion. How much is budgeted? 15. Is there going to be a reform? It won't. And the coalition is responsible? No, it's not. You know why not? Because there are Pharisees in that room. And the Pharisees were those who, being in the coalition, were seeking the office of the first intercessors, the heads of the committees, the representatives themselves. And after leaving the coalition, wanting to join the Opposition Block as an opposition force, none of them will give up their posts as secretaries. You like to come to people's houses, to break your fingers. I'm the deputy secretary, or I'm the deputy head of the committee. Get rid of it, you're taking the money for it. Then you will be an opposition force. And so you are all, all those in the European Choice coalition, fully responsible for the state of affairs, for the deaths we have today in our country. The Transplant Act. The Ministry of Health was assigned to develop a register. What money to spend, no one knows. There's no register for October 1. There is no financing for Law 6327. And this budget cannot be voted on. And I am now addressing those Pharisees: either you will remain Pharisees and vote in favour of a budget where there is no money for medicine, or you will leave the coalition, get rid of your posts and join the Opposition Block as an opposition to power. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-17-m0.u23	And, colleagues, the closing act. Jurik Taras gives the floor to Irina Lucenko. And then we move on to the agenda, and then there's one more thing. break. Please, Mrs. Irina. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-17-m0.u24	Dear colleagues, honourable voters, here we had representatives of Self-Help, particularly Yegor Sobolev, who urged President Peter Alexiyovich Prashenka to respond to what was happening to corruption in the country as President of the country. Well, it's very strange to hear that from a self-help representative whose faction has dissolved in Kiev because in the ranks of its deputies on the city council of Kiev, there have been widespread corruption. No, to resign, they just let themselves go, but those corrupts stayed in the Council. It's the same self-help faction that starved itself on the steps of the administration because their mayor, Sadowy, couldn't handle the garbage in Lviv, only in the city of Lviv. He trashed the garbage so much that it led to the death of the people who worked there. That's the next impenetrable one, that's the one. This is the self-help representative whose faction failed to handle the election in Bloody Rose because Milobog and Seminchenk couldn't figure it out, so who would claim to be their mayor of the next impenetrable? Yesterday they criticized the Attorney General, but Wilkul. Whose situation is this with what happened in Bloody Rose? President Prashenko, Wilcule, Attorney General, or perhaps Self-Help? President Prašenko has given you the answer to the question of how to fight corruption, including officials, including overpowered factions, including other representatives. He signed the Law on Electronic Declaration, he signed the Law on NAM, he signed the law, he signed the law, he signed the law, he signed the service of the NAM and the specialized prosecutor's office, which, by the way, you were just talking about. So begin, Your Honor Self-Help and Yegor Sobolev, of you! The president said his word, the faction supported it, and we're working.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-17-m0.u25	Replica, one minute, Yegor Sobolev.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-17-m0.u26	I want to explain to the President that I always start with myself. I lived and lived in that two - room apartment from which I went to politics. I can't imagine under what circumstances I could earn in government the house that you live with with your husband, the Attorney General. When I came to this house with the activists from Automeidana, I looked at him and I thought about what a jerk we had been since the Orange Revolution when we imagined ourselves being the same people with you. But right now it's not about Irina or Yuri Lucenko's property, it's not about Egor Sobolev's property. The situation is far more important: The second person in the External Intelligence Service earned $7 million in independence during the war. What he sold for these assets is the main question to be answered. And the President who appointed him should be the first to be interested in finding the answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-17-m0.u27	30 seconds to complete.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-17-m0.u28	Otherwise he's in this circle.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-17-m0.u29	So, colleagues, the speeches by the national MPs are finished. There was a statement from two factions, "Peter Prashenko's Block" and "The People's Front," that they were willing to replace. Please, Mikola Knieżicki. Mr. Mikola, while you're at it, I'll read the announcement. So, "I report that during the vote to give consent to the criminal responsibility of the People's Deputies of Kolesnikov, which took place during the evening session on October 16, my ballot didn't work." It's a statement from Vinnik John. "In view of the above, please take my vote in favour of consenting to the criminal responsibility of the National Deputy Kolesnikov." It's not going to go on the site, but it's going to be a public announcement that society will know the position of the People's Deputy Winnick, and that's one way to get to most of us. Please, Santa.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-17-m0.u30	Thank you. Dear friends, we live in extremely difficult and very responsible times, we are now making our history. You know, the most responsible part of this story right now is the actual recognition of Ukrainian autocephaly, the expectation of Tomos, the preparation for the adoption of the Ukrainian Language Act. These are extremely responsible and important questions. And it's particularly important to stress that at this time, when we're working to realize Ukrainians' age-old dreams, a lot of people are trying to tear this job down, do some provocations, not let us realize our chances. We're implementing it. Anyone who opposes these important things for every Ukrainian needs to be reminded of the difficult times that our country has experienced, we Ukrainians, during the 20th century: the Holocaust, the Great Terror, how many people have been destroyed, the writers, the writers, the poets who wrote that language, the priests who have served that language. So today, when we talk about the need for a peaceful restoration of the Ukrainian automobile, and we've actually restored it, we're waiting for Tomosa. Speaking of the need for the final adoption of the Ukrainian Language Law, we must tell all the provokers, all the bastards, that we will not give you a chance to tear it down. I'm not talking about this right now. I would like to thank the Minister of Internal Affairs of ArsenuAwakov, the representatives of the other forces for their initiative, for not allowing any resistance or provocation. I want to say that the position of our committee, the representatives of all the factions that work on our committee, is that now, when we talk extensively about the Ukrainian Language Act, we accept all the amendments, including from citizens. We're going to protect Ukrainian language, we're going to make it a national language, but we're not trying to humiliate or forbid people from other national minorities in their lives, limit their rights, we're defending our rights. When we fight for the Ukrainian Church, we don't want to humiliate other Ukrainian churches, and we will never allow provocations against any religion or church, to which religion or any people this church doesn't belong. Once again, I urge all of you to unite around our Committee on Culture and Spirituality, to submit your opinions and suggestions. We will create additional working groups that will not only ensure the effective adoption of the Ukrainian Language Act, help implement the Ukrainian Automobile, but we will also become a playground to avoid any conflict and to ensure democratic European life in the future democratic Ukraine with an independent church and Ukrainian as a national language. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-17-m0.u31	Thank you, Mr. Mikolo. That's how we move on to the issues of order of the day. And we have the first question of the Ukrainian Codex of Bankruptcy (No.8060). My colleagues, I would like to point out that the code has over a thousand rights. The strategic plan is for us to use today to look at all the rights, and tomorrow morning we were able to make a decision. That's a thousand lines. It's hard to figure out how long it's gonna take, but I'm asking the right-holders in advance to insist only on the fundamental rights that require discussion and special attention. It is an unforgivable law, an extensive law, but the committee carried out a very large work on its preparation. And I invite the head of the Economic Policy Committee, Ivanchuk Andriy Volodymirovich, to speak. Thus, the draft Codex on Bankruptcy (8060). Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-17-m0.u32	Good day, Mr. Head, Your Honor! Ladies and gentlemen of the National Parliament, this is Bill 8060, which is called the Code of Bankruptcy. For your convenience, we made the content of this codex because in the process of processing it on the committee it is built and structured out of four books. The first book regulates general positions and terms. The second book regulates the work and the self - control organization of arbitrators. The third book regulates the bankruptcy of legal persons. And the fourth book is a novel in Ukrainian legislation, it wasn't -- it was the bankruptcy of natural persons. This novelty allows natural persons, good - conscienceed lenders, if there is an economic crisis or an economic situation, not to be in the debt yoke until the end of their days, that children should not inherit all of these debts, only the physical person, not the creditor, but the debtor himself, may, if he wants, initiate a bankruptcy procedure and get rid of any debt. Dear Mr. Head, distinguished national MPs! More than 1,000,300 amendments were made to the second reading of the bill. 60 percent of the amendments were taken into account, 40 percent, plus minus, we turned it down. I'll explain to you why we've rejected so many amendments. We changed the structure of the codex: entire rules, whole articles, such as the peace treaty, came out of the body of the bill. And all the changes that have to do with the peace covenant have become obsolete. So they're actually rejected, but they're not rejected, they just don't have that standard in the law. Right-hand block for the introduction of an automated account arrest system has been rejected. This initiative was considered in the Ukrainian Parliament and did not receive support, so we removed it from the codex. And the large number of rights that governed this issue are also rejected because they are irrelevant. Much of the rights for the introduction of a single electronic register of debtors have been rejected. In the process of discussion and careful analysis, we have been shown to fear that there may be a leak of confidential information to legal persons, especially natural persons. We've moved a lot of questions from the code to the legal and legal level.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-17-m0.u33	Please, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-17-m0.u34	We've taken a lot of issues to the legal and regulatory level, and any detail of how to regulate the sale of the debtor's property, we've removed all of the amendments that were relevant to this issue. And the last block is the expiration date of the bill. There were initiatives: immediately, three months later, six months later, a year later. The committee has determined that we have determined that six months is the optimal deadline for the introduction of the code in force so that everyone can prepare legislation and implement the code in the Ukrainian legislative field. I thank you and invite everyone to work productively on the rights.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-17-m0.u35	Thank you, Andry Volodymyrovich. So we're going to go traditionally: I'm going to advertise those adjustments that were rejected. Anyone who insists on confirming one or the other should report by way of raising his hand. Here we go. 1st. Don't insist. 5th. Don't insist. Please, Sidorovich, 3rd Amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-17-m0.u36	Ruslan Sidorovich, Self Help Union. Dana, third, the amendment was partially taken into account, but I would like to suggest that the hall consider the possibility of taking it fully into account. It refers to her name. We discussed, and most of the committee supported only partial consideration. But what is it? This bill is now called the Code of Bankruptcy. My proposal was to replace bankruptcy with insolvency. What is behind this initiative? This is a terminology comparison with the use of appropriate terms in English -- "bankruptcy" and "insolvency", where bankruptcy and incompetence are not the same terms. And, accordingly, I suggested that this should not be about bankruptcy, but about bankruptcy, about insolvency. So please support my third amendment and change the title of the Ukrainian Code of Bankruptcy Bill to the Ukrainian Code of Insolvency. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-17-m0.u37	Please, Andrew Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-17-m0.u38	We have no decision to make in Colomia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-17-m0.u39	So you insist on voting. And I'm putting to the vote Amendment No. 3 of the People's Deputy Sidorovich. It's partially accounted for, and Mr. Ruslan insists that it be fully accounted for. Whoever supports this proposal please vote. [[10:50:24]] For-60 The decision is not taken. Next, 5th. Don't insist. 7th. Don't insist. 13th. Don't insist. 15th. Don't insist. 22nd. Don't insist. 24th. 25th 26th. 27th. 28th. 29th. 32nd. 33rd. 35th. 38th. 39th. 41st. 42nd. 46th. 50th. 51st. 52nd. 53rd. 55th. 56th. 57th. 60th. 67th. The author does not insist. 70th. 74th. 76th. 77th. 78th. 79th. It's the '80s. 82nd. 89th. 91st. 96th. 105th. 106th. 107th. 106th. Please, Yevtushka, 106 revisions.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-17-m0.u40	Thank you, Mr. Head. Sergeyevtushka, the "Fatherland" faction. Now I want to address the committee head. I have ten amendments. You didn't take any of my rulings into account at the committee meeting and, in principle, all my remedies applied to make it easier to participate, not in creditors, but in borrowers. And given that you didn't support any of my amendments, I realize that in this code, it's just the emphasis and the support that the creditors stand for. There's probably very few borrowers here. And what's more, it's limited. If in actual legislation we saw that there was evidence of two sides that we were dealing with bankruptcy and that we could look at it, these requirements are already being nullified. So please give me an answer. Why do you put your accent like that? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-17-m0.u41	You know, we are. It's not right to say that we, either the borrower or the creditor, stood up for this code. We did our best to find balance. And in your amendment, you're saying that the creditor should present the unquestionable requirements. We couldn't write it because it was. We cannot explain that there will be firm requirements, that there will be unrestrained requirements. But I can assure you that the logic of the bill and the result that we've been given today in the committee's paper is a balance of interests. We didn't want to take either side up. I think we've achieved justice in this bill for both the borrower and the lender. Because it's so thin, so borderline matter, and wrongly said, I'm willing to discuss it for a very long time, that neither side is in a privileged position. But these are all kinds of ambiguities.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-17-m0.u42	Thank you. Please, let's vote. This is Amendment 106. I'd like to make a decision on the 106th amendment. [[10:55:15]] For-32 The correction is rejected, 32 per cent. Next, 107th. Odarchenko. Don't insist. Scram, 109th. Don't insist. Dovbenko, 110. Don't insist. Boyfriend, 111. Don't insist. [[B in m in s a l in]] 110th, Dovebenko. I'm sorry. Please, microphone to the People's Deputy Dovbenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-17-m0.u43	Mr. Andrey, Mr. Andrey, head of the committee, I'm about 110 revisions, please take a look. It goes on to say that the bankruptcy case is open to the household court in the face of unconditional demands. In my direction, I propose to make a limit: the total amount of which is not less than 300 minimum wages. That's the first one. And comment, please, as you might think, on why I should not support this proposal. And the second. I believe that these requirements do not include instability, fines, foam, other financial sanctions. I would also ask you to give us our conclusions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-17-m0.u44	Please, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-17-m0.u45	Mr. Doubenko, your observation is correct, but we were unable to decide what to do with those legal persons who are between heaven and earth. So they didn't reach your threshold, but they already have a situation. They cannot handle their debt obligations. We took note of your proposal, and in book 4, the bankruptcy of individuals, we took your idea to arms, and for physicists we left 100 minimum of these untaxed minimums.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-17-m0.u46	Please identify 110 amendments, Your Honor. [[10:57:32]] For-36 The correction is being rejected. 111th, Demczak. Don't insist. Denisenko, 114th. Don't insist. Alekseyev, 118th. Don't insist. If I accidentally miss someone who insists on amendment, colleagues, then. Will I be responsible? Okay. The strictness of the law. Okay. That's what's gonna happen. But let's know when I'm responsible. We haven't reached her yet. My responsibility has not yet come to pass. We've only got 135 left. Dovbenko, 135th. Don't you insist? Okay. Boyfriend, 136th. Don't insist. The bird doesn't insist on 138th. Eutusek, 142nd. Here's the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-17-m0.u47	Sergeyevtushka, "The Fatherland." Thank you, Madam Chairman, for your responsibility. Mr. Chairman of the Committee, well, I've already talked about the very concept of this code and I would like to point out that we see that keeping the proposed draft regulation, if we keep it, is going to be a situation where any creditor or debtor can easily initiate bankruptcy, and the underlying is not persistent insolvency, but actions aimed at non-payment of loans, non-payment of taxes, non-payment of debts. And in 142 of the amendment, I ask the fourth part of the fifth part of article 11, “Declaration on the opening of the bankruptcy case”, which states “in other cases provided for in the Code”, to be deleted, since there is no specificity, as there is no specificity in the entire Code. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-17-m0.u48	Please comment.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-17-m0.u49	Well, you know, as head of the committee, members of the committee, we've spent so many years, in principle, trying to live up to the principle that the law should be of a disposition character. We don't want specifics, we do. It's our logic and philosophy, so the laws are written all over the world. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-17-m0.u50	Please identify yourself for Amendment 142. [[11:00:17]] For-28 Thank you for the information. 28-yes. The correction is being rejected. Next up is 146th, Voropeyev. Don't you insist? Thank you. Okay. 148th, Sidorovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-17-m0.u51	Ruslan Sidorovich, Self Help Union. An amendment can be applied on one side to a purely technical one. But when we adopt new laws, we need to take into account the already changed legislative field. That is: we have reformed executive leadership and we have reformed the implementation of state registration. And in my amendment, I propose to remove the term "executive services" from the text of the corresponding 35 articles. Because in accordance with the Law on Organs and Persons Who Execute Judgments, we have either a public executioner or a private executive. So we have this other piece of legislation that's been replaced by "executor." Not "state executives, private contractors," but "executor," which is more widespread. And as for the public contractor, the state registrar, today they can be both utilities and notaries and the organs of the Ministry of Justice. Which one of them is to direct this approval, I don't understand.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-17-m0.u52	Please comment on 148 amendments. The chairman of the committee does not object. I'd like to make a statement. [[11:02:04]] For-48 The correction is being rejected. Next. 96th. 197th. Voropeyev, don't you insist? Thank you. Saska, 206. Don't insist. The 151st? It's part of 151. Please, Sidorovich's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-17-m0.u53	Ruslan Sidorovich, Self Help Union. The 151 amendment that corrects Article 14 which concerns leaving the application motionless or opening up the conduct. As soon as my amendment was made. On the one hand, it does not cause dissonance if it is left even to the proposed editorial committee. Along with the amendments I made to the relevant processes of discovery of conduct, abandonment of motion, refusal of acceptance of a statement, I came out of the logic of the procedural code, particularly the master procedural code that we adopted, so that we could have more synchronized procedural legislation. So it won't be critical if even this amendment is rejected. But it would be more right in terms of synchronization.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-17-m0.u54	It's partially accounted for. Please be determined by full count. The author insists on taking full account. I have to put it to a vote. [[11:03:36]] For-51 The amendment is not counted. Next one is 207. People's Deputy Dovbenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-17-m0.u55	Thank you. The point is that only those creditors who are not allowed to meet the requirements of part five of this article are allowed to satisfy the debtor’s assets. I propose that it be supplemented by the content that the satisfaction of secured creditors' claims at the expense of the debtor's property, which is the subject of collateral, during a moratorium is allowed only within the framework of bankruptcy proceedings, except in certain cases. So I ask the committee head to comment on why my proposal has been rejected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-17-m0.u56	Please comment to the committee head on 207 amendments.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-17-m0.u57	It's very simple. This will make it possible for debtors to abuse very much. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-17-m0.u58	I'd like to make a decision on 207 amendments. [[11:04:49]] For-34 The correction is being rejected. Next up, 215th. Dowbenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-17-m0.u59	Thank you. Mr. Head of the Committee, these are the assets of the debtor who are in a tax mortgage and may be released by the Court of Commerce from a tax mortgage, which is the decision of the Court of Justice with the participation of the Revenue and Congregations Authority. And here I would also like to add to the decision to declare the debtor bankrupt within 130 calendar days of the introduction of the property management procedure. Please comment on why you don't think I should support this 215. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-17-m0.u60	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-17-m0.u61	Well, we've abandoned that standard. We just don't put it in any time frame. So all you're saying is that it's all in the law. Why should we set a time frame? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-17-m0.u62	I'd like to make 215 adjustments. [[11:06:04]] For-31 The correction is being rejected. The next one is 249, Yewtushka. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-17-m0.u63	Eutushka, Fatherland. In the 249th Amendment, Mr. Chairman of the Committee, it's about automated cost arrest systems. And I put in paragraph 3 of article 21 of the following sentence: "In the event of the annulment of a public or private executioner's decision to arrest the debtor's funds in bank accounts, the estate manager shall report the relevant information to the automated asset arrest system." Please put the amendment to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-17-m0.u64	Please be determined by 249 amendments. Huh?Oh, my God! Comment. May I have your comment, please?
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-17-m0.u65	Ladies and gentlemen of the national parliament, at the beginning of my speech, I said that a large number of amendments that were rejected were rejected only because this is the very block of issues that we've excluded from the code, it's not, automatically arrested, it just doesn't exist as an institution in the bill. Therefore, all the amendments have nothing to do with them. So please don't have to bet or consider, we've excluded this whole block from the body. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-17-m0.u66	Please be determined by 249 amendments. [[11:07:40]] For-23 The correction is being rejected. 251, Dovebenko. Please, the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-17-m0.u67	Head of the committee, this is 251 amendments, which state that the household court, on the application of the estate manager, cancels the arrests on the property of the debtor or other restrictions on the management of his property if such arrests or restrictions impede the economic activity of the debtor and the restoration of his or her ability to pay. In this article, I propose that part 21 of this article be deleted. And in relation to this part of the eighth to the fourteenth, consider it to be part of the seventh to the thirteenth, that is to say the numeration. Tell me, please, why do you think this amendment is worth rejecting? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-17-m0.u68	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-17-m0.u69	And to whom is this right given, rather than to an economic court? If this is really a hindrance to economic activity, we do not want all businesses with difficulties to be recognized as bankrupt. There's a pay-as-you-go. So the court of commerce, I think, is a perfectly normal practice of the world, must have that right. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-17-m0.u70	Please identify yourself on this amendment 251. [[11:09:15]] For-22. The correction is being rejected. 256th Sidorovich. Don't insist. Dovbenko, 261. Please, the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-17-m0.u71	Mr. Andrey, this is about 261 amendments. 26th, which states that for creditors whose claims are claimed after the deadline set for their submission, all actions taken in the trial are mandatory to the same extent as they are mandatory for creditors whose requirements have been claimed during the set period. I propose that part four of article 22 should be supplemented by paragraph two of the following: “Creditors whose claims are claimed after the end of the term set out in part one of the first article are not competing creditors and take part in creditor assemblies solely with the right of advisory vote.” In this regard, I believe that paragraph 2 and paragraph 3 are considered to be the third and fourth respectively, or it would be possible to change the numbering.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-17-m0.u72	Thank you, Your Honor. Please, Andrew, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-17-m0.u73	Dear Mr. Drowbenko, please understand, we're giving a deadline for all creditors to apply. If this term doesn't have an average character, it's going to take so long to infinity, and what's happening now, six months from now, someone's going to do it again, mentioned that he was also a creditor, three months from now, in a year, and it's going to be a very uncontrollable process, we're getting away from it. Why do you think the adoption of this code will move Ukraine from 150 places in the World Bank's Doing Business World Rating to 60 places? It's because of the nuances that made bankruptcy impossible, and it's all just abuse, abuse and abuse. If we give the term, please, during this term all creditors have to claim, everything else is just a delay in the procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-17-m0.u74	Please identify 261 amendments. [[11:11:43]] For-22. The correction is being rejected. Next up is 261, Dovebenko. Are you insisting? Thank you. Don't insist. Same thing: 269, Dovebenko. Don't insist. Thank you very much. 269th. The next is the same thing: 278, Doubenko. Don't insist. Thank you very much. We're moving on to the repairs. And then there's 301, Dovebenko. Don't insist. 301. Now I may have missed it. 298, Sidorovich. It's partially accounted for. Please, Sidorovich's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-17-m0.u75	Honorable National Deputies, Viewers, Lawyers First, who will then apply this code! What does my correction mean? It was a long, complex discussion with both the financial community and the International Monetary Fund, whether we should leave the text of the bill with the notion of a peace agreement. On the one hand, the Code of Conduct, which is valid, including bankruptcy, contains the concept of a peace treaty. At the same time, to my conviction, a higher body of debt management in bankruptcy procedures, such as creditors' congregations, which can be compared to shareholders' congregations, is entitled to initiate and make a peace treaty. That's why I'm asking you to put it to a vote, and I'm proposing my 298 amendment, which refers to the competence of the creditors' assemblies to approve the peace agreement, to take it fully into account. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-17-m0.u76	Please identify yourself on an amendment that has been partially accounted for, please identify yourself. The author insists on taking full account. It was a 298 amendment. She did. [[11:13:42]] For-41 Ladies and gentlemen, we're on our way. 41-yes. Next up is 310. Dowbenko. Don't insist. The next one is 319, Ducky. Don't insist. Next up is 328, Yewtushka, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-17-m0.u77	Eutushka, Fatherland. Once again, the committee rejected my bill, and it was about not setting a minimum amount of debt for legal persons as a basis for the bankruptcy case. This could lead to a bankruptcy case involving entrepreneurs whose debt to creditors would be small. Therefore, article 26 reads as follows: “Finalization of the property management procedure” to supplement paragraph 4: “The conduct of bankruptcy proceedings shall be opened by an economic court if the unconditional requirements of the creditor (creditors) to the debtor – the legal person collectively constitute no less the statutory capital of the enterprise established in the registration.” Please support this amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-17-m0.u78	Please identify the 328th amendment of the national deputy. [[11:15:06]] For-29 29-yes. The correction is being rejected. Next up, 332nd. Please turn on Sidorovich's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-17-m0.u79	223 amendment, Ruslan Sirodorovitch, "Unification of Self-Help". Again, the question is about the peace treaty, but I would just like to be for the audience who are listening to this broadcast right now, to mark one very important, very important thing, on which there was a lot of discussion. I would like to point out that to date, a large number of debtors depend on the execution of a court decision, where it is impossible to collect funds from them and cannot start bankruptcy because they do not reach the appropriate amount. This in no way helps to clear the financial sector of toxic assets. So with all due respect, we analyzed it and analyzed the risks. But about my correction. I ask, however, to support and allow, at the disposal of the property, to prescribe an initiative at the level of the code of reference for the approval of the peace agreement. But once again, an enterprise is either a paid or insolvent enterprise, and there is no third. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-17-m0.u80	Please identify 332 amendments to the national MP Sidorovich. [[11:16:34]] For-43 The correction is being rejected. 43 for. Next up is 339, Ducky. Don't insist. Next up is 341 Sidorovich. Nope. He insists. Please, the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-17-m0.u81	Dear colleagues, this block again applies to the peace treaty.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-17-m0.u82	We don't have a peace treaty.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-17-m0.u83	Yes, the fact is that if we threw out the peace covenant, and we have the code, there is a basis for closing down the matter at the property management stage. The possibility of making a peace agreement exists objectively, and we talked about it and agreed with it, because if creditors and the borrower come to a common understanding, they can complete it, and this is provided by the Code of Procedure. But I am concerned that we do not have a legal processional coalition in view of the fact that the Master’s Procedural Code foresees the possibility of entering into a peace agreement and putting an end to the case, but the Code of Bankruptcy does not provide a basis for closing a peace treaty.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-17-m0.u84	Please comment to the committee head.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-17-m0.u85	One law permits, and the law does not prohibit it. What's the problem? Let them deal, they have instruments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-17-m0.u86	I'd like to make a determination for 341 amendments. [[11:18:06]] For-37 The correction is being rejected. 37 for. Next up is 359 Sidorovich. Are you insisting? Mr. Sidorovich, I can't see. Please, the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-17-m0.u87	359 amendment, Ruslan Sidorovich, "The Self-Help Union". The amendment is rejected. I think we may have some nuances here at the factory's rehabilitation stage. I suggested that the phrase "how do I rule out sanctions" should be deleted. Why? Because the authority of an arbitrator in the matter is either to stop or not. We agreed in the preceding parts, and noted that an arbitrator could operate at three, well, let's say, ipositors: as an estate manager, as an orderly, as an orderly, and as a liquidator. We've already figured out in the first part that he's in charge here. It can't be interrupted by the authority of an arbitral officer in charge of the sanctions, they just stop, the authority of an arbitration officer, in this matter. The phrase "as the governing sanity" creates an additional sense of exertion, which is absolutely unnecessary and creates, well, an unnecessary difficulty, let's say, a legal construct. You might want to remove this phrase from the text.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-17-m0.u88	Thank you. Please define the 359th amendment. [[11:19:40]] For-40 40 deputies support it, the amendment rejects it. The next one is 369, the People's Deputy. Don't insist. The next is the same thing: Dovbenko, 380s. Don't insist. Then we move on, and then we have the repair number. Dovbenko, 393. Don't insist. Thank you very much, dear colleague. Next amendment. Now. We're moving on to the repairs. 438, People's Deputy Dovbenko. Don't insist. Sidorovich, 444. Don't you insist? I can't see you because of the rostrum. Don't insist. Thank you very much. We're moving on, we're already in position, colleagues, on 461 amendments, this is the People's Deputy Doubenko. He doesn't insist. Next up is 468, Dovebenko. He doesn't insist either. Yes. Dovbenko, 493. Don't insist. 499. That's not the way he insists. We're still on the clock. We're already with you, colleagues, on 515 amendments, and this is also the National Deputy Dvovbenko. He doesn't insist. 518th Sidorovich. Don't insist. Don't insist. 518th Sidorovich. Don't insist. Ah, Sidorovich, 534. Don't insist. 534th now. Sidorovich, 543rd. Don't insist. 544th Sidorovich. He doesn't insist either. And 550th. Don't insist. 558th. 560. Don't insist. Don't insist. 573rd. Don't you insist? 590. Don't insist. What's that? 584? I missed your amendment, now. 584th. Please, microphone to the national deputy. That's the Evtushka amendment. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-17-m0.u89	Eutushka, Fatherland. I'll tell you right away, Madam Chairman, I don't insist on voting, but I want to hear the committee head comment. My amendment is about a conflict of interest in the auction. And I'm 58, paragraph 9, and I put it this way: "According to the auction, there can't be an arbitration officer, the debtor's property manager, the sanction manager." Please comment, Mr. Chairman of the Committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-17-m0.u90	In our view, there would be a conflict of interest if the arbitrator himself conducted the auction. In connection with the auction. A completely different site -- transparent, public, all of these trades -- why limit the rights of these people, just constitutional rights? Why? We don't know. Thank you. He can't abuse.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-17-m0.u91	Thank you for your clarification. The national deputy doesn't insist on voting, he just wanted to hear an explanation. The next amendment is 596. Please, National Deputy Sidorovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-17-m0.u92	Ruslan Sidorovich, Self Help Union. 596 amendments, it's not a big deal there, but it's also important: the order in which assets are made. But I would just like to report to our fellow national deputies and to those who watch the broadcast. We've had a lot of very complicated, very difficult discussions about how to implement the assets of businesses that are in bankruptcy, and we've come to realize that the order of implementation will be as transparent as possible, taking into account the principles that we've laid down in the public procurement legislation that the Cabinet of Ministers has already saved for the state budget a billion dollars and proved to be effective. This is going to be the same double electronic site that will rule out the probability of both monopolization and realisation of this property and will ensure absolute competition and realisation of the property at the highest cost, because in Ukraine the lowest closing rate.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-17-m0.u93	I see. Please identify yourself on amendment 596, after which the author has just explained. Please make up your mind. [[11:25:02]] For-48 The correction is being rejected. Colleagues, then from 597th to 633th, we have a series of rejected amendments solely to Deputy Sidorovich. I'm going to ask him to turn on the microphone now, and you call the corrections you insist on, we'll only move on them then. Okay? That's not in this pause.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-17-m0.u94	Ruslan Sidorovich, Self Help Union.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-17-m0.u95	Between 633. By 633, only his, there's a deviation. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-17-m0.u96	Ruslan Sidorovich, Self Help Union. I say again, we've actually reached a different level at the final stage of the discussion with the International Monetary Fund and with the World Bank, with the relevant professional associations, that allows us to ensure those criteria for the realisation of property that are set out in the ProZorro principles. And so here the whole block of amendments is rejected, because there's a second-reading result that we have a completely different line than that we had in the first reading. I mean, the articles were literally changed. At the same time, there is an important thing in the 605th Amendment that I would still like to ask the session room to support. That is: paragraph 3, which I proposed to exclude in article 64, which states that the terms of the contract of purchase/sale of the debtor's rights should provide that the transfer of the right of claim takes place only after its full pay. So in order to determine whether the right of claim is being fulfilled right now, in my view, is important, and accordingly, I'm asking you to support amendment 605.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-17-m0.u97	Thank you for your clarification. Colleagues, I ask for the request of national deputy Sidorovich to support his 605 amendment. I'd like to make a statement. [[11:27:03]] For-45 The correction is being rejected. Dear Mr. Sidorovich, before 633? No, yes, thank you. So we're now in position, colleagues, for the 644th Amendment. This is the amendment of the People's Deputies of Doubenko. I hope I haven't missed any amendments to those authors who insist, and please. You insist, six hundred. No, you don't. We're moving on. I'm just looking at these. Ivanchuk is, he's careful. Mr. Ivanchuk, your colleagues miss you and ask you to return to the rostrum. 645th National MP Sidorovich. There is no insistence on 645 amendments. Is he insisting? No, he doesn't insist on 645. If he insists, I'll see. Six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six. Don't insist. Dovbenko, 1950s. Please, microphone to the People's Deputy Dovbenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-17-m0.u98	I've got an amendment, 651st.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-17-m0.u99	Please, 651st. No, look, your 650th amendment, and 651th is Melnika, Sakka and a group of deputies: Alekseyev and so on. 651a is Melnika. Yours, please, I said so.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-17-m0.u100	Thank you. Thank you. In general, I want to say that the Committee on Economic Policy has worked quite actively. The vast majority of my rights are accounted for and I thank them for that. But there are a few lines that, I think, are worth focusing on. And in particular, the 650th amendment is that here I suggest you write more clearly, under which circumstances the court shuts down the bankruptcy case. And here I am writing out my text of this article. I think, Mr. Andrey, that I have a more logical lecture and a clearer one. But the committee seems to have other arguments. If you feel that it is not appropriate under some circumstances, explain why.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-17-m0.u101	Please explain, 650 revisions. Please explain.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-17-m0.u102	I'm sorry, I just left. I'll be right there.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-17-m0.u103	650 repairs.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-17-m0.u104	I understand.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-17-m0.u105	Don't leave the rostrum. You can see that there's some kind of lost correction.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-17-m0.u106	Let's put it in. Normal detail. We're also practically prescribed. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-17-m0.u107	The chairman of the committee does not insist on the position of the committee, but supports amendment 650 and proposes to vote in favour. I'd like to make a statement. [[11:30:33]] For-38 An amendment is not accepted in this way. Next, 655th Sidorovich. Dear colleague Sidorovich, 655. 654th, Dovebenko. I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Yeah, 654th. Please, Doubenko microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-17-m0.u108	Thank you. Mr. Andrey, what I'm actually saying is that this is where my deviations end. For those of you who have explained, thank you, they please me. And thanks for my 650, you think it's worth supporting. I really feel that there are more logical, more clearly defined certain conditions that are needed. And as for the 654 version, I believe that part of the fourth part of this article, where it is said that the court of commerce in favour of closing the case notes that the requirements of competing creditors which have not been declared in the code of terms or which have been rejected by the court of commerce are deemed to be invalidated. The executive documents are recognized as being not enforceable. This fourth part could be dropped. The rest is 5th, 6th, 7th leave. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-17-m0.u109	Thank you. Please explain to the head of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-17-m0.u110	You know, it's not for the debtor. We were asked by the creditors themselves. When the debtor’s liquidation ends, those creditors whose claims are not met need a legitimate reason to cancel the debt. That is why we are very helpful. There's a lot of businesses that have debt balances and they already know that there's no business, they can't do anything about it. So we've introduced this definition that the requirements will be deemed to be met and they're off balance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-17-m0.u111	Thank you for your clarification. Please identify yourself for the 654th Amendment of the People's Deputy Drowbenko. Please make up your mind. As the National MP himself pointed out, most of his amendments were taken into account by the Committee. This is the last of his unaccounted - for amendments. [[11:32:50]] For-26 The correction is being rejected. Next up, 655. National MP Sidorovich. Don't insist. And then 672. Sidorovich. Don't you insist?
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-17-m0.u112	693.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-17-m0.u113	Now, we're not there yet. Please, microphone to national deputy Sidorovich. 693 amendments were partially taken into account, but the MP insists on taking full account. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-17-m0.u114	693 amendments actually end the code of conduct in bankruptcy cases of legal persons. Indeed, there were some nuances, some differences that the committee took into account on a large scale. But I would just like to say a few words for our colleagues and for those who listen to the broadcast of the adoption of this codex. The conduct of bankruptcy cases for legal persons at the property disposal stage has undergone such serious changes as to exclude most of those delays that allow not only to block the recovery of the payment capacity of private persons, this eliminates the mass of abuses in which bankruptcy cases are committed in state enterprises, the appointment of a hand-to-hand arbitrator, and the state is essentially losing control. So the lines will be severely reduced, which will have a very positive effect on the economy.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-17-m0.u115	Please explain. Dear Head of the Committee, I request your clarification on the 692 amendments that we are currently considering.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-17-m0.u116	Once again, Sidorovich is a perfectionist, and he wants more and more. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-17-m0.u117	Thank you. Still, I ask you to speak essentially about the amendments, not about the personnel. We're going in. Well, committee head, I've been asked by the deputy to comment on the amendment. I'm putting to the vote 692 amendment of Maximist Sidorovich. Please. [[11:35:24]] For-50 50 supported the amendment, the national deputies. It's deflecting. Fellows, I welcome you, we've passed the first volume of the amendments, we've got half left. And 694th Semenha National Deputy. I can't see. Don't insist. National MP Sidorovich, of the 698 amendments, comes a number of your amendments that are included in other articles. You will. You don't insist. Okay. Then we're looking at where we're going to have these adjustments that we're going to insist on. We're moving on to the repairs. And now we're at 725 Sidorovich. Don't you insist?
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-17-m0.u118	No, it's not.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-17-m0.u119	Thank you. You don't insist. If, your honor, someone insists on the amendment and I missed it, I'm asking you to let me know. People's Deputy Dovbenko, 736. It is included in another article, and you are satisfied with it, and you think it is the right decision of the committee. Now we're going on the amendment block, the colleagues who were included in the other articles, so the national MPs don't insist. But here's the 754 amendment, the national deputy. Please, the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-17-m0.u120	Eutushka, Fatherland. 788 amendments and I'll be right there.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-17-m0.u121	745th now.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-17-m0.u122	754th.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-17-m0.u123	I don't insist.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-17-m0.u124	754th. Don't you insist? Then, I'm sorry, you got the microphone a little later. National MP Gusak insists on 747 amendments. Please. Please, your microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-17-m0.u125	Dear Irina Volodymyr, distinguished Andri Volodymyrovich, distinguished colleagues, respected Ukrainians! It is a good thing that the Supreme Council of Ukraine today is considering, not another political declaration, but the economic law that is essential for Ukraine’s economic development. Because a quick, efficient and fair exit from the market is perhaps as important for the market economy as the start-up of a new business, a new enterprise. Of course, it would be desirable for this law to maintain the emphasis on restoring the ability of businesses to pay, giving them a second chance. And so it's a good thing that they actually supported my amendment on what it is. Can I have 30 seconds?
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-17-m0.u126	Please finish the minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-17-m0.u127	And so it's a good thing that they actually supported my amendment to continue the moratorium on meeting creditors' claims on mortgage assets from 130 days to 170 days. I asked 180, because that would give the borrower extra opportunities, but they're down to 170, and that's good, so I didn't insist on voting this amendment for a while. I have also made a number of amendments to the question of the work of the arbitration panel. Because often, it may be a situation that the debtor's property will not be enough for the arbitrator to have at least the money to pay off his expenses, let alone the reward. And that's why I'd like to talk to Andrew Volodymyrovich about why these were either counted or unaccounted for and how this issue will be resolved.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-17-m0.u128	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-17-m0.u129	First, in article 30 on page 76, you're going to see a new edition, as we said. And your amendment was rejected for one reason: we believe that the size of the reward should be determined by the code. Then the court approves this size, because in any other case, it's going to have very large corruption risks. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-17-m0.u130	Thank you. And I'm asking. Don't insist. He insists. Please insist, insist. Please, Mr. Husak told the hall that he had prepared a lot of amendments, that's true, many of them the committee counted, some of them didn't count, and now Mr. Husak insists on this amendment. I'd like to make a statement. [[11:40:59]] For-31 The correction is being rejected. Mr. Goose, are you going to be there for a few more of your amendments? Which one? There's 750 and 752. You don't insist on them. Next: 759. 759th. Don't you insist? Don't insist. Now we have a national deputy who insisted on 780. We haven't gotten to her yet. 759th. Please, microphone to National Deputy Gusak, 759th. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-17-m0.u131	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to point out once again that this law is very important for the economy of Ukraine, for economic development, because getting out of the market is very important for the economy of Ukraine, or getting out of the business, or getting a second chance. Indeed, the new edition of article 30 deals with many questions about the remuneration of the work of the arbitrators, so I will not insist on voting on this amendment. And what I'd like to say is that, in general, the committee's drafting looks balanced, and if it doesn't have significant changes in the room, our faction will be ready to support the Ukrainian Bankruptcy Bill in second reading and in general.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-17-m0.u132	Thank you for your constructive position. A respected colleague does not insist on voting. Please, seven hundred. Please comment to the committee head.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-17-m0.u133	Ladies and gentlemen, we have taken your amendment into account. I say again, look at article 30, which initiates the case, deposits these costs to the court. And this problem that you've raised, it's settled. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-17-m0.u134	Thank you. Please, 742 revisions. I missed out on Paul Rizanenko's request, and we're going back to her. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-17-m0.u135	742?
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-17-m0.u136	742th, yes. Please, Paulore, the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-17-m0.u137	Good afternoon, dear colleagues. This amendment refers to a temporary suspension of the right to exercise arbitration of the controller. And it's my right and the number of authors of this amendment that propose to stop this activity. temporary suspension of such activity in the event of non-payment of arbitration to the director of the membership of the Association of Arbitration Supervisors for the payment of such contributions. The amendment was rejected by the committee, but I suggest that it be taken into account. Request to vote for it.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-17-m0.u138	Thank you. Please explain to the committee head.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-17-m0.u139	In this code we're going to say that there's going to be a self-governing organization of all the arbitrators, and let them determine there, that's a good reason -- not paying the membership fees -- or not how they're going to do it. We want them to have their constitution and their relationship with these arbitrators. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-17-m0.u140	Thank you for your clarification. 742 amendments are now being voted on, please specify. There the authors and Alexeiev and Rizanenko and Paul Rizanenko have already presented it to us. [[11:44:41]] For-31 31-yes. The correction is being rejected. Next up, 753rd. I'm also asking you to turn on the microphone to the National MP. But it's counted, Paul? This amendment is yours, 753rd. And 755 was rejected, and there the author and Alexeiev and Rizanenko both insisted. I give my word to Mr. Alexei. You're going to add. Alekseyev, Rizanenko. Rizanenko. Please, Paul Paulore's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-17-m0.u141	That's different. So another Alexei, he's missing now.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-17-m0.u142	They're confused. I'm sorry, colleagues, and please have a microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-17-m0.u143	So 755 is also a number of authors, and it refers to the award of an arbitrator. And it's this right that suggests that the commitment is to change "from living minimum to working persons" to "minimum wage." I believe that the amendment is quite principled and fundamental, so I insist on voting.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-17-m0.u144	Thank you for your clarification. I ask you to identify 755 amendments to the copyright team, including Paul Rizanenko. Please. [[11:46:02]] For-32 32 in favour, the amendment is rejected. Colleagues, please turn on Igor Alexey's microphone. And you're going to tell us what kind of correction you're insisting on. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-17-m0.u145	Good afternoon, dear fellows! I'd like to go back to 714. The second reading box is marked as an editorial in article 20. At the same time, article 20 does not include it in the way proposed by the legislator for the second reading, so I would like to make an amendment for confirmation. And we've actually done a fundamental work with the committee, and this bill solves a lot of the issues that are now facing the country, but we can't go through what is right and which bill will only improve. So I'm asking you to set up a 714 confirmation form.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-17-m0.u146	I'm sorry, it's edited, and I can only put it to the vote now. I'll put it to a vote. As an author, you can ask her to put it on a full scale, and that's what I'm putting it on. Please put to the vote 714 amendments. [[11:47:33]] For-47 The amendment remains in the form in which the committee accepted it. 763th, Paul Rizanenko, your amendment, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-17-m0.u147	The law suggests that article 103 should be put in a different format than the bill proposed in the first reading. Accordingly, our amendment, a series of authors, was rejected. I still insist on taking into account the wording of article 103. To the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-17-m0.u148	Please identify the 763 revisions to the authors. authors, more loyal. I'm sorry. [[11:48:23]] For-34 The correction is being rejected. Next up is 767, Paul Rizanka. Don't insist. And then the national MP Sidorovich insists on 765th, which was partially counted, but the national MP Sidorovich wants to present in his editorial. Please, Sidorovich's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-17-m0.u149	Ruslan Sidorovich, Self Help Union. We are now going through an extremely important bloc, which is actually launching another revolution in the area of bankruptcy regulation, where the state is ready to take responsibility and reduce its influence on the arbitrators. To date, these self - regulated organizations, which have five pieces, cannot actually perform self - regulation functions because the same profession in five different organizations cannot be regulated differently: different ethical standards, different approaches to the profession. This is completely wrong! And that's why it was decided that in order for the Ministry of Justice to be able to start the process of decentralization, the transfer to the so-called "outsourcing" with only state control, we're starting a single organization. I don't insist on voting, but it's important for us to understand that in this case we're going to have a single organization, a single standard.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-17-m0.u150	Thank you for your clarification. Please, the next amendment is the 788th National Deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-17-m0.u151	SergeyYevtushkok, "The Fatherland" faction, Ravenshkin. Andrew Volodymyrovich, well, I understand you've written a lot of good news in the code. I realize that this is about the bankruptcy of natural persons, but the mechanism in the code is completely out of line with those challenges and criteria. I will point out that my amendment refers to article 123 and to the participation of the arbitrator, who must be required, all other things will create certain possible abuses. And that's why I asked you to write an article like this. The participation of the arbitrator in the bankruptcy case is mandatory, except in cases where a simplified procedure is applied in the bankruptcy case. Please comment.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-17-m0.u152	Please comment.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-17-m0.u153	Ladies and gentlemen, we believe that, in these cases, we believe that an arbitration officer must be involved, he must register, he must act accordingly. Therefore, it is not possible in this simplified way. In your simplified procedure, you can't do without an arbitrage controlling, unfortunately. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-17-m0.u154	Thank you. I'm asking you to make a determination for 788 amendments. [[B in m in s a l in]] No, he said vote. Did I miss something? [[11:51:39]] For-41 The correction is being rejected. Next is the amendment of Igor Aleksiev, 789. A microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-17-m0.u155	Igor Alexeyev, People's Front faction. 789 the law was to make the procedure for the selection of arbitrational supervisors, which are assigned by the court, as wide as possible and to cancel, remove any restrictions that may be. In particular, it was suggested that all arbitrators who were included in the Single Register of Arbitral Controls would be automatically chosen for the purpose. At the same time, it was proposed to delete the rule on what is assigned to the arbitrator, who has an office in the appropriate area where the jurisdiction of the court is. And the philosophy of this readjustment is to make the process as wide as possible and to involve all arbitrational leaders in the selection process in choosing them from the single court information and telecommunications system. That's why I'm asking you to put it in.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-17-m0.u156	Please comment to the committee head.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-17-m0.u157	Dear Mr. Alexeyev, what an Igor! Nothing goes against it. The court is watching. If it's in this territory to which. refers to his jurisdiction, he's a free arbitrator, he takes information from the register. But maybe it won't, and he'll take it from one register from another territory. But logically, who is more comfortable in carrying out their duties — those who are in a given location, or those who need to travel some 500 or 300 miles [500 or 300 km]? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-17-m0.u158	I'm asking you to identify yourself for the 789th Amendment of the People's Deputy, Alexeyev. [[11:53:43]] For-33 The correction is being rejected. The next amendment is Alexandra Kugel, 792. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-17-m0.u159	Madam Chairman, I have 24 revisions, and that's why I'm taking one speech. I'm going to try very briefly to set up items that I and our team don't understand. We support the decision of the Supreme Council Legal Department that this law should be sent back to read again. Why? First of all, this law does not encourage bankruptcy as a healthy one, but in most cases it does write a procedure that provides for the liquidation of an enterprise or an institution. The other one. Unforeseeable audit by the acting arbitrators. Well, I'm sure a lot of MPs know that we've got a decommissioning of radgos, yes, or kolgos, that's been going on for 25 to 27 years. It's not written how you don't pay off a non-existent VAT on a non-existent operation after a court that recognizes a lipo bankruptcy procedure. We personally went through this when we were protecting a state-owned enterprise, and we taxed it on VAT.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-17-m0.u160	Just give me one minute to finish, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-17-m0.u161	Less than a minute. Thank you. A person's bankruptcy is a very important issue. But unfortunately, like everyone else. The banking committee, and unfortunately, the Economic Policy Committee has only taken the position of a creditor. There's no man, there's no man's protection. This is a procedure that provides protection for the creditor. And it is unacceptable, I would like to draw your attention to Mr. Ivanchuk, to submit to the people's deputies a second reading of a bill containing an empty last column, where the final edition is foreseen. We don't see what's going to happen. And understanding, I understand Sidorovich, who's putting on an amendment that's essentially taken into account, because there's essentially no table. This has not been the case in the Supreme Council. I think it's our team that's rereading again.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-17-m0.u162	Your position on voting on the bill is clear. We don't put your amendments to the vote, do we? I see. Please comment to the committee head. Please, Mr. Ivanchuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-17-m0.u163	Dear road and beloved Alexander Volodymyrna.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-17-m0.u164	Was that a comment?
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-17-m0.u165	Alexandra Volodymyr, respectable, dear and beloved! The first question is: Individuals, natural persons, only a natural person as a debtor can break the question, if he wants, of bankruptcy. So how can I protect the rights of the borrower, the creditor and put them up if he doesn't have those rights? If a person wants to recover, if he is a good - conscienceed borrower, he may start a bankruptcy procedure. Why blame me for what I have nothing to do with?
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-17-m0.u166	Thank you, thank you. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-17-m0.u167	The second question. I answer, this is a very important discussion. The second question is for the arbitrators. You're making amendments, and I said the amendments are very relevant.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-17-m0.u168	Thank you. We've got it. Dear colleagues, may I say as presiding officer? Look, we got it. I hear it now, I'm going to offer you a choice. We can't go into debate right now, we don't have that form. But I'm just going to give Mrs. Kugel a word during another correction, and she's going to respond to your lines, and you're going to respond to the arbitrators. We're moving on. Well, I can't give right now, it's a violation of the Rules, a word for debate. The next amendment is 795th National Deputy Alexeyev. 793? Please, National Deputy Alexeiev, 793rd. And here we're going to stop the alteration debate and come back after the break. Please, 793rd.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-17-m0.u169	Thank you. 793 revisions, based on its philosophy, are related to 789 remedies that have been rejected. I see it's partially taken into account, but at the same time, the content of this amendment provided for a continuation of the selection of the arbitrators, and I think that in the proposed wording it should be taken fully into account. Therefore, please put to the vote 793 amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-17-m0.u170	Thank you, Mr. Igor. I ask you to determine the 793 amendments that the author asks you to take into account. It's partially accounted for. I'd like to make a statement. [[11:59:04]] For-48 The correction is being rejected. Colleagues, we've got it now. We have to announce a recess, but we've stopped at the fact that the chairman of the committee wants to take a position with regard to the arbitrators. We'll start with that after the break. And Mrs. Alexander Kugel will also take the floor and present her position. And we've stopped at 795 revisions. Please. Dear colleagues, we announce a recess for 30 minutes. And after the break, we're starting to move on to the amendments to the Ukrainian Code of Bankruptcy, the draft law of this, and we've stopped at 795 amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-17-m0.u171	Colleagues, I'm asking everyone to come into the hall. Time spent for a break is over. [[B in m in s a l in]] I invite the head of the committee of Ivanchuk Andrija Volodymyrovich to the hall. Andrew Volodymyrovich in the hall, please welcome. Welcome, Andrey Volodymyrovich. I'm asking you to take a job. Getting ready for a hard, hard, but important job for the country. And we're going to continue to look at the axles. And now (we're done at 797) 794, Deputy Ostrovkova, and then Alexander Kugel, 797, after her. 794, Ostrichova. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-17-m0.u172	Good afternoon. Thank you, Mr. Head. This amendment, which is rejected by the committee, extends to the powers of the arbitral supervisor in the bankruptcy case of the individual, namely: he is offered the right to waive the debtor's rights, committed to open the bankruptcy case, not done in full or in part, if the exercise of the right causes damage to the debtor or creates conditions that prevent the recovery of the payability. The amendment also specifies the procedure for obtaining arbitration information on the debtor, such as the right to receive a properly processed request free of charge from public authorities and other enterprises, institutions, organizations of documents, explanations, help and other information, from automated information systems and registers held by public authorities, information about debtors, their property, income and expenses. And it's not quite clear why the committee rejected the amendment, because it's very important for us to have arbitrators who actually use all the functions of authority and really do.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-17-m0.u173	Andrew Volodymyrovich, explain the committee's conduct. Why Rejected?
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-17-m0.u174	I'm very fond of the people's deputy Ostrik, but this is an amendment of the people's deputy Semenha. But, nevertheless, I will comment that we have taken into account these norms in the book of arbitrators, and in the portion of the powers, the special powers of the arbitration officer in the matters of natural persons, we have given the active editor access to information about the debtor's property, and everything else, and have made your amendments to the drafting of the arbitration book of the arbitrators. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-17-m0.u175	That's it, Mrs. Ostrovka. Do you insist on voting?
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-17-m0.u176	Yes.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-17-m0.u177	Please, Your Honor, I'm putting to the vote amendment 794, the committee rejected it. Whoever supports this amendment, please vote. [[12:35:25]] For-19 The decision is not made. 797 law, Alexandra Kugel. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-17-m0.u178	Thank you. Mr. Head, you were just gone, and we agreed that I would no longer lift the charges, but I would answer your head. First of all, I'm addressing all the listeners. Notice, Mr. President, that in "Transitional positions" at 6 p.m., this bill provides for a moratorium on the acquisition of Ukrainian citizens' property, provided as collateral. Foreign exchange loans. The plots that are still written: virtually no mortgage will be saved, and this depends only on taking a single dwelling, that is, all the mortgages will go bankrupt. And the second question. Mr. Head, I'm addressing you. I think it's a bad practice: to consider very important bills on Wednesday's second reading. Because we have an editorial Wednesday, which is the kind of monopoly that the committee chooses. Deputies become statisticians, they don't consider it necessary to work. And notice, I've been showing you, that's the impossibility of handing it out.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-17-m0.u179	Please add 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-17-m0.u180	The last column is the final line. Mr. Head, what are you going to sign? There's no final editing, you can charge everything. And read the conclusion of the Legal Department, this law needs to be re-readed, because it will immediately be called upon by the Constitutional Court. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-17-m0.u181	Thank you. I'll give you the word of Andrew Volodymyrovich. Ms. Alexander, I think that the practice of considering second reading on Wednesday is a good practice because we have the ability without haste, which is important, without haste for many hours, to have a thorough consideration so that everyone who is interested in the subject has the opportunity to express their views, to reason. We can then go back before we finish or not go back to certain lines, but we can have a constructive discussion. In addition, we still have a committee meeting on Wednesday, and that is, the committee can analyze our discussion and hear the reasoned positions so that the committee can review them. And then whether we're going to go back to the second, or whether we're going to take it as a whole, it's already going to be the hall. But I think it's a form of work -- it allows me to thoroughly consider a bill with those right-wing authors who really want a professional and literate discussion. Please, Andrew Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-17-m0.u182	Dear Alexander Volodymyr! I think I'm such a good head of the Economic Policy Committee, thanks to you, because you taught me how to work as a deputy of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. When I became chairman of the committee, you were also head of the committee, and I learned a lot from you, and that's why I've achieved such, thanks to you, success and very many reforms through the Economic Policy Committee. And now, essentially. When you accuse me of not prescribing the final edition, it's not true. I'm authoritatively saying that if you take the table that you're given, the right column, and you read it from the beginning to the end, missing blank pages, because that's what you're doing, the law is going in order and there's no gap. What's going on in the table? When we structured the law instead of two books into four books, it happened that certain standards had passed.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-17-m0.u183	Please complete one minute, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-17-m0.u184	Alexander Volodymyrna, I think it's very good when students sometimes grow older than their teachers. So the second question is essentially Moratorium. Alexander Volodymyrna, this codex will enter if we vote for it in general tomorrow, six months later, and the moratorium will be taken in a year and a year and a half. There was no better time for us to address this issue than we and our fellow MPs could think of. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-17-m0.u185	Thank you. Dear colleagues, as far as we understand correctly in the Presidium, Mr. Ivanchuk now appeals to his distinguished colleagues from Fatherland to ask that you, at a faction meeting, discuss your position regarding the voting on the draft Code of Bankruptcy and support this code, not transfer it to read again. And so we hope that this productive discussion will lead to a constructive debate at the faction meeting and to a constructive vote. Next up is 795 amendment, national MP. 795 amendment, National Deputy Rizanenko, please. Paul Rizanenko, 795. Do you insist? Don't insist. Mrs. Kugel has expressed her position and she does not insist on her amendments, and Mr. Ivanchuk asks that Mrs. Kugel discuss the faction again regarding this bill and that the faction of the Reverend Fatherland support the bill. 808 amendment, National Deputy Alexeyev. Alexiev, I'll give you my word, I've already announced 808, then I'll be back, definitely. Please, Mr. Alexeyev.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-17-m0.u186	Thank you. 808 readjustments related to changes in approaches to calculating the monetary remuneration of the arbitral supervisor in the bankruptcy case. In the proposal for first reading, there was an attachment to minimum wages, and my assignment suggested that they be attached to the minimum cost of living for a working person. I ask 808 amendments, which are rejected by the committee, to be submitted for confirmation.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-17-m0.u187	Please put to the vote 808 amendments, honorary colleagues, colleagues of Alexeieva. [[12:42:15]] For-33 33-yes. The correction is being rejected. We're going back to the 804 revision that I missed. And please give me the word of Deputy Ostrecki, who will present this amendment, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-17-m0.u188	The amendment 804 is rejected by the committee, and the amendment suggests that the arbitral supervisor in the case of bankruptcy of a natural person is obliged to take action in favour of the debtor of receivables, measures aimed at the search, detection and recovery of the debtor’s assets in third parties, and measures to collect debts from persons carrying debt in accordance with the law or agreement of subsidiary or solidarity. Instead, the committee does not take this position into account, and it is only proposed that the governing committee be given the right to take steps to obtain the benefit of the debtor of the receivable. What about the property, the search for and the return of the debtor’s property? This is a whole set of measures that we think must also be carried out by an arbitrator to effectively exercise his authority. So I very much ask, Mr. Chairman of the Committee, to express the position of the committee. As for the previous amendment that was included in another book, I ask the table to note that the amendments to the Semenah were made.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-17-m0.u189	I see. Please explain the 804 amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-17-m0.u190	Dear Mrs. Ostrovka, we fully agree. But we believe that this is a general obligation of an arbitral, regardless of the type of debtor. And that's all you said, I'm officially saying under the transcript, we're all included in the book on arbitrators. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-17-m0.u191	Thank you. Do you insist on voting? No, it's not. You've heard it's included in the book for the arbitrators. 819 amendment, National Deputy Alexeiev Igor. He doesn't insist. Sidorovich, 824 repairs. Don't insist. Thank you. Because I don't always see you. The next amendment is Victoria's Bird, 836. Don't insist. 837. Please, Ostrovka.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-17-m0.u192	Dear colleagues! This amendment, which is unfortunately also rejected by the committee, proposes to settle a list of cases where, on the application of an arbitrator or creditor of the debtor's right, the natural person who has made a debt during the year prior to the opening of the bankruptcy case may be declared invalid by the insolvency court. In particular, it is suggested that these reasons be determined: If, under the circumstances of the right, the debtor has made the alienation of the property free of charge or has accepted the property of the undertaking without having to assume the legal liability of the other party or has waived his own property requirements; or if the right is related to alienation or other transfer of property to persons interested in the debtor and so on. So these are the cases where we see the debtor deliberately cheating and taking out his property. And accordingly, those rights do not aim at achieving the real goal of transferring ownership to another person, but they simply aim at concealing and depriving the debtor’s property. And, Your Honor, Mr. Chairman of the Committee, Mr. Ivanchuk, I ask all the amendments of Semenach and Ostrick, which are written that are rejected.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-17-m0.u193	Please finish 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-17-m0.u194	I'm asking these amendments that you're saying are essentially included in the table because this is an indicator of our parliamentary activity. You say you've counted them essentially in another book, and the table says "refused." We would have saved a lot of time for their consideration.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-17-m0.u195	Please, Mr. Ivanchuk, are you prepared to write that they are accounted for, not rejected, and to save our time?
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-17-m0.u196	Mrs. Tetjana, I'm telling you again, here's your colleague from your faction, and I think you trust him, we just changed the structure of the code, and this is all in the book on arbitrators. Mr. Semenah and I discussed this issue yesterday, and he was pleased that Ruslan and I had shown him that it was in another simple place of the code. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-17-m0.u197	Thank you. Do you insist on voting? No, it's not. So your next one is 238. You insist on your word, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-17-m0.u198	The amendment 838, which is rejected by the committee, proposes to provide a governing restructuring in the case of bankruptcy of a natural person within three months of the date of official publication of the notice of bankruptcy of the debtor and the introduction of the debt restructuring procedure to waive the debtor’s rights committed during the year prior to the opening of the bankruptcy case, either in full or in part, if the exercise of the right causes losses to the debtor or creates conditions that prevent the recovery of his insolvency. In doing so, the contractor under such a contract will be entitled to claim for a monthly period the damages caused by refusal to do so. And I insist once again if you've taken our amendments essentially into account in another book, please let's write that they're partial, essentially, and so on in the table of amendments.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-17-m0.u199	The position is clear. Please, Mr. Ivanchuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-17-m0.u200	No, this amendment was rejected by the committee. Please bet on confirmation.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-17-m0.u201	I didn't hear. Put her to the vote?
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-17-m0.u202	I'm saying that this amendment was rejected by the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-17-m0.u203	Okay.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-17-m0.u204	What Mrs. Ostrovkova has just read has been rejected by the committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-17-m0.u205	Clearly, this amendment has been rejected by the committee, so please identify the hall. 838. [[12:48:14]] For-32 And the hall as well as the committee, this amendment is rejected. Next amendment: Levchenka, 853rd. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-17-m0.u206	849th, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-17-m0.u207	Please, I missed it. 849th. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-17-m0.u208	Lewchenko, Freedom, 223 District, Kiev City. In order to bring all bankruptcys, both legal and natural, to a level, I propose that the same time limits be provided for the fulfilment of creditor’s financial requirements, namely a three - month period. In addition, it is appropriate to foresee that bankruptcy can be initiated solely on the basis of the debtor’s claim, since this institution for individuals in Ukraine is new and the mechanism for its application should be assessed in practice first. If we ask this question about the debtor's claim solely, the result may be a massive appeal by banks to initiate bankruptcy of natural persons, which will negatively affect such persons who, despite their heavy debts, do not refuse to do so, but have financial problems that are caused, including by short-term policies of active authority and previous authorities, which are aimed exclusively at the service of the oligarhat’s interests. In view of the foregoing, I insist that it be assumed that bankruptcy may be initiated solely on the basis of a divine claim. It is very important that, without the knowledge of the debtors, their bankruptcy does not begin. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-17-m0.u209	I'd like to make a determination for the 849th Amendment of the People's Deputy Levchenka. [[12:49:50]] For-31 The correction is being rejected. And the next is the Lechchenka, the 853 amendment. And you will comment, Sir Andrew, on two amendments. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-17-m0.u210	Lewchenko, Freedom, 223 District, Kiev City. It should be noted that the unconditional requirements of this bill should be satisfied without the application of the bankruptcy procedure, and that the legal basis for bankruptcy arises only when the requirements of creditors are not met. Thus, I consider the appropriate paragraph of the second part of the first part of Chapter 127 of the Second Bill after the words "unsustainable creditors' requirements" to be complemented by the word "unsatisfying". It's a very important addition, because it's going, it's going to have to be about the unsatisfying unconditional terms of creditors. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-17-m0.u211	Please comment, Mr. Andrey. Mr. Andrey!
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-17-m0.u212	First. Yes, they can’t be satisfied and unswerving. But, Mr. Yuri, I wanted to comment on your previous speech. All you've written in your amendment is rejected, but it's all in the law. Only according to the debtor's statement, dot. Only in the book on bankruptcy of natural persons is the basic norm that you proposed in your amendment. The other one. You asked me to replace the words "two" with "three" and we did it with "three." And what I'm about to say is, it can't be satisfied -- it can't be done. So your two amendments, if you want, I'll come up and I'll show you where it is in the body of the law, just as you wanted -- that's how we did it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-17-m0.u213	Thank you. I'm asking you to make up your mind. [[B in m in s a l in]] We don't have that kind of debate. I'll give it to Please, 10 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-17-m0.u214	I just wanted to make one last correction. The point is to clarify what are absolute requirements. I mean, it's now written: creditors' undeniable requirements are creditors' monetary requirements. And what I'm saying is that the firm's undeniable demands on creditors are dissatisfying.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-17-m0.u215	Thank you. We already have a thorough revelry of this amendment. I'm asking you to make up your mind: 853 amendments. [[12:52:00]] For-29 The correction is being rejected. The next one is 868, Victoria the Bird. Don't insist. And the next one is 887. 868 - A bird. Don't insist. And 887 Ostrikova. He doesn't insist either. [[B in m in s a l in]] No, it's not. They don't count. 887. [[B in m in s a l in]] That's the point. Well, that's what she told me, Mrs. Ostrovkova, to follow all my adjustments. [[B in m in s a l in]] Now, I could have missed something. Just a minute. 882nd. Wait a minute. 882nd. Counted. [[B in m in s a l in]] Well, fine, and we'll vote for it -- and it'll cancel then. Colleagues, we've got an 882 amendment, but National MP Levchenko demands a word on it. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-17-m0.u216	Thank you. Lewchenko, Freedom, 223 District, Kiev City. The point is that this also applies to the question that bankruptcy can be initiated solely on the basis of the debtor’s claim. And I would still like to get, under the transcript, an explanation, an exact guarantee of the head of the committee. Because unfortunately, too much of the way documents have been published, there is no way to fully analyze the whole bill. I was talking to you and saying you didn't publish the whole whole bill, unfortunately. I'm still asking you to publish it by tomorrow, yes. But you claim that this issue is settled in another book. Yeah? Please, under the transcript, you can say that the real bankruptcy issue can be initiated solely at the request of the debtor. If so, then there is really no point in insisting on this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-17-m0.u217	Please, Mr. Andrew.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-17-m0.u218	Dear Mr. People's Deputy YuriLevchenko! Under the transcript, I officially state that in the book "Recovery of Paymentability of a Person" in chapter III "Discovery of Insolvency" there is only one rule in the Code that bankruptcy can be violated solely on the basis of a statement of will of a natural person. No creditor of any kind can ever, in any case, violate the case of a person’s bankruptcy. It was your initiative. We all supported her, wrote in the fourth book. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-17-m0.u219	Mr. Levchenko, put to the vote? If we put it to a vote right now and this room doesn't support it, it won't have potential, it'll fail. [[B in m in s a l in]] Ten seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-17-m0.u220	First of all, thank you for us. It is very rare for us in the Supreme Council that we have a meaningful discussion of the bill because of what we have. It's just, look, I realized that this question is taken into account. But then the question arises. I've just checked that this standard that I'm discussing right now is that I'm proposing to exclude parts of the seventh, eighth, part of the article altogether.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-17-m0.u221	Ten seconds complete. Next is your amendment, People's Deputy Levchenko, 896. Please, the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-17-m0.u222	I'd like to finish with the last question. The point is that this rule, even though it has to be meaningless, if, in fact, bankruptcy only begins, it has somehow been transferred. They left her, they didn't clean her up. She was simply transferred to another book, in effect, another article. And that's why you're still looking at this question, because it's against logic. If you're cleaning up the possibility of initiating bankruptcy to someone other than the debtor's claim, then this rule about this "borrower is obliged to apply to the court of agriculture for opening conduct." And yet, as it's written down, it doesn't make any sense, actually. That's why we're gonna have to clean it up. This is about the previous amendment. About 896. Article 128 of chapter II of the two bills needs to be amended in connection with the amendment, whereby bankruptcy can be initiated on the basis of the debtor’s claim — again the same. Thus, the rules on the submission of a claim to court by creditors have lost their legal and substantive value, since a person will decide for himself whether to declare himself bankrupt or not. That's what I just said about the last amendment. These rules about being brought to court, they don't make sense, they don't really need to, in fact, if it's just an application.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-17-m0.u223	Thank you. Please vote on amendment 896 of the People's Deputy Levchenka. [[12:56:35]] For-24 The correction is being rejected. The next amendment is 902, Victoria the Bird. Don't insist. Igor Alexeyev, 905. Please, 905 revisions.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-17-m0.u224	Please set up a 905 confirmation check. I see that 906 amendments are identical to those of colleagues, so that's actually the consolidated position of many initiators of the bill on removing and changing the accounting of rebuttals to other articles of this code.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-17-m0.u225	Thank you for your clarification. Please, I'm putting to the vote 905 amendment of Deputy Alexeieva. Please make up your mind. [[12:57:35]] For-27 Correction not counted. 906th, Pavel Rizanenko. Is he insisting? Please, the microphone. It's identical to 906.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-17-m0.u226	Yes, a similar amendment, just a group of authors propose to put the vote to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-17-m0.u227	Please identify 906th, identical, correction. [[12:58:06]] For-21 Correction not counted. 914 Ostrikova. You insist. A microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-17-m0.u228	The 914 amendment, which is rejected by the committee, expands the list of data added to the debtor's claim to open bankruptcy proceedings, which adds not only to the debtor's description of the property, as it is now stipulated, which belongs to the right of ownership of the debtor, but also to information on intellectual property rights belonging to the debtor and may be evaluated in the monetary equivalent: the patent for invention, the useful model, the know-how, the industrial model, the rights to topography of the integral micro-scheme, the variety of plants, the brand or commercial appointment, copyright, and so on. These objects may also be of value and may accordingly be included in the debtor’s assets to repay his debts. So we don't understand the logic of the committee why the committee rejected the amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-17-m0.u229	Please comment.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-17-m0.u230	Dear Mrs. Ostrovkova, according to the Civil Code, intellectual property rights are treated in the same way as property, that is, we see no point in duplicating this list. All you've listed, according to the Civil Code, is property. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-17-m0.u231	I'd like to make a decision on 914 amendments. [[12:59:49]] For-25 95 - not accepted. 25, sorry, 25. The amendment is not accepted. 915 revisions. Also Ostrich's, please, word.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-17-m0.u232	Mr. Chairman of the Committee, I agree with you that, according to the Civil Code, property includes intangible rights, more specifically property rights. But the big question is about intellectual and industrial property. And it seems to me that there would be no discussion at the level of implementation of this law, it would be appropriate to put who to whom and write, "including, in support of your logic, objects of intellectual and industrial property rights." As for the 915 amendments, it is derived from 914, which provides that copies of documents confirming the debtor's ownership of property and documents confirming the debtor's ownership of intellectual property rights are added to the debtor's claim to open bankruptcy proceedings. And it would also be appropriate for an arbitrator not to look for where these documents are, and they weren't actually hidden from this mass.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-17-m0.u233	Thank you. Please identify 915 amendments. [[13:01:19]] For-30 The correction is being rejected. Next up, 924th, Alexey's National MP. He doesn't insist on it. Then there was a series of amendments to the People's Deputy Levchenka. 923rd. Please, Victoria the Bird. 923rd. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-17-m0.u234	929.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-17-m0.u235	929. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-17-m0.u236	I insist on this amendment. The article, which was approved by the committee, says that along with the application for insolvency, the debtor is obliged to make proposals for debt restructuring. By my amendment, I propose that this obligation be excluded. Of course, if the debtor was unable to manage his assets in order to settle his debt, what restructuring plan might be involved. And it seems completely illogical to say and ask a natural person to submit an effective restructuring plan, actually, of debt. So it's just going to burden the borrower. We offer this obligation to clean up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-17-m0.u237	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I ask you to determine for amendment 929 of the Ptashnik People's Deputies. [[13:02:52]] For-29 The correction is being rejected. Next up is 946th, Levchenka. [[B in m in s a l in]] Okay, please, 946th and 949th.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-17-m0.u238	I'd like (Levchenko, Freedom, 223, Kiev) to make two amendments, they're all about the same question. Now, look, this is again about opening up a bankruptcy case on a creditor's claim, isn't it? According to the debtor, solely on the debtor's claim. You said you took that question into consideration, didn't you? But you're going to leave this one again as the basis you're going to leave it behind, because you don't consider my amendment. Norm says that the borrower has certain things to do under the condition that he claims to open a bankruptcy case by the creditor. Then it is said that the absence of a response to an application for bankruptcy does not prevent the debtor from pursuing bankruptcy. And that's exactly what the creditor said, yes. So once again, if you leave only the mechanism to open up the proper conduct in the bankruptcy case solely on the basis of the debtor's claim, yes, not the creditor, then you have to clear that rule. Because it turns out that you seem to be satisfying there, inserting that.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-17-m0.u239	15 seconds to complete.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-17-m0.u240	Yeah, I'm two corrections, so please. So you're supposed to be above the text, you're satisfying the question that bankruptcy starts solely with the debtor's claim, yes, and you're confirming that you're satisfied. But here's the rule that bankruptcy can start at the creditor's claim already. And the debtor.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-17-m0.u241	Thank you for your clarification. I'd like to make a decision on 946 amendments. [[13:04:51]] For-21 And next, Pan Levchenko sounded 949. I'd like to make a statement. [[13:05:11]] For-19 Corrections are being rejected. A fellow birdcatcher named Victoria made an alternative absolute amendment to the same article: 947th and 950th. I'm asking you to turn on her microphone. Please, Mrs. Victoria.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-17-m0.u242	Thank you. I insist on the 931st amendment, which suggests that the debtor is a natural person who submits an appropriate application to the court, should not only provide information about his property status, but also about the property status of his relatives. The purpose of this amendment is to avoid situations where the borrower considers himself to be a poor person and will simply transfer all assets to his or her relatives. The absence of an audit of the debtor’s relatives may result in the debtor’s efforts to avoid payment of debts, to declare himself bankrupt in order to avoid liability, not to pay off debts. At the same time, he will be able to transfer all his belongings to his relatives and preserve them. So I propose to support Amendment 931.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-17-m0.u243	Thank you, colleagues. I'd like you to decide on 931 amendments. And if I understand correctly, then Mrs. Victoria on 50th and 47th. Don't insist. I heard, 45th, 45th. [[13:06:34]] For-23 931 is going down. 23-yes. And the next one is 945. A bird, please, a microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-17-m0.u244	Dear colleagues, I, as a number of national deputies, have proposed in this bill to provide for at the legislative level for the creation of the Single Register of Natural Persons for which bankruptcy has been openly conducted and for those individuals who have been declared bankrupt. The purpose of this proposal was to provide potential creditors with the opportunity to learn about this conditional history of bankruptcy of their future counterparty, because if we introduce a body of bankruptcy of a natural person, it's obvious that creditors have the potential to understand that a particular individual was once declared bankrupt, and in the future, to avoid the issue of additional loans, to issue additional loans to a person who acquires these loans, then goes straight to the court, declares himself bankrupt, and then again turns to banks and gets the same loans again. So as a number of national deputies, I think it's important to have such a register. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-17-m0.u245	May I have your comment, please?
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-17-m0.u246	Dear Victoria, well, you know, it says in the right hand hand that the acceptance of a statement of discovery in the case is the basis for the submission of information. We're on the committee, I don't remember if you've been involved, but what we've learned. That acceptance of a statement of initiation may not yet give rise to adverse consequences for the debtor in order to be entered into a register, for one reason: since the court may refuse to open the application. So it's just your idea, it's good, but it's premature at this stage of acceptance. When they admit it, no questions asked, you're absolutely right. [[B in m in s a l in]] Your amendment doesn't say that. No, you're saying, "received acceptance of a statement of discovery." She'll be in the register.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-17-m0.u247	Thank you. Dear colleagues, please identify 945 amendments. I'm asking for 945 amendments. We have no debate, just an explanation of the amendment, a comment by the committee head, and a vote. [[13:09:03]] For 20 The correction is being rejected. And as I understand it, 47th and 50th, Victoria doesn't insist, because Lechchenka has already been voted down and they've been rejected. Next up is 954, Levechenko. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-17-m0.u248	Lewchenko, Freedom, 223 District, Kiev City. The bill says that the court of commerce has the right to have parties worried about the bankruptcy of the borrower or at the initiative of the borrower - here's the attention! – or take steps to ensure that creditors are required by their initiative. This rule, which is proposed, gives the court wide scope of authority, since it is a violation by the court itself of the question of the use of measures to ensure that creditors are required. I think that initiating measures to secure creditors' claims is an exclusive right of creditors. Like, for example, the right of creditors to apply, there is the right of creditors to apply to the court for bankruptcy. The court cannot decide and assess for creditors the risks of executing or defaulting creditors by the borrower. In view of the foregoing, I consider it appropriate to exclude the provision regarding the use of measures to ensure that creditors are required by the court on the basis of their initiative. That is, the court should not have the opportunity without having the creditors make a proper appeal to their own discretion to decide such a matter. This should be solely for the parties involved in the bankruptcy of the borrower. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-17-m0.u249	Please, Mr. Ivanchuk, comment.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-17-m0.u250	It's very comfortable for me, Mr. Yuri, to communicate with you. You say the right things. But when we changed logic, and we told you that we responded to your proposal: only on the basis of a statement of a natural person, there are no creditors at all at the time of the opening of the case, so we gave the court the right, when he thought, to take his own initiative. They're just not like the side at this point of discovery. Ruslan, am I right?
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-17-m0.u251	I'd like to make a determination for the 954 amendment, please. [[13:11:11]] For-19 The correction is being rejected. Next up is 957, Levechenko. Are you insisting? Please, Mr. Levchenko microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-17-m0.u252	Again, it's a little bit different. This is about what I said about the previous amendment: it was about securing creditors' demands. Yes, securing creditors' claims can only be a matter of concern to creditors eventually, creditors will, they will appear properly in the introduction, they will, I actually talked about it. And it's absurd when the court is given the opportunity to decide without the very trouble of the creditors to meet their own demands, well, it's kind of ridiculous. This is about the previous amendment. This amendment is also, in principle, relevant to this, because I believe that part of the fourth part of article 130 of chapter III of the Second Bill after the words "the Lord's Court" should be supplemented by the words "the reasoned party's concern about the bankruptcy of the debtor" because the court is not authorized by the Constitution of Ukraine to make such a decision. It goes on to say, again, that the first reading says that measures to ensure the conditions of creditors are in place prior to the closure of the case, the court has the right to cancel or amend the measures to ensure that creditors are provided with the conditions to which they are subject. So he has to have that right because of the party's motivation for bankruptcy, not just his own judgment.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-17-m0.u253	Please comment.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-17-m0.u254	Here, Mr. Yuri, a surprise, you've been criticizing me for so long, and I'll let you know. We just removed this part as a whole, but here's what you said, they're in the third book, we were regulating the bankruptcy of legal persons. I'm going to go up to you and show you where this is clearly, as you wrote in the amendment, and it's written. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-17-m0.u255	Do you want to vote or not?
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-17-m0.u256	You don't have to.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-17-m0.u257	Please, 957 revisions, identify yourself. [[13:13:12]] For-29 29-yes. The correction is being rejected. Next up is 977th, 978th, Bird and Levechenko. Please, the word "Birds." The word Lewchenko, then the Birdman, and then the vote. [[B in m in s a l in]] 977 revisions. She's 978, I can't go forward with the first 977.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-17-m0.u258	Then give it to the Bird.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-17-m0.u259	I've already announced your amendment, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-17-m0.u260	That's it, thank you. Thank you. Lewchenko, Freedom, 223 District, Kiev City. See, once again, my amendment refers to the question that is revealed solely by the debtor’s claim, but I understand that this question has been resolved in another book. That's why I'm addressing the committee head, look, I'm sorry, I understand that now you're basically acting, right, you're allowing discussion, okay, you're not breaking up. But from a technical point of view, there's a total mess coming out here for two reasons. First, if these amendments were even included in another book, then you would have to write in the table, "amendment counted." And on all of these amendments, the table says it's rejected. And it turns out that on the amendment it's written -- it's rejected, on the one hand, and on the other hand, there's no full text of the bill on the Supreme Council website. So, I'm sorry, how am I supposed to prepare for this discussion, if I look at mine, I look at my amendment, and it says it's rejected? And so I insist on it because it's the right thing to do, and then you say from the rostrum that it's actually accounted for, just elsewhere, and what it is.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-17-m0.u261	Please, it's Bird, because it's the same amendment, and then your comment. Please, Mrs. Bird.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-17-m0.u262	I actually have a slightly different amendment. At first I wanted to say that my corrections, on the contrary, are most indicated that it is counted, and I thank the committee for this position that it did listen to my position and supported my amendments. But with regard to 978 amendments, there are actually a number of reasons why the court refuses to open the bankruptcy case. One reason is that the creditor’s demands are satisfied with the debtor’s full scope for the preparatory hearing of the court. I propose that this be excluded, for at the preparatory stage of the trial. It is not clear whether the creditors' claims have been met or not. After all, the court had not yet had the opportunity to look into the case, had not yet established all creditors, and had accordingly not checked their requirements. Thus, it is not clear how the court will determine that the debtor has already repaid all debts. So we suggest that we rule out the possibility of a court refusing to open the case for this reason. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-17-m0.u263	Please comment to the committee head.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-17-m0.u264	First. Victoria Juryovno, wrong. We've changed the procedure for opening the lead. Your amendment is not supported. Dear National MP Levchenko, Ivanchuk is not to blame for making adjustments as a subject of the legislative initiative. It's not my fault, you've given the very right things, the committee, and everyone who's worked on the code, everything you've proposed, we've incorporated it into the body of the law. Well, I don't blame you for putting smart things up as a subject of the legislative initiative, you're accusing me of that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-17-m0.u265	I ask you to vote. 977 revisions. I'm 977 first, then 8th. Please vote: 977 amendment. These are amendments to the same article, so we vote in turn. [[13:16:46]] For-25 Levchenka's correction is rejected. 978 repairs, Petty Officer. I'd like to make a statement. Juro, you would have voted for your amendment, and you would have voted for the Bird. [[13:17:07]] For-28 The correction is being rejected. Next is 980, Alexeyev. Don't insist. And then there's 986th, Ostrov. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-17-m0.u266	Dear colleagues, your honor, the head of the committee! You are a very effective committee head, thanks to your hard work on the committee, the following bills have been adopted: privatization, limited liability society. So I'm deeply convinced that you're being very modest right now when you're talking about that I can't do that. You and your committee can do anything, the main thing is desire. And that's why I don't know why you rejected 986 amendments that specify the meaning of the ground when a court refuses to open up a case of bankruptcy of a natural person, that is, if the debtor has a conviction for committing a deliberate crime against property or a crime in the field of economic activity, if such a conviction is, of course, not extinguished or removed in accordance with the law, except for rehabilitated persons. Because that would just secure us from the fictitious debtors, from the fictitious bankruptcys that just want to hide their incomes and not pay off the debts they've earned. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-17-m0.u267	I'd like to make a determination for 986 amendments. [[13:18:39]] For-29 The correction is being rejected. Next up, 988th, Ostrov. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-17-m0.u268	The 988 amendment, which has also been rejected by the committee, unfortunately clarifies the content of the ground when the court refuses to open the case of a person’s bankruptcy case, namely, when the debtor has been subject to administrative incursions over the past year for administrative offences affecting property or administrative offences in the area of financial and entrepreneurial activities. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-17-m0.u269	I'd like to make a determination for 988 amendments.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-17-m0.u270	What about commenting? I am.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-17-m0.u271	So comment on the amendments. And you comment on the committee members and the compliments, and the other deputies are insulted that they are not members of the committee and not a good word. [[13:19:28]] For-27 Correction Rejected The next amendment is 996th, Ptashnik People's Deputy. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-17-m0.u272	I agree with the chairman on what it takes for the committee head to comment on the amendments, and I would very much like to hear his position. So I insist on 996 amendments. This amendment is aimed at fully identifying the debtor’s assets so that he cannot hide his assets from creditors and avoid paying off debts by declaring himself bankrupt. It provides that the court may request information about the debtor's receiving individual licenses to open accounts in banks abroad and making investments abroad or other information to the National Bank about the accounts or investments of the debtor in foreign countries. Editing a project provides some tools to detect the money of the borrower, but these tools are not enough. There can be no consequence of the borrower’s abuse and in general the idea of bankruptcy of individuals, to do so. By making it a means of avoiding payment by the borrower of his debts. So I'm asking you to support this amendment in order to demonstrate the total assets available to the borrower, including abroad.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-17-m0.u273	Please comment, Sir Ivanchuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-17-m0.u274	To clean up the experiment, I urge everyone to support it. Because everything Vika said, we introduced the concept of "neighbors." And indeed, when there is property on close - knit persons, he cannot declare himself bankrupt. All right, Vika, word for word, it is.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-17-m0.u275	Please identify 996 amendments. [[13:21:25]] For-29 The correction is being rejected. The next is 1001 revisions. The People's Deputy Ostrov presented it.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-17-m0.u276	The amendment specifies the list of information that the debtor of a natural person is obliged to provide to the governing restructuring. That is: all property belonging to him on the right of ownership, including property held in mortgages, mortgages, or otherwise burdened, and the location or storage of the property, of all the debtor's accounts available, including the deposit accounts opened in banks and other financial and credit institutions, and the remaining funds on them, contractual liabilities, amounts of debt and the reasons for the debtor's due debt to the debtor and due debtor of the property that he is to claim from foreign illegal ownership. And it is surprising that this amendment is rejected by the committee, for it is clear that the debtor, when referring to the one who is in charge, should provide him with all the information about the amount of property and all his funds, accounts, and liabilities.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-17-m0.u277	Please be determined by amendment 1001. I beg your pardon, Mr. Andrew, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-17-m0.u278	The honourable authors of the amendments, as Mr. Levchenko has said, are like you, Mrs. Ostrovka, it's kind of, you know, miss understanding, because everything you've just listed is completely counted. I accept Mr. Levchenk's remark that we had to write in the tablet not "refused" but "refused". Because I don't know, here is Mr. Ruslan Sidorovich, who represented your faction on the committee, the word for your amendment is in the body of the law. So this is such a misunderstanding, I'm asking for your forgiveness. So it has to be, it's incorrectly spelled "refused" in the table because it had to be written "edited." Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-17-m0.u279	Vote a 1001 amendment, Mrs. Tetjana? Don't vote. Next up, 1007 revisions. Please, Mrs. Ostrovka.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-17-m0.u280	Honorary colleagues, 1007 revisions clarify the consequences of the discovery of the conduct in the case of the insolvency of a person in debt. The project foresees that from the opening of the project, fines and other financial sanctions, as well as a percentage of the debtor’s liabilities, are terminated. The amendment states that the accounting for the default, fine, penny and other financial sanctions, as well as interest on the debtor’s liabilities, is terminated. And that's a perfectly logical norm that comes out of the content of the law and its general philosophy. And I think it's also a mistake, actually it's going to be taken into account in the final edition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-17-m0.u281	The chairman of the committee made it clear that it was included in the final edition, so you do not insist on voting. 1012 revisions. Mrs. Ostrikova.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-17-m0.u282	Dear colleagues, the amendment regulates the procedure for applying a temporary limitation on the right to leave outside Ukraine to the debtor of a natural person. And that's very important. According to the project, an arbitral tribunal or on its own initiative may decide to temporarily ban the debtor without allowing the court to go abroad for a period of bankruptcy. At the same time, the amendment determines that the court, at the request of the debtor of a natural person, may temporarily cancel the temporary limitation of the debtor in the right to leave Ukraine, irrespective of the denial of other participants for important reasons to leave the debtor abroad: a serious illness of the debtor, a member of his family for a documented refusal to carry out medical treatment in Ukraine and recommending the need for treatment abroad; the death or serious illness of the debtor’s relative, who has lived permanently or temporarily abroad under documentary confirmation of the circumstances indicated. So I'm asking you to take this into account, because these are the important living conditions that are present. For which is the beginning.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-17-m0.u283	I've got the position. I'd like to make a statement. Comment, please, Mr. Andrey.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-17-m0.u284	Dear Mrs. Ostrovkova, we have rejected your amendment on the committee for one simple reason. Because we are. 1012. Because we've taken into account the amendment of 1010 Alexeieva, which is Igor, and 1011 Alexeieva, which is Sergei, on this issue. And they just counted, they were before, their corrections, which are the same as yours, we counted, so they rejected yours. Thank you. I don't see the need to vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-17-m0.u285	The explanation is taken into account; we do not vote on this amendment. Next, 1017. Please, Island Mike.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-17-m0.u286	Dear colleagues, the amendment specifies the conditions of the moratorium on the satisfaction of the creditors of the borrower, namely: it is proposed that a moratorium on the fulfilment of creditors’ claims should not be applied only to the inflation index as provided in the bill, nor should the Civil Code rule be applied to the three per cent of the annual amount of the outstanding amount for the period of the moratorium. I also ask that the committee explain the logic he was guided by when he rejected the amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-17-m0.u287	Please explain.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-17-m0.u288	But it's very simple, Tanya, logic: he doesn't give up money anyway. Since we're going to apply the inflation index to him 3 percent, his financial situation won't improve. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-17-m0.u289	Vote 1017. The author does not insist. Logic, simple logic, is heard by the authors of the amendment. 1027. Mrs. Ostrovkova, are you insisting or not? Don't insist. Okay! 1029. Are you insisting? Please, Mrs. Ostrovsky's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-17-m0.u290	Dear Sir, about the previous amendment. So if we're giving an inflation index under the moratorium, so the question is not to make the debtor's financial situation worse, why don't we give the moratorium a standard that owes us 3 percent of the year's debt? You're the one who contradicts your logic. So I ask that the committee return to the previous amendment. The 1029 amendment specifies the requirements that the debtor’s debt restructuring supervisor is obliged to submit to the household court on the basis of the debtor’s accounting data if, during the period of time, such creditors have not applied for the relevant claims, namely, information on payment requirements, copyrights, alimonys, damages caused by unlawful actions, disability or damage to the property of a natural or legal person. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-17-m0.u291	Please proceed with amendment 1029, please, colleagues. [[13:28:50]] For-27 The correction is being rejected. The next one is 1066, National Deputy Ostrovkova. Are you insisting? Please, the microphone. 1066.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-17-m0.u292	Fellow dignitaries, the project foresees that the debt restructuring plan of the debtor is approved by the Master’s Court only after the debt of the debtor is fully repaid in respect of payment of alimony, compensation for damage caused by disability, other damage to the health or death of the individual, payment of insurance contributions to the general government pension or other insurance, if such debt exists. The amendment proposes to expand this list, including debts for wages and the payment of copyright. It is systematically associated with amendment 1029. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-17-m0.u293	Please. Is there gonna be a comment? Please, Mr. Andrey.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-17-m0.u294	It will be. The whole country knows how much I do not like parents who do not fulfill their responsibilities toward children. Nothing new: Ivanchuk is an evil fighter with alimony contractors. All of it.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-17-m0.u295	Please be determined by amendment 1066. [[13:30:12]] For-21 The next amendment is 1072. Mrs. Ostrikova. Don't insist. [[B in m in s a l in]] Please do not distract the chairman of the committee, the head of the committee. 1079, Ostrikava. Are you insisting? No, it's not. Mrs. Ostrikova, are you insisting? 1090 repairs. Please, Mrs. Ostrich's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-17-m0.u296	Dear colleagues! The amendment, 1090, suggests that part five of article 140 of the bill should be supplemented by a paragraph: “The criteria for the importance of changes in the debtor’s assets are defined in the debt restructuring plan”. In part five, it is noted that "in the course of the debt restructuring plan, the debtor must inform creditors included in the debt restructuring plan of the significant changes in its assets, as well as the receiving of loans and loans (including the acquisition of goods in credit) of the introduction of the debt restructuring procedure." Unfortunately, there are no criteria for change. And so we don't know whether this change is significant or not. And with that, you can cheat and not report these creditors. So we demand that at the level of the law there be a clear reference to where the criteria for the importance of change are noted. Because they can be different for each debtor. For you, Mr. Ivanchuk, 100 bracelets is not a significant change, but it can be important to someone.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-17-m0.u297	Thank you. Dear colleagues, please comment to the committee head. Please comment to the committee head on amendment 1090, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-17-m0.u298	I think you're right about the second part of your speech. Mrs. Ostrovkova, I think you're right about the second part of your speech, that it's important to someone or not. But when considering the amendment, the experts of the committee and the expert community made it clear that the importance of change was already defined by Ukrainian legislation. Therefore, we were advised not to duplicate the term in the current code. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-17-m0.u299	Thank you for your clarification. Dear colleagues! I'm asking you to determine for Amendment 1090, please. [[13:33:00]] For-25 The correction is being rejected. The next amendment is 1128. So is the national deputy of Ostrovkova. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-17-m0.u300	Honorary colleagues, amendment 1128 proposes article 146 of Chapter I of the Bill, which reads: "The Lord's Court has the right to exclude from the liquidation of the debtor's property, which, according to the law, may be subject to withdrawal, but is necessary to meet the urgent needs of the debtor and his family or has a particular non-material value for the debtor and his family. A master’s court may exclude from the liquidation of assets that are insolvent, low - value, high - speed, or perishable, and the proceeds of which do not significantly affect the satisfaction of creditors ’ claims at no more than five minimum wages. The list of assets excluded from the composite in accordance with the provisions of this article shall be approved by the court of the household on which the approval is sought." We believe that at the level of law it is necessary to establish the right of certain objects to be removed from the disposal force in order to avoid abuse.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-17-m0.u301	Please explain to the head of the 1128 Corrections Committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-17-m0.u302	Dear Mrs. Ostrovkova, it's very important and it's very correct for you to make this amendment 1128. There was a very difficult discussion with the Association of Banks, with representatives of the World Bank, the IMF, all international organizations, not to mention any other expertise. We believe that. So we took your suggestions and what was in the body of the law. And just like we said in the right column, it's a compromise, and it's one that guarantees the rights of the good and the debtors who can't handle their debts. We counted most of it. Unfortunately, though, we had to find a solution that would provide support in the session room. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-17-m0.u303	Please determine for amendment 1128. [[13:35:32]] For 20 The correction is being rejected. The next is 1131, national deputy. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-17-m0.u304	Eutushka, Fatherland. Andrew Volodymyrovich, well, you can't take everything from the debtor to a penny because he needs something to live and eat at least. So my amendment clearly states that, yes, debt collection from the debtor’s family. There must be at least some minimum subsistence minimum. I therefore propose the first paragraph of article 146, which reads as follows: "The Lord's Court has the right to exclude from the liquidation of the debtor's property, which, according to the legislative acts of Ukraine, may be called upon to collect, but is necessary to meet the urgent needs of the debtor and his family, at the expense of one minimum wage for each member of her family." Since people will need to eat something, they cannot take everything away. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-17-m0.u305	Would you please explain? Please, please. Please comment, 1131 amendment of the People's Deputy. 1131.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-17-m0.u306	Japan, I understand, I'm looking for an answer. Dear national deputy, that's absolutely right. But I want you to pay attention now to article 131 of the fourth part of the book: "Small Debtor in Debt Procedure" and 132 of the article - attention! – "Exclusion of individual assets of the debtor from the liquidation mass." In these two articles, we've written your idea much wider and we don't really leave anyone behind, we don't take anything under the thread, we don't give you the right to take all these things for life. And when you read these two articles, you will be. There's much more of your idea unfolded, you'll be very pleased that it's embossed and even improved, I think, significantly.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-17-m0.u307	The national deputy is so impressed by the committee’s head’s explanation that it does not insist on voting. The next amendment is 1139, National Deputy Ostrovkova. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-17-m0.u308	Dear colleagues! We are very grateful to the head of the committee and to the entire committee that they gave birth to this bill and discussed it with the IMF and the World Bank, and with public finance professionals, and with bank representatives. But we should think of the Ukrainians, as Eutusek’s colleague correctly pointed out, and keep the balance of interests in our legislative work. So you don't have to give everything to the creditors in total, you have to think a little bit about the borrower sometimes, giving some weight to the balance of interests. And that's exactly what 1139 is about, which determines that the original value of the debtor's property, which is included in the liquidation mass, is determined by the controlling implementation. In case there is reasonable doubt as to the underlying realisation of the original property, creditors’ congregations or individual creditors or debtors may sue the household court. This rule of order and the conditions for determining the original value of the debtor's assets today, it turns out that there is no bill, so we're proposing.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-17-m0.u309	Thank you for your clarification. Please comment.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-17-m0.u310	Dear Mrs. Ostrovka, please understand. I am addressing everyone because there are almost ten deputies here who have made an amendment. The procedure for the realisation of property is determined independently of the subject, that is, we are totally equal, a legal person, or a natural person. We've established by this code the general rules for the realisation of bankruptcy property, dot. We can't prescribe, we can't take and prescribe this mechanism, and it's distributed to any kind of debtor, whether it's a natural person, or whether it's legal. It's a code. Read, Mrs. Tetjano, the contents on the six pages of the bill. I assure you, this is the quality of the bill the Ukrainian Parliament has never seen before. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-17-m0.u311	Thank you. I'd like to make 1139 adjustments. [[13:40:35]] For-28 The correction is being rejected. 1140 repairs. Ostrikova, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-17-m0.u312	Mr. Chairman of the Committee, I am deeply convinced that your committee has produced the best examples of legal activity. And you and I are co-authors of the alimony bill, protecting the rights of women and children. And this bill is also drafted in the best traditions of legislation. And that is why, with the aim of improving the quality of the bankruptcy bill in the 1140th Amendment, it is suggested that the executive of the implementation exercise be able to engage in the conduct of the debtor’s property, the individual property items that are subject to sale, the subject of the estimated activity of the owners, and the auctioneers. Because in the actual edition, as you suggest on the committee, you've excluded the evaluators from here, and the evaluators have to be licensed, certified and those who have appropriate powers from the state, not anyone who thinks they're a evaluator. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-17-m0.u313	Please define the 1140th amendment. [[13:42:05]] For-25 The correction is being rejected. The next is 1144, National Deputy Ostrovkova. Don't insist. The next is 1145, National Deputy Rizanenko. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-17-m0.u314	People's MP Rizanenko, 97th constituency. Amendment 1145, of which I am the author, refers to the protection of the rights of debtors in the event of bankruptcy, which, by this amendment, proposes that "in the case of the sale of property belonging to a debtor recognised by bankruptcy, under other conditions, the right to purchase the specified objects belongs to members of his family. In order to ensure the predominant right to acquire property, the arbitrator sends a report of the sale of real estate objects that are the property of the borrower who is declared bankrupt." And so on and so forth. This right provides for the protection of the rights of the debtor and his family members and for the majority of the rights of the debtor. That is, such a mechanism is proposed for legislation. So please, the amendment was rejected by the committee, please vote and support the changes proposed by the amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-17-m0.u315	Thank you. Do you insist on voting?
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-17-m0.u316	Yes, I insist.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-17-m0.u317	1145 Amendment of the People's Deputy. Whoever supports it, please vote. [[13:43:47]] For-31 31-yes. The decision is not made. Next, 1153. Ostrikova, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-17-m0.u318	Dear colleagues! The 1153 amendment, which is unfortunately rejected by the committee, suggests that, on the other hand, the requirements for paying taxes, assemblies and compulsory payments are met not only for taxes and congregations but also for housing and utilities. It is suggested that the payment of debts for residential services is in the second line of satisfaction with the debtor's demands, so that these debts do not accumulate and then we do not have a situation where these debts are taken away from the debtor's apartment and evicted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-17-m0.u319	Thank you. Do you insist on voting? No, it's not. Are you going to comment on Andrew Volodymyrovich?
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-17-m0.u320	No, it's not.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-17-m0.u321	Oh, no? What about communication? Thank you. 1154th. Don't insist. 1155. 1157. He insists. Please, Ostrikak.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-17-m0.u322	Dear colleagues! The amendment proposes the following paragraph in the second part of article 148 of the bill: "The forces of each subsequent queue shall be satisfied to the extent that the proceeds of the sale of the property of the bankruptcy are incurred after the full satisfaction of the requirements of the previous queue, in addition to the requirements of the creditors of the liabilities secured by the mortgage of the property of the natural person who are satisfied with the mortgage property in an orderly manner. In the event of a lack of funds received from the sale of the bankruptcy property, the requirement is met in proportion to the amount of the requirements that each creditor owes to one queue." Instead, today we are asked in the bill to state that the requirements of the creditors of one queue are met in order of the calendar order of their emergence. And we don't think it fully reflects the purpose and philosophy of the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-17-m0.u323	Are you insisting on the 1157th vote? Yes. So I'm voting on amendment 1157. The committee turned her down. Whoever supports it, please vote. [[13:46:20]] For-30 The decision is not taken. 1160. 1161. 1161. Please, Tetjana Ostrova. 1161.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-17-m0.u324	Dear colleagues! 1161 The amendment proposes article 148 of the bill to supplement part of the eighth sentence: “The assets concealment by the borrower or the alienation and disposal by the debtor of the property in breach of the order provided for in this Code, which were not established during the course of the bankruptcy case, but were not and could not be known to the managing party, creditors in the bankruptcy case, is the basis for reviewing the approval for the completion of the debt repayment procedure and the closure of the bankruptcy case under the newly declared circumstances.” It continues to be recognized where and how a request for review of the acceptance of the completion of the procedure, repayment of the debtor’s debts, can be made. And it seems to us that it is a vital tool that must be provided for in the codex. Because we are aware that debtors can abuse their rights and use the institution of bankruptcy to avoid liability by concealing property, and we must provide. Lay down in law a review mechanism adopted on the completion of bankruptcy in case it is proven that property was, indeed.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-17-m0.u325	Do you insist on voting? I'm voting on amendment 1161. The committee turned her down. Whoever supports this amendment, please vote. [[13:48:02]] For-24 The decision is not taken. 1166. Aunt Ostrikova, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-17-m0.u326	Dear colleagues, today's text of the bill tells us that the decision to enter into a peace agreement is made by the borrower and creditors who owe more than 50 percent of the debtor's demands. Instead, we propose that part of article 149 of the draft be supplemented by the following sentence: "The size of the satisfied creditors who voted against the peace agreement will not be less in accordance with the terms of the peace agreement, the application of which the debtor submits to the household court, than the extent of the requirements that would be met if the debtor was declared bankrupt and the procedure for the repayment of the debtor's debts in accordance with the order set out in the Code." These are the guarantees of the rights of those creditors who voted against the conclusion of the peace agreement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-17-m0.u327	Thank you. I'm betting on the 1166 vote. The committee turned her down. Anyone who supports it, please vote. [[13:49:13]] For-21 The decision is not taken. 1167. 1168. 1169. 1170. 1172. 1173. 1174. 1176. 1177. 1178. 1186th, 87th, 89th. 1190. Aunt Ostrikova. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-17-m0.u328	Dear colleagues, today the bill contains such a standard that for five years after a person is declared bankrupt, this person should note this fact that he has been declared bankrupt when he is registered as an entrepreneur. Instead, we propose to extend this standard and to determine that during the specified period, a natural person declared bankrupt cannot engage in independent professional activity as an arbitrage controlling private performer. This rule does not apply to a natural person who has paid off all debts in the order provided for in the Code. And it seems to us that it is very important that a person who has brought himself to such a financial failure does not pursue the realisation of property, financial matters, or provide similar services to others without leading them to bankruptcy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-17-m0.u329	And the committee doesn't seem that way. The committee rejected the amendment. And I'm putting to the vote 1190 amendments. Whoever supports it, please vote. [[13:51:07]] For-23 The decision is not taken. 1199. 1202. 1199, Tetjana Ostrova.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-17-m0.u330	This is a related amendment, fellow Members of State, which also refers to the prohibition and restrictions on a natural person who has been declared bankrupt, in particular we propose that "for 5 years after the recognition of a natural person by bankruptcy, such person has no right to be part of the governing body, government or council of a legal person who is legally a member of the financial institution, to assume the office of a public executioner, the office of a public body on bankruptcy issues, as well as the management of public authorities, local self-government, whose duties relate to the administration and management of public finances." And I think, colleagues, you shouldn't even explain the contents of this amendment. If a person fails to cope with his or her debts and finances, how can he manage the finances of the State or other individuals or entities? I didn’t understand the logic of the committee when I rejected the amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-17-m0.u331	Thank you. I'm betting on the 1199 vote, and the committee rejected it. Whoever supports this amendment, please vote. [[13:52:33]] For-31 The decision is not taken. 1191, Rizanenko. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-17-m0.u332	People's MP Rizanenko. Amendment 1192 proposed deleting the second part of the fourth article of article 152. It wasn't counted, and I insist that the hall vote on it and take it into account.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-17-m0.u333	I have 1192 counted.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-17-m0.u334	Totally.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-17-m0.u335	I'm sorry. I'm taking down the question.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-17-m0.u336	It's coming off. Okay. Thank you. 1202. 1206. 1209.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-17-m0.u337	1205 at first!
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-17-m0.u338	First 1205 – Ruslan and then 1206 – Levchenko. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-17-m0.u339	Honorable colleagues and respected viewers and listeners who are watching over this very important bill. At the time he was preparing, there were a lot of scarecrows that really didn't fit the reality or were partially taken into account in the drafting of the bill. So I think it's necessary to publicly state now that 153 articles of the bill on. The bankruptcy code, which referred to the specificities of applying bankruptcy procedures to a natural person in the event of his death, applied to a hereditary mass that had a creditor's obligation, as a result of that broad discussion, that procedure was excluded, and would not be excluded in Ukrainian legislation today. So if you hear the scarecrows that you're going to be responsible for your debts and after your death, the honourable citizens, it's totally not true. Please don't put it to the vote. I just wanted to explain.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-17-m0.u340	Thank you. 1206. Lechenko. Turn on the microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-17-m0.u341	Thank you. Lewchenko, Freedom, 223 District, Kiev City. Well, my amendment is about that question that Mr. Sidorovich just raised about what happens after the debtor's death. Yeah? Taking into account that, indeed, this issue was essentially excluded from the bill and resolved (at least so stated, although let's see what's ultimately going to happen), I think we should. It's important to clarify the moment and what happens if the debtor's death occurs after the bankruptcy case is discovered. I mean, I would like to add that "in the event of the death of the debtor following the opening of a bankruptcy case, the insolvency court decides to close the bankruptcy case and decides on the discharge of the debtor, the person of the debt." It is written that my correction is rejected. If she's listed somewhere else, I'll be after. Maybe it is, but I think it's a very important point to make it clear that if the debtor dies after the discovery of the proper conduct, then the court is obliged to approve the appropriate decision to exempt the borrower from debt.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-17-m0.u342	Please, Andrew Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-17-m0.u343	No, Juro, it's a slightly different situation. We didn't count it elsewhere, but it was just different. The Civil Code, it clearly states that the moment of death is a moment of cessation of any obligation. And it closes, it doesn't close, the Civil Code is the law. I'll give you tomorrow's help if it's necessary that death ceases any obligation. That's why we're in the Bankruptcy Code this amendment, we haven't prescribed it, but that's how it works in Ukrainian legislation right now.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-17-m0.u344	You insist on voting, don't you? I'm voting on amendment 1206. Who turned her down. The committee turned her down. Whoever supports this, I ask you to vote. [[13:56:52]] For-24 The voices are divided, the decisions are not made. 1209th, 1210th, 1211th, 1215th, 16th, 17th. 17. Dove, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-17-m0.u345	We've already moved on to the End Positions. And I think there was a pretty active discussion here on the committee, and when we were looking at our revisions. I don't really understand what this 1217 of mine and the identical was given by Mr. Demczak, in 1218, the committee did reject.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-17-m0.u346	You insist on voting on these orders, both of you, right? Then I put it to the vote first in 1217, and the committee rejected it. Anyone who supports it, please vote. Vote. [[13:58:13]] For-21 The decision is not made. And 1218 was rejected by the committee. Whoever supports it, please vote. [[13:58:33]] For-22. The decision is not made. My colleagues, we have too many rights left, so I'm going to continue the meeting for 10 minutes. I'm asking you to work on us tomorrow. Colleagues, well, we'll be working tomorrow afternoon, 10 minutes literally, a few minutes. Maybe faster. I'll take a look. Come on. All right, five minutes. Do we have a deal? Five minutes. Let's go. 2019. 20th. 21st. 22nd. 23rd. 37th. 38th.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-17-m0.u347	24th, please, Ruslan and then.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-17-m0.u348	And then 34th.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-17-m0.u349	Ruslan Sidorovich, Self Help Union. The point is, even though the amendment is counted, I'm not going to ask her to put it to a vote, but it's very important that it sounds public right now. Amendments to article 520 of the Civil Code were proposed in part to allow for the actual transfer of debt to another person without the consent of the creditor. In fact, this is a nonsensus in the doctrine of civil law, and that is why I am grateful to the committee that took my amendment into account and did not allow the debtor to be replaced without a change of creditor. Please don't put it to the vote, but I just wanted to state publicly to the entire legal world that the doctrine of civil law will not be destroyed by this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-17-m0.u350	Thank you. You don't insist on voting, so I'm giving you my word now. 1234 repairs, Levechenko. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-17-m0.u351	Lewchenko, Freedom, 223 District, Kiev City. It's written that it's partially counted. It's not really counted, it's an amendment. The point is that in the change to the GCC, it is proposed to create an automated cost arrest system to ensure that the money that is held in the debtor's bank account is taken into account. In fact, the judge is relying on the exercise of an inequity function that is not in line with the functional appointment of the court on which the Ukrainian Constitution imposes justice. 124th article of the Constitution. At the same time, a judge cannot rely on the obligation to manage the costs of third parties. Attention should also be paid to the non-conformity of the provisions of this article with the new part of article 8 of the Ukrainian Act on Enforcement, where information on the arrest of funds is submitted by the State's executioner to the system of automated detention of funds. It would be more effective not to impose on the courts the obligation to provide information on the removals of the claim and the system of automated arrest of funds to be made in accordance with this project, but to ensure the exchange of the necessary information on the system with the Single State Register of Judicial Decisions. Individually, it should be noted that it is inappropriate to place a claim on an automated cost arrest system alone.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-17-m0.u352	20 seconds to complete.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-17-m0.u353	In particular, it should be noted that it is not appropriate to place the approval of the system of automated arrest of funds solely on the Ministry of Justice of Ukraine, together with the State Administration of Ukraine, in agreement with the Council of Judges of Ukraine. Yes, connected persons in the process of arresting funds are primarily banks. It is therefore up to the representatives of the banking system, primarily the National Bank of Ukraine, to be involved in the development and approval of the procedure and procedure for the arrest of funds. In view of the above, paragraph 3 of section 2 of the “Ending and Transitional Positions” of the bill is proposed to exclude. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-17-m0.u354	So you're insisting there's a complete accounting? It's partially accounted for. And I'm putting a motion on the vote to make 1234 complete. Whoever supports this position, please vote. [[2:02:05]] For the 15th. The decision is not taken. 1239, 40, 41, 42, 45, 46, 47, 48, 1257. 1255, please, Levechenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-17-m0.u355	Lewchenko, Freedom, 223 District, Kiev City. Well, it's also written that's partially counted. But in fact, the amendment is completely out of the question. And it refers to the same question that I raised in the last amendment. That's the language, that's the change, not to the Code of Conduct, but to the Civil Procedural Code of Ukraine. And once again, it's about the proposal to create an automated cost arrest system that provides for the imposition of arrests on the money that is in the bank accounts of the borrower. And this commitment is offered to the judge and is actually given the opportunity to perform his inequitable functions. This is not in line with the function of the court and violates the Constitution of Ukraine, namely, 124 articles of the Constitution of Ukraine. And that's, frankly, absurd. Therefore, I say that it would be more effective not to rely on the courts to provide information on the approval of a suit to ensure that the system of automated arrest of funds to be established in accordance with this project is provided, but rather to ensure the exchange of information that is simply necessary with the Single State Register of Court Decisions. That's it. So I'm going to suggest that this rule be ruled out again, as it applied to.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-17-m0.u356	Thank you. So I'm betting on a vote of 1255. The author asks her to consider it fully. The committee counted in part. Whoever supports this proposal, please vote. [[14:04:08]] For-19 The decision is not taken. 57th, 59th, 63rd, 66th, 67th, 1273th, 1275th, 1277th, 1283rd, 1288th, 1293th. Uh, 93rd. Fellows, let's make this happen: look, the 1293th -- the Dovebenko -- let's maybe we'll start with it tomorrow and we'll start. Will we go through today? [[B in m in s a l in]] Okay, okay. Please, Doubenko. I'll give it to you later. 1293. Please, Ducky.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-17-m0.u357	Dovbenko, 84 constituency. 1293 revision, mine, it refers to the order of functioning of a systematic arrest of funds that determine the position of an automated cost arrest system. And I'm here to complement this article with the National Bank. I think it's very important for commercial banks. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-17-m0.u358	So this is going to be the final amendment for today. One minute please, Andry Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-17-m0.u359	Well, I'm wrong. Ladies and gentlemen of the people, Mr. Head! I analyzed today's speech by the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Chief Legal Authority. First thing I want to say. Thank you very much to our lawyers at the Apparatus, they have examined this bill very large and made their comments. These remarks, in my opinion, are formed from two parts: those that we really need to include in the body of the law, and I will prepare the materials that I will give to all the national deputies tomorrow before the second reading and in general, I will read them under the transcript; and all the rest, Mr. Head, what is written here, we will take into account in the technical law and when the editors read the bill. So I don't see, from a legal point of view, any problems. But all I'm going to say is, thank you to the lawyers of the Apparatus, we're going to include it in the body of the law tomorrow. Thank you very much. Tomorrow I very much ask everyone to be present so that we can accept.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-17-m0.u360	Thank you, Andry Volodymyrovich. Let's figure out where we're going to end up? Don't you insist on voting? No, it's not. Where are we going to stop?
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-17-m0.u361	1293.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-17-m0.u362	No, we've been through it. 97th.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-17-m0.u363	98th.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-17-m0.u364	98th.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-17-m0.u365	1298.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-17-m0.u366	Tomorrow we start with 1298 revisions, colleagues. I'm asking the committee to study all the warnings that have been made today. And I would like to stress, especially, that if there are any suggestions in the committee's decision that should be made to the text, as you said, it is very important to print them out, give them to the people's deputies, so that they don't take the national MPs for granted, so that we can vote responsibly tomorrow. Tomorrow's gonna be a tough day, a budget day. I wish everyone good work on the committees. And I declare the morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine closed. At 10 a.m., I'm inviting everyone into the conference room to continue our work. So 1298, we start tomorrow. Thank you. Once again, you have fruitful work on the committees. And I'll see you tomorrow.
