ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-19-m0.u1	Good morning! Good morning, dear fellows! Everyone, please come into the hall, take up jobs. Are you ready for your registration? People's deputies please register. [[10:03:55]] 358. The morning plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Today is the birthday of the National Deputy of the Ukraine of Natalia Volodymyrovna Agaphonova. Welcome to your birthday. [[Applause]] And, honourable colleagues, the United States Senate, our colleagues, approved the 19th-year budget for the Pentagon, and it envisioned an increase in Ukraine's security assistance to $250 million. That's 50 million more than last year's budget. In particular, funds are also earmarked for the intelligence support of Ukraine’s armed and security forces. Thank you very much to our allies, to our colleagues and to our thinkers in the United States, to our fellow senators for their support for Ukraine. We all realize that the fight in Ukraine against the Russian aggressor is not just a struggle for the Ukrainian state, it is a fight for the future of the entire free world. Thank our colleagues. So, colleagues, today we have 30 minutes to announce statements, messages and positions of Ukrainian national deputies, stressing not factions, but Ukrainian national deputies. So I ask everyone who intends to participate in the discussion to prepare for the recording. People's deputies please sign up for the speech. Please. Lensky Alexiyyovich gives the floor to Victor Halasyuk. Please, Mr. Victor.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-19-m0.u2	Victor Halasyuk, Oleg Lachka Radical Party. Dear Andrew Volodymyrovich, distinguished colleagues of the national MPs. The 19th-year state budget project, which has been tabled in Parliament, does not respond to the major challenges facing our country -- poverty, deindustrialization, this is a massive multimillion-dollar migration of Ukrainians. Economic growth rates in the budget are 3 percent. They're totally miserable for our country because they won't allow us to break up our well-being with any of our European neighbours, because 3 percent of Ukraine's economic growth on such a low base is nothing. We need at least 7-8, and we have the opportunity to increase by 10 percent per year in the right economic policy. The plans set out in the inflation budget are unrealistic. Every year, inflation is particularly low, and no year can withstand it. Because every citizen in his own pocket feels the price rise, by no means 7 percent. And those projections that are artificially budgeted will only do one thing: justify the policies of the National Bank's expensive resources and continue to make the population poorer and turn them into immigrants. You'll see what's going on in the trains to Europe. People go out on a massive scale, working hands, talent, engineers, entrepreneurs, and it's a national disaster. That level of social standards, which is set in the budget, in no way prevents this. The minimum wage, which is actually projected at 128 euros, is in no way a departure from cheap labour policy, as the authorities suggest. Compare yourself, the minimum wage in Poland is 520 euros, and in 10 years there were 320 euros in Poland. The minimum wage in Turkey is 380 euros, in the Czech Republic is almost 500 euros, in Slovakia is almost 500 euros. That is, with such a breakdown of social standards, with such a disruption of economic efficiency, we will never be able to overcome the mass immigration, poverty, and other problems involved. Therefore, the Radical Party team is proposing a substantial increase in social standards at the same time: a minimum of 5.5-6,000 dollars, and at the same time powerful investment incentives for Ukrainian entrepreneurs, industrialists, cheaper loans, tax preferences, government procurement through the Ukrainian Buy, Pay Ukrainians Act. We need to raise the economy and raise the real income of Ukrainians and the quality of life, then we can overcome immigration.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-19-m0.u3	Thank you. I invite you to speak to the People's Deputy Medunic. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-19-m0.u4	Good afternoon, Ukrainians, honourable deputies. My statement will be on the subject of subsidies. I think, and I think it's not just me, but a lot of my colleagues in the session room who are now asking the government to change the way in which subsidies are accounted for. Currently, Ukrainians are being discriminated against in granting subsidies. Why? Since May 1, this year, a new order has entered into force for the calculation of subsidies. If we were to liberalize the grant process in the 15th year by releasing energy prices in the time of the government of Yatsenuk, we did it in an application way, now we see that the groves are kind of on edge. Maybe that's what it takes for some categories, but we think that for some categories, this nagging is going on too much. This is especially true of those who are in debt on wages. Since May 1, people who are in debt on wages do not properly pay the VAT, they are not entitled to subsidies. From the 1st of May, families that are divorced are usually single women, and raise children, the basis for calculating the subsidy is the income of a man with whom this woman is not alive. That is, not only the alimony he pays, but also the entire income of this man. Accordingly, many of these families of the underprivileged lost their right to subsidies again. Currently, the subsidy does not include those families whose children are either studying or working abroad. That is, the child has left the family for various reasons, is not listed, and now the child is required to provide his or her income support, and they calculate the income of those who do not actually live in the household. I think these three positions are discriminatory. And we've asked the government to make changes to this regulation immediately before the start of the heating season, and the order of things on the basis of the subsidies that existed in April of this year has been restored. And people who don't get their wages for their own good, because we even have debt on some state-owned enterprises. In my district in Suma, in a company called SNOW, where the debt of almost 200 million dollars is owed, the 3,000 600 families that are employed in this company are about to lose their right to a subsidy. What will this lead to? First, debt, social tension. We think that there are possibilities in the government, there are budget allocations for all of these categories that I've mentioned to be fairly subsidized by law. Thank you for supporting those deputies who supported the government’s appeal on this issue.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-19-m0.u5	Thank you. Welcome to the speech of the People's Deputies.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-19-m0.u6	Valeria Zarzko, faction of the Radical Party of Oleg Lašek. Dear Ukrainians, I have here a draft of the Ukrainian State Budget Act 2019. It is very sad to look at it, for somehow it seems that the authorities have not drawn any conclusions from the 2018 budget, which had many problems. The first problem I saw yesterday is the problem with government mines. A total of 1 billion 63 million dollars were allocated to 33 government mines for 2019 to support government mines. This is a huge problem because normal reform requires at least 7 billion. The criminal authorities allocated 15 billion a year to support the coal industry. Now what do we see? We see a lot of miners' protests under the Supreme Council, we see a delay in wages, we see labor migration, miners are going to work around the clock, and nothing is done to save their people to give them work and pay. And the same trend is seen in the 2019 budget. The Radical Party faction led by Oleg Lášk demands an immediate solution to the coal problem in Ukraine, providing Ukrainian miners with normal jobs and wages to keep people working in Ukraine and not have to go abroad to find a better destiny. We demand that the abuse of these people be stopped, that it be introduced by a professional minister, at last, a normal reform of the country's coal sector, so that money can be invested in the modernization of mines, in the development of new lavas, so that people can finally feel confident in their own country and feel supported by it. Question two is the question of treatment abroad for sick Ukrainians. This year, 389 million dollars were allocated. MOH tells us that the money ended in May. Now we see almost a 30-day protest under the MOH of people who are called as anything already called Kremlin agents. And these are the relatives of the seriously ill Ukrainians who demand one -- in such a desperate way, they demand that they give their families and loved ones a chance at life at last. I would like to remind you that it is the duty of the State to provide Ukrainians with timely medical care and quality. And the operations of the heavily ill Ukrainians need to be done if this cannot be done in Ukraine, abroad. The following year, the same amount was allocated to 389 million dollars. We can see that this sum will end in the next May, what will we do with people who call themselves people who are in line for death? The Radical Party faction requires the resignation of the head of the MoH of Ulyana Suprun and the appointment of a normal minister.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-19-m0.u7	30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-19-m0.u8	Who will take care of the health of Ukrainians and know that the lives of Ukrainians are the highest value for the state. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-19-m0.u9	Thank you. Welcome to the speech of the People's Deputy Kulichenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-19-m0.u10	Good morning, colleagues! Good morning, dear Ukrainians! We're already entering, as you can see, with you in the budget process. And I would like to wish all the deputies who are present in this room and those who are just going to take up their jobs, I would like to study this document carefully, at least the part in which you are dealing with it is the State Budget of Ukraine. I did not need much time to analyze the financing of the medical sector in this document. Because almost all medical programs are underfunded by almost 50 to 75 percent, it has been found. This is because on September 14, the health officials of the Ministry of Health declared that health care would be the priority of the 2019 budget. Let's look at these priorities together. The project provides only 23.7 tenths of what is needed for cancer patients, 55.5 percent for cancer patients. This is because there has been no national cancer control program in the country for two years. Let's move on. Only 32.2 percent of the need is available for the purchase of medicines to treat patients with cardiovascular disease. And that's what I want to point out, the first and foremost cause of death of Ukrainians. What's the priority right now? Is it a priority that in many ways only every other patient can receive medical attention? The reason for this underfunding is banally simple: there is not enough money. In fact, there is a shortage of funds for patients who live practically under the walls of the Ministry of Health during the month. At this point, only 3 percent of GDP is in the State Health Budget project. While, according to the World Health Organization, it is not possible to provide quality health care to the population if it is financed at less than 5 percent. So at this very difficult moment, I'm going to the head of the Ministry of Health, to immediately renew the visit to the committee, considering that budgeting for the sector is our shared task and our shared responsibility, and to stand up, and to fight for the budget, we have to fight together. I very much hope that my voice will be heard. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-19-m0.u11	Thank you for the performance. And the National Deputy of Gorbunov is invited to the floor. Please, Your Honor. He's giving the word to his fellow national MP, Bondar. Mr. Mikhailo, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-19-m0.u12	Thank you. Good afternoon, dear fellows! As I continued on the budget for 2019, I, as head of the coal - mining subcommittee, was present a week ago at a gathering of coal miners’ unions in Ukraine. It also raised question number 1 – it is the financing of all coal-related programmes. I have discussed and sent to the leaders of all the factions the figures that are needed for the field to become self-sustainment, at this level that will not require State support, including, and the budget committee has been sent, to the Ministry of Finance has been sent, and to the Ministry of Energy as those who are to stand up for this sector to the government, to the Ministry of Finance. I think that the figures that I've been pointing out there that were discussed with the unions, really, after the restructuring of coal enterprises, in the protection of work, in other articles that need and modernize, including, if they are satisfied, this particular branch will be in 2019, can really show the result when you can go out and work at plus, not in minus. And the second question is that I, as a senior deputy yesterday, also discussed the figures that are budgeted by my 119th district, and this is four districts: Brodivsky, Buzeksky, Kamyanka-Buzki and Radehivsky. Plus in their territory, they have still united territorial communities – Kamyanka-Buzka, Jovtanzi and Zabotci. So I just talked to the managers, it's also a medical subsidy, and an educational subsidy, and a basic grant. I also received letters explaining why these numbers were too low. And he also sent them to the Ministry of Finance and the Committee on Budgets. And I'm going to ask a lot of questions as the head of this ministry and the people's deputies, who are members of the budget committee, to support those letters that I've sent and where I've explained why these figures should be satisfied. Thank you very much and I hope for your cooperation.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-19-m0.u13	Thank you. Please, National Deputy Yuri Odarchenko is invited to speak.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-19-m0.u14	Good afternoon, fellow countrymen, dear Ukrainians! After the Dignity Revolution in 2015, the Yatsenuk government, on demand from the Fatherland Party and other political forces, adopted a regulation that reduced the gas supply standards for those households that did not have counters. The gas supply standards were halved: for those with a single gas plate of 9 had 4.5 cubes, with a column of 18 to 9 cubes. This was done quite objectively because people who have counters say they consume gas at 2-3 cubes, which has only a plate, and at 7-8 cubes -- which has a column. But no matter what, in the 15th year, the Yatzenuk government loses the court to two natural persons who cancel their court order. Dear friends, in the absence of time, I will not comment on how the Cabinet of Ministers of Yatzenuk could have lost the judgment to two individuals, but it did. And the gas supply is back to the old standards, that is, 9 and 18 cubes. In the 16th year, the government of Groysman takes the same determination as the government of Yatsenuk and once again reduces the gas supply rate twice. And at that time, there is the firm position of the Prime Minister and Minister of Fuel and Energy that frauds can't account for people from May 2015 to January 2016. But despite the government’s position, in June 2018, the Herson Fraud began to pay people extra for this gas that they did not consume. In Herson, it's almost 100,000 people. The amount we're talking about is 42 million dollars. And it's very strange that, despite the position of the NCREKP, which prohibited these calculations, despite the Prime Minister's position, despite the fact that the law enforcement authorities have violated the criminal case against the actions of Hersonregiongas, they continue to exhibit these accounts. What is it? This is the most basic mugging of the population here, the poorest and least able to pay, or is it an attempt to violate trust in Ukrainian authority in areas that now touch the Crimea Peninsula and, in fact, the theatre of war? I appeal to the law enforcement agencies, to the NCREKP, to the Antimonopoly Committee to take urgent action against management.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-19-m0.u15	30 seconds. Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-19-m0.u16	Against the actions of Hersonregiongas, which today is trying to rob almost 100,000 people, blackmailing them by not being able to receive subsidies, because Hersonregiongas can put these debts in Social Security. I want to reassure all Hersons, there's a statement by the Minister of Social Policy that this debt will not be taken into account. They may not pay boldly.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-19-m0.u17	Please make the next statement. People's MP Solovay. Please, Mr. Yuri. And your colleague Sugonako will give you the word. Our colleague Sugoniko.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-19-m0.u18	Yuri Solovay, 89 constituency, Gutzulščina, and Pocust. Dear colleagues! Respectable Ukrainian Society! You know, looking at the agenda for today's week, I can also see the issues of social protection, political repression, the protection of journalists, the resolution of the issue of theatre vacations and many other issues that, as far as I'm concerned, are completely dissipating with the challenges and needs that are present in Ukrainian society today. I'm sorry, but we've already learned to print laws like hot pies, but we don't really appreciate whether these laws are needed for Ukrainian society, what effect these laws have on us. Because to my profound conviction, instead of adopting packages every week, tens of laws, we need to stop at a few key global and structural laws that will allow our nation to move forward very quickly. And to my profound conviction, I have repeatedly talked about this from the rostrum of the Supreme Council of Ukraine that these should be structural and systemic economic laws. Unfortunately, in four years, we have not reformed the tax system. The tax law on the capital outlay remains under the dust. Unfortunately, we have never begun to fully privatize the public sector, more than three thousand state-owned enterprises remain state-owned. Regrettably, the Supreme Council has in four years failed to address the issue of the land market and the introduction into circulation of agricultural land, which could be one of the catalysts and drivers of the economic development of our state. Many of my colleagues spoke to me about the lack of money in the budget. And they will never be enough until the biggest article in the state budget is to pay off the pension deficit and fulfil the obligations the State has under the law before today’s pensioners. Therefore, one of the key issues, including the organisation of budgetary legislation, is full pension reform. Not only that pension reform we carried out last year, but also the introduction of a mandatory cumulative pension system, which I have been talking about for several years from the rostrum of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Sadly, yesterday the bill was again included in an impenetrable part of the list. I don't understand this attitude and this attitude towards the order of the day. I think we need to adopt smaller but much better laws in the walls of the Supreme Council. Therefore, I appeal to the Supreme Council’s leadership, to the future plenary, for the next plenary week, to put a mandatory bill of 6677 on the introduction in Ukraine of a mandatory cumulative pension system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-19-m0.u19	And the next performance, please, Mr. Chumak. Welcome to the floor, Mr. Victor.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-19-m0.u20	Victor Chumak, 214 constituency, Kiev, Dniprovsky district Dear colleagues, the Constitution of Ukraine states that Ukraine is a democratic state. But democracy is not only the right of the majority to adopt laws, to establish their rules, procedures, standards, democracy, as the smart people have said, it is first of all a procedure. The Constitution of Ukraine provides that according to the procedure, the Ukrainian Parliament shall work in accordance with the law. The Supreme Council Rules Act. There's this little book right in front of me. Sadly, this is not with our happiness. Unfortunately, the Ukrainian Parliament is constantly destroying both democracy and procedure and parliamentaryism and its own Rules. Because it is stipulated that Parliament can work exclusively within and within the order provided for by this law. Please tell me why you should write in the Constitution that most people make decisions when there are always buttons in Parliament. Then why do you need it, this majority? Why gather this majority when we have every single person who is able to button up and there is nothing for it, no responsibility at all? And Parliament is always making those decisions that are made with a violation, a gross violation of the Rules. Moreover, he sanctifies them. Yesterday's adoption of amendments to the CLTC Act is the same gross violation of the procedure for the adoption of any laws. Recall the appointment of the Attorney General. Recall the law that was passed in Parliament at 9 a.m., at 9:15 a.m., voted in the committee and at 11 a.m. in Parliament, 13 a.m. signed by Paruby, 14 a.m., signed by the President, was published in the newspaper Voice of Ukraine, and then obtained a certificate from Attorney General Yuri Vitaliyovich Lucenko. But it's a crime. It is an abuse of power and an abuse of power. And sooner or later, you will have to answer for that. The same crime was committed yesterday. I don't care how many people there are in CBC: 17, 15, 226 you can write to each other, or 450, you can write to each one member of CBC anyway. But this should be adopted into a law that does not provide for its abolition. That's why I want to tell the citizens of Ukraine. Ladies and gentlemen, if you think that a political crisis was solved yesterday, and Parliament came out of the political corner -- instead, someone had the benefit of doing it. In order to question the legitimacy of this CBC when he sees that he loses any election. And believe me, that's how it's gonna be. That's how they'll make us fools of you again. Because it's here.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-19-m0.u21	Thank you. Next performance. Please, National Deputy Timish. And then there's Wilcule. And that's where we're going to end the block of statements. Please, Rephat Chubarov, give me your word.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-19-m0.u22	Dear Head, colleagues, reverend Ukrainian people! On July 25, the Crimean Declaration was announced in Washington. Despite its tightness, this document is a quintession of the United States’ Crimea policies, and according to Ukraine and Russia. So three main boards, three principles from which the United States will come out. First. No country can change the borders of another country by force. Another principle. Together with allies, partners and the international community, the United States rejects Russia’s attempt to annex Crimea and commits itself to preserving this policy until Ukraine’s territorial integrity is restored. And the third principle. By her actions, Russia acted in a way that was unworthy of a great state, but by its own free will it isolated itself from the international community. So, given these principles of approach to the United States, we are now with you: the President of Ukraine, the Parliament of Ukraine, the Government of Ukraine has from the position of prolonged information and diplomatic defence in the Crimea direction to take direct action towards the maximum mobilisation of its own society and international co-operation in the area of the depopulation of the Crimea. Honorary colleagues, working group of the Ukrainian Constitutional Commission, have prepared draft amendments and additions to the Crimea Constitution, as well as draft Law on the Status of the Crimean Tatar People and draft Law on the Indigenous Peoples in Ukraine. From this rostrum, I urge the President of Ukraine to convene in the coming days a meeting of the Constitutional Commission of Ukraine to consider these draft amendments prepared by the President of Ukraine to the legislation of Ukraine and the Constitution of Ukraine and to refer them to the Supreme Council of Ukraine for urgent consideration. I come from the fact that the Supreme Council in this warehouse, which has one year left to work, has to pass on the following composition such a highly prepared basis for us to restore Crimea and restore state sovereignty over the peninsula. And the last. Dear colleagues, tomorrow.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-19-m0.u23	Please, 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-19-m0.u24	I'd like to remind you all and Ukrainian society that tomorrow is three years from the start of the "Crime Civil Blockage". I want from this rostrum, like then, three years ago, to thank once again all the Ukrainian society, all the activists of this action, the organizers of this action and the Majlis Crimean Tatar people for what.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-19-m0.u25	Thank you. And actually, the closing statement is Paul Constantine. Suggests a word for Vilukulu. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-19-m0.u26	Dear people of Ukraine, before the elections, the authorities are trying to convince us that there is nothing more important there than NATO. We are deliberately distracted by provocative pianists rather than be held accountable to people for raising tariffs, prices, unemployment and economic collapse. Look at the Cabinet Minister's 19th-year-old State Budget project. It says nothing about how to survive tens of millions of people. We're told about the increase in the minimum pension. Three bracelets a day is a raise? Similarly, the minimum wage is $15 a day. Is it a promotion, or is it a bully? This beggarly increase has already been eaten by inflation, eating inflation 100 times. At the same time, the price of gas will be increased, as the Prime Minister has already said, and the number of recipients of subsidies will decrease. The government accepts its final budget because it will go to the history dump in six months. Another violent fact of human abuse. In 2014, the coalition passed a law that deprived the Chernobyl industry of the benefits. On the basis of our application to the Constitutional Court, there are all the signatures of our faction and also my personal, the COP declared this law unconstitutional. This victory took us three years of expertise and hearing. We've been able to recover these benefits: free purchase of drugs, a 50-per-cent discount on quarterly payments and utility services, the limit on maximum monthly compensation to black people, the payments to black people should be paid in full again. We gave the black people the right to use the benefits under all the laws, not to choose one. But here, I want to show you, the answer to my question. Officials who claim that Ukrainians eat a lot refused to finance the recovery of these benefits. In a country where Naftogazu's leadership receives billions of dollars, the authorities can't find the money to pay people's benefits, and that's much less. What can you do? You can't work. You're the only one who can clean up the political field before elections with fair political persecution. We demand that we refinance the benefits and put in order our daily bill 9019, which foresees an increase in the costs of the Chernobyl support program. It's much less than the money that the authorities steal, it spends on the force and on the premium, and on the force that primarily supports this regime. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-19-m0.u27	I would like to invite you to the floor of the First Deputy Head of the Supreme Council, Irina Heratchenko. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-19-m0.u28	Thank you, Your Honor, for this opportunity to contact you. I would like to draw attention to the extremely serious humanitarian challenge, the key humanitarian challenge facing Donbas. It's a mine and mine problem. It is estimated that more than 7,000 miles [7,000 km] of territories affected by Russian aggression are such that they may have explosive objects and require special inspection. And it's also important that those exchange instruments that were in Donetsk and Lugansk stayed in occupied areas. And it's obvious that all of the services involved in civil exchange today need increased attention, including the remodeling and support of our international partners. In fact, today the Supreme Council of Ukraine blamed, owed a very important law, the Civil Exchange Act. And we want to inform you that over the course of the year, a working group worked in the form of a profile committee on security and defence, which drafted the relevant bill on civil exchange, including practices such as Croatia, where a special agency was set up, not only for exchange, but, more importantly, for quality work. Because every civilian and citizen should know that if the state claims that this territory is interchangeable, it means that it is interchangeable, and children can walk there, cattle, animals can be saved there, and agricultural work can be done there. It's really, really important, and it's interesting, and I think it's good information that we've got a couple of MP bills on mine action today. And according to my information, and the government has done what is also right, the bill on civil exchange, because the government has to hold leadership positions here in general. Moreover, our colleagues, our international partners, are looking forward to this law in order to strengthen Ukraine's assistance, technical assistance to resupply our demining structures. And today, another strange situation, but the structures of the Ministry of Internal Affairs, the appropriate civil protection services, are often better equipped than the corresponding structures of the Ministry of Defence, which is also wrong. We have very few machine guns to exchange, and the bomb squads, they actually work on their knees today, exchanging these tens of meters made by explosive objects. I welcome the fact that today in the Supreme Council there will be a bill for the working group, which there are other MPs' bills. I am convinced that we will be able to combine this project into a second reading and make one quality effort to make it work.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-19-m0.u29	30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-19-m0.u30	To adopt a bill that fits better practices. And I also very much want to ask the local authorities to do an important work on marking all those areas, all those fields of all those roads that might have mines, explosive objects to make sure that there's a proper marking and to make sure that Ukrainian children are able to face such a terrible danger. And you and I have until the end of the session to adopt this Civil Exchange Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-19-m0.u31	Thank you, Your Honor. The speeches by the people’s deputies were concluded. But before I go into the agenda, I want to make a message, colleagues. Yesterday, the Supreme Council’s apparatus registered two draft decrees rejecting Law 9090. According to the Rules, the regulatory committee should review these regulations without delay. So I'm assigning a task to the regulatory committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the regulatory committee's office immediately during a 12-hour recess, to convene meetings and consider both submissions that came to the Supreme Council of Ukraine. I would like to point out that the Rules say that it's urgent. So, colleagues, we're moving on to the agenda. And I remind you, the first issue is the draft Law on the Ratification of the Treaty on the Financing of the Danube Transnational Program. The last time we looked at ten ratifications, we just couldn't get there, but the rating vote demonstrated a high level of support for this ratification. And so I ask everyone to participate as much as possible in both the discussion and the adoption of this important ratification. And, colleagues, I'm voting on a motion to consider a reduced procedure. Anyone who supports it, please vote. [[10:46:08]] Z-87 The decision is not taken. We're moving on to a full discussion procedure. And I invite you to take the floor on the draft Law on the Ratification of the Treaty on the Financing of the Danube Transnational Programme of the First Deputy Minister of Regional Development, Construction and Housing of Negoda Viacheslav Antonovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-19-m0.u32	Good afternoon, Mr. Head, distinguished national MPs. The purpose of the bill is to implement internal procedures to become effective under the Treaty on the Financing of the Danube Transnational Programme by ratifying the Agreement by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. By the way, the deal was signed last December. The Danube Transnational Programme is one of the financial instruments of the European Union for the implementation of the European Union Strategy for the Danube Region, which enables Ukrainian partners to receive funding and implement joint projects together with partners from the Danube region. In the event of ratification of the EU agreement, the EU will provide Ukraine with 5 million euros free of charge for projects of the Danube Transnational Programme, which will be selected on a competitive basis on the basis of the general conditions and rules set out in the programme. Please support the adoption of the draft Ukrainian law as a basis and as a whole. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-19-m0.u33	Thank you. Dear Mr. Negoda, stay in the rostrum. Ladies and gentlemen, I ask you to sign up for a report on the bill on the ratification of the Treaty on the Financing of the Danube Transnational Programme. Please sign up. Please, I understand there's a question in Helen Stotnik. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-19-m0.u34	Thank you for being able to ask questions. Olena Sotnik, Self-Help faction. The explanatory note notes that the ratification and implementation of the agreement will not require additional financial costs. At the same time, I'm looking at Appendix 2 and 3, and it makes it clear that Ukraine's contribution is going to be 794,000 euros, almost 800,000 euros. Please indicate how we can properly interpret the information mentioned in the explanatory note, or is Ukraine still carrying additional financial costs?
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-19-m0.u35	Thank you for asking. You know, the practice in the European Union is that any competition for participation in programs and projects takes place on the basis of co-financing. So Ukrainian partners in the form of self-governance bodies there, other organizations that will participate in this competition, of course, have to anticipate the cost of co-financing, and this amount, well, will not be more than 10 percent there. It's a general practice. We had a competition last year in the country, also sectoral support, 655 million dollars, where Ukrainian partners participated, and we have co-financing from 10 to 50 percent. So this is going to be, and it's not government budget money, it's going to be the cost of the participants participating in this competition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-19-m0.u36	Please ask the following question, National Deputy Kaplin.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-19-m0.u37	Please tell the public, for our fellow countrymen and members of the Supreme Council, because, I think, 89 percent or 99 percent of them haven't read these documents, which is what the program provides, what the benefits of the real economy, the external economic partnership, and how much our country receives and how much it spends on the bottom of this program. In order for us to understand for which important document, from the point of view of regional partnership in Europe, we are voting today.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-19-m0.u38	Thank you for asking. The participation, as I have already pointed out, in this programme for Ukrainian partners will open the possibility of funding and implementing joint projects together with partners in the Danube region, and there will be four main priorities for this programme. The first is projects that focus on innovation and social responsibility. The second direction is the environment and cultural responsibility. You know, there are a lot of environmental problems in the Danube River that need to be addressed. I think the authorities, the local authorities, the public will use this program to solve this problem. The third direction is to improve infrastructure connections and energy efficiency. Also, you see, a very interesting and responsible direction in singing.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-19-m0.u39	And the next question, please, is the National Deputy Sugonako.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-19-m0.u40	Thank you. The transnational program is important, perhaps, but I would like to ask a representative of the Cabinet of Ministers a question that is very much concerned about my own substance. Why does the Cabin allow the Railroads to shut down the railway stations? Only now did the Krasnopolska united territorial community start to take the first steps, and closing up the Krasnopila station is essentially death for the united territorial community and death for all those enterprises that work in Krasnopolska.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-19-m0.u41	Thank you for asking, and thank you for actively supporting the formation and development of united territorial communities that are to form the basis for future self - government in Ukraine. I think your question as a parliamentary question will be drawn up in the minutes of today's session. And since this question relates directly to the Ministry of Infrastructure, the Ministry will support your request and we will take control of this issue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-19-m0.u42	Thank you. You may return to your workplace. I invite you to report to the head of the Committee on European Integration, Oxana Jurinec, who is very active in our cross-border cooperation programmes. Mrs. Oksana, may I have your word?
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-19-m0.u43	Good afternoon! Dear Madam Chairman! Dear National Deputies! The Committee on European Integration reviewed the draft Ukrainian Law on the Ratification of the Treaty on the Financing of the Danube Transnational Programme (Registration No. 0196) (from 13.07.2018), introduced by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, and approved the decision to recommend it to the Supreme Council of Ukraine as a whole. The financing agreement for the Danube Transnational Programme was signed on December 7 and 8, 2017 in Brussels and December 15, 2017 in Budapest. The agreement provides the legal basis for financing projects involving Ukrainian partners of 5 million euros on a free basis under the Danube Transnational Programme as a financial instrument for the European Union's strategy for the Danube region. The measures planned for the implementation of the programme include the implementation of cross-border cooperation projects aimed at the socio-economic development of the Ukrainian part of the Danube region, which will contribute to the fulfilment of the commitments set out in the Association Agreement between Ukraine and the European Union. The Danube Transnational Programme is a financial instrument with a defined scope of action and an independent governing body aimed at supporting the integration of politics in the Danube region in selected areas in accordance with European standards: the Common Position Rules, the European Regional Development Fund. The EU's strategy for the Danube region is to integrate policies below EU level, not to duplicate policy integration at EU level and national level in specific areas of activity. Transnational projects are called upon to influence national, regional, local policies and to be a political stimulus to change. With a view to achieving a higher level of territorial integration, a very uneven development of the Danube region, the transnational cooperation programme will play a driver’s role in addressing the general problems and needs of specific policy areas where transnational cooperation can achieve positive results through the development and practical application of policy frameworks, tools, services and foreign investment. I will also point out that the decision of our committee is in line with the conclusion of the Supreme Council's Chief Scientific and Expert Office, which states that the agreement can be ratified. That's why I'm asking you to back me up.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-19-m0.u44	Thank you, Mrs. Oksana. Please remain in the rostrum. Colleagues, I'm asking you to sign up for the interview. Kaplan, we are actively engaged today, please join the questions. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-19-m0.u45	Not today, but always. And not just Kaplan, but our entire Social Democratic and Socialist Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-19-m0.u46	Okay, sorry, always, always. I beg your question, Your Honor, Mr. Capplin.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-19-m0.u47	Thank you. First of all, I would like to thank you, dear colleague, for the meaningful and, above all, constructive systemic work you are doing in this part. Because European integration is primarily the effort of clusters of such integration, of cross-border cooperation, of infrastructure cooperation, of substantive work by all parties. This is what binds us. But at the same time, I would like to ask you to open up to the distinguished national MPs and our fellow citizens, what exactly will be done in this program as part of the social responsibility. And what will a simple Ukrainian get from today’s vote for this important and timely document? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-19-m0.u48	Thank you so much for asking. This is actually an example of where local authorities will be able to join the European Union without special agents, without centralization, and clearly on a certain request and on a given program of what they want to change in their territory. As noted, both social and cultural, economic and environmental are a wide range of topics that the territorial community can benefit from. It's very important that we be with you, because last year there was a separate tape in the budget to co-finance such programs. In fact, for one bracelet that we're going to install from the Ukrainian budget, each of these inhabitants of a particular region, a population point, can get plus 10 bracelets. Believe me, we haven't known such an efficient use of funds. This Danube strategy is the biggest program, because, in fact, until now, and what we are planning to accept for the future are the programmes that will take place after 2020, and today we have the opportunity to join, and here we also have to thank the Ministry of Regional Development, which today is very active in understanding how important it is to involve the European Union's funds, because they are in free form.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-19-m0.u49	Please, the next question. People's deputy Sugonako. There's a right to ask. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-19-m0.u50	Mrs. Oksano, the only thing that can be said for the sake of government and government is some decentralization. In my constituency on the Summit, the most united territorial communities, nine of them, would like you to specify, as specifically, what tools and mechanisms will be involved in the program of the unified territorial communities? What exactly can they get and what specific. Is it normal or is it set in some kind of standard? Is there any instrument for these communities to feel the effect of this law?
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-19-m0.u51	Thank you, because we have the opportunity to remind everyone in this room that just two weeks ago we adopted a bill of 6085 on cross-border cooperation, which includes regional cooperation, where we clearly determine that the 10 Euroregions operating in Ukraine have the same rights and opportunities to participate in such programs. And the situation today is that your territorial communities, which can join in not only in cross-border cooperation, but in the form of Euro-regional cooperation, take the money out of this project. This means that your territorial community, an active youth who can write projects, is being introduced and, according to the previous report, through the Regional Development Fund, there is already a certain practice of one year, as in Ukraine. And today we have the opportunity through this law that you have already passed, through the ratification of this agreement to consolidate this opportunity and to show people that it is they today who determine how, how and how they can realize their potential for development, their region.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-19-m0.u52	Please, Paul Kishkar, your question.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-19-m0.u53	Paul Kishkar, National Movement of Ukraine. In fact, Mrs. Oksano, we fully support such a bill of ratification. And my faster speech or proclamation and attention does not apply, unfortunately, to this law. I have a request to the Minister of Internal Affairs to investigate the glass broken into my assistant, Ruslan Tristansky, tonight. I remind you that such progress on the National Movement is systemic. In particular, threats against members of the People’s Movement in Odessa resulted in the threat of murder, more specifically the assassination of the head of the People’s Movement in the Odessa region. And this matter is not being investigated. Be careful, then, to investigate first the threats that exist so as not to lead to the death of others. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-19-m0.u54	It wasn't a question, it was a lineup. Please, Mrs. Oksana, thank you for your statement, for the thorough report on the Law on the Ratification of the Treaty on the Financing of the Danube Transnational Program. Not all colleagues were able to ask questions. But I am convinced that they will be able to communicate the positions of factions and deputies during the discussion. And then we'll summarize our discussion. Both the P.I. and the committee will have a word to sum it up. Colleagues, I'm asking you to sign up for a discussion and a statement from MP groups and factions right now. Please, Sergey Sobolev, give you the floor to the Fatherland faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-19-m0.u55	Dear colleagues! Our faction will no doubt vote in favour of ratifying this agreement. I think it's the only way to reconcile all the parties who have their interests in the mouth of the Danube. You know the contradictions that existed between the different countries that wanted to send all the goods to their destination. But I think it's under the auspices of the European Union that this agreement will allow for the resolution of these conflict issues. But who will implement this covenant? You know, the analysis of the seaports administration and the attempt to create a similar structure on the basis of river ports shows that there is no greater equipment of the century as an illegal privatization of seaports. At first, a Dutch man was imposed on the director of the seaports. It has been found that this person is directly linked to Russian criminal structures and has a direct registration (Imagine!) security structure in Moscow. Who could register security firms in the Russian Federation today, and more in Moscow? When the equipment failed, a new scheme appeared. And by the way, I've always had questions for Mr. Omelian. Now I've transferred all the materials to the NABU, where the loss, only the loss of one seaport of Berdjansk is worth more than a billion dollars in the two years of the so-called Seaport Administration, when all the docks were rented, and that's where it's based, it turns out, great privatization in Ukraine. And if you add the latest equipment of the Berdian City Council to the transfer of part of the seaport to the area and preparation for privatization in that way, I think we need to keep our ear sharp because it's also being built on river transport. Because at a time when Vadatursky is developing the structure of river real exports to unload Ukrainian roads, at this time the administration, which is parallel to river transport, is, in my opinion, being created for one purpose, a further illegal privatisation of these infrastructures. So when we warn about ratification, who's going to implement it? If this structure of the Seaports Administration, it's not going to do any good. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-19-m0.u56	Thank you. Please welcome Oksana Jurinec. She's transmitting. Great. I'm asking you not to interrupt the presidency. Please take your position, stand for the Peter Dust Block, to present Gregory Timish. Please. I'd like to have a word with you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-19-m0.u57	Good afternoon, dear fellows! Dear Ukrainian people! In fact, this program, called simply in the people of the Danube Strategy, has a broader format and does not apply entirely to the Danube River. We're talking about pool areas that directly relate to rivers that fall into the Danube. So when we want this program to work, and thank you for being finally defined in the government, we could have done it two years ago, we have coordination from the Ministry of Regional Development and Construction, and that's a big plus. Because all the programs that go through the European Union are neighbourhood and partnership programs, other programs, the Eastern Partnership, in the neighbouring countries that border with Ukraine, they happen through ministries that have a first-hand bearing on construction and infrastructure. In this program, we see, on our part, an already appropriate combination of these programs, and it's going to be easier for us to work. According to the Danube Strategy, a big plus to the implementation of this particular strategy has this bill of cross-border cooperation that has recently been adopted. And thank you to all the fellow MPs who took part, directly the Committee on European Integration and all, all the MPs who understand this process. And this program provides huge opportunities for territories, organizations, independent public organizations, councils, as appropriate, to integrate more closely and to integrate more fully into this process. There's a huge project that's related to infrastructure. I think we're not just going to focus attention, and the ministry is going to put these 5 million euros into building those strategically important infrastructure objects right in the Danube, but will return to Zacarpatski, Cherniewsky, Ivano-Frankiv region. And it's a pleasure to hear from the Lviv administration, the district council, and also from the MPs who represent this particular region, who also have a great desire to integrate themselves into this process as a minimum associate, to speak in these programmes. And this is a big plus for these regions that are actually involved in this program. Of course, we're too late for at least four years, at least. But the big plus and big step we took. And I'm hoping that this is the money that will help active communities that want to write projects under this program, and additional as a minimum of 1-2-3 million euros for our newly created OTGs, that will, of course, be a big plus and a big one.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-19-m0.u58	Thank you, Mr. Timish. Please, Sergey Shahov will take the floor. He represents the position of the "will of the people" group.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-19-m0.u59	Sergey Shahov, the political power of Our End. Dear colleagues, we certainly support this ratification. And it's still urgent to rebuild all the engines today. The environmental situation today is catastrophic in our country. And I would like to say thank you to the great and Vadaturas, who today engaged in the construction of the rivers, and so on. But the situation today is tense in the Luhansk region. Today, the mines are being hurled into the Silver Donc, where today the environmental disaster is on the move. And there's no one paying attention. Yesterday was the meeting of all independent trade unions. Mining industries today demand that the Cabinet of Ministers pay attention to the environmental disaster in Luhansk. First. Secondly, to remove Minister Nasalik from his position, which he has already illegally occupied, because he does not pay the salary. Since that moment we've voted with you, on July 13, we voted in favour of a salary of 1.5 billion dollars, and we still haven't paid the salary. Shaktar families walk hand in hand, taking money from neighbors. What kind of a beggarly condition is this branch to today, please say. Today, the Prime Minister is not paying any attention to this situation. I asked him in the Cabinet of Ministers when he would pay the miners a salary. When will things change in our country today, and who will be punished for this situation? I'll tell you what. The miners are demanding that even the head of Lysican coal be removed from the occupied positions, this is Acid Valentine. He's playing "Selidewow" today, and he's already starving in the Ministry, in the coal ministry, in the fuel, right under Nasalika's cabinet, the head of the Selidew Coal trade union. And also the requirement of miners, if not paid today's wages and not paid attention to the environmental disaster in Luhansk, miners will still strike and come to Kiev. Dear colleagues, let us not allow this to happen, and let us pay attention to the coal industry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-19-m0.u60	Thank you, Your Honor. At the same time, I must remind the presiding officer once again that the Rules discussed today by the Ukrainian people's deputies require us to raise the subject of the bill exclusively during the discussion. And now it's not about miners, it's about ratifying the Danube Transnational Funding Agreement. Thank you for understanding. Not all factions have been able to log in. The position of the Radical Party is presented by Victor Halasyuk. And then Mrs. Olena Sotnik introduces the self-help position. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-19-m0.u61	Victor Halasyuk, Oleg Lachka Radical Party. Honorable colleagues certainly need to ratify this agreement. This is 5 million euros in aid under the Danube Transnational Programme. This is a financial instrument of the European Union’s strategy for the Danube region, and Ukrainian regions can benefit from this. But five million euros of aid, first of all, you and I don't have to count on help as such, because it makes it impossible to build a strong and successful economy. We have to rely on our own resources. We need to invest in Ukraine, think about it, $200 billion of US investment in order to align with Poland at this per capita rate. 200 billion U.S. dollars. These funds can only be involved in a radical change in economic policy. That's what the Radical Party team is proposing, led by Oleg Lashk. Because every time they come to our parliament, they bring us big beautiful, beautiful strategic agreements, we support them. But then we look at the results of their execution and we don't see them, we see a half-empty bed of government. I want to ask, for example, the Ministry of Economics. So let's take the U.S. budget for this year and report on its actual execution for midterm. There is a forecast of a frenzy of $28 million for business representations from Ukraine abroad. That is, to help Ukrainian industrialists sell their products in foreign markets. Zero is usage, zero is execution of this program. Next. Establishment of an Expert Credit Agency. You know, it's Oleg Ljashk and I, with our thinkers, the initiative to spend loans on Ukrainian producers, exporters at the same time. 200 million dollars was foreseen in this year’s budget. Where's the Export Credit Agency? Where are the cheap loans for Ukrainian manufacturers? Where Are Foreign Contracts Winned? Where are the payments to Ukrainians and the taxes to the budget? Next. The operation of export institutions is 50 million dollars. I drive factories all over Ukraine asking one question, listen, how much will they drive and do that selfie, do that self-advertising in the Ministry? Instead, let them co-finance the exhibition, let them pay partial certification for Ukrainian manufacturers to win competition in foreign markets, and move on to real work. And this list can be continued. State support for industrial technological innovation is 300 million dollars. Question: "Where did you go to support innovations in the Ukrainian industry?" Zero is your score. And again and again and again and again and again and again and again and
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-19-m0.u62	Thank you. Once again, I stress the rules for discussing the bill that we are currently considering with you. And please, the representative of the Self-Help faction, Olena Sotnik, is invited to the floor. Please, Mrs. Olena.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-19-m0.u63	Thank you, Madam Chairman. I think that the people who are listening to us right now are trying, by listening to your words, to figure out what the real thing is going to be, and what kind of population this decision can help in the future. I want to explain very briefly a simple thing that is of primary importance to citizens. All these loud slogans: European integration, cross-border cooperation, European Union assistance, we're here on our own and we can do it ourselves or we don't need external influence and so on, and so on -- in fact, it's all cover and unwillingness to introduce European rules into Ukraine. Because European rules mean transparency, they mean zero tolerance for corruption, they mean the rule of law, they mean that there are no oligarchs, they're just businessmen, they mean equal pay taxes and so on, and so on. And cross-border cooperation in this case is such a virus, a small virus that starts consumption from different sides and from different regions of Ukraine to infect those, in a good way, populated points of Europeanism. There's another way of doing projects, they're absolutely transparent, they're completely understandable, and people are learning to build Europe in themselves in Ukraine without waiting for any help. That's why I'm asking you not to manipulate me. It's not a gift or an extended arm of the European Union for Ukrainians, it's a completely purposeful self-implementation of European projects that improve people's lives in these specific small regions every day. And so I'm not just asking you to support this ratification, I'm asking you to explain to people what European integration is and why it's important to them first. Because it creates transparency, it creates equal rules and it allows us to actually overcome all the things that in 27 years we couldn't overcome: oligarhat, corruption, and when the law is equal to one another, and for others it doesn't exist. Therefore, I ask you to support this ratification, and in the future Parliament will be more focused. We have a lot of Euro-Integration Bills, which, every time we vote for them, will improve the lives of Ukrainians themselves. So I'm asking Parliament in this sense to be focused, the only one, regardless of your political preferences, because Euro-integration is the only vector that Ukraine can target. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-19-m0.u64	Thank you. Colleagues, I want to go to other groups and factions: have all those who want to join the discussion and present the faction's position? I'm so sure it is. I'm asking you to sign up for the Ukrainian National Deputies. Please. Please welcome Irina Suslov.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-19-m0.u65	Please pass the word to Oksani Jurinec.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-19-m0.u66	Oksana Jurinec, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-19-m0.u67	Thank you very much. My fellow Members, I would like to draw your attention once again to the importance of this bill, which, given decentralization to our regions, we now have to give them both resources and opportunities to act. Today it's a very important process in which you're all involved. You, everyone who came to your district might say today I gave your OTG the opportunity to find these funds in the European Union. And this is the important work that you are doing for the future today. The most active phase of implementation of many cross-border cooperation projects will begin in the 20th year. But before that, we have to accept all of these tools that will allow us to develop today in the territorial communities. Please support, this is very important for us in Ukraine today, under the terms of the Association, not only to adopt laws that can help permanently, but actually those that will involve the community when it is up to every Ukrainian to do what he can for his country today. Having a bright head on his shoulders with a desire to work, he is now able to communicate with European colleagues: how the European Union has changed, how territorial communities have evolved. Because of the strong territorial communities, there will be a strong, independent Ukrainian state. In addition, we have not forgotten that those regions that may have been very disproportionately developed allowing opportunities to be balanced today. Compare the possibilities just because they're active, because they're carefree. And today the ratification of this agreement shows that we are ratifying a number of ratifications in this Parliament that are taking real steps that are a certain program. In addition, I want to go to the Ministry of Infrastructure, write in programs and those Euroregions that may not yet be in the program, but in addition to adding the Lviv area, and other areas that have shown the efficient use of the funds that have become the desired partners today in the European Union that have shown that they can and can raise the funds they are taking. And today, in fact, cooperation between the different capitals of different European countries allows people to show real European integration. For the future it is the return of those who have gone to these countries and are today promoters. And to work together in the following way, these young people can come back and realize that the same projects have the same effect on the territory of their state. I very much ask everyone to understand how important this is today and how much you are today the creators of this future state in the national interest of our country I ask for support.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-19-m0.u68	Thank you. Next statement, please, Mrs. Zarzynko, I invite you to speak.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-19-m0.u69	Valery Zhartko, the Radical Party faction of Oleg Laska. Of course, our faction supports the country's Euro-Integration Course. But I think we need to start with a normal European attitude towards our citizens. There are nearly 30 days under the MOH, a peak of relatives and close - knit Ukrainians who demand normal human treatment of their loved ones and relatives, who are not being followed by the director of the MOH, who are given some discounts. The same notes are given to the deputies. The Radical Party faction, led by Oleg Lashk, demands immediate solutions to these people's problems, requires immediate funding for the treatment of these people abroad, because time is their life, and they no longer have time to wait. Edward Vitoszynski, Jaroslava Salovonczyk, 6-year-old Elijah Nevesely, Oksana Hergalo are waiting for help. We call on all factions to support Bill 8035 in order to find additional funding for the treatment of these people abroad. But in order to do this faster, we demand that the MoH take immediate measures to make the redistribution of funds that are unused from other state programs (and this is what they are) and according to the report of the Court of Auditors there are leftovers in the accounts of foreign clinics that are left over from other patients. Sadly, the MOH does not provide information on the remaining costs and does not redistribute them to other people who are awaiting immediate surgery. The Radical Party faction led by Oleg Lášk also requires the resignation of Uljana Suprun as a person who has failed to cope with medical reform, because every Ukrainian can now feel the quality of this medical reform and his loved ones, and immediately assign a person to this position who will do everything to ensure that Ukrainians receive quality and timely medical care according to European values. We need to do this right now, because people don't have a chance to wait anymore. These people are very sick, and any Ukrainian can be in the same position as these people are now. We strongly urge all factions to provide the necessary support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-19-m0.u70	Dear colleagues, I would like to draw your attention to the following. As chairman of the Rules, I am in grave violation of the Rules when I simply do not turn off the microphone when discussing drafts that have nothing to do with the subject. And if we're really being watched right now by viewers, listeners, the Radio Council, the radio is being broadcast, they're seeing what we're talking about -- coal miners, doctors, or even the Law on the Ratification of the Treaty on the Financing of the Danube Transnational Program. I apologize to all Ukrainians for our gross violation of the Rules. I'm going to have to turn off the microphone as the chairman if we're going to have other topics. And I think all the factions here are supporting me because all the factions have the best, much better experts in the Rules than the Presidium. So once again, please, I ask again, and I ask you all to discuss the subject, the body, the essence, the idea, the ideology of the bill, not the ministers, not the miners. It will be a time and an inspiration. Thank you. And we invite Mr. Kota, who will now give us 100 percent of his position on the bill under discussion.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-19-m0.u71	Dear colleagues, Andrew Keith, Stryshtyn, Jewish, strike group. I'm actually happy that we have this bill on the development strategy of the neck of the Danube, which is actually very positive. And it's very rare for us to look at bills that are specifically aimed at improving the economic situation in entire regions of Ukraine. This bill, which will provide a fundamental one, will enable us, together with the European Union, to finance and fundamentally change infrastructure things in ports in the Throats of the Danube, and will also enable us to develop local communities that have a direct bearing on the Danube River. It is vital that such initiatives are not simply empty words, but that they really be put into practice. And the Supreme Council is an indicator of how important it is in the state to introduce things that enable our young generation to find themselves, to create new jobs and to work in Ukraine. There's a lot to talk about people leaving Ukraine, but this is actually an indicator of how we react to how we feel about partnering and understanding with the European Union, which allows us to create projects here in places that involve many people and jobs. I would very much not like this project on the development of the Danube environment to repeat our mistakes that we have made in cross-border cooperation projects where customs projects have not yet been implemented, where we cannot properly use the funds that the European Union is spending on agricultural issues. So I strongly urge everyone to vote in favour of this project, to vote for our young people to have jobs and to live in Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-19-m0.u72	Thank you. And, please, the People's Deputy Krivenko is invited to the floor. Oh, Solovay, I'm sorry. People's MP Solovay.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-19-m0.u73	Yuri Solovay, 89 constituency, Gutzulščina, and Pocust. Dear Irina Volodymyr, first of all, I would like to fully support you in this statement about the need for strict compliance with the Rules, because we see a lot of people who care about people going to the rostrums, talking about how Ukrainians should live by law, but they themselves violate the law and violate the Ukrainian rules. I think it's the Supreme Council of Ukraine that should be the first to demonstrate the rule of law, if we want this law to work in our country, that's the first. Second, with regard to the bill that we are discussing. Dear colleagues, if we go to Poland, Hungary, any European country, and look at every newly built object in the last ten years, we will definitely find on it a table showing how much money the European Union has provided as a non-refundable financial aid to implement any infrastructure objects. Today, according to some estimates, irreversible financial assistance to the countries of the European Union, especially those that are developing, primarily our neighbours in Ukraine, is more than 50 percent in the implementation of specific infrastructure objects, whether it's a sewerage system, whether it's a football field, or whether it's a lighting system, or whether it's an energy saving system. Unfortunately, Ukraine today does not choose the potential, including through cross-border cooperation with the European Union that it could choose. If we look at that list of projects, based on the international aid that is being implemented and compared to these projects in the European Union, this is an absolute pitfall. This clearly shows that today we are completely underworked in the issue of international technical assistance and cross-border cooperation. This bill is a small step forward. This is about the Danube Strategy, which is one of the biggest programmes of the European Union, 4.2 billion euros for the implementation of this programme. This means that Ukraine receives a small amount free of charge from the European Union, but this is the initial amount of 5 million euros. And of course, I am convinced that there will be no person in this room who would oppose this bill. Therefore, it must be supported. But there is a need for more stringent tasks, including for the government, for executive structures, for local self-government to develop and improve cross-border cooperation programmes, international technical assistance from the European Union. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-19-m0.u74	Thank you. And please give a speech by the People's Deputy Krivenk.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-19-m0.u75	Dear colleagues! Dear viewers! Victor Krivenko, National Movement of Ukraine. Of course, we support this ratification. And it's about the Danube Basin. And I would like to remind you that the Prime Minister, who twice promised me, has been mentioned to Mr. Vadaturssky on several occasions today, and he also has 100 million dollars in his budget for the deepening of Dniper. Perhaps we too should ask the European Union if we cannot carry freight transports that go our way and destroy our roads, we cannot carry them to the river because we cannot do deep - seated work in front of my native Kamyansky. And this is the second year, the second budget period, this promise we're going to find, we're going to decide. And nothing is done. Once again, we're allocating money to repair the roads. The South's all broken up. And in this respect, I turn to the Prime Minister on a regular basis, perhaps either to fulfill my promise or to turn to him, and we have asked the European Union for further assistance for these purposes. And the honourable chairman, I'm sorry, I'm not going to speak on the subject, but this is about the screaming situation that happened at night, and it was broken glass in Ruslan Tristansky's car, Paul Kishkar's assistant. And we also saw these threats in Odessa, which ended in a murder attempt. Three artists are detained. We demand and appeal to the Minister of Internal Affairs, to the head of the Security Service, to investigate and find immediately who has committed this provocation and intimidation against Ruslan Tristansky, who, I recall, was added three days ago to the interim commission of inquiry for the dissolution of the Ministry of Defense, there are many ministers who are claiming to be active and constantly exposing the theft and this period which the machinations and equipment are with the land. So I'm addressing, and I would like you to consider it my official request and my request to the heads of law enforcement to find and punish the perpetrators. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-19-m0.u76	Thank you. Please, the last speech we have is now from the MPs, the People's Deputy Kaplin. He's going to talk about cross-border cooperation. And, colleagues, I think there will be no objection if we give the head of the European Integration Committee three minutes to sum up our discussion. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-19-m0.u77	Dear colleagues, dear fellow countrymen! We today, and it's very, very simple, in general, when we talk about it, we've come to the realization of the knowledge of each of our fellow countrymen, what the Danube Cooperation is, what the Danube Basin is, and how important it is for such cross-border cooperation as part of our European integration goals. If we talk about the balance of our state's interests in this megaproject, at the first stage in this document, we will have access to 5 million euros that we will get irreparably for the organisation and infrastructure of this partnership. At the same time, we will participate in up to 750,000 euros as a shareholder of this project. These are projects and social responsibility, these are infrastructure, environmental security, real-economy projects, mental integration projects for all Danube basin countries and priority for Ukraine in this political, geopolitical environment. I'm sure it's just the first steps, and tomorrow we'll generate new projects, new initiatives. And here the Supreme Council of Ukraine will surely accept other initiatives from our partners, Ukraine, and Ukraine. But at the same time, I would like to stress the need for extremely serious, careful monitoring of every single piece that is given to our country today as an institution of external economic partnership. Each coin should be clearly linked to the goals, methodologies, and tasks involved in such cooperation. Let's think about how a few years ago we got a document, a commitment by the European Bank of Reconstruction and Development to almost $300 million, of which $100 million was made by the Ministry of Social Policy. When I took office as chairman of the Committee on Social Policy, the first thing I started to check was the money that was spent by previous ministers and today’s foreign minister. And I was terrified. And along with me was Valérie Paccan and the entire House of Accounts. We checked how they were spent and saw a large component of corruption, and half of it went to the wind. Imagine, they've been developing sites for $50,000, form sites, common banal sites. We bought software for 11 million euros. And today it is likely that the Attorney General's Office will be in breach of a case against the Minister of Social Policy against his deputies. And that's why we're going to vote his resignation this week. I would like to remind you that the Committee on Social Policy has almost unanimously decided to resign from the Minister of Social Policy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-19-m0.u78	Thank you. I note that, despite all the calls of the Presidium, we still discuss any subject in the course of the speeches, except for the subject of the bill. Dear colleagues, let us sum up our discussion. Please, word, three minutes to the head of the Committee on Euro-Integration of Mary Ionova. That's right, deputy head of the committee. And I very much ask all colleagues to return to the session room, because the consensus on voting for the ratification of this law is essential for the deputies to be in the session room. Please, Mrs. Maria, get out of the way.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-19-m0.u79	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues, the Danube Transnational Program is a continuation of our fruitful cooperation both within our committee and with our European partners. We have adopted such a fundamental bill on transnational cooperation. And of course, these days there is a parliamentary committee of the association, where we have two days with our colleagues from the European Parliament in a fruitful discussion about transnational programmes. And yesterday, yesterday it was Lviv. Today and yesterday it was Franky. So they're in place with their own eyes from the local authorities, from the local communities they're already discussing these transnational programs, and they're already getting results. And that's why the Danube Transnational Program is exactly the kind of financial instrument that will have its own governing body, which is specifically aimed at supporting the integration of politics in the Danube region. I would like to say that these projects, they are extremely important and they are called upon to influence both national and regional policy and local policy and to be such an incentive for very determined reforms. And I urge you to support this ratification. Believe me, for regions that work very well with transnational programs, it's very important because it's infrastructure, it's what people can feel in places and in the near future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-19-m0.u80	Thank you for clarifying the head of the profile committee. Ladies and gentlemen, I ask you to return to the session room of Parliament's coulaires now, because in a moment we will be voting with you on the draft Law on the Ratification of the Treaty on the Financing of the Danube Transnational Program. I want to thank all the factions that have pointed out the importance of this ratification and the support of this ratification. And ask the deputies of these factions to return to the session room. Please, Mr. Viacheslav Negoda, First Deputy Minister for Regional Development, Construction and Housing. You have a minute to sum it up and appeal once again to the government's position with respectable fellow MPs.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-19-m0.u81	Thank you, distinguished national MPs, for this thorough discussion of this bill. Indeed, in the event of adoption, and I believe that we must make this decision today, there are huge opportunities for Ukraine and our partners to cooperate in this Danube basin. I want to remind you that this strategy, it works in the countries of the European Union, and unfortunately we've been observers for the last time, we haven't been able to participate directly in these projects. And with this decision taken, Ukraine will actually be a full participant in the implementation of this agreement, not just a passive observer. It's about control. There's a very detailed analysis of how this is going to happen. First of all, it's defined within Ukraine that this is going to be the Court of Auditors and our auditorium. Maintenance. In addition, I would like to point out that the checks are carried out on two sides, and before any payment by the EU is transferred to a project partner, it should be verified, only after that funded. So this issue was discussed in great detail, and we gave it to him.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-19-m0.u82	Please give me a minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-19-m0.u83	Whether or not to pay the highest attention. And so I think today we're going to make this decision and we're going to open up a really big opportunity for Ukraine to participate in this region. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-19-m0.u84	Thank you. So, colleagues, the discussion is over. I'm asking everyone to come into the hall. Heads of factions, I ask you to invite all the national deputies to the hall. And the Secretary of the Supreme Council, I ask you to invite all the deputies who are in the towers. We're moving on to making a decision. Colleagues, please come into the hall. And I ask from the beds and the government and the guests to return to the hall. And please, colleagues, support everyone's ratification is the state-wide position and international authority of our country. So I ask everyone to prepare for the vote. Please take up your jobs. Fellow factions, heads, look who's gone, and invite us to the hall. So, colleagues, let's move on to making a decision. And I put to the vote the draft Law on the Ratification of the Treaty on the Financing of the Danube Transnational Programme (No. 0196) proposed by the Committee as a basis and as a whole. Please vote, please support, colleagues, every vote, we vote carefully. Please be supportive. Vote, please. [[11:44:28]] For 217 We didn't make it, 217. Please, I'll wait a minute. I'm asking you, colleagues, we're missing a few votes. I'm asking you not to come out of the hall. The decision brought the entire room together. I'll read the factions, please. Peter Poshenko's Block – 81, People's Front – 48, Opposition Block – 16, Self-Help – 14, Radical Party – 11, Father's Party – 10, Will of the People – 1, Rebirth Party – 12, non-fractional – 24. Please don't leave the hall for 30 seconds, please, come into the hall, colleagues, and invite us. I'm asking the factions to examine who's not in the hall right now and invite them to the hall. So we go into the room, we go into the decision-making process. I'll remind you. One more minute, huh? The first vote will be the return, and then there will be a direct vote. Victoria, please. Thus, the first vote: To return to the draft Law on the Ratification of the Agreement (No. 0196). Please support the return. Please vote. I'm asking you to support every voice. Let's vote, colleagues. We're voting back. Please be supportive. We vote carefully and responsibly. [[11:46:37]] For 205 We'll wait. Also, colleagues, I'm asking you to show the factions. Block of Petra Poshenko – 84, National Front – 49, Opposition Block – 1, Self-help – 14, Radical Party – 11, Father's Party – 10, Will of the People – 1, Rebirth Party – 11, non-fractional – 24. Please examine who is not in the hall and invite them to the hall. Please come and take your jobs. I'm asking everyone to mobilize. So, colleagues, once again, the ratification of the Agreement was supported by all factions during the discussion, and there is a need for a number of votes in the room in order for us to be able to accept it. I ask everyone to take up their jobs, and now I'm going to put everyone back on the line and ask everyone to vote. Please take up jobs. So I'm voting on the proposal to go back to the draft Law on the Ratification of the Treaty on the Financing of the Danube Transnational Program (No.0196), the return. Everyone please vote and support the proposal to return to the draft Law 0196. Please vote and please support. Every voice, my friends! Don't debate – vote! Vote. Please be supportive. Vote. [[11:48:37]] For 212 I'll do it again. I see they're coming in. I'll put it back again, colleagues. So, colleagues, I'm asking everyone to stay put. Now the factions have asked for a minute to invite everyone into the hall. I'll ask everyone to stay in their seats, stay out of the hall. Please, just one minute, Negoda. Viacheslav. Please, one minute. Now they've asked the factions for a minute so the MPs can come into the hall. Please, Mistletoe, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-19-m0.u85	Ladies and gentlemen, I ask you once again to support this bill, which opens up great opportunities for the regions of Ukraine, for the territorial communities and in general for Ukraine in the implementation of projects and programmes relating to the Danube region as a whole. I'm stressing once again that we've been taking part in various sessions for a long time, in different committees on this, but our Ukrainian partners actually can't participate in these projects because, on the one hand, we haven't had enough funding, on the other hand, we haven't been able to regulate these projects. In the event that this decision is made this year, starting in October, ours.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-19-m0.u86	30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-19-m0.u87	As of this year, our projects will be able to participate in the implementation of this program. Therefore, I very much ask the national MPs to allow Ukraine and the entire community to participate in this programme. Thank you. And please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-19-m0.u88	Thank you. My colleagues, once again, during the first vote, we had the full support of all the factions. And I would like to emphasize once again: Block of Peter Poshenko – 81, National Front – 48, Opposition Block – 16, Self-help – 14, Radical Party Lachka – 11, Fatherland – 10, Will of the People – 1, Rebirth – 12, non-fractional – 24. Now we just need to mobilize and support this bill. So, colleagues. So go into the hall, please come back, come back, please, we count each voice. So the first vote will be for the return to the draft law, and then we will vote in favour of the bill itself. So I am voting on the proposal to go back to voting for the draft Law on the Ratification of the Treaty on the Financing of the Danube Transnational Programme (No. 0196). And I'm asking you to support the offer to return. And every voice, colleagues, carefully every vote I ask you to vote and I ask you to support, we vote with care, we vote with responsibility, we vote. Please be supportive. [[11:52:32]] For 219 My colleagues, I'll try again. Look who's gone. Please, I've put you back on the line, as you recommended. Colleagues, there are few votes missing. I'm asking everyone to come into the hall. And now I'm going to put it back. This is an international agreement, I'm sure there can be no political contradiction here. So please prepare for the vote. Don't come out, boys! So let's do it again. We're waiting, okay. Is that right? Let's go. Come in, have a seat, please. How can we be outside the session room during the voting?Oh, my God! How can you not be in your workplace when voting for ratifications? So, colleagues, I'm voting on the proposal to go back to the draft Law on the Ratification of the Treaty on the Financing of the Danube Transnational Programme (No. 0196). Return. The first vote is the return. Please vote and please support. Colleagues, responsible and united, we vote. Please support the ratification. Vote. [[11:54:15]] For 225 One voice. [[B in m in s a l in]] I can see I didn't make it. I can see I didn't make it. [[B in m in s a l in]] I see. It didn't work. Yeah, I'll do it again. Colleagues, be at work. So one vote. I'm asking everyone to take up jobs. One voice and the international authority of Ukraine. And ratification of the deal, colleagues. Please take your seats, I'm proposing to return to draft Law 0196, and I'm asking you to vote. So, please vote, please support. For your return, colleagues. And every voice matters. I ask you to support and vote. Please vote. Vote, colleagues, every voice. Please be supportive. Vote. [[11:55:22]] For 239. We're back, colleagues. And now I'm putting draft Law 0196 on the ground and in general. Please vote and please support. We vote, colleagues, on the basis and in general. Vote. Please be supportive. [[11:55:49]] For 246 Ratification accepted, colleagues. Thanks for the mobilization. But I emphasize, colleagues, on a working day and during the vote, I ask everyone to be in the workplace. It is unacceptable that during international agreements, people left the hall and were not in the voting room. So I want to make an announcement. In accordance with article 60 of the Ukrainian Act on the Rules of Procedure of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, I report on the creation of the eighth interfractional parliamentary association "Remigrants - the right to vote" in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The National Deputy of Ukraine, Sergio Mikolaiovich, was elected head of this association. And I want to let you know that right now, according to the Rules, we have a 30-minute break until 12:30. And at 12:30, everyone please return to the hall to continue our work.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-19-m0.u89	Dear colleagues, please come into the hall and prepare for the continuation of our work. So, colleagues, the next issue of the agenda is the draft Parliamentary Hearing Recommendation on "National Innovation System: Status and Legislative Development." I would like to support the proposal for a reduced procedure, please. [[12:36:09]] For-64 The decision is not taken. Let's move on to full consideration. And I invite you to the report of the Science I Committee. Head of the Committee of Singer, Alexander Volodymyrovich. Please, the head of Mr. Alexander's committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-19-m0.u90	Dear Andriy Volodymyrovich, distinguished colleagues, well, in what we're looking at, any question is like plus-minus, and the fact that this number of national deputies are present today is plus. Because we can calmly discuss what we need to do to make Ukraine come out, yes, with a peak and try to get into the top-country. We understood that on March 21, 2018, we discussed this issue at parliamentary hearings. So once again, I want to emphasize to everyone what really, when we're discussing the distribution of power, the distribution of gas, oil, raw materials, we're looking at, the presence of the people's deputies is debilitating. When we consider our future, unfortunately not everyone is interested. But I think we're looking at a large audience of Ukrainians. And that's why we're going to be able to get everyone's attention through the discussion right now -- both the authorities and the ordinary Ukrainians -- to the question that we've been looking at. The development of the innovation component of Ukraine is very important. If we continue to discuss and resolve the issue of raw materials, Ukraine will always fall behind. So the parliamentary hearings, which were devoted to discussing the matter, formed the next session. The main task of the national innovation system is to ensure the development of knowledge and science, to create a high-tech competitive economy to ensure the quality of human life. The national innovation systems of the world’s leading countries are rapidly developing. They form really powerful and attractive systems for the rapid realization of science, knowledge and intelligence in the field of manufacturing and services, ensuring market filling and meeting the needs of society. Unfortunately, today because of the migration of young people, we see that things are happening the other way around in Ukraine. We're doing everything we can to say, we're saying a lot about science, about education, we're adopting laws. For example, two years ago, we passed the Science and Technology Act, which is not fully implemented. Well, for example, we introduced 1.7 percent of GDP to finance science, instead we have 0.2 percent to fund science. And so, even by adopting laws and not doing them, we are doing everything we can to push young Ukrainians abroad. By the way, the next year's budget project shows once again that resection philosophy, the philosophy of the economy in education and science continues to be the main one. We need to understand that, year after year, we continue to push young people abroad through the budget and the Code of Budgeting for Science and Education. Look at the correlation between the growth of migration among young people with our funding of science and education in Ukraine. So we have to understand, if we want to create a national innovation system here in Ukraine, we have to finance young people in the first place, finance schools, finance colleges, finance vocational education, finance higher education. We should never refer higher education and science to the social sphere. It's not a social sphere, it's the economic development of the country. Otherwise we'll be teaching here at school, and the works of these talented children who don't see their prospects here in Ukraine will be going out and creating great national wealth for other countries: for the United States, for England, for Poland, for Slovakia and so on. See how many Ukrainians are already working, making startups, and creating great added value for other countries. So when we look at this question, we've taken into account all of the positions that are different. The various experts who worked in this discussion. On July 4, 2018, the committee voted unanimously. And he invited the Supreme Council of Ukraine to take this decision as a basis and as a whole. Dear colleagues, this has a symbolic character. By taking such a decision and voting for it, and by discussing it, we are once again drawing the attention of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine to the fact that if we want to get out of the locked circle of the collapse of Ukraine, the fall of the GDP of Ukraine, we must primarily finance science, education and systematically create, step by step, the national innovation system. So when I invite you to the discussion, I ask you all to rejoin those who have forgotten to come to their place of work, to come back and vote for our future, for the future of Ukraine. And Ukraine's future is a strong, free Ukraine that thinks about its future, about its youth, and about human capital. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-19-m0.u91	Thank you, Mr. Alexander. Stay. Now, ask me a question. Three minutes is a question to the reporter. I'm asking you to record a question. Dombrowski, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-19-m0.u92	Alexander Volodymyrovich, I have great respect for you as a specialist in education, science, and I want to ask you this question. Tell me, how do you personally feel about how the committee reacts to this innovation, which introduced the Ministry of Education, when the child who finishes is a person who is practically an adult, finishes a higher education facility, gets a bachelor's degree, and then four years later he has to go through the university to get a master's degree? I think it's completely illiterate, and this confirms that today higher education institutions such as Kiev's Mohilianka, and even the Kyiv National University of Shevchenka, have not been able to get students this year even for government contracts. How is this planned in the future? And how.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-19-m0.u93	Thank you for asking. I want to. You've actually seen my answer to this in my articles, which are in the Voice of Ukraine and in other publications. My position is next. We must end with a philosophy of mistrust in higher education. We have to assume that if we trust our teacher, our professor, we have to provide a clear and transparent system. But we also have to have appropriate safeguards for fair, unfair education, which, unfortunately, today has led to the inflation of our diplomas, bachelor's diplomas, masters, PG and so on. I'm in favour of any child having the opportunity to go to university, and then through the system of exams, pre-trials and qualifying mid-term examinations, we could see a picture in general of what's going on in this above, whether there are any standards or not. As far as your question is concerned, I generally believe that master's education, its level, should first be oriented.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-19-m0.u94	30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-19-m0.u95	What the professor does is for his science school. I can't just go to my place, for example, I teach information, I teach math, I can't just take any person who's been through, for example, a qualification exam through a bachelor's degree, because, for example, her abstinence to science doesn't match mine. Thus, the philosophy of master’s degree should be primarily based on the scientific schools that took place directly at the university. And they're qualified.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-19-m0.u96	Thank you. Please, Roman's Anna Anatolyevna.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-19-m0.u97	Alexander Volodymyrovich, we respectfully, the Self-Help faction, treats what you do, and we welcome the initiative with regard to conducting similar parliamentary hearings that are already on education issues. Many parliamentary hearings have already been held, and many good ideas are being heard in this room, both by public representatives and by educators. That's my question. Does the Ministry of Finance attend these parliamentary hearings? And in general, is there constructive cooperation, dialogue with executive power, especially with the Ministry of Finance, now going on a budget process, also with the Ministry of Education? We watched the draft budget, there's the underfunding of colossal education again. And please tell me, we're ready, Self-help faction is ready to help, support money for education, for innovation. What Help Is Needed? And what is the real state of interaction with executive authorities? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-19-m0.u98	Thank you. Well, first of all, what I want to say is that we have cooperation with the Ukrainian Ministry of Education and Science, it's very many meetings of our committee, personally the Minister of Education and Science of Ukraine. Moreover, the minister’s deputies accompany her. Sometimes there's a situation where there's both a minister and there's two or three deputies. About the other part of your question. I want to say, unfortunately, so far in the Cabinet of Ministers, there is no philosophy of financing education in Ukraine, unfortunately. Because it's not a philosophy of higher education, it's a philosophy of resection, so every year we cut something off. How's that? For example, 3 years ago they cut off PTU, so we cut this part off. The next year -- it's not enough money again, let's try cutting it off, maybe it'll be better. Today we say let's do 69 more colleges, here we go. It's not politics. The policy of secession is the policy of expelling young people. We have to have a clear financial policy that links the philosophy of the Ministry of Education and Science of Ukraine with the Ministry of Finance of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-19-m0.u99	30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-19-m0.u100	Unfortunately, today we don't see the synchronization of these things. And that's why we're adopting some laws, and then actually part of these laws and the rules of these laws aren't being implemented because philosophy is further defined by the Ministry of Finance of Ukraine. If we were to synchronize these efforts, we would really have a philosophy of development, not a philosophy of resecting the education system of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-19-m0.u101	Thank you. Please, Sporesh, final question.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-19-m0.u102	John Sporish, 15th District, Winnitzkin. It's a very important bill, we have to support it. But I want to pass on the word to Gregory Timish.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-19-m0.u103	Turn on the microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-19-m0.u104	Thank you. Alexander Volodymyrovich, with great respect for you and what you do for education in Ukraine and for the work of the committee. In my opinion, as a similar expert, a recent educator, I think that this is the kind of hearing that should be held every month. I understand that there is no way, but the issue of education is fundamental. From large rostrums, we always call on the examples of Singapore, Japan, as we viewed education in the same century as they do today. But of course, we don't give much attention to this particular area. I mean, what you're doing is really serious. I'd like to synchronize your actions with the Minister of Education. And I wish we didn't fall behind.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-19-m0.u105	30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-19-m0.u106	Commitments regarding the setting up of educational institutions are what we have promised. I hope that it will also be at these hearings that we will hear these slogans and these requirements. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-19-m0.u107	Please, Mr. Alexander.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-19-m0.u108	Thank you for your performance. I just want to say, we're also in favour of synchronizing our efforts. We realize that on some issues we have different visions, and that is perfectly understandable. Not only in countries of tyranny do we have the only right view, of course. But the synchronization should take place in such a way that, in fact, the education and science system develops so that the young person here is comfortable, so that she understands that she can get here, not a fine education, not an education diploma, but a real education. So this is a systemic question. And that's the question of plagiarism, this is the question of what needs to be financed at the expense of the state budget, which needs to be left on a contractual basis only, this is a matter of indicative self-sustainment. Because there are, for example, taller ones who put 8 or 9 grand in the bachelor's class, say, it's totally unrealistic. So there's a lot of questions that we have to synchronize. It's also a matter of higher education management, it's a lot of questions. And funding, measuring, we still don't have a national measurement system.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-19-m0.u109	Please, 30 seconds. Excuse me, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-19-m0.u110	Unfortunately, at this time, we do not invite national agencies, including foreign agencies, to show us what is going on in the educational services market. We don't have a real picture. If we don't have the measurement, we don't have the basics to understand that we need to finance in the first place, that we need basics, that we don't need to finance at all. We have, in fact, today, unfortunately, a non-systemic system in which we have to address this issue. And you can only do this together: the Cabinet of Ministers.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-19-m0.u111	Thank you for your answer. Time has run out for questions, for answers. Dear colleagues, I ask you to sign up for the draft Parliamentary Hearing Regulation on "National Innovation System: Status and Legislative Development." Now we're going to have a discussion and talk from the factions. The question is now exhausted. I didn't hear. Oh, no. We have one reporter under the Rules. According to the Rules, this is one reporter, and this is the first deputy head of the committee, Mr. Spiowakovsky, and there is no government. It's only a parliamentary hearing. Please welcome Taras Kremenj, who represents the position of the People's Front faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-19-m0.u112	Taras Kremen, People's Front. Dear colleagues, I am asking you to support the recommendations of the parliamentary hearings already held on the National Innovation System: Status and Legislative Development. I want to confirm how one of the participants in those hearings is actually, by the quality of the participants, by the subject of discussion, and by the resonance of the scientific community, not only Ukraine, but also the world without precedent. Because this issue was in the interests of both the President's Administration and the National Security and Defence Council and the Cabinet of Ministers, a huge number of scientists have watched it, including during direct broadcasts thanks to your support, Mrs. Irina. But I want to talk about the important things that were happening in that session of important reporters. First, Ukraine has been fast-tracking over the past few years, but it's breaking into the world's innovation market. And this is because we were able, together with Parliament and the government, to work together not only in legislation, but also in terms of increasing funding for the development of Ukrainian science and innovation. This is, in particular, we are still in the global innovation index at the 50th place, and this has been an unprecedented place for the last 7 years. The second important element that allowed us to get into better indicators is our universities, this is the Academy of Sciences, and the individual structures are getting the relevant business experience, they're starting to get the appropriate infrastructures, and they're going to go to the study and approval of programs with quite different approaches. The second important element to be addressed is the holding of an annual World Economic Forum, according to which one of the key factors in the innovation of any state of the world is investment in the development of human capital. That's what the rapporteurs stopped at during the parliamentary hearings, but what I'm saying is that without the export of technology, and the monetaryization of innovations that are in the field of knowledge of the Ministry of Economic Development and Trade, we will not be able to move our innovations and achievements forward, and therefore stop young talented scientists in Ukraine. And the third important ingredient is, of course, we have to combine our efforts and recommendations, and it's what she's talking about, it's a strategy for the development of an innovation ecosystem. Therefore, thanks to such parliamentary hearings, our Parliament raises the prestige and level of innovation in Ukraine as a whole. So on behalf of the faction, I ask all colleagues to support, give new opportunities to Ukrainian science in 2019. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-19-m0.u113	Thank you for your position of respectable faction. And we now invite our colleague, Mr. Kirilenko, Mr. Ivan Grigorovich, to present his position to the Fatherland. Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-19-m0.u114	Dear colleagues, I'm going back to the subject of consideration -- this is a draft decision that recommends that we do what we do with the innovation system in Ukraine. Friends, in more than a quarter of a century of independence, or not the only country in post - Soviet space that has not even reached the 1990 level of GDP. Unfortunately, the world's 20 most developed countries started in industrial terms, now in their twenties only in the second hundredths. Too bad! The country is simply killing, gaining power, the economy of monopolism. Until there are radical changes, for which my colleagues from other factions have spoken today, until there are structural reforms that we are afraid to even talk about, there will be nothing. The monopolies that we have in energy, the monopolies that we have in metallurgy, in mining industry, in chemistry, in agriculture, and the monopolies of innovation that we don't need, because the monopoly is definitely "no smell" that doesn't carry competition, it doesn't exist in the monopoly of competition. There is no competition – for what science, for what scientific and technological progress, for what innovation, for what to mate and to tire out? When you have a hundred thousand or more acres of land to be processed -- quietly grown grain, planted in three days, collected in four days, sent raw materials to an expert, received billions because billions of hectares can be obtained. What innovations, what investments? Friends, and another eloquent example. Investments in constitutional capital in Ukraine in years of independence, compared to the 90th crisis year, 5 times less each year than they were in the 1990s, investments in capital. Guys, this is a verdict, it's a sentence for the whole system. And another eloquent example: Belarus, where we know what regime, last year, we got 4 times more foreign investment than Ukraine, little Estonia, which is equal to one average area, 14 times more. At a meeting of my distinguished colleague’s committee, a matter of chemistry was raised. Turkey, which does not have its own raw material, produces 17 times as much chemical as Ukraine, which has its own raw material. It's called: here we are. We really need structural reforms, structural reforms -- this is essentially Ukraine's new course, the basic demonization, the economic methods to push the development of small and medium-sized enterprises. My colleagues always talk about it. The farmer in the village is hundreds of, perhaps millions of jobs, not in Polish rentals, where 2.5 million peasant farms are in Ukraine. This should begin, my friends, and then a competitive environment will emerge, and then the processing, not the raw material, will appear.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-19-m0.u115	30 seconds, 30 seconds, of course.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-19-m0.u116	Then, indeed, there will be a need for a competitive environment, for innovation. Everyone will try to give the product that will be used in the market. Today we are, unfortunately, at the fourth level of the markets where the raw material, there we are, on the side of the road, and soon we'll be in the covet. And people fight, civilized countries -- where raw materials are processed, the third level of markets -- where intelligence, intelligence works, and the fourth are fighting for brains in general. That's why we're told it's not a threat, it's a threat.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-19-m0.u117	Thank you, thank you, Your Honor Ivan Grigorovich. And I really want to thank my honorary colleague from Fatherland that this speech was about the subject of the draft decision under discussion. Thank you so much for meeting the deadline. And the word is given to respectable colleague Dudenkov, who represents the position of the Opposition Block. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-19-m0.u118	Honorary colleagues, Ukrainian citizens, the opposition bloc faction, will certainly support the draft Parliamentary Hearing Recommendation on "National Innovation System". Innovation is a necessary and key factor for Ukraine to take a decent place among economically developed countries, because technologically, economically developed economies are impossible without an innovative component, c, of course, a high level of education that has introduced best practices, knowledge in production, production of ready-made products in Ukraine. Instead, I would like to point out that those reforms that are currently under way in the coalition's initiatives, which are so intensively supporting them, do not achieve the stated goal. Unfortunately, over the past four years, we have seen an even greater decline in economic development, a decline in the structure of manufacturing in the Ukrainian national economy from 20 percent to 12 percent. This is evidence that Ukraine is turning into a raw commodity in developing markets: Europe, China, the United States, and so forth. Thus, it is primarily the development of the manufacturing industry. I want to point out that monopolies are not the same enemy of the innovative component economy, because these same monopolistic conglomerates, financial and industrial groups are nothing different from the conglomerates of the United States. Ukraine, from Chebola in Korea, Republic of Korea, from Kheretz in Japan, who dominate the countries listed but compete with each other in international markets. Sooner or later, these monopolies will also have to compete in the external markets in order for Ukraine to put the right situation on. in the labour distribution system in the markets of the corresponding goods. I would also like to note the official statement that today I have registered Decree 9090-P2 on the lifting of voting results for Bill 9090 concerning the amendment of the Law on the Central Electoral Commission on the increase in the number of members from 15 to 17 members. I am reporting today that meetings have been held at the busy efforts of our distinguished but abusive Paris Rules, that the Rules should take the appropriate decision and recommend the proposed bill, and recommended the consideration of the decree 9090-P1. I now report that there is Decree 9090-P2, and I also request that the Rules be observed without delay with respect to the Rules, because everyone knows that the violation of the Rules will be a grave reason for the Constitutional Court to accept the relevant legislative initiative.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-19-m0.u119	30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-19-m0.u120	The violation of the Rules, as we can see from the last decision of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine, is the basis for recognition of any legal or regulatory act adopted by the Supreme Council as not in conformity with the Constitution. Therefore, I ask you not to violate the procedure provided for in the Ukrainian Act on the Rules of Procedure of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and to consider my ruling, registered today, 9090-P2. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-19-m0.u121	Thank you very much, dear colleague. And now, Mr. Halasyuk, who represents the position, Victor Halasyuk, who represents the position of the Radical Party faction. Please, Mr. Victor.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-19-m0.u122	Thank you, Your Honor Irina Volodymyr, distinguished colleagues of the national MPs. As we are discussing with you in this room, we are discussing with the Committee on Education and Science, with the Committee on Industrial Policy and Entrepreneurship, with all the people's deputies who understand the value of innovation and industry, we are discussing how better to build an innovative ecosystem in Ukraine -- at this time, unfortunately, because of Ukraine's miseconomic policy, it is increasingly becoming a commodity donor of successful industrially industrialized economies. We're delivering raw materials at no cost to the world, we've already talked about it in the hall. We provide talented people and work hands that do not find a decent job at home. And we're also a provider of money for successful economies because we buy ready goods and services from them that are very often produced by our fellow Ukrainian workers in those foreign countries. It's an absolute disgrace and it's totally unacceptable. According to the State, the total cost of scientific research and development is actually less than half the GDP of the economy. Imagine what a mess it is, whereas in the European Union it's over 2 percent, and in countries like Finland and Sweden it's over 3 percent. The policy of economics in education, science, and innovation makes it impossible to build a successful economy and the welfare of citizens. There is only one way to build -- poverty, addiction, new IMF loans, emigration, and the way to nowhere. We need to make a radical revolution in economic policy. A priority rate for infrastructure development, for the development of domestic production, for industry, and for the full implementation of innovations in all aspects of our lives. What is more, Ukraine has the most important thing to do with this is human capital: talented, creative, educated people who today, because of the wrong economic policy of power, leave Ukraine with millions to feed their families. So we need to immediately adopt the industrial reform package proposed by the Radical Party team and supported by virtually all factions and groups in Parliament: industrial parks with powerful investment incentives for the production of innovators; export credit agencies create to save credits at times rather than interest; "buy Ukrainian" to accept in this room as a whole in order to create additional demand for Ukrainian industry and innovation. Then the Ukrainians will be happy and rich in their own.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-19-m0.u123	Thank you. Please welcome Yegor Sobolev. Mrs. Romanovi gives the floor. Please, Mrs. Anna Romanova, who represents the self-help position. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-19-m0.u124	Dear colleagues, dear people of Ukraine! Of course, the Self-Help Unit will support all initiatives related to the development of Ukrainian education, with its innovation. Yes, we got to know and even participated in these parliamentary hearings, which were dedicated to innovation in Ukrainian education. But the thing is, the difference between the innovation of Ukrainian education and the real state of education is the same as, for example, the difference between Hyperloop and the real suburban electricians who are now on the course. The difference is tremendous. Why? Because of the innovation of education, it ends when students are sent home in the winter because there is nothing to burn the country’s best snakes. This applies even to the National University of Shevchenka. The innovation of education ends where educators have nothing to pay. And I want to draw attention once again to the fact that by the end of the year, almost 4 billion dollars for teachers are missing by the end of September. How will they introduce, educated, innovative education when their hands drop? When they go home, they do not know what they will live for. Now that we're talking to educated people all over Ukraine, they say, "You know, now that we've been deprived of any salary allowance for the first time, we've got our hands down. And we're going to divide into two categories. Someone enters Poland, someone trades in the market, like it was in the '90s. And someone is basically working on the principle, "I'm going to work and teach your children the way the state pays me for it." This will lead to innovation in education? This is going to lead to innovation in the economy? Now we've read the budget. And "The Self-Help Union" is calling on the Ministry of Finance, the government to rework it immediately. Because it has 70 colleges left in the background, and they're basically going to be closed down just like we've lost a system of teachers in these years. We're talking about a new school, but we're not talking about what's now basic to laboratory work, there's no equipment for technical science, there's no reagents. The latest reagents were purchased after the war in some schools. What kind of innovation are we talking about? They're all very beautiful words, yes, very literate words, but they're waiting for implementation by another government and by another authority. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-19-m0.u125	Thank you, dear colleague. And I would like to invite you to Mr. Zabotny's words, who will present the position of "Peter Prashenko's Block," and he will do so from his place of work. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-19-m0.u126	Thank you, Irina Volodymyr. I want to say in advance that this is a very important question, a very important one. And we ask you very much, today, perhaps to discuss and not to take a draft decision, not to vote, because, excuse me, there is a fourth of the deputies in the room. We're just going to overturn this very important question. What I'd like to say. You remember what Marks said. He said that "deep civilization will inevitably lead mankind to death." I think he was kind of right, because, really, a very deep civilization has benefits and has negatives. And it's very clear to everyone today, even the students I'm teaching, they already know in third grade that investment has a very clear chain: first, it's the frame, then it's the intelligence in the frame, then it's after the intelligence, it's innovation, it's where the intelligence comes in. And only after you realize that there's intellectual footage and there's innovation technology, that's where the investment comes in. That's what we need to remember, to know how "Our Father" and to do everything we can to ensure that that's the way investment policy works. But I'd like to turn around, and I've asked Alexander Volodymyrovich a question, and I want to go back to that. Isn't that a reason to think about why today our children gave priority, didn't go to Kiev-Mogilian Academy, didn't go to many colleges of the Kyiv National University of Shevchenka, and went to Poland, went to other institutions. This is now a reason to think about how we work with people who should have high intelligence and carry on innovation, investment. I strongly believe that we need to review the situation so that the bachelors who go to master's degree have to take a master's degree to take special exams, where they go and what they have, who they need to learn. Not to give up a COO that they have forgotten and not studied in four years. So I said only one element, and we have a lot of them. And we have to do everything we can to make innovation a reality in our country. If we have intelligence and innovation, there will always be intelligence. Peter Dustenka's Block will support the ruling. And please, Irina Volodymyrna, if there are no people, don't put her to the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-19-m0.u127	Thank you. Unfortunately, my dear colleague, I cannot break the rules and interrupt the discussion, not put to the vote. But everyone here who knows the Rules and supports me is that when it comes to the ruling on parliamentary hearing recommendations, if we don't have the potential today, we can go back to voting on another day. And now it's a good word. Right, Vladimir Mikhailovich? That's right, that's right. That's what I'm talking about. That's right. Now we invite you to the floor, then I'll give you a line, yes. I now invite Mr. Shahov, Sergey Shahov, to present the position of the "Will of the People" Group. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-19-m0.u128	Sergey Shahov, the political power of Our End. Dear colleagues, we see that there are virtually no deputies in the hall, both in the coalition and in the opposition, and in the groups there are no deputies. But I would like you to close down and vote in favour of this draft decision. This is very important for our Ukrainian children, who today are in dire need of innovation. See what is happening today in the streets. Statistically, 7 percent of young people want to leave our country. It doesn't fit in any way. Dear colleagues, please note that it is the higher schools and kindergartens that pay for electricity as commercial structures today. I've registered the Bill of Decree 8376, and I'm asking you to support it as soon as possible, which cancels the Order of the Cabinet of Ministers on increasing the price of electricity for utilities, lighting in the streets and our schools, kindergartens, and once again, the heights that today pay the money to the oligarchs in their pockets. And that's pretty much what our country's experts estimate, so 125 billion dollars today are pouring out of my parents' pockets in an oligarch's pocket. A vital decision to make today is 7408. You remember that this winter, when 7 kindergartens, 3 schools, a maternity home for women, were excluded from gas and electricity. The oligarchs were also made. This is a vital law, and it must also be supported. And the main thing. "Our Land" continues the campaign of "No Gas Price Raised" signatures. This also applies to both schools and colleges, which also apply to maternity homes, also to pensioners who are unable to pay today for the services of the HKG. This is true of our nation. Who today will invest money in our country if there is no state policy? "Our End" registered Decree 9027. Please also consider it immediately and vote for the Ukrainian people, and against the price rise for gas. I'm talking to every parliamentarian today. Sergei Shahov, "Our End." Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-19-m0.u129	Thank you. I do pay attention to the need to speak solely on the subject of the draft decision under discussion. Please, Vladimir Mikhailovich, you have a line. Please. Dear colleagues, Mr. People's Deputy Vladimir Mikhailovich Litwin has a legal appearance in three minutes, from the Rebirth Group they're handing him the right to speak. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-19-m0.u130	I thank the representatives of the group. Dear colleagues! Obviously today, a draft law on the increase in the number of the Central Electoral Commission should be considered. That's an answer for you. They'd send the MPs down here, they'd run, they'd vote. On Wednesday, set up such laws, and a session hall will be filled. Now, Gregory Mikhailovich's answer to his expressed surprises about why our children are going to Poland. Because they don't have parents of deputies, high-ranking ministers who send their children to England. This is where they have to go to Poland. And don't be surprised, because you voted in favour of this law, including and didn't support my proposal to write in the law that officials who hold a particularly responsible position are teaching their children in Ukraine, but they've made the law for the "cheese." And you know very well that this law doesn't work because there's not even funding for teachers' salaries, and there's fighting to get the right subsidies to pay teachers. I'll tell you why. Because OTH - form mergers were carried out, and when OTH is called the Baraniu City Council, other standards of class filling are in place. And then they're underfunded and they're demanding that you eliminate 7 schools, release 100 teachers, and you'll be fine. And you're applauding the reforms here. This has been introduced, made worse, virtually impossible, without considering how these reforms should be implemented. The more I tell you, there are no roads. Even if there are buses, there is nowhere to go. Why are there no roads? Because there was a rajautodor in every area before, and he used to fly these roads. Today they've been cleared during reforms, and there's no one to do road repairs, because large, powerful enterprises won't take jobs if that's about 5-10 million. They say we'll attract technology when it's 50 million. And you know exactly what's going on. And what I'm going to tell you is, fellow professors of honor, as a person who understands things about education and science and works at the Academy of Sciences. The decision we made, we killed the Academy of Sciences, and now we're watching it go away. At the same time, we make a decision on innovation policy. We learned to juggle words, not to count, not to make clear decisions. I think it would be better for the Supreme Council to adopt no reforms on the transformation of education and science, as it would not be worse. But I understand that this decision won't pass right now, and you don't just have to put it on.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-19-m0.u131	My colleagues, thank you for your discussion. Thank you again for basically everyone speaking in the text of the decree. They called it the last name of a respected colleague, the Snotty One. Please, just a minute. Please, please, please. Such a rule, we are today.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-19-m0.u132	Vladimir Mikhailovich, I understand that you do not agree with my speech, but this is your right. I want to tell you that my children were studying in Ukraine and defending the dissertation in Ukraine, and today three grandchildren are students of the Lviv National University named Frank. That's your first answer. And secondly, I want to tell you that as many roads as they're building now, they haven't built in a while. But in one year or two, you won't build them. This time. Secondly, I want you to know that rajavtodors are and legally exist. Another question is that they haven't reached their hands yet, so far they're building state highways. And I'm sure it's wrong, too. You have to put some of the money in place. Moreover, I am once again deeply convinced that today's decision is necessary because innovation is the basis for moving forward, and Vladimir Mikhailovich is very well aware of it. So I thank you for your support in the first part and I've corrected you in the second part. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-19-m0.u133	Thank you. Colleagues, I now request that you sign up for a discussion by the Ukrainian National Deputies. And I'm convinced that we have a chance to support this decision today, the main thing is to return from the towers to the session hall. Yuri Solovay's word, please, from the place. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-19-m0.u134	Yuri Solovay, 89 constituency, Gutzulščina, and Pocust. You know, Your Honor Irina Volodymyrno, I would like to bring the matter directly to the Rules of Procedure of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and the Rules of Procedure Act. Because I think that if we want to adopt quality laws, if we want the Supreme Council to perform its function in a qualitative manner, we should first reform the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and, in particular, the adoption of similar regulations. For what does the situation with regard to acceptance end at parliamentary hearings? But this does not end at all, since parliamentary hearing recommendations in the vast majority of cases do not lie down mainly in those or other legislative acts. That's the first one. And secondly, actually, the subject of the decision that we are discussing today, and whether innovation is needed in our country at all. I'll give you a few digits. For example, one company, Apple in the United States. So the assets of all 100 of the rich Ukrainians themselves, including all the famous oligarchs: Ahemtova, Cologne and so on, are equal to 10 percent of Apple's shares. Apple paid about $35 billion to the U.S. government budget just last year, which is much higher than the Ukrainian budget. This is one company that works in one country. So when we want to talk about innovation, we need to make it clear that innovation is the issue that can seriously and quickly give impetus to the development of our state. Is there a chance in Ukraine? I want to tell you more about companies like WhatsApp or PayPal, or the same Apple, part of the founders of these companies were Ukrainians. And that's why Ukraine today especially in the direction of creating modern startups is the nation that is leading the world. Does the State have to interfere with this process, or does the State just have to create rules to make it happen? There's different views on this situation, but we've seen that those countries that are developing at the expense of government investment, they support these startups by being part of the statutory capital of these startups, and not just supporting them, but capitalizing on the funds they support these startups. So when we talk about Ukraine, clearly in Ukraine with education issues, there must be a state-owned innovation fund that has to enter into new modern startups, into their capital to develop this direction in our state as one of them.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-19-m0.u135	Thank you. Please give the next speech, National Deputy Mikhailo Papiev, and we invite you to your floor.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-19-m0.u136	Thank you. Honorable National Deputies of Ukraine, honourable citizens of Ukraine! The very important issues that are being addressed today by the Supreme Council of Ukraine, but again we see that the virtually fullness of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is no more than 10 percent. I mean, I'd like to ask these important questions, unlike the 9090 bill that was discussed yesterday, the Central Election Commission, to gather as many Ukrainian national deputies as possible, because there's not much time left when you all have to go to the districts and report to the voters and tell them how you love the Ukrainian people. And in order for our work to be fully in line with the Supreme Council of Ukraine regulations, as soon as Ukraine's national deputies were handed over draft documents that, I take it, the head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine would be willing to submit to the Supreme Council of Ukraine in a few minutes. For the record, because the adoption procedure itself and the unconstitutionality of Law 9090 says that the political party "The Opposition Block" will refer to the Constitutional Court of Ukraine regarding the recognition of the Law that was discussed yesterday, 9090 "On the Central Election Commission" is unconstitutional, including for violations of procedural matters at its adoption. Recently, half an hour ago, the Supreme Council of Ukraine convened a meeting of the Committee on Rules and Organization of Work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Imagine that back in the old days, before the Dignity Revolution, the Head of the Supreme Council would have collected this bill, by the way, some of them were gathering on January 16th, counting committees, everything, and now they're sitting all in Moscow. Where they will flee after today’s session, the question is rhetorical. Because I would like to remind the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine that there is still a rule of article 35 of the Ukrainian Anti-Corruption Act. Nothing to worry about, but the head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine has assembled a committee on Law 9090, where he is a single author. Article 35 of this Law speaks of a conflict of interest that must be declared publicly. I urge the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, in accordance with the Anti-Corruption Act, article 35, to declare his conflict of interest in the future. And I'm also in parallel with the National Anti-Corruption Bureau to see if there's any sign of any other things in these actions. So all people have to live by law, just like the head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. And I urge the Ukrainian National Deputies not to vote today in favour of Decree 9090-P2, because it was not considered, it was not considered by the Committee, and this would be a violation of article 48 of the Rules. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-19-m0.u137	I also call on my colleagues to abide by the Rules, but in the course of the speeches, not to discuss any other issue other than the Parliamentary Hearing Regulation. Honorable colleague Alexy Rybchin is invited to attend. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-19-m0.u138	Alexy Rybchin, "Fatherland" faction, Donetsk. Dear colleagues, I recommend that everyone read at least the Parliamentary Hearings Recommendations on Innovation. There are nice, professional things that you can use in public communication. They're very good and they're very good. We've all heard from different speakers about the diagnosis that we have in Ukraine about the problem. I think people see it every day on the street. We have also heard that some colleagues have offered a solution. I hope we're going to compete with ideas, not how this Supreme Council room is now asked to run into some incomprehensible things, accusing including "Paternity" and its leader. Why is it so bad in the country? It seems to me that if we have fantastic potential, and we know what problems, and we even offer solutions, there is no political will that should come from the first person of the state. Because if you're told there's no money. Money is, you have to do less corruption and less, you know, feed your own oligarchs. If you say there are no priorities, there are priorities. If you make innovation your priority, it will develop. And as my colleague Ivan Grigorovich Kirilenko has pointed out, with great respect to him, Ukraine needs a new course, including a new economic course, which we will talk about in Fatherland with Julia Volodymyrna Timoshenko on Friday. What do we want to talk about? That Ukraine needs to stop the deindustrialization that is now. And they should stop becoming such a raw adjective, as many others have said. We have to stop deindustrialization and jump from industrialization to post-industrial society, learnfrog, as they say, in innovation. So, using the experience of countries that have already done this, we can do that. How? Innovation is always the interaction of the state (the state first), science, education, business, international organizations. When this interaction is properly reversed, it's called an innovation system that produces innovations that not only in science that should be financed by the state, including fundamental research, will never support business, but also help commercialize business. We have a great business in both the green sector, and in bio, in the farm, and in the IT, and in the blockroom, and in robotics, we have great professionals, great startups, as has already been pointed out. We need to raise the role of the state to help both commercialize and support the things that are different tools, we're going to debate about them. However, it is very important that I support John Grigorovich, who said that demonoculation, monopolies, is a great evil. Some colleagues said that monopolies help some innovation, giving an example there of South Korea, other countries.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-19-m0.u139	30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-19-m0.u140	Compared to our financial and industrial groups here, they're touching those. On the one hand, yes. For example, South Korea has a phenomenon like Chebol, yes, which is large corporations. But there's a fundamental difference, because unfortunately, the state is developing oligarchs and financial and industrial groups thanks to Rotterdam Plus, thanks to other tariffs. And there these bees are developing the state, there's another thing: the state gives a high-quality expert, the state gives innovation. That's why the demonization is that.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-19-m0.u141	Thank you. Please give the next speech, People's Deputy Krivenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-19-m0.u142	Victor Krivenko, National Movement of Ukraine. Dear viewers, distinguished colleagues, the whole world is built on value added control. There are three wars in the world, four wars in Ukraine. Only in the war with Russia do we feel side by side of the conflict, and in the wars of investment, in the wars of markets, in the wars of human resources and agri-neral resources are we not even subjects -- we are objects. And there is a need for a subject’s position and awareness of the leadership of the state that this is indeed global competition. The world is built on four levels. The lowest level is those countries that trade what they grew up and dug up, they're the most primitive states. Low levels of technological development are the countries where one of the three most sacred professions appears to be entrepreneurs, and they create added value, they create jobs. We don't export grain, we import grain, we produce it, we produce taxes, we pay for it, we create infrastructure. The average level of technological development is the countries that have created the basic infrastructure, they have created an education system. Universities are being built, teachers are being imported, the second of the most important professions for any state -- teachers respect, pay normal wages, and the country can already reach the level of technological development that is in other countries. So engineers understand technology. Yes, in English weaving presses of their time were bought, copied, stolen. Thus, the Soviet Union of Aviation, Space, Radioelectronics in Germans and others, so Vietnam, China, Thailand are copying and now catching up with their leaders. And the highest level is the level of countries where innovation, technology can be born in their heads and implemented. During the 1990s, we were at the highest level in four sectors. Today, perhaps other than pharmaceuticals, no industry can actually repeat what it can do. We can't make a wing, we can't make an engine, we have huge problems, and we have a team of experts on our knees. And we're going down to the agrarian state, and some of the big experts are applauding it. Of course, the National Movement of Ukraine in its economic programme offers a clear course for innovation, for added value. We're clearly talking about the need to develop machine-building, airprom, air-cosmos, VPC, energy-, ship-, agglomerated construction, auto-light components. Deeper processing. The national idea is that nothing should leave as a raw material. In a ton of grain is 250 to 300 dollars of added value. We need to build at least 100 plants after the in-depth processing of grain, 44 types of products can be made and sold. Can I have 30 more seconds, please?
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-19-m0.u143	I'm sorry, we're having trouble with time. Thank you so much for your performance. No, it's not. Thank you very much. I invite you to the speech of the national deputy Eutuska. Thank you. Well, that's fair.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-19-m0.u144	Sergey Eutuszek, "The Fatherland" faction. Dear colleagues, there have been hearings in this room, parliamentary hearings involving scientists, people who are building scientific potential in our country. This is what has become the basis for this decision to detail their recommendations that you and I will take as a basis. Of course, Alexander Spiowakovsky of this rostrum placed a major emphasis on the economy. And I want to say that a number of my colleagues from this rostrum said that we need to immediately review philosophy and look at the way power works in the economy, primarily creating jobs. And take away our country's status as an orphan country. I would also like to draw attention to my colleague Alexia Rybchin's speech, who said that it was Friday that we, too, with Julia Volodymyrna Timoshenko, would involve scientists and we would be discussing in the project "The New Economic Course of Ukraine" what kind of philosophies needed to be changed in order to get the country out of this economic crisis. Recently, last Friday, on a parliamentary Friday from this rostrum, the minister of education and science spoke about what the ministry is dealing with today. In view of the planned reforms in science, in a new Ukrainian school, we are immediately looking at what is not right today and in this process. There's not enough money. Even when our first children went to a new Ukrainian school on September 1st, they would have to be provided not only with facilities, but also with textbooks. What did the minister of education and science say was, "There are some obstacles in court filing and canceling those textbooks that should be in first grade." I also want to draw attention to secondary education and the problems of secondary education. We have cuts in education funding today. Why? Well, we can't help but realize that those coins, those 20 percent of the payoffs for prestige, for the teacher's good guidance, they pay the same price for the acquisition of science textbooks and everything else. They don't take them home, they bring them to school. So in summary, I'm going to say that the "Fatherland" faction will vote in favour of this draft decree and ask that you invite all the deputies, because this is a very important decision. And the discussions that have been held in this room will only be.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-19-m0.u145	Thank you very much. Thank you, colleagues. We had a discussion on the Parliamentary Hearing Recommendation. And this is one of the forms, by the way, and the organization of Parliament's work. I'm going to start by introducing a form like debate in one form or another. We were able to have a debate on this. Since this decision concerns the organization of the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the organization of work, we will be able to look at it any day, but I think the discussion was correct and the discussion was very meaningful. And thank you to all the participants in the discussion. And, colleagues, I would like to inform you that there is already a decision of the Regulatory Committee regarding the draft Decision repealing the decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine (9090). And under the Rules, I have the right and authority to immediately put them under review. And indeed, the consideration of this decree, as well as of yesterday’s vote, showed a very dangerous trend. It turns out that there are huge political forces that are doing everything they can to leave the old composition of the CLTC. [[B in m in s a l in]] CBC, formed in the days of Yanukovic. The CFC, which was formed by the Yanukovich regime. I have proposed an option that provides answers to all the questions that are most important – allowing all factions to have their representation, as recommended in South Africa. And this way, it opens the way for us to update the Central Electoral Commission. I don't think anyone in a terrible dream would have imagined us holding the election of the President and the Supreme Council of Ukraine from the CBC, which was formed by the Yanukovic regime. So, colleagues, right now, according to the Rules, I'm putting these regulations under review. The first one. [[B in m in s a l in]] I can ask the question of a ruling without any prior inclusion. No, it's not. [[B in m in s a l in]] I can bet, as Head of the Supreme Council, that's what I'll be sure to inform, decisions at any moment of the session, at any stage, I can put. I can put it at any stage. So, my colleagues, so I'm looking at a draft decree repealing the decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine of 18 September 2018 on the adoption as a whole of the bill of the draft Law on Amendments to Article 6 of the Ukrainian Law on the Central Election Commission (9090-P1). And, colleagues, I want to let you know. [[B in m in s a l in]] What happened to the committee meeting is the committee's decision, and we can move on to its consideration. I would like to inform you that a committee meeting has been decided upon in order for this draft decision to be brought to justice. And I'm asking all my colleagues to have a discussion on this, and to make a decision that will allow us to update the composition of the Central Electoral Commission tomorrow. And I'm sure the whole room will back me up, that we won't let the Central Electoral Commission act. So let's do the recording: two in, two in, two in. [[B in m in s a l in]] I just reported it. I just reported as a reporter. Please record: two in, two in. I would like to invite you to the address of the reporter, Šurm Igor Mihajlovich. Please. And then I'm going to turn two in, two in the opposite. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-19-m0.u146	Igor Shurma, Opposition Block. You didn't dream of choosing from the Central Election Commission Janukovich, and who did you dream of? Did Celestial Hundreds dream that they were going to die, that you couldn't change the composition for four years? You had most of it! And someone dreamed that you would be raising two members of the Central Election Commission without any reason today? 27 years old, 15 people made it, and today you're adding? And 10 million dollars is that not a bribe? Today we are considering a decision to repeal a law that is an example of political bribery. Because one party that exercises justice and solidarity is in solidarity with its colleagues to vote, adds two seats. Did you ever dream that you would live to the political-administrative raid of the Central Electoral Commission? You want justice? Give us where there are 15 people, give us two seats for the opposition. What's stopping you? You want to usurp power today. You're hurting her. I'm talking to people. Here are the deputies who voted for it. You're going to go to an election with the slogans "It's cancer, they're all going to die." You'll go to the elections with the slogans "Usurpture of Power in the Central Election Commission." You won't be forgiven. You've got the only goat today to get people out of the street, that's the Kremlin, and that's the Separatists. And you've become worse than the communists. There's something wrong with you. Bring the priest here, let him sprinkle you. If there is no smoke, it will mean that there is more to be done with you. And this decree testifies to the gross violations of the Ukrainian Rules Act. And you, as chairman of the Supreme Council, should abide by the Constitution. Shame!
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-19-m0.u147	So, colleagues, I want to say that the existing law actually allows all factions and groups, all factions and groups to have their representation in the CLTC. Arthur Gerasimov, from Peter Dustenka's Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-19-m0.u148	Dear Andriy Volodymyrovich, dear colleagues, we've all seen how the issue of the solution of the CBC was sabotaged, unfortunately, in our parliament. And you know the clear position of the Peter Dust Block. We're for updating the Central Electoral Commission. And here's what's happening right now, I'll explain to you, we see how they want to leave some political forces behind. And it's a very simple question: what do they want? Because they want to fake it, let's be honest. So today I am firmly opposed to these decrees that have been made. I will vote against them. Because I believe that the bill we passed with you on Tuesday should enter into force. And you and I have a clear choice of representatives to the Central Electoral Commission, which will represent all factions and groups of parliament. So, my dear colleagues, I want to tell you, the water department is coming up right now: who's for Saturday's update of the CBC and who isn't. And I'd like to ask the voters to take a closer look at this, because on television, they all say how democratic they are and how they are for the upgrade. Now look what's going on in the session room. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-19-m0.u149	Thank you. From Self-Help, Yegor Sobolev. And I remind you, these decisions open the way for us to choose tomorrow the new composition of the Central Electoral Commission. Please, Mr. Yegor.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-19-m0.u150	The central electoral commission led by Ohendowski was due to be released in 2015, and our vote has been in favour since 2015, and we are ready to do so. On the other hand, by expelling some addicts, and I remind you that Hendowski is a figure in the Anti-Corruption Bureau investigation, Parliament has no right to appoint other addicts. And it's already a complete nonsense that the idea of increasing the number of members of the Central Electoral Commission, because the dependents are too many, they don't all fit into the current, defined by law, size. We are definitely against the fact that the size of the Central Electoral Commission depends on the number of people who depend on it. The CBC must be independent of all of us by nature, it must honestly count elections under any kind of pressure, under any political circumstances. So we call for the release of Ohendowski and all those who worked on the Central Electoral Commission, whose authority has long since ended and disgraceful. But don't manipulate, don't blow up the size of the Central Electoral Commission. If we're taking the example of our partner countries in Europe and the United States, our Central Election Commission should not be increased, but it should be reduced. That's where we stand.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-19-m0.u151	Thank you. From Fatherland, Sergey Sobolev, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-19-m0.u152	Dear colleagues, our colleague in the Olena Skrum faction has registered an alternative decision, I think she will be given the opportunity to speak with this alternative decision after today's discussion. It's based on one thing. Was there a violation of the Rules of Procedure Act when the project was introduced? Undoubtedly, this project was implemented as a project without the Attorney-General's legal education, without the possibility of making alternative decisions, which are expressly provided for in the Rules Act. Was it a violation of the consideration and was it a violation of the consideration of the matter today when the issue of the day’s order was interrupted, an unvoted last question? No doubt there is. I think there are new reasons for making new decisions, precisely because of the disruption of the order of the day. Now the political side. We're being talked about blocking. Why did Hendowski get the highest prize from the President for his fair election? What are you talking about? And why is the process of investigating the "black cash register" of the Party of Regions, which includes a number of deputies of this call, as well as the members of the Supreme Court, the Constitutional Court, the CLF, when Hendowski was an example. We'd be fine. His signatures are where he got the money from Yanukovich? Him. Why is this case still not in court? But because they're still the same. That's why you need it. Are you saying you're following the decision of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe? Lying is not said to increase the composition of the CBC. What did you come up with? The Attorney General, without legal education, has to make a decision, has to increase the composition of the CBC. I think it's a direct violation of the Rules. And that's why our faction introduced an alternative bill. Alona is, she'd like to inform him. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-19-m0.u153	Thank you. And, final address, from the Opposition Block, Mikhail Papiev, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-19-m0.u154	Thank you. Honorable National Deputies of Ukraine! Dear citizens of Ukraine! About what's going on right now. I am once again drawing the attention of the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, because when the laws were voted on 16 January, everyone said the same thing about the need for their adoption, just as they are today, the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, having a conflict of interest in accordance with article 35 of the Anti-Corruption Act, had gathered within himself the compulsive national MPs of Ukraine and in relation to his law, where he is the author, forced them to do something or other. But let this be the subject of the following actions. I am simply warning the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine not to do things for which it will not only be shameful but also responsible for the laws of Ukraine and for violating the Constitution of Ukraine. Yesterday there was a violation of the Constitution of Ukraine. And since we're already preparing for the Constitutional Court of Ukraine, I'm telling you about the transcript. Yesterday, 96, 100, 102 articles of the Rules were violated, which was approved by the law of Ukraine. Yesterday, the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, who had usurped power, did not allow me to exercise my constitutional right of legislative initiative, because I have the right to submit my alternative within 14 days of the registration of the bill. And he knows it, it's conscious action, there's all the warehouses. That's why I'm calling on the people's deputies of Ukraine and now the chairman. He did not now give the floor to the drafters. There is a national deputy Skrum present, the national deputy of Dludenkov. Again, it violates the laws of Ukraine and the Constitution of Ukraine. It violates the procedure, and there is already a decision by the Constitutional Court that has declared the laws unconstitutional in connection with the violation of the Rules, the procedure for their consideration and adoption. Dear colleagues, what they say has not changed the Central Election Commission for four years.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-19-m0.u155	Thank you. Colleagues, I do, by the way. Ten seconds to complete.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-19-m0.u156	They've chosen both the President and the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, and why is it so hasty now? So in order to do the raiding of minority shareholders, you're doing the simple raiders, you're increasing the number of members of the commission. Moreover, the Head of the Supreme Council wrote by the author of the law that.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-19-m0.u157	Thank you. Colleagues, well, apparently the forces that want to leave the old CBC, and why they want to leave because they're molding it. Because they formed him, they can go with him. They're talking about my violation. The next decision will be Alona Shkrum. And the next order, Alona Shkrum will speak, because each decree is defined separately. Please, Maxim Burbak, People's Front. And let's go to the vote. I'm going to continue the Council for 15 minutes. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-19-m0.u158	Dear colleagues, I'd like to ask everyone to control their emotions. Even though these emotions are overcrowding me here right now, because the deputy from the thieving bloc is telling us about the Dignity Revolution and the victims of the Celestial 100. People are good. What did we live to see? This political correctness and tolerance led to their insolence here, those who created those conditions to shoot people on the Maidan tell us here what to do! [[B in m in s a l in]] We'd better shut up and say, "We didn't wake up bad as long as it was quiet." And now we're going to put our emotions in order, and now we're going to talk about what's going on right now. Logically, we can see that during the last year, a thief's block has done its utmost to halt the creation and renewal of a new CBC warehouse. They're driving around the world, telling them how they suppress the opposition that they don't give up. Instead, they require two: one for us, one for us, one for us, two for us. Well, they're merchants! Let's talk about the main thing. The renewal of the CLTC requires not only national MPs, public organizations, our Western partners, because with this composition of the CLTC, any election -- both presidential and parliamentary -- will be illegal, that is clear to all. Maybe now someone wants to lay the groundwork for declaring the results of the elections illegal — or how? We see such a rough political game. But I can remind you that this decision is to update the CLTC and allow the CLTC to hold elections in over 130 OTG require 1.5 million people. [[B in m in s a l in]] Listen to them. Those who believe in decentralization reform are waiting for the first U.T.S. elections to receive funding from the state budget. That's why we don't have to make any of these accusations, and now we're voting. I'm suggesting that we don't support the theft block project, because it's a conscious inhibition of the CBC upgrade process. A new legitimate CBC.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-19-m0.u159	Thank you. I'm betting on the vote on the draft Decree 9090-P1. The committee decided to take the floor. Whoever supports this decision, please vote. [[13:56:54]] For-21 The decision is not taken. The decree is rejected. Next is Project Rule 9090-2. And I invite you to the report of Ukrainian National Deputy Skrum Alona Ivanovna. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-19-m0.u160	Good afternoon, dear fellows! Alona's splinter, Fatherland faction. Colleagues, the update of the CLTC was due back in 2014-2015, which was one of the first promises made by Peter Alexiyovich Prashenko. And only the President can submit by law, taking into account the demands of factions and representatives from each faction to the Supreme Council. Peter Alekseiovich filed the application after 2.5 years. Instead, he was rewarded with honorary orders, if you remember. When he filed the application, he didn't just break the Ukrainian law, because he didn't even bring the Fatherland representative into this submission, so I'm going to keep quiet about the opposition block. He then violated the resolution of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe and promised to make a transfer. He passed the application – again violated the Parliamentary Assembly resolution of the Council of Europe. And I'm going to remind you that sanctions have been imposed on Russia for violating the same, well, resolution on Russia. Therefore, thank God that this Parliament has not voted against the resolution of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe for illegal submission. So what's going on? Of course, we need to update CBC and Homeland, and I've been talking about this for four years, but it needs to be updated legitimately. Because the CEC is one, one control body that determines the outcome of the election, it is the election of a united territorial community that can manipulate both the results and the elections. And this monitoring body must be independent and equidistant, by all resolutions of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, from every political faction. That is why representation must be of every political faction and no one can have the majority. That is why this body is controlling and independent. Do you think he'll be controlling, independent, where most of them will be at the Peter Dust Block and Peter Dusty? You're trying to create an organ by splitting it into two people, so you don't have enough for most of this one candidate. This is going to be illegal C.V.C. Do you want us to get the results of the President's election in the courts? Do you want the CEC not to meet illegally at all and submit to the courts that the CTC was unlawfully assigned? I'm talking about all the violations of the Rules, because you couldn't even register a bill on time, Mr. Andrey.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-19-m0.u161	Please, 10 seconds. All right, let's get this over with.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-19-m0.u162	Even within the time limit of the Rules, which is the law, it was not possible to register the submission on Monday night and to put it to a vote on Tuesday, depriving me of the right to submit an alternative bill as a national MP.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-19-m0.u163	Ten seconds, please, more.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-19-m0.u164	So Motherland really wants to upgrade the composition of the CBC for four years, but legitimate upgrades, so that the courts don't get the results of the election. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-19-m0.u165	Thank you. Please record: two in, two in. I've already made a report from the committee. Once again, the committee has decided to take the floor. I'll take you to the auditorium. Please, two in, two in. Ivan Krulko, Fatherland, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-19-m0.u166	Ivan Krulko, "The Fatherland" faction. Well, of course, it's very interesting to live in a hotel system: they wanted to do it at night, they voted in the morning. This is how we form the Central Election Commission, whose reform we demand, like the Fatherland faction, since early 2014, when we should have done it. Not the orders to distribute, but to submit, as it is written in the Constitution, and to reform the Central Electoral Commission, which has not been done. There was no problem in voting on the composition of the CLTC in this room. But there is a desire for President Dustenk to control the full composition of the CBC, control the quorum, control most if he wants fair and transparent elections, to control the entire CBC. But, you know, friends, it doesn't even bother me. We will certainly vote in favour of reforming the CLTC, because Hendowski has to be in charge of the laws, not head of the CLTC. What worries me is that an unconstitutional law can be brought before the Constitutional Court, and we have such precedents. Remember the Constitution that was adopted in this room with foot hands, what about it? The Constitutional Court declared this law unconstitutional. What can happen to the Law on Increase of the CLTC to 17 Members if it is declared unconstitutional? We will find ourselves in a situation where the Central Election Commission will not be able to determine the results of the vote, or the results that have already been cancelled will be hung under a great question mark. So we, as Fatherland, see that such actions can be based on the President's next election to declare illegal, and that's the scariest thing for our nation, where the Supreme Commander must be, because we're fighting Russia. That's what we're afraid of, and that's why we urge you not to violate the Rules. He must be kept.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-19-m0.u167	Thank you, colleagues. I'm still talking. I can't add any more time. Time is going to add 6 seconds, because unfortunately we're just not going to be able to look at it. Thank you, Mr. Ivan. There'll be another one. Mr. Taras of Self-Help, Shepherd. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-19-m0.u168	Honorable National Deputies, distinguished Ukrainians! The Self-Help faction wants to point out to everyone that this law under consideration and the decision to cancel the results that we are currently considering is not a law on the change of the Central Electoral Commission, it's not a law on the resignation of Hendowski. It's one person's hotel to take control of that new commission that the Supreme Council can create. And I want to. It's one person's hotel, the President, whose term is ending, and he's very worried that this term should be extended. I want to remind everyone of the history of the Central Electoral Commission's reelection, because it was this President who once filed a motion, but it was just another bluff for everyone in this room. Because remember, they came, these members of the Central Electoral Commission, the candidates for the Central Electoral Commission meeting with us in faction. I asked them if they had the opportunity to meet the figure, the person who served them. The answer was that no one -- they weren't invited to the President's Administration, they weren't invited, they weren't met, they weren't listening to their position. And it was obvious to everyone that it was simply a formality to shift responsibility to Parliament and not to take that political responsibility on its own. What do we have today? Recall the last weeks of the previous session, where the President decided to press Parliament and make it equally dependent on his future members of the Central Electoral Commission. And for the first time in history, this assembly of parliament has shown character and said that we will not bend. And then all the factions sitting here showed the factions of the President to the President himself that this Parliament could have its back. And then we've all decided with you that we have the power to form an independent body that will count the votes of our electorate, who will count the votes for that Parliament and the President who will be elected next year. Unfortunately, in these few months, something else has changed in these few days.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-19-m0.u169	Thank you, Mr. Taras. Please, from the Peter Dust Block, Arthur Gerasimov. I warned you, I can't add time. Please, Mr. Arthur.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-19-m0.u170	Dear Andrew Volodymyrovich, distinguished colleagues, and, above all, distinguished Ukrainians, it's very simple what's happening now. Those who are now talking about procedures and so forth are against the renewal of the Central Electoral Commission. Just like that. And no matter how they hide their feelings, no matter how they hide their thoughts, they're against the renewal of the Central Electoral Commission. All we have to ask is why. And the second. We have just heard a very large number of lies. The president of Ukraine submitted to Parliament almost three years ago. It wasn't considered. Then one gets in the way, the other one gets in the way. Passed the feed, it's jamming again. And the last. When "Fatherland" says there is no representative, Andrew Eustigneyev is whose representative? So now, please, everyone for the upgrade. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-19-m0.u171	Thank you. Colleagues, closing word, Shurma, Opposition Block, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-19-m0.u172	Igor Shurma, Opposition Block. First of all, I'm talking to Ukrainian citizens right now. I mean, frankly, a lot of people are listening, and I'm asking you to apologize for your emotionality, and I've been going through a lot of years, and, well, I'm looking at everything that's been going on here, and sometimes my emotions are falling apart, so if you'll excuse me. But I have to tell you something else. Today, I'm not going to make up the CBC. Put it in the hall and vote. And we will vote. I declare the official position of the Opposition Block. Hendowski is not supposed to work there for a long time. You're instead of extending his term, just as a colleague is speaking, says the president has. So are you a coalition or not?Oh, my God! Why aren't you listening to the President?Oh, my God! Why don't you listen to him, what are you putting him under today's blows? This is your job. Moreover, where was your position, how did he give it? Why were you sitting here, putting hay in your mouth? But you gave, but you like to give Hero of Ukraine to Savechenko, and then to prison. Now Hendowski is the Order. Soviet times are coming, comrades: the order has been given to prepare for dismissal. That's what you're going to do. And we're talking about this today, this is completely different. I tell these guys, you know, some people here have a good, cool brand called the People's Front. That's how this People's Front will come back against you. You won't even go to the villa, you know? Because there's too much of you to get into. That's what I'm telling you again. Today it is a matter of political corruption, bribery, and raiding. And that's true of those who are coalitions. We say, obey the law. We don't need anything. You have 15 people, please give us a quota that tells us about PARJE, and these are two people. We don't trade. And the fact that you are traders is a testimony that you have more than two people. You break the law, you'll all go to court. The story of Yanukovich should teach you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-19-m0.u173	Thank you. I'll give the performance, Ivan. I'll give a performance after that, I'll give a performance after that. I'm betting on the vote on the 9090-P draft. I'll give it to you later. Whoever supports the 9090-P Order, please vote. The one supporting the decision, please vote. [[14:08:33]] For-42 The decision is not taken. And the latest project, Rule 9090-P2. Welcome to the presentation of Dudenkov. I'll let you speak, I'll let you speak later, I'll give you an extra minute, John. I'll give it to you when the show's over, and I'll give it to you. [[B in m in s a l in]] Please, Bond Alexander.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-19-m0.u174	What's always breaking the Rules when we discuss any issues that are taken up in this room is already. I've said this before, it's a daily phenomenon. The worst part is that so many of us are used to it. And all of our remarks about the violation of the Rules are seen by the Head as blocking the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Now essentially. Yesterday it was voted with gross violation of the Ukrainian Law on the Rules Bill 9090, which increases the number of members of the CLTC from 15 to 17. That's what coalition members, the Presidential Coalition, are saying that we're blocking the process of updating the CLTC. I want to say, instead, you don't have to confuse the concept, there's a lot of what you want to be real. There is no need to confuse the update of the CVA with the desire to convert the CVA to the BPP branch of the President's Administration. That's what you're trying to do right now. In fact, as you increase the number of CFCs, you increase the impact, the impact, and the rights of all other factions. Someone's talking about someone who's trading. And I can tell you that this is a true thieving that you are now trying to monopolize the influence of the Central Electoral Commission by creating preconditions for for falsifications in future parliamentary and presidential elections. With regard to the vote of my draft ruling, I would like to point out that you have no right to put a draft order to the vote because it was not considered on the relevant regulatory committee. I've now been given materials that correspond to the regulatory committee's decisions regarding Decrees 9090-P and 9090-P1. There is currently no decision of the Regulatory Committee on the 9090-P2 Project. So please hold regular meetings.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-19-m0.u175	Thank you. Please record: two in, two in. Opposition Block, Storm. Shurma, please. Debenkov, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-19-m0.u176	My fellow Members, once again, I note that the stated ruling, which will now be in grave violation of the Rules, willfully violate the Supreme Council's Rules now, in violation of the Supreme Council's Rules, puts to the vote my ruling, which has not been subject to consideration by the Regulatory Committee. I don't know how you can be in a position after that. In fact, you are deliberately violating the Ukrainian Law on the Rules, so you can cause damage and question the legitimacy of the elections that have been held. Once again, there's no need to confuse efforts to block the upgrade process. You're 14, 15 years old. In the 14th year you held the presidential election, the election of the Supreme Council of Ukraine at the old warehouse of the CBC, he didn't bother you. Now, before the President and the Supreme Council of Ukraine's election, realizing that you've actually fallen into a fiasco, this political bankruptcy is yours, you know, you don't have support, you want to go under the President's patriotic slogans right now, right now, the corresponding changes that have been made tomorrow. I'm talking about what I'm saying right now, I'm officially saying that it's the Chairman of the Supreme Council of Ukraine consciously, without the decision of the regulatory committee to cancel the election results for draft Ukrainian Law No. 9090 amending the Ukrainian Law on the Central Electoral Commission, which is a gross violation of the Rules. Accordingly, I would like to point out that this ruling cannot now be put to the vote because it is a gross violation of the Rules. And this creates the conditions that the Constitutional Court of Ukraine will recognize the relevant Ukrainian law, which will be signed, I think tomorrow, or maybe it will be printed in "Governmental Courier", for unofficial information. And that's how they want to make the right decision. for falsifications of future possible presidential elections, in the election of the Supreme Council of Ukraine that.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-19-m0.u177	Thank you. Peter Dustenka's Block is making a statement. And from Fatherland, Ivan Krulko. Please, Mr. Ivan.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-19-m0.u178	Ivan Krulko, "The Fatherland" faction. Regrettably, I was not allowed to speak even with a repulsion, so I take the floor as a faction that was signed up for two or two. I understand why this whole mess is happening, this mouse running. Problem one. You fear the victory of Julia Timoshenko. Because you know very well that after her victory she will have to be held accountable before the law for all the actions that have been taken in the robbery of the Ukrainian army, the theft of the Ukrainian country, the entry of the country into a state of complete default. You realize that the oligarchs will no longer rule in the country, and you certainly do not like it. But I want to tell you that you can fear the victory of anyone, but you have no right to undermine the Ukrainian institutions of power. You can't put the Central Election Commission on hooks. Because if there is a violation of the rules in such a principled vote, it opens the way for the Constitutional Court to repeal the law. And after that cancellation, the entire composition of the CIA will be illegal. What are you doing? Because.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-19-m0.u179	Please, 30 seconds. One minute, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-19-m0.u180	In order to add two additional members of the CBC from the Peter Prashenka Block to the hotel, the whole Central Election Commission, the entire electoral process for the election of the President, the national MPs, the local authorities, is being put on hold. How, then, will power be formed? And who then implements the Kremlin’s plan to ensure that Ukraine does not have its own authority?
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-19-m0.u181	So let's move on to making a decision. And I'm voting on the draft Decree 9090-P2. Whoever supports this, I ask you to vote. [[14:16:00]] For-26 The decision is not taken. Now listen to me, colleagues, carefully what's going on. In the hall, when we found the opportunity to solve the problem, to select the members of the CEVC from all factions, and I, as Head of the Supreme Council, insisted that all factions be represented so that there were no intrigues here, so that the factions could not frame each other when I gave the option that satisfies all the factions, such resistance. What's with the resistance? What violation of the Rules do you have the right to speak of? Colleagues, did we forget here, in this Presidium, these people mutilated the Fatherland members here, in this Presidium. Here, in that room, they were voting with their hands, killing our boys in Maidan. Do not be in solidarity with them. These are the people who killed us, who in the days of Ribak did not break the Rules, they trampled on everything that was in Parliament. You don't have to be in solidarity with them. Their interest is understandable: Putin's instructions, the Kremlin's instructions to leave the old institutions behind. The new power, the new parliament has to choose a new composition of the CLTC, and we've unlocked this path, colleagues, and allowed all factions to be represented. And I want to remind you that PARlS, in fact, has emphasized that all the factions should be represented. And my personal position, my personal position to be one vacant place for a faction that is not represented, is my personal position. And so, colleagues, we have met all the requirements of the Parliamentary Assembly. We have taken a decisive step towards updating the Central Electoral Commission. And tomorrow we will update the Central Election Commission. And no dark forces will stop us, and no dark forces will be able to leave the old institutions in the new Ukraine. Glory to Ukraine! So I'm signing the Central Election Commission Act right now, and I'm handing it over to the President. Tomorrow at 10 a.m., I'm waiting for everyone to meet. Tomorrow is going to be an important day, it's going to be a change to the Constitution and a change to the CBC, and I'm sure it's going to be a success. At this meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, I declare closed.
