ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-27-m1.u1	Dear National Deputies! I'm asking you to come into the hall, get ready for registration. Heads of factions, please invite deputies to the Hall. So, colleagues, please prepare for registration. And please register to attend the evening meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Please register. [[16:04:35]] 358 national deputies registered. I declare the evening session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine open. I want to report that I have received a statement from two factions -- the People's Front faction and the Radical Party of Oleg Láška -- who are ready to take a break from the rostrum. I also want to remind you that we have two issues in the afternoon: the financial policy bloc, the transport block, the infrastructure unit, and that's why I'm counting on the active and active work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. But before we go to Bill 7055, please, by the way, the author and the committee prepare for the reports. I give the floor to two factions of Ivanchuku Andrija Vladimirovich, three minutes. And I ask the authors and the committee to prepare themselves for the financial policy cluster. Please, Andrew Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-27-m1.u2	Dear Mr. Head, distinguished national MPs! I will ask your attention for a moment, because this concerns all the MPs in this House. I have witnessed unprecedented events today under the walls of the Ukrainian Parliament, when the National Police, which we have created together, which we have with you to ensure that they are secure and protect our public order, today, under the walls of the Ukrainian Parliament in the centre of the European capital, unknown people have thrown 2-3 dozen grenades into the sherings of our Nazis and the Nazis, dumping them with bricks. The boys got hurt. And when all this is happening under the walls of Parliament, as far as possible. The demands placed on this tent town, they said, we demand a change in electoral legislation – Parliament has taken this decision, we demand the removal of parliamentary integrity – Parliament has taken this decision! Today's decision to put the Anti-Corruption Court Bill in order, and it's not under pressure, it's happening with the will of the Ukrainian Parliament, because we think it's also our message of the day. And I demand it. [[Applause]] And I'm asking the law enforcement system to give a hard time, because it's illegal! Believe me, I have a legal education, we can't build a European country when police officers who are supposed to protect us, our family, throw bricks, drop grenades under the Ukrainian Parliament. And the second question. Dear friends, you know what happens under the personal residence of the Attorney General of Ukraine. Someone may like Lucenko, someone may not like him, but he is the Attorney General of our country, and when some Georgians demand him to break the law, to defend the person who is accused of treason, during that state betrayal for the benefit of Russia, who is at war with us, and there is pressure on personal life. There are no prosecutions of Borisoglibsk, where investigators who have violated the case do not go to a court that must establish justice and pass judgment, but they are putting pressure on the Attorney General of Ukraine. Where? Under his personal dwellings, he is provided with impossible conditions to carry out his duties. And what do they ask him to do? They want him to put pressure on the investigation to protect the person who is being accused, to think of treason. That is why we demand that law enforcement officers come to Parliament and report on how they are going to guide this order. Because that's not why we were standing on Maidan. Every day, you and I are reforming to be a European country, and we are turning into a country where power, not law, will rule. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-27-m1.u3	Thank you. So, colleagues, let's move on to the next question of order of the day. I'm asking everyone to come into the hall, take their seats. A vote is about to take place. The first in the financial policy block is the draft Capital Markets and Regulatory Markets Act (No. 7055). And I, colleagues, considering that after two issues of financial policy, we have an important block of transport issues, I urge you to support the proposal so that we can consider the draft law in a simplified way. I ask everyone to mobilize as much as possible and ask the members of the Committee and the financial policy and transport issues to support this proposal so that we can proceed with the reduced procedure. So please prepare for the vote. And I'd like to support the proposal: Project 7055 review by summary procedure. Please vote. I'd like your support, colleagues. Every voice. Please vote. Please be supportive. Vote. [[16:10:19]] For 104 Please show by factions. Peter Poshenko's Block – 43, People's Front – 44, Opposition Block – 0, Self-help – 4, Radical Party – 9, Fatherland – 0, Will of the People – 1, Rebirth Party – 0. We didn't make it. I'll do it again, colleagues. And once again, as we agreed on the Conciliation Council, after lunch, we have to move on to the transport block. By the way, I'd like to invite the head of the Transport Committee to the hall. Mr. Jaroslav! In order to support this proposal, we will be able to deal quickly and effectively with the issue of financial policy. So once again, I strongly ask you to support the proposal to consider the first issue of the 7055 financial pool under a reduced procedure. And I would like to point out that the vote on this will break down, and we may lose sight of transport issues. Please vote. Please be supportive. We're voting for a reduced procedure. Please vote. Please be supportive. [[16:11:55]] For 122 I see there's a strong desire in the room to consider a reduced procedure. Okay. We turn to the draft Capital Markets and Regulatory Markets Act (No. 7055). And I invite you to report to the deputy head of the Committee on Financial Policy and Banking of Demczak Ruslan Evgeniovich. Please report. You have an order of up to 10 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-27-m1.u4	Dear Head! Dear National Deputies! Your view is proposed by the Ukrainian Capital Markets and Regulatory Markets Act (No. 7055), which fully updates the current laws of Ukraine on securities and stock markets, on the Trade Stock Exchange, and merges in one act of regulation of the market in commodities and derived financial instruments. Proposals based on recommendations of the International Association of Mergers and Derivatives, the European Parliament and the Council Directive 2014 on Financial Instruments Markets (MIFID II) and the European Parliament and Council 2014 Regulation on Financial Instrument Markets (MIFIR), as well as the European Parliament and Council Regulation 2014 on Banishment Derivative Derivatives of Central Counterparty and Trade Repositories (EMIR). The bill aims to ensure that the requirements of the Association Agreement are met in more than 10 Directives of the European Union. The bill proposes the introduction of an alternative stock trading venue (short for BTS), the transformation of a securities trader into a full investment firm. This will stimulate the use of stock exchange instruments to attract not only large enterprises but also medium and small businesses and start-ups, to establish a qualified investor institution that will allow professional customers to reduce requirements and allow them to operate among themselves without involving a professional intermediary, thus reducing costs. Without creating a separate legal entity, the stock markets can carry out the clearing activity of the central counterparty in relation to derivatives. An institution for bondholders and administrators has been established to issue corporate bonds as a mechanism for safeguarding the rights of bondholders. This will be a significant step forward in stimulating bond issuance as an alternative to bank lending. Construction of infrastructure for the derivative market, creation of a trade repository of a unified database for. In accordance with world practice, it lays down conditions for market transparency, facilitates control of the risk positions of participants, as well as the detection and prevention of abuse with derivatives. Clear delimitation and regulation of 4 regulated markets, namely: regulated stock market - securities trading, regulated commodity market - product trading, regulated money market - money market trading, regulated derivative market - derivative formation, and the creation of a single approach to regulation of market activities that trade in securities, derivatives, foreign exchange values, goods and other assets. The establishment of a market operator institution – a person who receives a license to organise trade and assets in the relevant market – a stock market or a commodity exchange. As well as the development of market and non-market markets of derivatives. The introduction of a new financial note. The bill also introduces provisions on the finality of the accounts, in accordance with Directive 98/26/EU, the transfer of funds and securities is irrevocable. And a breach of conduct in the bankruptcy of one of the sides of a securities agreement, a derivative, does not affect the reality of the relevant rights and regulations. The mechanism for protecting market participants, netting off, reducing the mutual liability of the parties to derivatives, if one party is unable to pay, is the only cumulative commitment, i.e. the difference between the volume of liabilities of each party. The bill proposes to radically reform the market for securities and the market for goods. Consequences of adoption: enhancing the ability of Ukrainian companies to engage capital, stimulating the involvement of domestic investors, reducing the risk of non-compliance, developing market infrastructure on the basis of unified approaches, and increasing transparency in the execution of non-borrowing derivatives. Providing transparent asset prices that will be admitted to markets in organized markets and thus increasing the confidence of foreign investors in the capital markets of Ukraine. I'm ready to go to.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-27-m1.u5	Questions.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-27-m1.u6	Questions.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-27-m1.u7	Thank you. Please, three minutes to ask. Anyone who wishes to ask a question, please take part in the recording and please sign in. Olena Babak, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-27-m1.u8	I'd like you to pass it on to Ostrich.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-27-m1.u9	Passes the word to Tetjani Ostrecki, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-27-m1.u10	Dear colleagues, I have the next question to the distinguished rapporteur. According to the text of the bill, it is proposed that the National Securities Commission be empowered to regulate not only the stock but also the commodity markets, such as the oil and gas markets. So today we have a warning from the European Energy Community that this will lead to traders being subject to the requirements of banks and financial institutions. Please comment and explain to the stock market regulator why to regulate gas and electricity markets, which will definitely lead to gas for the population. Because the implementation of these regulations to financial institutions will cost money to be translated into tariffs.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-27-m1.u11	I think there's a game of two things: markets and markets as a playground. This means regulation, not a sector market, for example an energy market, but a market as a stock market. That is, the Securities Commission will regulate the business of the trading venue itself. And if you go into this trading area or you don't go into this course, it's going to be the decision of the department of profile, including the energy market. So it's not going to affect the energy supply in any way, except that if you make that decision, I think it's more. There will be more chance for a market, not just energy, for agriculture, for a market, for example, for metals. It's going to be creating a fair price on our internal market. So this could be just an extra plus, but there's no way that market regulation is in general.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-27-m1.u12	Thank you. Didenko gives the floor to Ostrecki's question. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-27-m1.u13	Mr. Reporter, as soon as you answer my question, you said that giving the Commission of Securities and Stock Markets the authority to regulate commodity markets would result in price cuts in commodity markets. But even the name of the commission — the securities and the stock market — clearly points to its subject matter. So I'm asking you now to provide further economic justification for the distribution of this commission's powers to the regulation of commodity markets.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-27-m1.u14	Once again, this isn't about the energy market or the sector as a whole, it's just about trading venues. And there's, well, it's just a translation of the term "branch market" and the market as. It's just changing now. A regulated market operator means a stock exchange. We need to read the stock market here, not the branch. And that's why you think it's a regulation of the field. No, not at all. The Commission regulates only trading venues or regulates contracts, such as those in the off-market market.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-27-m1.u15	Thank you. The time for questions is exhausted. Now come out of the factions. It's given to factions and groups for three minutes. Anyone who wants to make a statement, please hold the record. From factions and groups, yes. Please record the performance. From Self-Help Sidorovich Ruslan Mikhailovich. Turn on the microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-27-m1.u16	Please give the floor to Deputy Ostrecki.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-27-m1.u17	Please, Deputy Ostrikov.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-27-m1.u18	Thank you. Dear colleagues, today we are considering the draft Law on Capital Markets and regulated markets. Indeed, Ukrainian capital markets have a number of problems that hinder the development of a permanent economic system in this segment. These are also low disclosure standards in the stock market, and this is a lack of transparent pricing for assets that are admitted to trading. Moreover, the sixth part of the Ukrainian commodity markets is in liquidation, the absence of a derivative guarantee system, and the systematic supervision of the derivative market. Reforming the regulated capital market is a priority. a priority task for the implementation of the second level of the pension scheme. But is it the bill that we are now considering all the problems I have heard? If we look closely at what is happening there, what is being proposed by this bill, we see that the Securities and Stock Market Commissions are proposing to authorize the regulation not only of the stock market but also of all, without exception, of the commodity markets: oil, gas, coal, electricity, agrarian and chemical products, currency, money, and others. So we think that combining in a stock market regulator's power of attorney is, well, giving it power. Moreover, it is unprecedented in world practice. And it's not just our opinion, we've got a number of comments from profile associations, from markets in commodity markets, even as I've already quoted, from the European Energy Community. What worries us is that the concentration of such excessive powers in one commission, which clearly identifies the subject matter of its regulation, is the stock market and the circulation of securities. This will lead to the fact that all product market control functions will be monopolized in one body. And if, in part of the derivatives, this commission has some agreement with the National Bank, it will be the only and final regulator in the product market regulation. That doesn't suit us very much, for example. In particular, the commission will determine what signs indicate the actual creation of an organized and therefore licensed market. And the signs can be not only markets, but numerous information and trading platforms and Internet handicrafts like Prom.ua, OLX, ProZorro and so on. What is more, the commission is withdrawing its normative acts from the need to be legalized and under full control of the registration of the normative act by the Ministry of Justice of Ukraine. Moreover, there are monopolistic prerequisites for all derivative transactions to go through.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-27-m1.u19	30 seconds, please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-27-m1.u20	There are prerequisites for all derivative transactions to go through an intermediary that will definitely result in the cost of such transactions. So, given all of these observations, we think that this bill needs to be sent for further work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-27-m1.u21	Please give the next speech from the Peter Prashenko Block of the People's Deputy Dovbenko. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-27-m1.u22	Colleagues, what do we have today? We have 620 commodity markets in our country, more than a hundred of which are in liquidation. We have five stock markets that are 2.4 times lower than their costs. And we have another situation (this is for colleagues who asked questions). We have trade in markets in Ukraine, and we don't have any, even though we have a raw economy in Ukraine, raw materials, we don't have any index of goods or other markets, we have to sell our products wherever we want. And I think that when you have this great potential for a raw economy here, not having it is crazy. Now let's move on. We don't have fair and transparent procedures on these commodity markets. They're not there, if that's not there. We have a supply of raw materials based on bilateral agreements, and it's based on foreign indices, which is also abnormal for our raw Ukrainian economy. Next, there is no possibility of hedges from price and currency fluctuations for participants in commodity markets. We don't have that either. The regulation of commodity markets in Ukraine clearly and closely does not meet European Union standards if we want to. Now what this bill 7055 is proposing. First. We want to create market and non-market derivatives markets, both for energy and for agricultural raw materials. Next, it will give market participants both energy and agrarian products, price risk management tools, which we don't have in Ukraine, and we should. We want to create additional opportunities to invest in energy and agrarian markets, that's what we want to create in Ukraine. And I think that our economy can get, from the introduction of this bill, first of all, I want to say that we, market participants in energy and agrarian products, will get tools, I already said, hedges and monetary and price risks, future energy and agrarian products markets, five years from now, according to our estimates, can make up about 20 percent of GDP. As we can see, this is a fairly serious potential that is not active today. I think that bringing energy and agrarian markets into the financial system will provide a sense of synergy for the development of these markets. And I think it's this opportunity that will give us, by voting in the first reading of this bill, to the second reading to unlock the potential. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-27-m1.u23	Thank you. From the Radical Party, Oleg Lazko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-27-m1.u24	Dear colleagues! Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. An extremely important question, which is being addressed, is of little interest to anyone, because few people are learning about finance, about the economy. But it's still up to what kind of finance in Ukraine, which economy, which market conditions, depends on the fate of every Ukrainian. I want to show you the report, the Jubilee Report of the Roman Club by the age of 50 from its founding. The Roman club brings together experts, politicians, economists, people who think heads, and analyzes many, many years in advance. These are the results of an analysis of liberal globalization that will be won as a result of liberal globalization. What do we see on this table? They win the elite, they lose the middle class. And the key is to win those states that run the politics of public air. Citizens' incomes are growing where the state, through monetary policy instruments, export support and a number of other instruments, is helping, supporting, protecting the national producer. Those who have become involved in liberal economic politics lose. Even in the United States, if we look at it, since 1979, the real income of citizens in the United States has grown by 1.2 percent. The average in the United States 30 years ago was 62 percent, today 49 percent, when Trump arrived, less than 50 percent. Here are the results of this liberal policy of globalization, but the elite will win. Those who have access to resources, the International Monetary Fund and others who run the world are the Gold Billion. Today, we are offered, Ukraine, a policy of being beggars forever, forever being a raw colony, forever sitting on a needle of credit and getting married forever. What does our team offer? We propose a policy of economic nationalism, as is done in China, Turkey, South Korea, Singapore, where it is protected by its own national producer, where it is supported and where the state intervenes in economic processes for economic development. We're told that the liberal market is responsible. There must be a fair market, not a free market. Righteous! Because when contracts are signed, with Ukrainians losing their jobs, and Ukraine becoming an exporter of cheap labor and raw materials, it is not a fair market. And our partners tell us, you give us the raw materials, let your employees go to Poland, in Portugal, and you still have the loans you sell your mother for! We propose to change this policy, to pursue a policy of protection.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-27-m1.u25	30 seconds, please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-27-m1.u26	National interest policy, Ukrainian job protection policy and national manufacturing policy. First of all, high added value, new scientific developments and high technology -- that's what the future of the third millennium will be in the global world. Not to get married! Instead of bringing in investors, let's go, ask for credit! It's a policy of poverty and begging. We have an alternative!
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-27-m1.u27	Please, from the "Fatherland" faction, Alexander Kugel, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-27-m1.u28	Thank you. The Fatherland faction, Alexander Kugel. The data project that we're looking at is duplicated by the analogous one that we've already discussed with you and returned to work on is Bill 3498. Not only does the project not meet the stated objective in the explanatory note – the adaptation of the stock market, but it does not comply with the EU Rules and directives, and it also contains a number of corruption factors. For example, it narrows down the concept of connected persons, which is contrary to Ukrainian legislation on the fight against corruption. Second, it discriminates against the interests of minority shareholders by levelling the role of emissions. The public document, which is replaced by the domestic issue decision, severely limits access to public and free information of the State Securities Release Register, imposes an obligation on the board of directors to sell their own shares at the request of the owner of the dominant stock control package. Well, for example, he allows the shareholders to use the right to vote for the stock purchased, which is grossly contrary to EU legislation and will result in the emergence of new MMFs. Third. In fact, it offers hidden privatization, granting shareholders, including state and municipal, the right to issue bonds, to sell debt with its subsequent conversion into cooperative rights in the absence of repayment of such debt. The logic of this project is that Naftogaz, or a military plant that has a long-term bond debt, will be able to swap its shares for a long-term debt to a lender outside the privatization process. Four. The bill reveals the uncontrolled admission of foreign securities sellers to the Ukrainian stock market, which actually legalizes the export of Ukrainian capital abroad, while the foreign issuer is exempt from the obligation to publish the prospectus in Ukrainian. It monopolizes depository functions, as Mrs. Ostrovka also mentioned in the Ukrainian National Depository, whose 50 percent of the capital is owned by private individuals, so it deprives the National Commission of depository activities, other depository institutions, and the same, that private pension funds introduce authorization, hidden licenses, gives the National Commission on the one hand not necessarily broad functions. And that's why I did.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-27-m1.u29	30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-27-m1.u30	I want to stress that the Fatherland faction will not vote, support this bill, and suggest that it be returned to the authors. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-27-m1.u31	Thank you. Colleagues exchanged thoughts about the factions. I now request to sign up for a discussion by the Ukrainian national deputies. Then the committee representative will be able to summarize the discussion, and we'll come up with a result. I'm asking you to sign up. Please, Mr. Semenha.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-27-m1.u32	Pass it on. Please, the word of Oleg Lavrik.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-27-m1.u33	I didn't hear you. I'm sorry. Oleg. Oleg Lavrick, please, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-27-m1.u34	Oleg Lavrick, Self Help Union. Indeed, the question of the derivative market, the capital market, as this law is now called, already registered in Parliament, we've been working with them for about a year and a half. And this whole time period is about one simple thing: do we want to talk about the real development of the derivative market, or do we really want to systematize the equity market in Ukraine, or do we fight for the regulator's authority. So Self-Help has supported and supported any process that relates to the development of the derivative market itself, the capital market. But, my friends, if we continue to mix sacred and sinful in the same law, we will never reach our goal. So as long as there are in this law. The law will apply to regulations, their activities, their financing and so on, self-help will not be supported by law. As far as the derivatives market is concerned, we and our market colleagues will continue to work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-27-m1.u35	Thank you. Please, People's Demczak. I'm sorry, you still have your entry. The faction will no longer use this time. Please, People's Demczak.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-27-m1.u36	Ladies and gentlemen, I'd like to focus on the last two performances. Indeed, there was a previous bill, it was very similar in its principle of regulation of the stock market (3498), and there were rules on increasing regulatory authority. There's a new bill now that has all these rules. I want to. First of all, I'm talking to the Self-Help faction, because they were focusing on it, and the BUT factions. These standards are not in the bill right now. And we're going to be discussing in another, maybe, Bill 6303, where these rules are included, by increasing the commission's authority. Today it's purely a market bill. So I ask you to unite and support this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-27-m1.u37	Thank you. And please, Mrs. Romanova to Podlisecki. Please, Mr. Podlisecki.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-27-m1.u38	Leo Podlisecki, Self-Help faction. The bill introduces amendments to the Code of Commerce, which deletes an absolute article on commodity markets, especially in this article, states that the electricity market is regulated by the Law on Electricity. Today another Law on the Power Market is in force, but it still has it. This is such a sectoral, narrow-minded law that determines the activity in the electricity market. In my view, it is absolutely pointless to make changes and discard the possibility of regulating narrow-profile markets, such as the electricity market, the heat market, and the transfer. whether the gas market is the same and transfer all the power to regulate the newly created regulator. And more profile markets like the electricity market, it's regulated by completely different rules, because there's a market "in advance," an intraday market, a balancing market, and a lot of other things. In particular, today, actually these days, we are discussing secondary legislation that will regulate these markets, such as market rules, market rules "in advance" and so forth. I find it absolutely wrong to hand over to the newly created regulator the power to control these commodity markets. And that's why I absolutely don't support the adoption of this bill. Thank you. And the Self-Help faction won't support it.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-27-m1.u39	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I ask everyone to return to the session room. There was a discussion of the bill, actually, and the factions came forward, and the MPs came forward. I ask Mr. Ruslan Demczak to the rostrum, he will sum up the discussion. More than that, several comments were made by colleagues. I think a committee representative will now offer a compromise option that we can accept with you in order not to bury this bill. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-27-m1.u40	Dear colleagues, first of all, I think the problem is the incomprehensible substance of the bill. Let me just explain what derivatives are. Derivatives is a suspended contract to put goods through some term at some specific price. Please tell me if you can guarantee it. This is exactly the derivative that the Securities Commission controls. Can we guarantee the execution of this derivative if no physical supply or physical pay is guaranteed? Of course not. So, of course, what we need for the market to work is not just to regulate derivatives, that is, those contracts that are the result, but also the terms of the underlying contracts and the terms of trade in organized sites. So these are the requirements for the site itself, they're high enough for a foreign investor when he comes in, he believed -- he believed our market, he believed the conditions that the commission on securities would put high conditions for him to understand that money could be made here. And so that he could work in this system: a foreign-world fund could go into the market in the morning, sell currency, trade in commodity markets, or trade in derivatives, buy his currency and get out in the evening. It's all in this bill. The second, which is very important, this bill is being restored to the corporate bond market. This is another block that can complement possible investment involvement. Both the capital market and the bond market, it creates an additional volume of investment, an additional volume of transactions in the Ukrainian market. And besides, as I've said before, in no way does this bill increase the authority of the Securities Commission. We took into account on the committee the comments that were before the previous bill and took them out. In fact, it is a bill that will enable Ukraine to attract new investments that are about the size of the banking sector. This is a very serious volume and a very big breakthrough for our capital market. So I think all of those remarks, if they were mostly about regulation of commodity markets, although that's not true. Still, we may be working with the definitions themselves, with the glossary. And maybe this way we emphasize that this is not about regulating any sectoral approaches, that is, creating some price, there's "Rotterdam plus," "Rotterdam minus," no, absolutely no relation to that. We're going to work with the glossary, and I think we're going to go to the second reading of the bill, which is going to make all the factions. What comments have been made today, we will consider. So, reverends.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-27-m1.u41	30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-27-m1.u42	Please support this bill in the first reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-27-m1.u43	So the discussion is over. I'm asking all the national deputies to come into the hall. And I ask the factions to invite the deputies to the hall. The discussion demonstrated that there was no unanimous position. Therefore, it will be important to mobilize those who adhere to the law. And I'm asking from the government's bed, including going into the hall and getting ready for the vote. So, colleagues, heads of factions, take up jobs. We're moving on to making a decision. So, can we vote? There's more MPs coming in. I'll wait a few more seconds. Please take up jobs. All right, while the deputies take their seats, please take one minute of the commission's head. The head of the Securities Commission for one minute on the importance of this bill. And invite the deputies into the hall, please. Put the microphone in the government's bed.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-27-m1.u44	Good afternoon. Ladies and gentlemen, the draft law actually gives us the opportunity to create real markets in Ukraine that operate in the EU and the United States. The parallels are Chicago Stock Exchanges, London Stock Exchanges. In fact, we are currently importing stock quotations from Rotterdam, Chicago. This bill actually gives our farmers and users the opportunity, and our customers of electricity, of natural gas, to provide a transparent market in Ukraine. We believe that this bill will put us in the same league that now has developed economies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-27-m1.u45	Thank you. So let's move on to making a decision. And I'm voting on the draft Capital Markets and Regulatory Markets Act (No. 7055) as a basis. Colleagues, just on the ground. Corrections can be made between the first and second readings. If you'll excuse me, I'd like to vote. Vote on the basis of 7055. Please be supportive. Vote. [[16:49:04]] For 172 Colleagues, will you back up first? Let's do it again. The next proposal envisaged by the Rules is to send a proposal to the Committee to prepare for the re-reading of the first reading. Let us unite around this proposal, colleagues, so that we do not lose the bill. I ask you to support the draft Capital Markets Act and the regulated 7055 markets in the Committee to prepare for the re-reading of the first reading. Please vote, please support. Vote. Let's vote, colleagues, be careful. [[16:50:09]] For 208 And the final offer is to return the subject to the legislative initiative. So, then, colleagues, the next step is to return the subject to the legislative initiative. I'm asking everyone to get together so we don't lose the bill. I ask everyone to take up their jobs and support this offer. They're all together. And I'm voting on the proposal that the draft Capital Markets and regulated markets Bill 7055 should return the subject to the right of legislative initiative for further development. Please vote, please support, colleagues, every voice has weight. Please vote, please support. Vote. Please be supportive. Vote. [[16:51:08]] For 223 Three votes. Now we're going to go back to this proposal. I'm asking for jobs, colleagues, three votes. With me, I can see they're walking around the hall and they're not voting for MPs. So, colleagues, I now propose to return to the vote for the return of the subject of the legislative initiative. Please show by factions. And please now, colleagues, unite, return, and then I will re-establish the subject of the legislative initiative. Please be assembled for return. I'd like your support, colleagues. And carefully, every voice. Please return to the proposal to return the subject to the legislative initiative. Please vote and please support. Vote. [[16:52:09]] For 233 We're back. And I am voting on the proposal that the draft Capital Markets Act and regulated markets (7055) should return the subject to the right of legislative initiative for further development. I would like everyone to vote carefully. Please be supportive. Vote please, colleagues. Please be supportive. [[16:52:44]] For 243 Decision taken. The next issue from the financial committee is the draft Act amending some Ukrainian legislative acts to promote foreign investment (6141). And I ask you to support the consideration of the reduced procedure. Please support me. [[16:53:23]] For-182 Decision taken. And I invite you to report to the head of the subcommittee of Risannek Pavel Alexanderovich. Please, Mr. Paul.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-27-m1.u46	Good afternoon, dear fellows! Paul Rizanenko, head of the Securities and Markets Committee of Finance and Banking. Today, your view is suggested to consider a draft Ukrainian Act amending some Ukrainian legislation on the promotion of foreign investment (Registration No. 6141) (since 27.02.2017). According to current legislation, foreign investors are required to open direct accounts in securities in Ukrainian depository institutions, which is a deterrent to foreign investors' investment because they lack confidence in Ukrainian depository institutions, as for many institutions in general. Today, opening an account requires a large number of documents and is costly and quite long-lasting for a foreign investor. The bill proposes the establishment of an institution of a foreign financial intermediary to hold foreign investors' securities, which will significantly simplify the foreign investment process in the securities of Ukrainian issuers, protect investment and be an important step towards enhancing the confidence of foreign investors in Ukraine's depository system. Appropriately, it is proposed to establish an independent legal regime for the calculation of property rights of foreign customers of global custodians or other financial intermediaries for securities in Ukraine’s depository system. To this end, legislation on the depository activity of new legal categories is envisaged: a nominal holder, an account in the securities of the nominal holder, and an appropriate adjustment related to the underlying aspects of the depository activity. In addition, the bill foresees restrictions on the circle of foreign financial institutions that may open an account in the securities of the nominal holder to calculate the securities rights of its clients, namely, such a financial institution should be registered in a State that is a member of the EU or a member of the Financial Action Group to combat FATF money-laundering or.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-27-m1.u47	30 seconds, please add.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-27-m1.u48	Or the Committee of Experts of the Council of Europe on Mutual Assessment of Anti-Money Laundering and Financing of MONEYVAL Terrorism and the additional requirements set by the National Securities and Stock Market Commission. The findings of the bill were all positive, the Cabinet of Ministers, the Ministry of Finance, the Securities Commission, the Nacdepositaries, all supported the bill, stressing the importance of bringing Ukraine's depository system closer to international standards.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-27-m1.u49	Thank you. Please finish 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-27-m1.u50	Taking into account what has been said, I ask the National Deputies to support the draft Act amending some Ukrainian legislative acts to promote foreign investment (No. 6141) in the first reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-27-m1.u51	Thank you. Please record: two in, two in. Please. From Self-Help, Lavrick Oleg Vasilovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-27-m1.u52	Oleg Lavrick, Self Help Union. Indeed, the explanatory note to the bill states that the bill will simplify foreign investment and protect investment. But let's see if that's really enough for a foreign investor to go to Ukraine and be guaranteed to protect his investment. Is it possible that we have a judicial system in Ukraine, and how long have we been talking about the establishment of the Anticorruption Court, and until then we cannot accept this law in the Hall? Is it possible that in Ukraine we have already overcome corruption and, above all, political corruption? In order to combat it, a new electoral law must be adopted on a proportionate basis by Ukraine’s national deputies. That's why this law is needed, it needs to be supported, self-help will vote for it. But this is certainly not a condition for protecting foreign investment and bringing an investor here to Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-27-m1.u53	Thank you. The closing statement will now be, in two minutes there will be a vote, and I ask you to invite all the deputies to the hall, the heads of the factions, please invite the deputies to the hall. From Fatherland, Yvchenko gives the floor to Kugel Alexander. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-27-m1.u54	Fatherland, Alexander Kugel. I want to stress that I'm surprised that this bill went into the hall and there's no anti-corruption committee expertise. Because this bill provides for the creation of blind trusts in Ukraine. If there is a blind trust in America, where the President stores his funds, but there is a law to disclose information, the bill proposes in Ukraine that foreigners create companies and sell securities from Ukraine and abroad. I want to remind you, Your Honor, you must have forgotten that two months ago we were in this room. You accepted because we were against "Fatherland", a bill submitted by the President, which provided for exemption from non-resident tax on securities. A very interesting "trap" for those who fight corruption. This bill should be returned to the author for further work, and I would like to draw attention to those who are preparing such drafts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-27-m1.u55	Thank you. So the discussion is over, let's move on to the decision-making process. And I'm asking the people's deputies to take up jobs and prepare for a decision. I urge you to return to the hall and prepare for the vote. So I'm voting on the draft Act amending some of Ukraine's legislative acts to promote foreign investment (No. 6141) on the basis of the committee's proposal. Corrections and suggestions can be made between the first and second readings. It is now being proposed by the committee to accept as a basis. Please vote and please support, colleagues. We're voting carefully. Please support me. Vote! [[17:01:17]] For the 220. We didn't make it. I'll be right back. But I'm asking you to take up jobs. [[B in m in s a l in]] No, we're done! I ask you to prepare for the vote, come into the hall. And I ask you to vote in favour of returning to the vote in favour of draft Law 6141. I'm asking for maximum attention and mobilization. Please vote for the return. Please support, we vote carefully, colleagues, we vote. Please be supportive. [[17:02:03]] For 237 We're back. And I'm putting Bill 6141 to the vote as a basis. Please vote, please support. Let's vote, colleagues, on the basis of care. [[17:02:27]] For 236 Decision taken. And, colleagues, 5:00 -- we're moving on to transport, as we agreed on the Conciliation Council, after lunch we're moving on to transport. And the first issue in the daytime is the bill amending some Ukrainian legislation in the area of road construction and maintenance (No. 6766). And I'm asking you to support the proposal for a reduced procedure. Please support me. Vote. [[17:03:13]] For 177 Decision taken. And I'd like to invite you to the floor of the Ukrainian National MP, Mr. Alexander Igorevich. Please, Alexander Igorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-27-m1.u56	Respectful colleagues, the presiding officer, according to the World Health Organization, are among the most dangerous roads in Ukraine at this time. We take fifth place on the roads after countries such as Malaysia, Argentina, Greece, and Cambodia. Every day we learn from the news that accidents that take lives and cripple people happen almost every day. In addition to the human factor, one of the causes of such high roadside accidents is the quality of road cover. This year, the budget provides significant cost for road repairs, while the development of new infrastructure requires significant financial resources. One solution to the problem of financing the construction of new roads may be the granting by the State of the right to build and use the road on the basis of a concession contract. The State benefits from attracting private money by retaining ownership of an object by state; it can increase the efficiency of the facility’s management by handing it over to a private person, thereby enhancing competition in the field of quality of service. The concessioner receives access to previously unattractive and strategically important economic objects, risk distribution. The State guarantees the return of the funds invested. In developing countries, according to the World Bank, 70 percent of concession contracts in infrastructure are made up. These contracts are signed in such areas as railways, automobiles, seaports, and airports. Today, concession contracts are concluded in.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-27-m1.u57	Colleagues, please report to me for another minute. I don't think anyone will mind? Please, one more minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-27-m1.u58	Today, concession contracts are also made in countries such as France, Germany, the United States, and Britain. Bill 6766 provides that concessions may be passed on for the construction and operation of the road of general use of State importance. Once a decision has been taken on the construction, operation of the road that can be put into concession, it is prohibited for the executive authorities to take any action to provide land for the construction, exploitation, use or ownership of citizens or legal persons. The decision to return. The Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine accepts the concession contest. The Ukrainian Minister’s office determines the maximum amount of pay per car, the conditions under which concessional road use takes place. Concession payments are included in the national budget of Ukraine. Roads, their plots, and their roads refer to the consideration of salaries.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-27-m1.u59	30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-27-m1.u60	only if they are substantially improved. I would like to point out that this bill provides for the transfer of concessions only to those parts of the road that will be built, not already built. In view of the above, I would like to take this bill into account, to support it and to support it as a whole in the first reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-27-m1.u61	Thank you. The co-report invites the head of the Dublin Transport Committee, Jaroslav Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-27-m1.u62	Dear Mr. Head! Dear National Deputies! Your opinion is on a bill to amend some Ukrainian legislation in the area of road construction and operation (registration number 6766) (worked on 02.10.2017) introduced by the National Deputies. The purpose of the bill is to improve the legislative regulation of the construction and operation of the roadways of general use of state importance under concession conditions. The adoption of the bill will help create conditions for investment in the sector and the country as a whole to build new roads and their exploitation. The bill amends Ukraine's laws on sources of financing for road agriculture, on concessions, on concessions for the construction and operation of highways. In particular, the concept of concession is clarified, the content of the decision of the Cabinet of Ministers regarding the construction of roads on concessional terms, the content of the decision of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine to hold a concession contest. Authorize the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine to determine the maximum amount of pay per road on concessional roads. The rule of alternative travel is specified that it should be free of charge and not exceed more than twice the length of the concession road. A rule is introduced that the decision to buy land for construction, capital repair, reconstruction, and maintenance of motor vehicles is not valid if, within 3 years of the date of the decision, the relevant executing authority or the local authority has not applied to the court. The Transport Committee, at its meeting on 8 November 17, considered a bill amending some Ukrainian legislation in the area of construction and construction. 30 seconds, if you don't mind.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-27-m1.u63	Please add a minute to the committee head.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-27-m1.u64	The Transport Committee, at its meeting on 8 November 17, considered a bill on amendments to some Ukrainian legislative acts on the construction and operation of road transport, registration number 6766, completed in 2.10.17 by the people's deputies Urbanski, Kozir and others, and decided to offer it to the Supreme Council of Ukraine as a basis and as a whole. Please support the adoption of Bill 6766 as a basis and as a whole. Dear people's deputies, I know that. I ask that during the presentations there be further comments and amendments by a member of the Transport Committee, by "Fatherland" by Sergei Eutuska and by "self-help", the representative of Self-Help will speak, too, and certain additions to this bill will be identified. And with these additions, I ask you to vote as a basis and as a whole, and I ask you to support the national MPs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-27-m1.u65	Thank you. Please record: two in, two in. From the People's Front, Burbak Maxim, leader of the faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-27-m1.u66	Dear colleagues! The People's Front faction will support this bill because it thinks that a road concession is an additional investment instrument. And all the investments that will be involved in Ukraine from our Western partners must be protected. So it's an investment protection tool. I believe that concession is essential to help us upgrade Ukraine's infrastructure. Because we know that in order to repair and build new roads, it will take Ukraine 10 years to finance at least 10 billion bracelets a year. It's very good that you and I have resumed the operation of the road fund and now all the excise from the fuel is going to build and capitalize the roads. But this is not enough to substantially and quickly upgrade transport infrastructure. So I think the People's Front faction will support this bill. It'd be an offer to the Fatherland factions and Self-Help, and it'd be better in writing. Because so that they don't destroy the very essence of this bill. So the faction will support the bill and think that all of our colleagues in the session hall should support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-27-m1.u67	Thank you. From Self-Help, Babak Olenna Valerievna. The word is given to the underlings.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-27-m1.u68	To the adolescent, please pass the word.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-27-m1.u69	Leo Podlisecki, Self-Help faction. Building roads on concessional conditions is really a world practice and one of the tools for involving investors in the creation of infrastructure, big infrastructure projects. Sadly, no concession road was built in 20 years of independence. There was the only attempt in the Krakovets area, the point of entry, and then, it was a failure. Of course, this bill can create the conditions for building roads on concessional terms. But in the way that it is now prescribed, there are very large risks that the data that this law will not be used to build new roads will be used to transfer roads in a normal state to a private, of course, investor who will receive the costs and the costs under way as compensation to the concessionaire. That's why the Self-Help faction insists and proposes to add 9 rights. If that is the case, we generally vote in a single vote and vote as a basis and as a whole. 9 right-handers, where we're going to make it clear that all these transmissions are going to be related to the newly built roads. So I'm willing to point out all the points under the transcript where this is to be done. In general, it's going to be 9 phrases. a new road. I'm ready to take the floor and speak again.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-27-m1.u70	Thank you. After the discussion, we will hold a consultation. And if the committee doesn't object, we can make these amendments. Talk to each other to make an agreed position. Upon completion, Mr. Jaroslave, upon completion. I'll give you my word, whether you or Podlisecki, you're going to sound like a stenographer and then I'm going to put it to the vote. From Fatherland, Yvchenko gives the floor to Sergey Eutuska. Please, Mr. Sergei.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-27-m1.u71	Thank you, Mr. Head. Sergey Eutuszek, "The Fatherland" faction. Dear colleagues, the purpose of the bill is to address the issues of building and exploiting the roadways of general use of state importance under concessional conditions. Of course, given the state of our roads, any investment aid we have today, it would be very appropriate to build new roads. Because we understand that roads are the vessels of the economy that will make it possible to thrive, to strengthen all sectors of the economy. Instead, I want to say that we see a number of comments in this bill. One point is that it is still predicted that the concessionaire is entitled to compensation for part of the under-received annual income in the form of no more than 30 percent of the planned income. I suggest. And the faction can support this bill if the head of the committee is found under the transcript that the concessionaire can get no more than 15 percent of the planned. Also in the bill, honourable colleagues, we do not understand or see that this refers exclusively to new new roads. I would also like the chairman of the committee to make it clear in the bill that this applies only to newly built roads. And so the Motherland is ready to support. What is more, there is an alternative construction of alternative routes that, in the event of a lack of money in one or another of the subjects who will be able to travel by one way or another, can be used by free roads. In that case, Fatherland will support the bill as a whole.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-27-m1.u72	Thank you. From Peter Poshenko's Block, Kurilo Vitaly Semenovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-27-m1.u73	Dear National Deputies! Dear citizens of Ukraine! Vitaly Kurilo, 113th constituency, Luganskina. I think all of us are tired of talking about roads, and we should start making roads. The bill must therefore be supported. And the Peter Dusty Block faction will definitely support it. Today the state of roads in Ukraine is in a terrible state. Worse roads than we have anywhere in Europe. So we need to make decisions and roll up our sleeves and work. But at the same time, there are a number of warnings that are necessary for them to really push us forward, not backward, and that we do not have that kind of money theft on the roads that we had before. What I mean. We have to make it clear that concessions, they only apply to new roads. Those roads that have already been built by the State should not be passed on to concessions. As far as new roads are concerned, please also pass them on to us on benefits, on whatever conditions may be necessary to build our roads. And once again, I urge everyone to support this bill, it's enough, it's sufficiently well-founded, and it's an initiative of the Peter Prashenko bloc. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-27-m1.u74	Thank you. Thus, all the desirable representatives of factions and groups spoke. Now, as promised, I will give the final word to the head of the committee. But before that, I ask the heads of factions and the Supreme Council Secretariat to invite members to the Hall, in two minutes we will move on to the decision-making process. Please, Jaroslav Dubnevich, two minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-27-m1.u75	Dear National Deputies! I'm asking you to support this bill of amendments that will now be made by two national deputies, Lev Podlisecki, from Self-Help and Sergey Evtuszka from Fatherland. These are valid amendments that need to be made to this bill in order to make it clear that this law applies only to newly built state transport corridors. That's why I'm asking you to give the floor to the amendments to Leo Podlisecki and then to Sergio Evtushka.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-27-m1.u76	Will it be enough in a minute? Please, Podlisecki 1 minute and then Eutuszek 1 minute. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-27-m1.u77	In sub-paragraph 1, paragraph 1, there is the phrase “except for the transfer of the corresponding road” and the word “new road” is added before the word “carriage road”. Next sub-paragraph 7 in the same paragraph. Once again, it's "the transmission of a new built-up road." Next, there's another "except for the transfer of the corresponding new built-in road." There are three times in this box, the "renovated" is added. In paragraph 2, sub-paragraph 2. "Concessional payments in the case of the transfer of a newly built road." In paragraph 3, sub-paragraph 3. "A decision on the construction and operation of new cars." Next, paragraph 4, which refers to "make changes to Article 27, except in the case of construction and operation of new roads under concession conditions". Next, through the paragraph, "car roads and their areas refer to the payload only if they are substantially improved, as well."
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-27-m1.u78	Give me 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-27-m1.u79	"and in the event of their construction and operation of new roads under concession and alternative travel" and beyond. And it goes on in article 29, part three, to complete with the sentence "in the case of the deployment of new cars." And in the next paragraph, add part six to the words in parentheses: (in addition to passing on the corresponding newly built road). So in general, there are three phrases.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-27-m1.u80	Thank you. You have completed the list. Please, 10 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-27-m1.u81	In general, there are nine places with the words “new roads, ” nine places.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-27-m1.u82	Thank you. Sergey Eutuszek, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-27-m1.u83	Respectful colleagues, concessional activities include this same entrepreneurial activity, and the business system can provide for various risks. So I'd like to ask for a point where the concessionaire has the right to compensate for part of the under-received income that is projected. The amount of compensation is determined on the basis of the results of the reporting year, and cannot be more than 30 per cent of the planned income is stipulated in the bill, we ask that it should not be more than 15 per cent of the planned income for the corresponding year according to the terms of the contract. Please take into account. We also support the revisions made by Left Podlisecki.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-27-m1.u84	So, colleagues, we're done talking, we're moving on to making a decision. And I'm going to put to the vote with the amendments that have just been made. So, colleagues, please take up jobs, let's move on to making decisions. And I am voting on the draft Law on Amendments to Certain Legislative Acts of Ukraine in the Construction and Exploitation of Roads (No. 6766), as amended, which was presented under the transcript by the head of the committee Jaroslav Dubnevich, the national deputy of Podlisecki and the national deputy Sergei Evtushk. And it's suggested that we accept. So that we can take those amendments as a basis and as a whole. Please vote and please support, colleagues. We're voting 6766 on the basis, and on the whole, with the rights that we've read under the transcript. Vote, please. [[17:24:21]] For 233 The law is passed. Next in line is the daily draft Law on Inland Water Transport 2475a and 2475a-3. And I ask you to support the proposal for a reduced procedure, please support. [[17:24:58]] For 181 Decision taken. And I invite you to prepare Vadaturski for the report of the Ukrainian National Deputy Kozy Boris Yuriovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-27-m1.u85	Dear Mr. Head! People's deputies! Citizens of Ukraine! Your opinion is proposed by the 2475a Bill on Inland Water Transport in the revised edition. There's a story in the bill, it's discussed and it's been working for three years. I remind you, on the infrastructure day of March 21, last year, we've already reviewed this bill and sent it for further work. During the year, the bill was carefully revised, and numerous discussions were held with foreign experts. We studied the experience of European countries perfectly and included it in our bill. This is confirmed by the positive conclusion of the American Chamber of Commerce on the support of our bill. I'd like to take a quick look at the main novels of the bill. The first warning was the introduction of a river congregation and its size. Thus, the river congregation is limited in its work. So this was a key requirement for business. I would stress that the river congregation will not only be a source of financing for waterways but also a marker of the flow of cargo through the rivers of Ukraine. Unfortunately, there is no such calculation today. The next warning was the need to create an enterprise for river waterways. Clearly, this enterprise must be, we cannot allow chaos on the river. So in the course of the discussion, a compromise was made by reorganizing existing enterprises to create an enterprise with river waterways without the right to profit. And most importantly, the legal status of the enterprise will be determined by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. Many discussions revolved around the issue of sources of financing and maintenance of inland waterways. The answer is simple: the bill defines the main sources of funding – the river assembly, the state budget and part of the costs of the BDLK and HMC canal assembly. The bill also provides for the creation of an emergency fund for river waterways. I would like to point out that the cost of an emergency fund can be used solely to offset the cost of eliminating the consequences of an accident or the risk of an accident on inland waterways. As far as I'm concerned.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-27-m1.u86	Dear colleagues, well, we do have an important bill to discuss -- the leaders of factions, not the speakers. That's not fair. I'm asking you to add a minute to the speaker right now. [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear Lord of the faction, don't shout! Please add a minute to the speaker. And act properly. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-27-m1.u87	With regard to the implementation of the directives of the European Union, I assure you, all directives are fully implemented in our bill. Colleagues, I stress: the bill is not a political document; it is essentially an economic one. Our bill is against monopolies and chaos on the rivers of Ukraine. The adoption of the bill will allow you to create the only clear rules for economic activity, create a real market for river freight, make river freight competitive, create conditions for investment in rivers, create new jobs, increase revenues for all levels. Dear colleagues, please support Bill 2475a. Thank you for your attention and support.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-27-m1.u88	Thank you. So we just heard a presentation, a report on Bill 2475a. And now I would like to invite you to the floor of the Ukrainian National MP Andriy Wadatoursky, who will present the alternative bill of 2475a-3, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-27-m1.u89	Yeah, I'm asking you there from the gallery not to shout so loud.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-27-m1.u90	Dear colleagues, we have now heard some very good words about the development of rivers, which in no way correspond to the substance of the bill. The Supreme Council has been reviewing the same bill for 10 years, but there are, in fact, the same problems as they were. The first is the introduction of additional congregations. Why? They're creating another state-owned parasite enterprise. Why? And then they open for the offshores. We're proposing another ingredient. Today we need a law that will make the river economically attractive. Therefore, we offer to clean up the congregations. Our bill eliminates these congregations and defines a clear source of stable funding, and 10 percent of the canal assemblies are 200 million dollars a year, enough to support the rivers. 2475a, on the other hand, introduces a river assembly -- a tax that goes into the pocket of a state-owned enterprise, not into a government budget -- is a scheme. The river assembly groups the congregations that we need to eliminate, it leads to an increase in transportation in a pool where there are no bridges and locks. If no one is doing business today, who will invest after taxes have been raised, think for yourself. We are offered a river congregation, while the World Bank says that we need to reduce port congregations by 60 percent, this will give us an additional 1 percent of the GDP growth of Ukraine. Think about the numbers. We're definitely against the river congregation, it's the corruption of the carrier. We're also against launching an offshore fleet. Think for yourself, we're going to destroy shipbuilding in the country, it's going to be a cross. People will be trading gray fuel here, which will be imported without excise duty and will be.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-27-m1.u91	Just give me one minute, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-27-m1.u92	And they'll be trading fuel without excise duty, without VAT. Please tell me, why propose to abandon the flag of Ukraine, to launch offshore flea ships in Ukraine for free economic activity on the water? Just as an example of the United States: Jones' law in the United States prohibits inland transport to foreign courts and allows freight to be transported only to U.S. vessels. The Law has been in operation for almost a hundred years. It's a real protection of national interests, we need to learn. And we're offered to launch offshores just to put the cross on the shipbuilding. The idea is 2475. What made the Ministry or the authors of 2475a attractive to make our flag, the Ukrainian flag? Nothing. Last news: I want to tell you that the Danube state shipping is building a new fleet under the flag of Malta, from the rest of the Ukrainian fleet.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-27-m1.u93	Thank you. No, we actually all have the same right to continue presenting our bill. We thank you, Mr. Andrey. Dear colleagues, I now give the floor to the head of the Transport Committee, Jaroslav Dubnevich. And he's presenting the position of the profile committee on these two bills that we're currently discussing with you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-27-m1.u94	Madam Chairman, honourable national MPs, Bill 2475a (worked) (since 08.06.2017) is aimed at the systematic settlement of shipping on inland waterways. In particular, the bill identifies sources of financing for inland water transport infrastructure, including a river assembly; the legal regime for the maintenance of marine hydrotechnical facilities and water approaches to them. The adoption of the bill will also facilitate the introduction of Ukrainian water transport legislation into European directives and regulations. The Ministry of Infrastructure of Ukraine supports the bill. The proposals and comments to the bill were made by the MINNORIST, MINUST, MINAGROpolitics, other ministries, and central executive authorities, which can be taken into account when preparing the bill for second reading. The committee, together with the Ministry of Infrastructure, has worked on the bill by taking into account the comments and suggestions made. The Transport Committee at its meeting on 08.11.2017 considered a bill on inland water transport (registration number 2475a), completed on 08.06. In 2017, introduced by the National Deputy of Ukraine, Kozir and others, decided to propose to the Supreme Council of Ukraine in the first reading to accept it on the basis of such proposals by the Committee: to exclude the word "and canal assembly" from part five of article 1; and the word "canal assembly" from part one of article 69. Please support the committee's decision. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-27-m1.u95	Thank you. Dear colleagues, please register with the factions to discuss these two bills. Please. Please, National Deputy Brichenko of the People's Front. Passes the word to the maximum Burbaku, please. From where you're going, Maxim, you're going to perform.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-27-m1.u96	Dear colleagues, the People's Front faction will support Bill 2475a, because we understand that we need to finally open up. Open the river, allow river transport to transport all the cargoes that are currently being transported by our roads, and this is essentially destroying the infrastructure of the road. But I wish I could. Why 2475a? Because we think it's an overworked bill that's supported by a business that's supported by business associations. And I think we need to keep shipping on the rivers from being one monopoly of one vertically integrated company that wants this bill to be held hostage by its private business interests, telling us about fuel smuggling, about other states. Let the river live in peace. Let her work. And all of this from the river congregation will go for the repairs of the locks. Nobody wants to say that for 25 years the locks are not being repaired, and that this poses a threat to the national security of our nation, rather than lobbying their own private interests. So I ask the entire room to support Bill 2475a, because it is the most balanced and it will serve only the development of our state, the infrastructure on the rivers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-27-m1.u97	Thank you. Please, from the radical faction of Victor Halasyuk. Please, Mr. Victor. Oleg Valeriyovich, we have a younger school teacher in this mood today than the Radical Party faction. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Halasyuk Victor, please proceed with the faction of the Radical Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-27-m1.u98	Victor Halasyuk, faction of the Radical Party of Oleg Lášk. Dear colleagues, is the Law on Inland Water Transport needed today? Of course you do. We need rules that will allow us to restore the Ukrainian river, which will allow us to restore the glory of Ukrainian ships. But it's very important what this law should be. This law must be transparent, effective, one that will create advantages for the Ukrainian river, for Ukrainian ships, and make it more attractive. Today, the Ukrainian river is discriminated against in comparison with other modes of transport. So today we need to do everything we can to reduce the tax and tariff burden on it so that the transport of goods by the river becomes cheaper, more convenient, so that the Ukrainian industry sees that there is also a competitor in the railway that helps to develop the Ukrainian economy. So today, we don't have to create new businesses -- state monopolies, to take new taxes. Today, it is important not to increase the tax burden on the Ukrainian river but to reduce it, including the consideration of very radical measures, such as the potential withdrawal of the excise congregation from the fuel for the river. It's very important. Today, it is certainly necessary to determine that in Ukraine the fleet should walk under Ukrainian flags, not under offshore flags. We have a very clear plan for the restoration of Ukrainian shipbuilding. And those promises that Oleg Lazko made in Santa Claus and in Hersson, we will surely fulfill them. We will adopt a legislative package of reforms to support the Ukrainian river, Ukrainian shipbuilding, cheaper loans, aid and insurance, guarantee to Ukrainian exporters, integrated approach through industrial parks, conditions for the development of this production, launch of the Export Credit Agency, reduction of tax burden. And rules of the game that will not discriminate, but support Ukrainian ships and Ukrainian transporters under.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-27-m1.u99	Finish it. Already? Okay. Dear colleagues, please, from the Self-Help faction, Mr. Semenach will speak from the rostrum. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-27-m1.u100	Semenha Roman, "The Self-Help Union" faction. Dear colleagues, Madam Chairman! I don't think anyone in this room needs to be convinced that we need to resuscitate the river sector immediately. Three years later, however, the debate in this Parliament was "Visa and now there." And the figures say it's very hard to say that today about 75 percent of the inland waterway core funds are dead. I'll tell you more. If we don't change the situation within three or five years, the processes will be irreversible. Today, again in this room, we are considering two alternative bills. But they're not just alternatives, they're different from the world. As co-author of Bill 2475a-3, I want to say that our bill proposes European standards. The bill complies with European directives, introduces market rules and allows investors to be involved. I also want to stop at a few things that say in terms of different world-view approaches. Unfortunately, Bill 2475a, which supports the Ministry of Infrastructure, introduces a state monopoly, the administration of Ukraine's inland waterways. Well, it is not clear what the consequences of another state monopoly will be. It's a journey of services, a loss of attractiveness for investors, another corruption, and a result of stagnation. Unfortunately, Ukraine already has a negative experience of creating state monopolies in this area – the Ukrainian Maritime Port Administration, which according to the World Bank, has made Ukrainian ports the most expensive in the world. That's what state monopolies are all about, and what we're proposing is actually a bill from a colleague of Kozir. And the next one, it's very important. The project, which supports the Ministry of Infrastructure, introduces a new tax for business – a river assembly that will significantly increase financial pressure and already large, on carriers and influence as a result of the final price of goods. This congregation will lead to a journey of no less than 2 percent of the already expensive shipments. Our bill 2475a-3 makes it impossible to create a monopoly.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-27-m1.u101	30 seconds, please let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-27-m1.u102	introduces civilized rules and in a few years it will allow for a radical change in the situation in the field, bring European standards and involve an investor. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-27-m1.u103	Thank you. From the gallery calls for the completion of the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. We're working till we're 18. We're working today until the 18th, or even the 18:15. Please, from the Opposition Block, now Vladimir Gusak, and then from the Fatherland, Sergey Sobolev. And they didn't sign in from Peter Dustenk's Block. If there's a speech. And Kozir. Please, Mr. Goose.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-27-m1.u104	Dear Ukrainians, dear colleagues, the honorable presiding officer! In Ukraine, there are major manufacturing problems. In 2017, industrial production in Ukraine did not increase compared to 2016. By comparison, for example, since 2014, production has decreased by less than 10 percent. It's an economic disaster. And one of the factors that inhibits the development of production in Ukraine is the problems with transport infrastructure. We have major road problems and major problems with rail transport. It is therefore very important to ensure the development of river transport as an ecological and economic alternative to rail and road transport. And Ukraine really needs a basic law on inland water transport. This law should establish the legal, economic and organisational principles of the river transport market in Ukraine and ensure the development of services in inland water transport by inland water transport, I would like to emphasise the competitive principles. We believe that this is best served by the 2475a bill. But I would like to draw the attention of the drafters of the bill to why it is so difficult to pass in this room. We have a tradition in the Ukrainian Parliament that when preparing drafts, we can hide ourselves with good intentions. May I?
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-27-m1.u105	Excuse me, 30 seconds. Please, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-27-m1.u106	30 seconds. Covering up good intentions and good intentions, include rules that do not apply to them at all. For example, this bill includes a series of water ballast standards that are: (a) complex; (b) related to corruption risks and do not relate to the subject matter of the bill. But Ukraine needs to develop inland waterways. And that's why we're voting for Bill 2475a in the first reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-27-m1.u107	Thank you. Please, Sergey Sobolev. You're welcome to speak.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-27-m1.u108	Sobolje, Fatherland. I believe that when such drafts are being considered, the NAB has to be called here to report on how the Seaports Administration has worked for the last two years. The biggest issue this year is the arrest of the entire Maritime Port Administration, which suffered damage from so-called deep-sea work in Ukraine's largest ports. Costs that were embalmed, billions -- and no work was done in the end. That is why the Bill of Alternative Colleague Vadaturski, Evtushka, Odarchenka is a bill that meets European standards, a bill that will not allow for the destruction of the seaports as it began with the seaports as well as the river ports. What's the key flaw in the first bill? In fact, a parallel structure is created following the example of the Seaport Administration.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-27-m1.u109	30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-27-m1.u110	They're the ones who proved the situation.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-27-m1.u111	Excuse me a minute, because you've only been given a minute. Give me another minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-27-m1.u112	Which led the situation in the country to the level of drop and transport and tax pay and the level of wage to the worst of all. In 2014, when the war began, there was no such situation as it was in 2018 after the ministry and the administration of the seaports. And this is the key that the authors of the first bill are fighting for. The second is equally important. Yes, indeed, it is necessary to repair the entire farm that provides for the gateway passage. But, excuse me, where are the funds going today? And that's why the alternative bill gives a direct answer to how to use European key standards to make these standards work in Ukraine. And the rule on attempts to introduce offshore jurisdictions will eventually lose this sector in river transport. Because it's the tax minimisation scheme that's going to be applied here.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-27-m1.u113	Thank you. Yeah, 30 more seconds because you didn't have a chance.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-27-m1.u114	That's why our "Paternity" faction will support the bill with badge 3, and this is the only way to put order in the field. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-27-m1.u115	Thank you. Mr. Soboljev was given one minute. The Motherland faction has the opportunity to have two minutes and so on. Dear colleague from the gallery, I respect you very much, but you do not want to listen to such an important discussion. I think you're curious, aren't you? Dear colleagues, please, we are now inviting Urbanski from the Peter Dustenka Block for two minutes. Two minutes like all the other factions. And then the department of profile, Deputy Minister of Transportation Yuri Lavrinuk also asks for two minutes to summarize the discussion. Mr. Urbanski, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-27-m1.u116	Good day, dear colleagues, honourable chairman, I, as head of the transport subcommittee on river and sea transport, would like to stress that this bill is very important to our industry. And these observations about the flag, and coming to our rivers of vessels under a foreign flag, we can correct between the first and the second readings. And I would also like to point out that we have introduced this rule in this bill for only five years with mandatory registration of companies that will operate these courts in Ukraine, when Ukrainian citizens are hired exclusively as employees of these vessels. The bill will give impetus to shipping, ship repair and shipbuilding. The next step is to develop our steel industry. And I want to point out that this bill, it doesn't apply to AMPU in any way, it's a separate story. And we're saying that the river congregation should be in this bill in order for us to go deep into the rivers separately from the AMPU. Thank you for your consideration. And I very much ask you to support this bill in the first reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-27-m1.u117	Please, one minute, Deputy Minister Yuri Lavrynuk, and we will proceed to the vote. I ask everyone to come to the hall and join the people's deputies, and in a minute we'll move on to the decision-making process. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-27-m1.u118	Thank you. Dear Mr. Head, honourable national MPs, I represent the Ministry of Profiles, I want to dispel the myth that has been proclaimed here regarding the creation of some new body. On the contrary, the adoption of Bill 2475a, which is supported by the Ministry of Infrastructure, envisions the merger of two state-owned enterprises – "The Bloodloaf", which currently supports, serves the Dniper airlocks, and the River Port Administration, which operates, unites into one enterprise. The introduction of a river congregation for deepening In turn, we will cancel the bill, cancel the fees for the passage of divorce bridges, allow private investment in strategic objects, infrastructure, and the rule of demonopolization of Lotzman services. And this bill, it's going to destroy the monopoly of certain private structures on Dnipro's annual, and it's going to allow all the willing market participants to compete accordingly.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-27-m1.u119	30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-27-m1.u120	Which will create appropriate competition and develop our rivers. The Ministry of Infrastructure therefore supports Bill 2475a. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-27-m1.u121	Thank you, colleagues. So if you'd like to take your jobs, we'll move on to making a decision. It's a topic that's controversial, but it's really very important for the development of infrastructure in Ukraine. And so I'm asking everyone to maximize their mobility, and I'm voting on the draft Inland Water Transport Act (No.2475a). The committee requests that it be supported on the basis of the committee’s proposals. I ask you to mobilize, please take your seats and vote carefully. And I'm putting the vote to 2475a as a basis, taking into account the committee's proposals. Please vote, please support. Let's vote, colleagues. Please support me. Vote. [[17:52:38]] For 216 Not all of them have made it. Colleagues, come to the hall. I'll be back. Let me put the second one on the way back. Now I'm putting the second law in line with the Rules, the second law is 2475a-3. Who supports the second alternative bill, please vote. [[17:53:17]] For a hundred and Thus, the first bill gathered a much higher number of votes. And so, colleagues, I now propose to go back to voting for the first bill, which was recommended by the committee -- 2475a, which, according to the vote, brought most of the room together. So I ask everyone to unite and vote for the return to 2475a, the basic bill proposed by the committee. So, colleagues, please take jobs, mobilize, and I'm offering to go back to 2475a. Please vote, please support me, colleagues. Vote. Please support me. Please vote. Vote. [[17:54:16]] For 216 10 votes, 10 votes, 10 votes is too much. [[Noise Nodes]] Colleagues, come on, two are on the committee for work. [[Noise Nodes]] Colleagues, what is the position of head of the committee, please? Please, head of the committee, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-27-m1.u122	The two bills were already before the committee. And if no bill votes, I ask you to send these bills to the drafters. We're going to get together and we're going to make a joint bill based on the committee, and we're going to figure out exactly what it should be.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-27-m1.u123	Colleagues, I now propose to consider the position of head of the committee. Is that the position taken? I'll put it: first to the committee and then to the subject of the legislative initiative, as provided by the Rules. So the first sentence is to go back to the committee to prepare for the re-reading of one bill, 2475a. Please vote, please support. [[Noise Nodes]] That'll be the next offer. The first is this one, please support the committee for further work. Please be supportive. [[17:56:11]] For 207 Next proposal: two bills to the committee to prepare for the re-reading. Please vote. Please be supportive. [[17:56:35]] For 257 Decision taken. My colleagues, I have a proposition for you. Attention! Listen to me carefully. We have a bill that completely unites the hall and that has only a few amendments. This is a draft Act amending some Ukrainian legislation to simplify certain aspects of the oil and gas sector (3096-d). If there's the will of the hall, I'll ask him to move in now, and we'll be able to get him through. It's incredibly, incredibly short. It's a second reading, there's only a few rights. He's behind a few bills. And we're the only ones that can make it, that's the bill. Who's in favour of moving the 3096-d draft bill to now, please vote on who supports this proposal. [[17:57:52]] For 203 Unfortunately, there are no votes for the transfer, Mrs. Ola. Finally, we had one minute to complete our work. We've only been able to pass two bills from the transport block, but, nevertheless, we've made 12 decisions today. These are a very important, key decision: the inclusion in the agenda and the commission of the committee to review the bill on the Supreme Anti-Corruption Court without delay. I hope once again we'll have a chance to get to his first reading on this Thursday, if that's the will of the hall. Thank you all for your fruitful, productive work during the day. And now for the evening session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, I declare closed. Tomorrow at 10 a.m., I'm inviting everyone into the conference room to continue our work. Thank you.
