ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-09-m0.u1	Good afternoon, dear fellows! I'm asking you to come into the session room. And I ask you to prepare the distinguished national deputies for registration. Dear colleagues, please register. [[10:01:38]] Dear colleagues, there were 332 Ukrainian national deputies. And I declare the morning plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine open. I would like to remind you that our esteemed speaker is the head of the Supreme Council of Andri Parubia today with his mission to Donbassa. And along with the Head of the NATO Parliamentary Assembly, they will visit, including Shirokina. And it is very important that this is the first visit by the Head of the NATO Parliamentary Assembly to Donbas, so much the support of Ukraine from the Parliamentary Assembly in protecting our territorial integrity and sovereignty. Dear colleagues, today is the Day of Ukrainian Writing and Language, as well as the All - Ukrainian Day of Culture Workers and Masters of National Art. Let's welcome everyone: both the teachers of Ukrainian language and all of our respectable cultural workers, the masters of art with their day. [[Applause]] And I also want to talk to all the audiences, the viewers of the "Council" channel and the Ukrainian national MPs, which traditionally happens on this day as a dictator of national unity, it will be broadcast at 11 o'clock by the National Radio. All Ukrainian national deputies can participate and show that we also write in English. 11 o'clock, you can put headphones in here and write a dictator, and it's a great idea. Members of the government, led by Prime Minister Volodymyr BorisovicGroysman, are taking part in the plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. I would like to welcome the distinguished Ukrainian government, colleagues. [[Applause]] And traditionally, we have an hour of questions to the government on Friday. But a statement came to the fore from two factions of MPs. And they're willing to replace -- this is the Opposition Block and the Rebirth Group -- and our colleagues are ready to replace it. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-09-m0.u2	Dear citizens of Ukraine, this address is my first priority for you, to inform you about the events that have taken place recently. In particular, on 7 November this year, the Constitutional Court of Ukraine, in my opinion and in the view of my colleagues who joined in signing the constitutional application, rendered an unfair decision. We and colleagues at the time of adoption in 2014, many MPs who constitute a valid coalition, the Ukrainian Law on the Prevention of a Financial Disaster, and essentially the law that simply repeals those social benefits that were guaranteed by the State and established by the Constitution, we have appealed to the Constitutional Court, the Opposition Block faction, to establish justice, in order to stop the current power and to abolish those antisocial positions that, in particular, apply to State aid at the birth of a child and to take care of the child until it reaches the age of three. But what do we have instead? On November 7th, the Constitutional Court issued a ruling stating that it had refused to satisfy our constitutional application, motivated by the fact that no guarantees had been made, no legal action had been allowed. The point is that according to article 22 of the Constitution, constitutional rights and freedoms defined by the Constitution are not exhaustive and cannot be repealed. And in adopting new laws and amending existing laws, it is not possible to narrow down the scope and content of constitutional rights and freedoms. The Constitutional Court noted that article 46 of the Constitution of Ukraine allegedly does not provide social protection as a state provision for the birth of a child and social benefits after reaching the age of three. That's why we think it's blasphemy, it's a cynical decision. And accordingly, when the change of power takes place and our party comes to this power, of course we'll accept this decision, but we'll make decisions that will bring social standards back to the level that they were at in 2013, whoever said anything. That's why we think it's a horrifying case, it's for the Ukrainian people. And this is evidence of how the real authority is concerned about the interests of ordinary Ukrainian citizens, since the Constitutional Court is the personification of this authority. Instead, the Opposition Block faction also points out that we are willing to vote in full for the decision made at this plenary week to refer to the committee for consideration of the draft Ordinance on the introduction of a moratorium on natural gas prices. So we urge you to be.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-09-m0.u3	15 seconds, 15 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-09-m0.u4	Not by populists, but by taking real steps aimed at the real protection of citizens’ interests. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-09-m0.u5	Thank you. Dear colleagues and honourable government, I'm sorry, another statement from two MP factions came to the fore: "The Fatherland" and the Radical Party. And there's a colleague's willingness to replace it with an application. Please, three minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-09-m0.u6	Oleg Laska, Radical Party. I'm addressing Prime Minister Groysman. The city of Pavlovgrad is 108 thousand people without heat, without gas. The city of Sieverodonetsk is 106 thousand people without heat, without gas. The city of Smila is 68,000 people without heat, without gas. The town of Kropivnitsky is 226,000 people without heat, without gas. The city of Curve Rig is 634 thousand people without heat, without gas. The town of Shepetovka is 42,000 people without heat, without gas. Today, you saw, frostbite, last night there were ice creams too. These are all hundreds of thousands of Ukrainian hostages, hostages of the naphtogasu robbery policy and your authority. This is called pure water terrorism. When you're housing, people in apartments, hospitals, schools, kindergartens without heat in the ice, without gas, because Naftogaz requires 50 percent too much gas and repayment of the debt for the gas used. Where can local budgets afford to pay you 50 percent in advance? What's more, I'll tell you, we counted. The total debt of these cities is less than the sum of the premiums paid by Kobolje and the company. They paid themselves 45 million euros and brought one to America, the other to Liechtenstein. And millions of Ukrainian citizens have to sit without gas, without heat, their children have to get sick, people in hospitals sleep under three blankets to get paid for millions of bonuses and millions of wages. I demand from you, as Prime Minister, that the government immediately give the command to include gas throughout Ukraine, the inhabitants and these cities, and all other urban areas that sit without gas, and stop this gas terrorism against Ukrainian citizens. Cancel all space premiums decisions. Return these prizes that they have received illegally, return to the budget. Why should Ukrainians in their own pocket pay for space wages and bonuses, pay an unfair price for gas, and sit without heat in their apartments? In that same city, 80 percent of the people paid for the gas. Why should they be responsible for the government’s failure to pay the difference in tariffs? Stop this terrorism against Ukrainian citizens. We offer a very clear plan for lowering gas prices, which will enable the gas supply of every Ukrainian family and every home. And the main thing is to increase the income of Ukrainians, raise wages so that people don't be held hostage by this plundering policy.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-09-m0.u7	Dear colleagues, we've finished the factions from the factions who took the break and switched to the application. And we're starting an hour of questions to the government. The regulations of today’s work: From the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, we will present a speech by Ukrainian Culture Minister EugeneNishchuk. I want to speak to our colleague, Mr. Melniczuk. Still, do not show selectivity here and allow the Minister to speak from the rostrum. Not so often we have an invited minister of culture here. Moreover, considering that today is the day of Ukrainian writing and language. [[Applause]] Let us honor as the national deputies of Ukraine this very important date. And now three minutes to answer first is the question that was asked about the gas to the Prime Minister of Ukraine. And then we're waiting for our esteemed minister in the rostrum. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-09-m0.u8	Good afternoon, fellow countrymen, distinguished Irina Volodymyrna! I am also concerned that in some cities of Ukraine the start of the heating season is delayed. But I want to tell you as a practice, as a former city head. As you know, there are no exes, as you know, there are no exes. I've launched at least 10 times a 400-thousand city in the heating season. And I want to say that it was the responsibility of neither the Prime Minister, nor the President, nor the Parliament, and of a particular city head who, after the heating season, is to prepare for the new heating season: to prepare the system, to buy gas, and to start the heat, that's his responsibility. As part of decentralization, we transferred $4 billion to local budgets. And I think that these costs today are enough to make the preparations in time, to pay off the debts of past years, and to start a new heating season. I emphasize that this is the responsibility of the local authorities. Now, the government, under regulation of October 5, decided to start the heating season, it's all about security. But there's not a word about gas billing, it's only about bringing the last period to 90 percent of the pay. People are honestly counting on the heating power for their services. All that is needed is compensation for subsidies. I understand that if we add these two numbers, it has to be 100 percent. Sadly, though, some city heads allow themselves to ignore the interests of hundreds of thousands of people and then to throw their heads at the government. And I think it's unfair, and it needs to be addressed. Now, the city of Pavlovgrad. I spoke to the mayor yesterday, Oleg Valeriyovich, you know that. We said, he said, "I don't have 13 million to pay off the debt of the past period." Today, they will make a decision about city council guarantees, today they will make a decision by an extraordinary commission to start the heat, and they will start the heat. But it's not the Prime Minister. Today, gas supplies are sufficient to buy them. And the next. I definitely don't agree with Naftogazu's policy on excessive bonuses, excessive wages. They are now working on a contract that has been concluded and is now acting as leaders. And I have many claims to run NAC Naftogaz Ukraine. And I didn't say it once, and I want to confirm it again. So the government decided to limit their fantastic payments. And one more thing. I'm definitely against -- where they're twisting their hands like an independent state company, where there's a perfectly normal situation about paying for the gas. In this regard too, order is needed, and we will guide him. And now I'm stressing that where there's a threat of emergency, let them run the heat, but on condition that they pay off the debts that they've accumulated and that they've taken money from people and they haven't paid for it. Where is this money going? Are they going to warm up the air? Or go into other things that we don't know about. Here's the question. Me, too.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-09-m0.u9	Mr. Prime Minister, thank you for your clarification. It was mentioned by me. Excuse me, one more minute, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-09-m0.u10	Ten seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-09-m0.u11	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-09-m0.u12	We've passed the Restructuring Act, there's every opportunity to do it. But I'm stressing why, ask me, 90 percent of cities, 95 percent of cities, are running and 5 percent are not, they're all in equal conditions. There's a problem. That's why there's a problem, and there's also a problem in managing or overpayments of Naftogazu itself. But the government has limited the issue. Thank you for asking.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-09-m0.u13	Thank you, Prime Minister. I mentioned the name of the deputy standing on the rostrum. A word for reply, please. And let's move on to the speech of the honourable minister of culture. Please, Mr. Melniczuk. The card needs to be inserted. Please turn on the microphone on on the stand. I'm calling the secretariat. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-09-m0.u14	I respect Ukrainian language, I respect Ukrainian women, I respect those men who seem to care about Ukrainian women who want to speak. But I also have a question before Destroyer. Why does his ministry cooperate with the pro-Russian group SKM? This is not the Ahmtova SKM, but the SKM is the Socialist Youth Congress, which is a pro-Russian, funded by Russia. That's my question. Why does a false cinematographer who goes forth appear to be spreading false facts about war? Why does true history not show? So I have a lot of questions for the minister. But please speak, I respect my native language and have always fought for it.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-09-m0.u15	Dear Mr. Eugene, Your Honor, we invite you to your address, to the rostrum, and we'll be waiting for you to speak. Colleagues, 15 minutes is given to the minister of culture for the speech, and then we move on to questions from groups, factions and deputies. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-09-m0.u16	Thank you very much. I will definitely answer these questions, probably after the main speech, because I never cooperate exactly with the Russian elements, and I'm not allowed to do that. If we're talking about film, there'll be a concrete confirmation of that at the end of my speech. But, thank you, I'll start with my speech. Madam Chairman, Your Honor, the Honourable Prime Minister and the People's Deputies, colleagues, invited, dear Ukrainian people! Indeed, I would also like to welcome everyone with the Day of Ukrainian Language and English, as well as our professional festival, the Day of Culture Workers and Masters of National Art. I am happy to welcome this celebration to all those who set the pace of our country’s cultural life. Government officials who shape and implement cultural policies, creative entrepreneurs, educators, designers, bookmakers, film and fashion workers, librarians, museums, folk art masters, you're the one who create the conditions that enable Ukrainians to develop, realize creative aspirations and love for art, and you're the one who's working on mental, advanced Ukraine. I wish we all had the strength to work with sophisticated materials of culture. And it's emotion, it's taste, it's mood, it's finally human soul. However, this requires important decisions by the government and the Supreme Council. As for the government, many initiatives were supported yesterday by the Ministry of Culture that needed an immediate solution – in particular, the return of funding to Ukraine's only choreography school at the expense of Ukraine's state budget. And I'm asking the National Deputies to support our initiative, in particular, to exclude from Appendix 10 of the Ukrainian National Budget for 2019 the financing of the school from the local budget. Because this, frankly, poses a threat to the destruction of the only ballet development center in Ukraine. Social justice has been restored and the proposals made by the trade unions to raise salaries for museum workers and teachers of public education programs in specialized art boarding schools are taken into account. As part of the huge work done by the Ukrainian Institute of Books, a list of books recommended for completing public library funds has been approved. I am extremely grateful to the Supreme Council for making changes to the Ukrainian Culture Act this summer, as part of the definition of the term "creative industries." This gives us the opportunity to work towards creating conditions to unlock the creative potential of our people and to implement the EU Association Agreement. In this context, I cannot help but commend myself for the Second International Forum "Creative Ukraine", which lasts yesterday and today in Kiev. Which has already become a powerful platform for political and expert discussion of the development of cultural and creative industries, the meeting place for many steakholders and the holding of business consultations. Presenting today in the Supreme Council of Ukraine the achievements of cultural politics, I want to present one of its very effective components: creativity, creativity as an engine for the development of society. In this context, I propose to go beyond the horizon of typical ideas about cultural possibilities and focus on the concept of creative life. We need to change our attitude and rethink things that seem completely understandable, traditional, shaped in one way or another. I want to quote Pablo Picasso, "Take the rules as a professor so that you can break them as an artist." Creativity is a violation of existing rules and customs. And really, creativity is an opportunity for self-implementation, it's the release of creative potential and ultimately the transformation of it into concrete economic gains and advantages. This is a tool for finding innovative solutions, creating a shared future, making effective use of all the diversity, acquisitions and resources of the nation. The source of creativity is new skills and knowledge. So, starting in the 17th year, one of the priorities of the government is to update the content and conditions of art education. Ukrainian art education is a sphere that the whole world can envy. And I thank the People's Deputies for defining art education as a separate specialist in the latest edition of the Ukrainian Education Act. That's why it was designed to carry out and preserve the international leadership of our original art education. Confirmed positions on art school, order of training in teaching-training and acquisition of a doctor of art degree. As part of the reform of decentralization and to enhance the capacity of communities in association with the Geth Institute, pilot training project "Academy of Cultural Leader" was launched to improve the skills of local cultural managers, as well as young people who want to work in the creative sector using modern methods and best practices of the European Union. In the context of the development of human capital and creativity, the modernization of the material and technical base of state specialized art schools continues. And we've actually seen, when tools that haven't been updated for 30 years, none of them are now getting those tools where children can win big international competitions and present Ukraine to the world. I am grateful to the Supreme Council for the funds allocated in the State Budget Act of 18th. Speaking of basics, I want to draw your attention to things that make us eternal. And this is our second priority: a cultural heritage, a powerful tool for reviving and branding territories. An important step on the road to transparency and greater trust in the authorities of society is the complete abolition of the historic-city foundation (IMO) of January 1, 2019, which will replace historical-architectural building plans without which any building will be impossible. That's what surrounds us, that's the comfort of our citizens. These documents, despite the bureaucratic name, are the basis for designing attractive territories, rethinking national acquisitions, unlocking the creative potential of communities. As part of the establishment of an effective management system for such objects in Ukraine this year, changes to the legislation on the preservation of UNESCO’s global heritage were adopted. And I am grateful to the people's deputies for their support and understanding of the importance of this issue for the country's humanitarian development. When we speak of an inheritance, we always imagine material things. But in the context of the concept of creative life today, I would like to focus your attention on an intangible cultural heritage that can and should be the source of creative industries. It's the system's work on Minculture that allowed you to include four elements of the immaterial cultural heritage of Ukraine that you see on the screens this year. Moreover, UNESCO is addressed with the nomination file "Tradition of Kosovo Painted Ceramics" for inclusion in the UNESCO representative list, which all the time confirms the diversity and authenticity of the creative self-expression of the Ukrainian people. With the proper support of the national MPs, it is absolutely realistic for the next five years to capture and promote our traditional culture. In the context of creating an electronic cultural heritage, the Ministry’s project has been chosen to support the German Society for International Cooperation, and the first step is to visualize the national monuments already included in the register. A new step in cultural policy was the creation and full launch of two powerful institutions to support creativity and a creative way of life – the Ukrainian Cultural Fund and the Institute of Books, which, together with the National Bureau of Creative Europe, contribute to a substantial increase in the confidence of the cultural environment in government. The launch of these institutions is a long-awaited and truly historic event. It was only possible because of the relevant active legislative activities of the deputies and the rapid amendment of the Ukrainian Cultural Fund Act. For the first time, the equal access of the public and non-state sectors to public funding is ensured, and the scale of this funding is unprecedented. The effectiveness of the work of the Ukrainian Institute of Books in implementing the public library fund replenishment program shows the next slide. In particular, I would like to note the consistency of the publishing, authorship, reading environment and from this high rostrum to thank a large group of experts. The 25th anniversary of the National Book Forum of Publishers in Lviv and Ukraine's participation in the 70th Frankfurt International Book Fair can be considered not only successful, but important in moving the Ukrainian book into the world. We already have an invitation after yesterday's personal meeting with the management of the London Book Fair -- an invitation for the next year -- it's very important. On the initiative of the Minculture since 19 Ukraine has joined the European Union Prize in Literature. So we're confidently integrating ourselves into European cultural creative space. We have finally resumed funding for the productions of new exhibitions and the gastronal activities of national theatres, which are primarily directed towards the east and south of Ukraine, which is the foundation for the consolidation and consolidation of the country and the presentation of the country's wide audience of the best works of national theatre, music and cinema. International, regional, local cultural events are those that have been supported by the government from the Ministry of Culture's initiative prove our common strategy: any cultural service must be available to every Ukrainian citizen. What has the greatest impact on people’s consciousness in the information society? Of course, a cinematographer that we can now and that we can be proud of right now. This converts creativity from slogan to real self-realization. It was through the adoption of the Ukrainian Film Support Act that we witnessed the fantastic progress of this sector of creative industries, which is clearly evidenced by cultural finance in the 18th year. That's 6.1 billion dollars, the highest rate in 20 years. This led literally to changes in every aspect of cultural life that we all dreamed of yesterday. But it's not the amount of money that matters to us, it's the change in the quality of their use. The first thing in everyone's mouth is the success of a national cinematographer, which has become possible with active state support. In the 18th and 19th budgets, there's a record amount of $1 billion. Let me give you just one fresh example. For the creation of the Dream Wedding tape, the state has allocated about 1 million dollars to the total budget of almost 11 million dollars. More than half a million viewers viewed the film, and the cashier’s congregations reached over 50 million dollars. Such success is not alone. We are confidently filling the information space with Ukrainian content, implementing the program of making patriotic films. At last, the dream of several generations of our cinematographers to join Ukraine in the Euromaj. The government has drafted a bill to join the European Foundation for Joint Production and Distribution of Art Cinematographic and Audiovisual works "Jewish". And I ask the honourable national MPs to bring it up and vote for it. Right now, it is up to you to continue to join Ukraine in this powerful Council of Europe program. Of course, in these 15 minutes, I can't cover all the spheres of cultural policy: Ukrainian language, ethnic politics, Tomos, museum affairs and national memory, an extremely active and fruitful promotion of Ukrainian culture abroad. Hopefully, at the end of the year, it is broader and more comprehensive to present the achievements of the cultural policy of Ukraine, which we form and implement. In summary of my statement, I would like to stress that understanding and promoting a creative way of life, promoting the self-implementation of our citizens is the basis for the country's competitiveness, which is increasing its position in global ratings, particularly at the level of human capital and innovation, and of achieving a specific economic impact. Generate ideas, suggestions, and advice. And we're going to listen to them and we're going to try to make our citizens comfortable and realize our dreams in Ukraine. Our motto: "Live-creative." And finally, I would like to draw your attention to the screens where we want to show a few of the 69 films selected by the government of Ukraine almost three weeks ago, which are about to go on a big trip in the near future. Glory to Ukrainian Culture! Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-09-m0.u17	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-09-m0.u18	Thank you for the information. We're going to the government. People's deputies, please prepare, we will now record questions from political factions and groups. Please hold the recording. From the People's Front to the words of the People's Deputy Maxim Burbak.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-09-m0.u19	Dear Volodymyr Borisovich, how will the Cabinet of Ministers react to a court decision blocking elections to united territorial communities where 34 united communities will not be able to hold elections? What mistakes were made by the Region in its decision to create a 34 - OTG, to which it appears in a court decision? And the next. I don't even want to think that there's a political basis for this. You and I voted in favour of the decentralization reform in the government of Arsenius Yatsenuk in 14 years. I'm a big fan of this decentralization. And we have to do it. But please tell me, when will decisions be made on the heads of the rajads that openly sabotage and halt this process? 204 constituency. The Klmeneck region is no OTG, the head of the RDA in the city. The Sokiryan district is Beskupski, the head of the RDA, who sabotages and prevents the creation of OTG, and we simply rape the Lomachino community. When they finally do.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-09-m0.u20	Thank you. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-09-m0.u21	Thank you, Maxim Yuriovich. I would also like to express my concern about what is happening now in terms of the process of decentralization. It was rightly said that on April 1st, in the government of Arsenija Yatsenuk, we adopted the concept of a reform of the decentralization of power that is being implemented today. In fact, we've been through a fairly good period of time, and today we see that this is one of the most successful reforms people have ever seen, people have been expecting it. And actually by the 14th year, I remember, the 8th and the 10th and the 12th years, everything was centralized, the money was in Kiev and all the decisions were made in Kiev. Today the situation is completely changed, but as then, I see now that there is a huge threat to the process of decentralization. There are still some subterfuge political games that threaten further decentralization in the country today. So I want to emphasize that in the 14th year, I became a real leader of these changes, and I deeply believe that this was the right path. And now I want to emphasize that in the new phase of updating our strategy and moving forward in the areas of decentralization, I will also provide leadership. But it should also be noted that there is a need for parliamentary support today. I think it's time to adopt constitutional changes in the part of decentralization, where we define today's regional level and performance, and control by the state, as is done in European countries, and to establish the distribution of powers for subsidiarity. It's all got to be done. That is why we are now preparing and proposing to Parliament a new phase of decentralization in the country. And I'm going to reflect these attacks -- and hopefully, most of them with you -- those who attack decentralization, and I want to stop them. This is unacceptable when people are united when two communities, three communities, four communities decide that they are united in order to be together and stronger in order to increase their budget so that they can build roads, kindergartens, and schools, and someone prevents them from doing so. I think it's unacceptable. We're going to stand in the interest right now.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-09-m0.u22	Ten seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-09-m0.u23	We'll stand on. Protecting people's interests is definitely the case. And I would like to ask all the deputies of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, if there are examples where the heads of the district government are obstructing the process of decentralization, give us a list, the government will make a decision, and we will direct the President's submission to release such heads of RDA. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-09-m0.u24	Thank you, Mr. Prime Minister. I can tell you that the head of the Lviv district government has been impeding the formation of a united territorial community of Silecka with a center in Sosnovice for three years now, hindering. You can take this into account and intervene in the process. Thank you. Welcome to the speech of the People's Deputy Shahov of the "Will of the People" Group.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-09-m0.u25	Sergeyshakhov, the political power of Our End. Dear Volodymira Borisovich, there was an energy disaster in Lugansk during the heating season, an environmental disaster, and an epidemic of flu. Why is the MOH today hiding an epidemic that is growing like moss across the country? And you don't have to ask the mayor today. State TEC does not belong to cities today. Give no gas nominations at TEC and set fire to the house today. That year was minus 24. In this, the forecast today is minus 30. People will be torn off with meat. They'll freeze their fingers and feet. Please tell me, how long will this continue? Please do not feed the oligarchs today. Give the cities - today in Severodonetsk 700 unheated buildings, 9 schools, 6 kindergartens, a maternity home - please, gas on.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-09-m0.u26	Ten seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-09-m0.u27	At the State TEC, give me the state gas. And once again, the Minister of Fuel Energy is not here to remove Nasalik from his position immediately.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-09-m0.u28	Thank you. Please. Who Will Answer?
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-09-m0.u29	I'll answer that. Once again, I would like to emphasize that the city’s heads are responsible for the preparation of cities, populated areas for the heating season. If you want to look at their budgets, let's pick one city and do a deep audit of this budget, and you'll see, and I'll show you where the funds are and where they're going. I would like to point out that today, most of Ukraine’s inhabitants pay for the warm cost. I have a question: why don't these costs come to pay off gas, electricity and so on? Why? Here's the thing. And I'm stressing that the heating season ends on April 15th, and it's six months to plan the preparation of TEC as well, the imicocommunerge for the heating season. I emphasize that there is enough gas in the gas reservoirs today, but to do so. So you want to say this: you, people, pay, TKE or TEC will take the money, you won't pay for the gas, and then to start the heat, you have to give this gas free again. Well, it's kind of a nonsense. I'm underlining that I don't have the money to pay for this gas. But I stress that this is the responsibility of the local authorities. Now, about TEC. Where there are these problems, there, yesterday after the Severerodonetsk, a special commission sat down, determined, and decided to launch. And there won't be any problems. But what are they.? It's not my commission, it's not government! What have they been pulling for months? I emphasized this on October 5, October 15, each day we communicate with them. And in this matter, I emphasize, there is irresponsibility, including in places, government officials or municipal services -- it doesn't matter. People should not suffer from this. And where we need to be, we're now in the line of work, where we need to force them to make the right decisions, and we're doing it. I am not thrilled that people today have no warmth, but this is the responsibility of local authorities. I would like to emphasize: 95 percent, 99 percent of Ukraine today with heat.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-09-m0.u30	Thank you. May I have the floor of the people's MP Melnik, please? From Peter Dustenk's Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-09-m0.u31	Good afternoon! Dear Vladimir Borisovich, I'd like to ask you: the question concerns the work of the state-owned enterprise Novator (the city of Hmelnicki), which has stopped working today. 70 percent of the company’s production is exported. What's the question? In 2015, the Supreme Council passed the Ukrainian Law on Technical Regulations and Conformity Assessment in order to help resolve these issues so that the manufacturer does not take responsibility. Two years later, in 2017, the government adopted Decree 751 on the Approval of the Procedure and Rules for the Enforcement of Compulsory Insurance of the Occupational Responsibility of Appointed Bodies for the Evaluation of Conformity and Recognition of Independent Organizations for Damage that Could Be Affected to Third Persons. Today, there is no licensed organization that meets these conditions and the process has stopped. I'm asking you to make appropriate changes to the decision, unlock the issue and let the enterprise work. W.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-09-m0.u32	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-09-m0.u33	Thank you, Sergey Ivanovich, for asking. I'm going to give the Ministry of Economics a mandate to get them to understand this. This is the first time I've heard about the problem. And take immediate action to resolve this problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-09-m0.u34	Thank you. I'd like to invite you to speak to the "Rebirth Party" of the People's Deputies. Please, Kulinich.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-09-m0.u35	I have a question for Deputy Prime Minister, Regional Development Minister Gennady Zubka. I am deeply concerned about the proportion of objects to be financed by the State Regional Development Fund in Poland, and in particular, I have 147 constituencies. According to the facilities, appropriate tender procedures are already under way, and repairs are under way to fund local councils. But there is no funding from the State Regional Development Fund so far. It's about the sports school in Morgrodan. It's about a specialized school called Vernadysky in Shisachchin, the Demidiv School in Resechtiliščina. By November of the month, soon the end of the year, there is great doubt that these objects will be funded and that we will be able to turn them in. So please comment on this situation and what the government will do about it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-09-m0.u36	Dear National Deputies! I think the question of charging the State Regional Development Fund today concerns everyone, all the areas. Because there's a question about the Special Fund and the General Fund. Once again, the Supreme Council, by adopting the 2018 budget, has allocated 6 billion to the State Regional Development Fund for 4.2 billion. Costs related to the general fund are fully funded. The question of how to fill a special fund will be resolved over the next two weeks. I think that literally next week we're going to see its fulfillment, because that's the question of how it's filled with confiscation. But I would like to point out and thank all those who are moving in today's implementation of these projects, this social infrastructure is very important both in sports and in education and in health, as well as in road infrastructure. So once again, I'd like to emphasize, you don't have to stop here, you have to move, but the question of how to fill the S.H.I.E.L.D. is going to be solved for two weeks. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-09-m0.u37	Please, a question from the National MP, Alexandra Kugel, please, from Fatherland.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-09-m0.u38	Thank you. Alexander Kugel, Fatherland. Vladimir Borisovich, thank you for your position on Naftogaz, because this "bone dance" has to be stopped. But I'd like you to pay attention to Spare Party and Crucifixion, and there's boys out there, too, and look at "The Crucifixion" that gets more than a million, with a bonus of two, and all the deputies are practically a million. Today my grandmother -- I was in town -- showed me how much they took from her for two bracelets of electricity. Vladimir Borisovich, she's got two bracelets, she's sitting with a candle, they took seven bracelets. All the letters in the Cherkas region are half a year old, and he pays for three months. In addition, each post office had a gastronomy and each letter carrier carried food to her grandmother and immediately forced her to buy it. This is called market management, they curse and think the state allows it. That's the situation. You don't control it, I asked Mrs. Marcarov not to confirm the financial plans according to the law to these two institutions: "Restoration" and "Resurrection."
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-09-m0.u39	Please respond to the distinguished Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-09-m0.u40	Alexander Volodymyr, thank you for asking. As for "Restoration," I think some of the situations here are different, and I think "Restoration" has all the prospects of becoming one of the leaders, and there, in my opinion, the situation is sufficiently controlled, and management is trying to do this. the banking institution to develop. With regard to Ukrainian mail, I'm worried about this, and I've told my colleagues in government how this state manager of the state company is going into information space and he's not going to deliver his pension on January 1. I was absolutely, totally, definitely puzzled by this, because I think that the government manager of a state company has no right to go out with such, I would say softly, thoughtlessly. I said that once. Next thing I know, the people's deputies are telling me that he's going in the countryside to close the mail and give no alternative. That's two, which is definitely unacceptable. And thirdly, I want to understand, and what it costs to deliver pensions today. Because they deliver food with their pension, they deliver both to the press and probably something else, and they also charge for it. So we commissioned, as a government, at a previous government meeting of the State Audit Service for 10 days, to give us an answer, is that an objective price, or is it overpriced? I'm stressing that. You know, contracts are signed with company managers, and I can't interfere with them right now to review them. But I can tell you exactly as soon as these contracts are over, this vacchanal with these cosmic wages -- I'm going to put a dot. No contract will I sign on the same terms as they have today -- millions, ten million prizes -- it's just unacceptable. The market salary is good, but it's a market salary, not an overpriced salary that they get today as fiction, not as it is in the market, the highest.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-09-m0.u41	Thank you, Reverend Vladimir Borisovich. Please, from the Opposition Block, the question will be asked by the National MP of Germany. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-09-m0.u42	Germany Vasil Ivanovich, Opposition Block. And I'm asking you to pass the word to Galchenko Andry, also from the Opposition Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-09-m0.u43	Please, Mr. Galchenk's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-09-m0.u44	Dear Volodymyr Borisovich! Andrew Galchenko, 32 constituency. There's two heat suppliers in the city of Krivi Rig, which is a utility that is the Blood Market, which is already running heat, and there's a state-owned Blood Plant. This enterprise is currently under the control of the Ukrainian State Property Fund and is being privatized, although it is in bankruptcy. It has no nominations and 300,000 people, and 30,000 children who go to kindergartens and schools are now without heat. When will this system of things stop? And I'm asking you to personally intervene in this situation and resolve these.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-09-m0.u45	Please respond.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-09-m0.u46	Thank you. Thank you. Here's what I'm saying: Crevice TEC is a debt, what they took and didn't count, 374 million dollars. That's the answer to the question. That's the answer to the question, and then the hostages are left with people, unfortunately too. And this story on the Curved Horn is not the first day it happens, not the first day. I emphasize again: look at other cities where the situation is stable, and people started a heating season in the same conditions, in the same rules, and they did. But those who simply ask questions and expect someone to help solve them are the wrong way. And now there's only one option: making decisions by local commissions. And there's a district commission or a city commission to accept it, and the mayor can do that, I don't see any questions. But it doesn't take away his responsibility for the payment, for the payment of the corresponding debts, even if it's a state company. This means that the public company gives warmth to the inhabitants. If residents are counted, there should be no problem. And, more than that, if it's about privatization, let the city take ownership of this TEC and manage it. I don't see it either. Please let them take part in privatization and buy out, I think it's symbolic resources, but it's competitive with this TEC, and they run this process, and they're making a single system. I don't think it takes much time. Commissions, make decisions. I demand all the mayors, I emphasize, provide people with warmth. But at the same time, pay off the debts they've created. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-09-m0.u47	Thank you. Please, Barezuk Oleg, your question. Alona Babak from Self-Help. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-09-m0.u48	Volodymyr Borisovich, we remind you again. The curvature heat plant of the largest shareholder also has a member of the Supervisory Board, the State Property Fund of Ukraine. It's not the mayor who runs this company, it's you, Vladimir Borisovich. [[Applause]] Through the State Property Fund of Ukraine. And now that you're talking about all the measures having to turn on the heat, you forgot that the measures didn't have the gas price before the end. Before the start of the heating season. And the decision you made today to violate regulatory conditions has put all the heat in Ukraine. Who -- self-help question -- will be responsible for adopting a regulatory act in violation of Ukraine's laws that you have today set such conditions for gas calculations that require 90 percent of the current gas payment while the tariffs for heat will be raised.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-09-m0.u49	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-09-m0.u50	Well, I mean, thank you for supporting the introduction of a new gas price a year ago. Yeah, I was. For years and three months, I negotiated to reflect the demand that would increase the price of gas, not by 23 percent, but by 43 percent, and then by 60 percent. And you'd better stand by my side and talk about it. That's the first one. Secondly, nothing prevents the mayors from running heat in their homes today. You talk like a human theorist, and I'm telling you as a practice. For me, it's the 11th or the 12th heating season. As far as TEC is concerned. I agree with you that the State Property Fund is not an effective manager. And it's not the government, it's the State Property Fund, and you don't confuse it, please. He's an inefficient heat station manager. I'm offering two choices. The first is to sell these heat plants to the mayors. I mean, city halls. Oh, no? Give them a gift, and let them run the whole complex. And I'm willing to go to that to get them a single heat management system. As far as tariffs are concerned. I emphasize that people pay 90 percent honestly, maybe 100 percent for heat. But for some reason, the telecommunications industry does not always pay these costs for gas, electricity, and other components, including water. But it's not a systemic problem, it's a problem in different regions. Where the hosts are at the right time, they think about how to start the heat. And the question of not being warm hurts as much as you do. And what's more, the question of gas prices is a huge, huge test for me personally, and for millions of Ukrainians, but I couldn't help but get over it, so you couldn't get over it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-09-m0.u51	Thank you. And the last question from factions and groups. Please, Oleg Lazko.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-09-m0.u52	Mr. Prime Minister, I think the Ukrainians who are now listening to your answers don't care who controls what. They don't care who runs the Property Fund, who runs the thermal power plant. They are interested in keeping their homes warm, and they pay for it. And your answers to our questions show that there is no responsible authority in the country and there is no order in the country because there are millions of employees with space wages, and the heat in the apartments, in the hospitals, in the schools, and they nod to the government, to the Property Fund, to Naftogaz, and so on. Give people warmth! That's why I'm saying that the first changes to the Constitution after the presidential elections that I'm proposing is the abolition of the Prime Minister's office to lead the executive branch of power. And so that people know who to ask, so there's not millions of officials to be a hard vertical, you choose -- you know who to ask. Today, people are cold, hungry, without jobs, no wages, and no one knows who is responsible because everyone is afraid to take responsibility.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-09-m0.u53	Please, 30 seconds, finish. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-09-m0.u54	That's what's bothering people. In a country where chaos, where there's a brothel, where there's irresponsibility, where there's a lot of people who don't answer for anything. Because I was. In the apartments there was warmth, in the pockets of people there was money to stop the mess, chaos, order, discipline, laws, the responsibility of officials to the citizens.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-09-m0.u55	Please respond to the distinguished Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-09-m0.u56	Thank you, Your Honor, Oleg Valeriyovich. I am also interested in the issue of warmth in the homes of millions of Ukrainians. But what I'm stressing is, in order to do that, you have to prepare the whole complex, the boiler room, start the heat. And one more story that experts make, yes, is the air being released from the heating systems. Maybe the Prime Minister will run from the first floor to the fifth floor to get out of the air system to give heat? No, it's not. They're people in places that have to take care of this. I agree with what a colleague said about the holding fund: the inefficient manager of the holding fund. Let's hand over the heat station to the property, even for free, I'm stressing this, city councils, let them do it. I've done it in my life, I understand how to do it. But there are two positions. One, I'm sorry, he's been doing it since April, he's starting to cook the city, he's replacing the pipes, he's warming up, he's cooking the boilers, he's upgrading them, he's replacing them with alternative fuels, and he's launching a planned heating season. And the other one sits and waits, his TEC doesn't care, it doesn't care, it sits and waits, I'm sorry. There's three square meters of road repair -- and he's walking around saying he's a national hero. But it is a matter of thinking, including those chosen today. I emphasize that 90 percent of the mayors of Ukraine are perfectly healthy people and pragmatists. But there are those who are now, we're seeing all of these cases -- not custody, not coping, and so on. And that's why I didn't. It's not me giving them heat, I'm going to help them now, using all my capabilities to correct their mistakes. And I'd like to say the next thing. As politicians decide what the governance system will be: the Presidential Parliamentary, the Parliamentary, the Presidential, that's your business, and when you make the proposals, I'll say it without objection. I support, strongly support the order and order of the country, and I want to say, as the Prime Minister and the government, we do not have enough authority. So for a moment, maybe think about it. I'm going to make some changes to the Ukrainian Cabinet of Ministers Act on the strengthening of the Ukrainian Prime Minister's powers. If you support this, I will, for three months, responsibly state that I will bring about a real order in the country. Thank you for asking.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-09-m0.u57	Ladies and gentlemen, I ask you to sign up for a question to the members of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine of the People's Deputies of Ukraine. Please sign up. Please. Please, Ivan Melniczuk, yours. Please, Vladimir Ariev. Vladimir Ariev, your question.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-09-m0.u58	Volodymyr Borisovich, two questions, I'll try to get in in in a minute. The first question is rather that you started a very important thing, like putting order in control of the construction and transparency of the State Inspectorate of Architecture and Construction, it's very important. Please tell me, when will the process of establishing order and transparency in the sector control body be completed, which is one of the most corrupt today? And the second question. I just got back from Brussels. We met with representatives of the European Commission and they talked about the absolute imbalance of contacts between them and the Ministry of Energy. I'd like to ask you to take under personal control the issue of guidance, let's say, bridges at least at the level of expert issues between the Ministry of Energy.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-09-m0.u59	30 seconds to complete, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-09-m0.u60	between the Ministry of Energy and the European Commission, particularly on the harmonization of gas supply and so on. Because this process is now on pause. Please take this matter for personal control. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-09-m0.u61	Thank you for asking. The construction system was always very complex. As you know, our government's policy is to decentralize this control function and we've transferred it to cities. Today, cities are responsible for the area. But at the same time, we're introducing new electronic capabilities. Recently, two weeks ago, I think Gennady Grigorovich reported on the "DABI Transparents." Yes, about the electronic capabilities that provide transparency today that are appropriate and impossible to abuse. On the other hand, we have another story. When the builders themselves go for violations and then try to legitimize them. And this is also a huge challenge, including for planning and foreclosure. So we're working on this. Moreover, since September 1st, new state-owned architectural and building standards have already been introduced, which allow for a new and complete design and construction. Which also avoids unnecessary bureaucracy. But this process needs to be further improved. I am dissatisfied with the level and state of affairs of the State Architectural Inspection. I think the manager needs to work harder on setting the order. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-09-m0.u62	Please, Irina Konstankevich, your question.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-09-m0.u63	Irina Konstankevich, 23rd constituency, Volin. My question is addressed to the Minister of Culture of Eugene Nietschuk. Mr. Eugene, I'd like to ask you about the 150th anniversary Order of the Forest of Ukraine, which was adopted in January 18th, and over the course of the month, your decree was to be your order, your order for the creation of the organs, the arrangements for marking this Jubilee and the anticipated funding for the 19th year. So, what's the 19th anniversary of the Forest of Ukraine? That's the first question. And the second question. What has been done for a system program to promote Ukrainian culture, such as the forests of Ukraine and the writers who are classics of Ukrainian literature? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-09-m0.u64	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-09-m0.u65	Thank you very much. First of all, I want to say that we're collecting plans, proposals from different sectors, I mean, from different directions and from different organizations, but. The film is now confirmed, starting next year, about the Forest of Ukraine. Also taken are books, new meetings of the Forest of Ukraine, which provide library funds. And regarding the order, I'm not exactly going to tell you right now, but the orgcommittee is going to be gathering, and I'm going to be able to tell you separately.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-09-m0.u66	Please respond. I'm sorry, dear colleagues, Ivan Šurm. I'm so sorry. Igor Šurma. Igor Mikhailovich, I'm sorry, for God's sake. Helps the Prime Minister to give you his word.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-09-m0.u67	Vladimir Borisovich, good afternoon. Vladimir Borisovich, you're waving my hand, I'm waving to you too. Nice to meet you. But listen to the question, for it is to you. Please tell me when you start. In the last 30 days, the interim duty of Minister Suprun was three times: for the first time in New York -- 10 days, then to Bali for once, and now to Bali for the second time. As who does she go to Bali, if there is a meeting, a ministerial security meeting? Who's sending it? It has no legal right to represent Ukraine because it is not a minister, it is the Cabinet of Ministers Act. She has no right to speak on behalf of Ukraine. For whose money does she go abroad for the third time? There is a sign everywhere that she is the minister of health. Please give an answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-09-m0.u68	Thank you. Thank you, Mr. Igor, for your question. The question sounds exotic. I certainly wasn't in those countries. There are various international events where government officials are involved. Government representatives are involved, including in working with international financial organizations. You're talking about Bali. A huge gathering of all the financial organizations of the world was held in Bali, including new health - care programs in Ukraine. And I think that this trip could be the result, including the annual meetings of the International Monetary Fund. And the delegation wasn't just with Ulysses Suprun. That is why such measures are taking place. I think we're going to inform you about the purpose of these visits and what arrangements have been reached, or other information that will be useful. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-09-m0.u69	Thank you. I'm sorry again, Mr. Igor, for talking. And, please, the following question is asked by the national deputy of Sevrukov. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-09-m0.u70	Good afternoon! Please pass the word to Alexia Goncharenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-09-m0.u71	Alexei Goncharenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-09-m0.u72	Good afternoon! Dear Vladimir Borisovich, next question. You've opened up the reconstruction and the start of the runway at Odessa Airport. This is a very important project. I am very glad that the government has finally done this for the first time in all of Ukraine's independence. The state of the strip was completely out of place and a great deal of work had been done this year. But unfortunately, next year, in the 2019 budget project, I don't see any expenditure and expenditure articles on the runway at the Odessa Airport. Vladimir Borisovich, the request to you, however, must lead to this extremely important infrastructure project for all of Ukraine, especially for southern Ukraine to the end, to anticipate the necessary funding and to take this under your personal control. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-09-m0.u73	Please respond.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-09-m0.u74	Thank you for asking. Really, yes. We started to help. We gave about 1 billion dollars to build this facility. And it doesn't need to make any changes to the budget because it is a concrete source of these tasks. Let's see, within our capabilities, we'll continue to help build it. But the state budget here bears the lion's share of all expenses, and that was decided, and I support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-09-m0.u75	Thank you. Next question. Please, Andrew Teteruk.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-09-m0.u76	Andrew Teteruk, People's Front. First of all, I welcome all Ukrainians to the Day of English and English. And the second question to the Prime Minister of Ukraine. We see that you are afraid that the budget is going to be as high as possible and that we could spend the taxpayers' money on reforming Ukraine. At the same time, in Ukraine today, it is estimated that there are some 1,500 illegal ASAs that generate about $100 million per year in profits for businesses. Why is our State Service ignoring such charges? Why do we not make decisions? And it's not just about corruption, it's about ecology. Because the guy who sells it doesn't even go to Euro-2. You have to do something about it right now.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-09-m0.u77	Please respond.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-09-m0.u78	Thank you. This is a question, including corruption. I'm stressing that they're located in different areas where these illegal gas stations, where everyone starts to get sucked into fate, and then it works, as if no one notices. The government's fiscal service is dealing with this issue, from the point of view of eliminating these things, and there are certain results, but they're not enough. Literally every week, tens of them stop their activities, such items, but new ones are emerging. Obviously, we need to consolidate everyone, the entire law enforcement system, in order to deal with this issue. And to increase punishment for such things is very important. And maybe we're going to go to Parliament with this kind of initiative, so that for, well, for a fake, for an illegal sale, we can break the fines so that no one will be able to deal with it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-09-m0.u79	Thank you. Please, Andrew Lozova, your question.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-09-m0.u80	Andry Lózova, Radical Party of Lazka. In the summer of this year, there was a disaster in Chernigov: hundreds of homes in the private sector were flooded, water rose to two feet [2 m]; furniture, equipment, and possessions were destroyed. In one night, think, in one night, people lost everything. Oleg Lazko and our team were in trouble. People were begging for help. 76-year-old Hanna Stepanovna, from the streets of the Decabrists, was left with all the property. She and her dog were taken on a boat right to the hospital. She was expecting rescue workers to climb onto the fence and traumatize her legs. She was lonely and buried two sons and a husband. On average, the amount of damage is 100,000 dollars per house. Total damage is 57 million dollars, of which 31 million are private sector. The government has allocated only 16 million and those to budgetary institutions. We demand that Kabmin make up for all the damage and give the money to the people first.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-09-m0.u81	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-09-m0.u82	Thank you for asking, Mr. Andrew. I would like to point out that we are responding to the appeal of the district government, the local authorities, to the damage they have documented. 16 million, we probably passed it on, because the appeal was 16 million. I will examine it, and we will find out again what help the government can provide to solve the problem. Thank you for asking.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-09-m0.u83	Please, Vladimir Aresonkov, your question.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-09-m0.u84	Dear Volodymyr Borisovich, question one. Is the government planning to raise salaries for teachers and educators next year? I'm talking about a separate system of general secondary education and higher education. And the second. Volodymyr Borisovich! For the fourth year in a row, the government puts the same number -- 1.9 billion -- into the implementation of the Chernobyl programs. After the Constitutional Court's decision, I believe that this, let's say, needs extra attention. At least a single line of funding for the treatment of oncological citizens will restore the issue of increased nutrition for schoolchildren. In particular, a number of bills, what is involved in increasing the retirement provision of liquidators, at least in this category. So I'm very much asking you to pay attention to that. Public organizations are asking for it.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-09-m0.u85	Please respond.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-09-m0.u86	Thank you for asking. In total, wages will increase slightly more than 9 percent. And the minimum wage goes from 3,000 700 to almost 4 thousand two hundred, 4 thousand 173 bracelets. That's what's in the budget itself. As for scientists and higher education, we are now working to step up wages. I know about it, people tell me about it during meetings, and science teachers, educators, people have to get a different pay system. We're working on it now. I don't have a solution, but I'm going to do everything I can to find the answer to that question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-09-m0.u87	Thank you. Please, Oleg Medunica, ask me a question. And by the way, I'd like another minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-09-m0.u88	Oleg Medunica, town.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-09-m0.u89	I'm sorry, please give me one more minute on the coloreds. And then you have a question. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-09-m0.u90	We have great respect and respect for those who saved us from this tragedy in 1986. In fact, we're coming out of the real possibilities of the state budget. We're always open to dialogue and interaction. And we're not here, we're not hiding anything. And we're going to do everything we can to find this balance of social justice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-09-m0.u91	Please, Oleg Medunica, your question.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-09-m0.u92	Oleg Medunica, town of Sumi. Dear Volodymyr Borisovich! Yesterday, all the deputies from the Suma region received a call from the company users of the Sumstina, who had been tested by the Dergeonandra this year. All of these companies received prescriptions that could end with their licenses being suspended, and they could not be executed. For example, it is said that there is no monitoring of drug use in companies. Yes, the government over your head has canceled this surveillance of drug use. Careers will stop, road construction will stop, brick production will stop, thousands of jobs, millions of taxes to the local and state budgets. I demand that you conduct a service investigation, engage law enforcement agencies, and put an end to this situation that arose with the substance companies.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-09-m0.u93	Please respond.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-09-m0.u94	Thank you for asking. I can tell you that my goal is not to shut down businesses, but to open businesses, so no one is allowed to shut down any business in Ukraine, including, as you say, drug users. But on the other hand, how do you get useful fossils without any accounting and without any monitoring? That's impossible. So I'm looking at these rules not as a measure of punishment, but as an effort to put order in the use, so that information about stocks, acquisitions, technology is open and public, and to be a completely constant approach to this issue. If there has been an exaggeration of authority, I will be happy to conduct a formal investigation and give an order in this matter. Thank you for asking. But drug users need to understand that they have to be completely professional in their business and not harm, including the environmental situation, or destroy stocks thoughtlessly, our fossil stock. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-09-m0.u95	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the next question is the national deputy Galasuk. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-09-m0.u96	Dear Volodymyr Borisovich! You know the fundamental position of the team of the Radical Party of Oleg Laska on raising wages in the country, on increasing the real income of Ukrainians. Oleg Valeriyovich and I made an amendment to the State Budget: the minimum should be 6,000 dollars. To achieve this, and in order for people's income to be free from inflation, it is necessary not to continue this way of acquiring IMF loans and raw exports that an industrial reform package needs to be adopted. Industrial Park Bills, Reverend Vladimir Borisovich, which we worked with you on, which you included in the top-35 priorities. Why are they still not in Parliament? Why don't you ask the government a question about them to attract billions of investments rather than the debt of the International Monetary Fund? The creation of an Export Credit Agency for Credit Loss, "Buy Ukrainian, pay Ukrainians!" To give millions of orders to Ukrainian factories to manufacturers, not foreign imports to Ukraine, but to oil.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-09-m0.u97	30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-09-m0.u98	destroys jobs, makes millions of Ukrainians forced immigrants. Let's take the whole "Buy Ukrainian, pay Ukrainians!" And we'll cover this bench with too much imports. Free to join engineering networks. Yesterday, the Committee on Prompolitics and Entrepreneurship decided to adopt Parliament's first reading of this law is a revolution that removes real investment barriers that today hinder industrial development. Let's raise the income of the Ukrainians and develop the industry.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-09-m0.u99	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-09-m0.u100	Thank you. Thank you for asking. I would like to stress that in 2017 the government adopted an Action Plan by 2020 in which economic growth is one of the most important priorities. Clearly, we have many systemic problems that have accumulated over the decades that have held us back, including in terms of economic growth, including the debt burden that we can talk about today, including the international commitments that Ukraine accepts, but this is very difficult for us, for the country as a whole. As far as approach is concerned. For me, economic growth is very important and we have more than 3 percent today, but that's not enough, I totally agree with that. So our next priority is to create opportunities to modernise the national economy, to invest in the national economy. In this matter, we've also accepted you, for example, I'm just going to give you an example: we've decided to release and schedule all payments for the import and upgrading of equipment. And now this process is already going on for 24 months, and I think it should be continued. This means that the core funds will be updated. We've taken some sectors that we're supporting today, that form GDP, for example, an agro-industrial complex, a power plant, where we're giving dot support to make this happen. So macroeconomic stability, financial stability, economic growth are hugely important to us. But it should also be noted that there are also regulations that we need to adopt, including in Parliament. So we've come out with a general package, there's your authorship, 35 laws, 12, I think, which are already adopted, which regulate different spheres of life and open up opportunities for investment, and ensure adequate stability. That's why we support, including the simplified procedure for connecting to the power grids of companies, because it's also a very deterrence factor when an enterprise wants to move in. In recent times, we have placed more than 150 industrial objects in Ukraine in a modernized country, and we have placed new industrial sites, all new jobs. And this has to be our strategy. A strong economy will provide an opportunity to solve problems in many areas of life, and this is my priority as Prime Minister of Ukraine. But I'm stressing that.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-09-m0.u101	30 seconds to complete.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-09-m0.u102	And it's also very important -- smart regulation. And we've begun the most extensive deregulation in the country in terms of a distinction between ridiculous norms that have kept businesses from developing at all. We canceled 740 of the various old documents that were regulated, thousands and thousands of pages of those regulations that would still be left in the Soviet Union. I think we need to speed up the process of investing in public companies.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-09-m0.u103	Thank you. One last question. Please, National Deputy Mikhailo Bondar. Then a minute of response and three minutes of the Prime Minister's closing statement. Please, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-09-m0.u104	Thank you. Volodymyr Borisovich, a question to you. First of all, I want to thank you for counting 500 million on Wednesday to cover mine debt. But what I want to remind you is that there are state-owned coal companies that don't get subsidies from the state, so this is, for example, Lviv-coal. It's got over 250 million dollars in real estate, and people don't get their wages right now. Vladimir Borisovich! Vladimir Borisovich, please step into the situation right now, because the Lviv-Ug does not pay the Lviv-Ugil DP's money earned. People have a debt since September. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-09-m0.u105	Please, your answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-09-m0.u106	Thank you. That's right. We took 500 million in the last session to compensate and support the mines. We've also decided to create a National Coal Company, and we're about to begin the process of creating it. I think the Ministry has stopped this process. I had to intervene in this situation to give them a lovely push from behind, and now they're starting to take care of it more quickly. So the challenge is to stabilize the coal situation by the end of 2019. In fact, this commitment must be fulfilled by the Minister and the Ministry of Energy. We'll help. This year we're going to close 500 million, and the next year we're going to give 2.6 billion, but I want them to be aimed at making new lavas for modernization. These costs are quite sufficient. But it's not like they're going to put this money down right now and again. We have the salaries of the iterians (not the pots that are underground, but the iterians) that are in the mines, which do not produce tons of coal. What's that? It's a robbery of active miners, it shouldn't be like that. And that's why the new task is to put order in this area, and we're going to support it. But I stress that efficiency is found in this issue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-09-m0.u107	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, may I also ask from the Presidency the question that I would like to consider as a parliamentary address to the representative of the Ministry of Internal Affairs. Dear Mr. Trojane, yesterday under the Supreme Council of Ukraine, there were actions by people who, according to my information, did not ask any questions to be able to block the city's central streets. And during these riots there was just aggressive behavior and essentially an attack on one of our colleagues, very respectable colleagues: the national deputy of the Savaca. Our colleague, he's a man of modesty, and during his speech yesterday, he didn't make a proper call to the Ministry of Internal Affairs, but I will. We ask the Ministry of Internal Affairs to bring an appropriate criminal case, deal with it. To find out what it is like for people who allow themselves to treat ordinary Ukrainians with the same disrespect and to prevent them from doing their work. And we ask you to take very seriously the prevention of riots, and this will stop in the streets of cities and villages of Ukraine. Thank you. And now for the closing statement, please, Prime Minister of Ukraine. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-09-m0.u108	Yes, thank you. I want it before closing.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-09-m0.u109	Dear colleagues, please, the Prime Minister's closing statement. Don't bother, fellow MPs.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-09-m0.u110	That's where they showed me. Thank you very much. Here, the great Borislav Bereza showed me information from social networks that says that Parliament, the government is going to cancel specific payments and so on -- is going online. I mean, it's absolutely ridiculous. We support the birth of children in Ukraine and will only strengthen our social policy. And those who are pushing us to stop making payments today are the enemies of Ukraine. I want to say right away: I will not allow anyone to take away what is theirs today, especially when it comes to specific births, children, and the increase in the number of Ukrainians. Dear colleagues, thank you for the discussions that took place. Believe me, in my answers, I was completely sincere and always ready to help solve problems where they are, and do everything to ensure that these problems are not created. I want to make one point: this is a very important question, this is the adoption of the State Budget for 2019. And I think it's the responsibility of every national MP and government official and every individual. What is the question? We have many assignments for 2019. The first is financial stability, economic stability. This budget responds to this stability. Moreover, we increase the minimum wage from 3,700 -- not as much as anyone would like -- to 4,170 dollars. We're increasing the minimum wage by 3,000 today to the military. The army, which received 7,000 dollars, from January 1st, if the budget is accepted, will start to receive 10,000 dollars and even more in the front. Remember, since January 1st, we've had to recalculate pensions for military pensioners. And you can't do that without the 19th-year budget. And on March 1st, we have to make the most massive estimate for almost 12 million pensioners, and it's also impossible without a budget. What's more, in this budget we've taken into account questions and free drugs, and we've already started a free analysis and research program for people for whom the state will pay. We have preserved a program of more extensive road construction, financing education and the New Ukrainian School, creating an energy efficiency fund, creating various industrial support programs. So this is a balanced budget that will ensure stability and economic growth in the 19th year. So I would ask everyone to take this as a personal responsibility. The only thing I can say about this law is that the only answer is the crisis is total, the undervaluation of the income of Ukrainians and a lot of other problems. We don't have the right, no one, under any circumstances or political purpose, threatens stability in the country when, in the east of our country, an aggressor every day wants to take the lives of our soldiers, wants to take part of our territory and want to rule our Ukrainian land. That's never gonna happen. Ukraine has to be strong and our task is to bring Ukraine to such a power that we can all respond to any challenge, including in the economy, and in the armed attack on Ukraine. So I want to ask everyone, please let's unite, let's not have a crisis, let's not let bankruptcy, we don't have a default, but let's make a decision and in the 19th year, we'll ensure people's stability, absolutely moderate inflation, moderate inflation, and price stability in 2019. It's possible. Let's work together. Thank you all. I wish you the best. Thank you, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-09-m0.u111	Mr. Prime Minister, honourable members of the government, we thank you for your participation in the "hour of questions to the government," and we fully share the position of shared responsibility for the timely completion of the budget process and the vote for the 2019 budget. Colleagues, let me thank the government for participating in the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and remind you all that in accordance with article 25 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine regulations on Friday we have 30 minutes to announce our requests. A lot of questions came in, over the last two weeks, 308. And that's why I want to inform those colleagues who have yet to make a request to speak about dissatisfaction with their questions that we don't have time for this today and move on to the next sessional week. And there were, by the way, 15 appropriate appeals from MPs who are dissatisfied with the answers. I would like to appeal to the authorities in some way to give competent, open and full answers to the requests of the Ukrainian national deputies. Let us move on to the announcement of requests from Ukrainian national deputies. So Victor Razwadowski to the head of the Zitomir district administration for the allocation of funds to the Singapore School of the I-II School graduated from the Zitomir district, the Zitomir district for the acquisition of chairs in the 150 landing sites. Viktor Razwadowski to the head of the Žitomir Observatories for the capital repair of the road on Shevchenka Street in the village of Prjažov in the Žitomir district of Žitomir district. Alexander Marchenka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on differences in planning in the revenue part of the State Budget for 2019 in excise taxes on goods produced in Ukraine. Olga Bogolitz to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the reasons for the absence of the creation of the Ministry of Veterans - the central authority of executive power to ensure the formation and implementation of state policy in the area of social protection of war veterans. Olga Bogolitz to the Director General of the Public Stock Exchange Society for information. Borislava Rosenblata to the Prime Minister on how to settle the question of the proper level of pay for individual categories of pedagogical workers. Jacob Bezbach to the Cabinet of Ministers, the Authorized Supreme Council of Human Rights, the Pension Fund, the Ministry of Social Policy, the State Fiscal Service on the need to take effective measures to protect the constitutional right of Dmitr Krivonos to receive pension insurance. SergeyLyvočina to the Prime Minister for the worsening of the scientific situation. Jacob Bezbach to the Cabinet of Ministers, the Commissioner for Human Rights of the Supreme Council, the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, the National Police, the Attorney General's Office on the need for a comprehensive review of Anatolia Canava's appeal for improper trial. Vasila Petítovka to the Prime Minister about the cost of repairing the road in the village of Vrhně Vodjan in the district of Zakarpat. Groups of Nardeps (Petovka, Lunchenko, Gorvati) to the Prime Minister on the allocation of funds for the reconstruction of the neurosurgery and neuroscience centre in the city of Uzhgrad. Groups of Nardeps (Timishenko, Krulka, others. In total, 10) to the Minister of Energy and Coal Industry of Ukraine on the need for an urgent solution to the issue of repayment of arrears from the salaries of employees of the separate division of the Lysicanquil Unit of the Kapuspina mine. Igor Kotwiczky to the Prime Minister for ensuring the proper level of police custody. Olesia Long to the Cabinet of Ministers, Ministry of Finance, Ministry of Economic Development for the provision of digital terrestrial television to the population. Olesia Long to the Ministry of Finance, the National Bank, for the establishment of the necessary tax benefits for children of war. Vladislav Buhareva, head of the Committee of the Supreme Council on Budget Issues, Prime Minister, on the allocation of funds from the National Budget of Ukraine for the reconstruction of the heating system with the establishment of a solid boiler in the Malovostropsk College of the Suma National Agrarian University. Vladislav Buhareva to the Prime Minister, Head of the Security Service, Ministry of Internal Affairs, Director of the National Anti-Corruption Bureau, Henprocuror, on the need to address possible violations in the organization of the work of the Somali District Board of the Regional Landscape Park "Samski". Ruslana Solvara to the temporary duty of Minister of Health, head of the Kyiv government to resolve the issue of the day - to - day operation of emergency medical care in the village of the town of Kožanko, in the region of Kyiv. Ruslana Solvar to the Prime Minister, who is responsible for the duties of the Head of the State Agency for Road Traffic, is the minister of infrastructure to address the construction of a pedestrian bridge in the centre of the village of Nebelice in the region of Kyiv district, which is on the Kyiv-Chop highway. Igor Moisiyczuk to the Ministry of Education and Science on a special examination by the Ministry of Education of the winner of the election as Rector of the National Academy of Music. P.I. Tchaikovsky - Timishenko Maksim Olegovich. Jury Boyka to the executive duty of the Head of the State Fiscal Service, the Attorney General, to put an end to the pressure on entrepreneurs and businessmen who are believed to support the opposition political forces. IgoryaGuza to the Prime Minister on the need for an increase in the projected levels of medical subsidies from the State budget to local budgets for the purpose of uninterrupted pay of salaries to health workers in the Ivanichi district of Volin region. IgoryaGuza to the Head of the Supreme Council, Prime Minister, Deputy Head of the State Forest Resources Agency on the need for urgent changes in the laws and regulations applicable to the forest sector of the State. ArtemaIyuka to the Director-General of the State Enterprise, the Scientific and Productive Complex of the Zora-Mashproject gas turbine for the planned execution of the work on the reconstruction of the Jagotin compressor station by means of equipment produced by the employees of the "NHKH "Zorya"-"Mashproject" and other works involved by sub-organizations. ArtemaIyuka to the Director of the State Enterprise Science and Production Complex of Zora-Mashproject gas turbines on the size of wages, bonuses, material aid and other payments to the management and employees of Zora-Mashproject DP and information on personnel activities. Michael Bondar to the head of the Lviv Public Administration for the conduct of public hearings and for the assessment of environmental impact in the possible construction of norse farms in the territory of the Bródí district of Lviv. Michael Bondar to the Minister of Education and Science to solve the problems of giving creative vacations to teachers within one year, not more than once every 10 years, taking into account the work experience. Jury Wozniak under the executive responsibility of the Head of the State Agency for Road Traffic in Ukraine to ensure that road maintenance is organised within the Plain area. Jury Wozniak to the Minister of Education and Science, in charge of the responsibility of the Minister of Finance to increase funding for preschool institutions. Groups of National Deputies (Chicken, Kisselova, others; only 17) to the head of the Antimonopoly Committee for anticompetitive concerted action in the market for the purchase of chemical reagents. Maria Ionova and Irina Heraszczenko, head of the National Council of Ukraine on television and radio talk about the use of measures to improve public information policy in the field of countering information threats in Ukraine. Anatolia Denisenka to the Prime Minister for the immediate resolution of the issue of providing a vaccine against measles with the aim of halting the rapid increase in the number of measles in Ukraine. Anatoly of Denisenka to the Minister of Politics on the implementation in the 18th year of the main tasks approved by the Poverty Reduction Strategy in Ukraine. AndriaShipka is under the temporary responsibility of the minister of health to take urgent measures to ensure that citizens with diabetes are treated with insulin. Alexander Gehrega and Andrija Šinkovič are under the responsibility of the minister of finance to freeze the wage fund for civil servants at the age of 18. Alexander Gehrega and Andrija Šinkovič to the Prime Minister and Director-General of the Public Shareholders Association "Krupposta" regarding the non-receiving of pensions by residents of rural areas through the Krašta. Igor Popov to the Head of the National Council for Television and Broadcasting, Ministry of Information Policy to prevent the spread of "fake" news in Ukraine's information space. Andrija Lopushanski to serve as Head of the Government of the Public Shareholders Association of the Ukrainian Railways, head of the Lviv observatories for not allowing the closure of the Dobromil Railway Station in the Old Sambir region of Lviv. Andria Lopushanski, Michael Doubbenk to the Prime Minister, Head of the National Commission, which regulates national energy and utilities regulations, the Minister of Energy and Coal Industry on the implementation of the rules of the Natural Gas Commercial Accounting Act. Groups of Nardepas (Cervakovo, Ionova; only 18) to the Prime Minister on failure by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine to execute the Ukrainian Supreme Court Order of 16 November 15 on the return to state ownership of 890 hectares of forest land within the city of Butch Kyiv region. Groups of Nardeps (Bakhtey, Galchenka, and others; only 5) to the executive responsibility of the Head of the State Fiscal Service, the Head of the Board of Directors, the Head of the National Medical Service, and drug control regarding the possibility of illegal crossing of Ukraine’s medical resources. ConstantineJarinič is responsible for the responsibility of the Minister of Finance, who is temporarily responsible for the Ministry of Health for taking urgent measures to ensure the timely and full payment of salaries to medical personnel in the town of Kropivnitsky. Gregory Times to the head of the Montenegrin District Administration, Head of the National Commission, which regulates the state in the field of energy and utilities for the provision of quality electricity to residents of the village of Red Dibrow. Igora Lapina to the State-owned company Kolkow Forest Farm, the State-owned enterprise "Primordial Forest Farm", the State-owned company "Kashire Forest Farm", the company "Kuwertske Forest Farm", the State-owned enterprise "Ljublska Forest Farms", the "Manevitch Forest Farm", the "Manevitch Forest Farms", the "Parrural Forestry Farms", the "Parliamentary Forest Farms Company", the "Parliamentary Forest Farms", the "Parliamentary Forest Farms", the "Parliamentary Forest Farms", the "Parliamentary Forest Farms", the "Pravel Forest Forest Farms", the "Pravel Forest Farms", the "Pravel Forest Farms" the "Pravel Forest Farms" the "Pravel Forest Company" the "Pravel Forest Farms" the farm. Yuri Boyka to Prime Minister of Ukraine for the capital repair of the Kiev-Hark road area within the city of Poltava. Sergia Kiwalova to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the settlement of issues related to the delivery of pensions and social benefits through the PAT Department of Crucifixion. Irina Herashchenko to the Head of the Ukrainian Security Service, the head of the National Police, the Minister of Internal Affairs, the Attorney-General for the violation of criminal conduct in connection with the killing of a Ukrainian citizen, the reporting of this to the Single Register of Judicial Investigations, the comprehensive and full investigation of this crime and the prosecution of the prosecution for the investigation of the crime. PeterJurchin to Henprocuror with regard to the full, comprehensive and objective investigation into the criminal investigation of the fact of the accident at the production in Kaluchi, Johno-Frankiv district, which led to the death of Wozniak Andrija. Igorya Shurma to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the lack of coordination between the Ministry of Defence, the Security Service and the National Police on the issue of the establishment of missing persons (both military and civilian). Igorya Shurma to the Prime Minister, Director of the National Anti-Corruption Bureau, Head of the President's Administration for Health Abuses revealed by NABU detectives and published in the NABU Report of the first half of 2018, which has caused damage to the interests of our country. ArturoMartovicko, Igor Schurma to the Head of the Accounting Chamber on the need to carry out an audit of the use of funds allocated to the Ministry of Health and the National Health Service for the creation and functioning of information (automated) and information and communication systems. Anna Romanov to the doer of the Ukrainian finance minister’s duties to deal with the consequences of the disaster. AnatoliaGirschfeld to the Prime Minister on the increase of the targeted medical subsidy for the treatment of patients suffering from diabetes mellitus and non-sugar diabetes. AnatoliaGirschfeld to the Prime Minister for the allocation of additional financial resources to the city budget of Lozow, Kharkiv Region. Anna Romanova to the Prime Minister in charge of the duties of the Head of the State Road Agency, the minister of infrastructure for the capital repair of roads that take important tourist routes. Alexander Nechayev to the Head of the Sumsian Arch for violations of appointment. The director of the district utility at Sumi Airport and the negative facts in the business. Alexander Nechayeva to the Minister of Internal Affairs on the verification of the pressure exerted by the employees of the Smilian Department of the U.N.U.P. Department of Ukraine in the Cherkas region on the individual entrepreneur Philippenica. Valeria Pisarenko to the Prime Minister on the allocation of funds to finance the State Programme for Youth Housing for 2013-2020. Valeria Pisarenko to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the increase of the State budget subsidy to local budgets for the implementation of the Internally Moved Persons Home Project. Jury Bublika to the Prime Minister for the warning of an environmental disaster in the Poltava region because of inadequate treatment of solid wastes, overload of existing sites after their storage, and lack of sorting and processing. DmitraDomova to Prime Minister, Deputy Prime Minister, Minister for Regional Development, Minister of Infrastructure to address the situation with insufficient parking spaces in Ukrainian cities. Dmitra Dobrodomova to the Prime Minister, secretary of the Poltavské misdemeanor, head of the Poltavský obludžadnje on the use of measures to carry out work on the capital repair of the pipelines of engineering networks and (replacement of new) windows and door blocks on the stairways of the roads in house No. 135 on the street of Pushkin, in the city of Poltava. Dmitri Lubinz to the minister of regional development for deviation from building standards in the project documentation of the building of a multifunctional complex on Antonović Street, 136-138, in Kiev. DimitarLubinca to the Ministry of Education and Science on the non-derogation of the educational process and the damage to students of the school No. 37 of Kiev’s Glossiev district as a result of the illegal construction of a multifunctional complex on Antonovic Street, 136-138, in Kiev. Jury Miroshnikenka to Henprocuror of Ukraine on the Austrian citizen Patrick Mert's complaint of lawlessness during the pretrial investigation of criminal conduct resulting from the fraudulent capture by a group of individuals at all costs. Jury Miroshnicka to the Odessa District Administration for the collective appeal of the residents of the new building in the city of Chernomorsk regarding the residence of more than 100 families in a residential building that is virtually unbuilt and life-threatening. Yurya Derevyanka to the director of Carpathian National Natural Park on the need to take steps to transfer to the territorial community the village of Vrokhta Jaremcan City Council of Ivano-Frankov Region of Land to the town of Vorocht, which is subject to removal from the territory of Carpathian National Natural Park for the implementation of Presidential Decree on the Extension of the Carpathian National Park No.215/2010 of 23 February 2010. Jury Derevyanka to the National Police, the Attorney General’s Office, for providing information on the number of criminal conducts reported as crimes committed against public activists and journalists. Mr. Dmitra Kolesnikov to the Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Regional Development, Construction and Housing, Head of the Court of Auditors for the implementation of the 2011-2020 State-wide Water for Ukraine. Dmitri Kolesnikov to the Prime Minister for Social Protection of Children and Young People. Helen Sotnik to the Head of Administration of the President of Ukraine on the provision of information on the appointment of the first Deputy Head of the External Intelligence Service of Ukraine. Helen Sotnik to the Deputy Head of the National Police of Ukraine, Chief of Investigations, Attorney General, for the provision of information on the state and the results of pretrial investigations into the conduct of criminal attacks on public activist Sternenka Sergija Vijacheslavovich. Antonakisse to Prime Minister of Ukraine for the restoration of passenger train No. 686/685 Odessa - Ishmael. Antona Kisse to the Prime Minister on the recalculation of pensions for civil servants and officials of local self-government bodies. Ms. Alexandera Co-partner to the Prime Minister for a systematic and inappropriate examination of parliamentary appeals and requests by the Prime Minister of Ukraine. Alexander Companionka to the Kiev City Head for taking inappropriate steps to complete the restructuring of the preschool facility in the Darnicki district of Kiev. Alexander Marchenka, head of the Committee of the Supreme Council on Budget Affairs, First Deputy Prime Minister for Economic Development, acting as Minister of Finance, temporarily acting as Minister of Health for the violation of the rights and obligations of patients in the field of State financial guarantees in the planning of health expenditure for the Ukrainian State budget for 2019. Vitalia Gudzenka to the head of the Kyiv government for the allocation of funds for the acquisition of goods and services to the Tarostian State Technical and Economic Law College. Vitalia Gudzenka to the Director of the Public Shareholders Association "Krupposta" for the restoration of the post office function in the village of Rosaliyevka Bilocerkow district of Kyiv region. Sergey Pashinsky to the Attorney General for the obstruction by officials of the State of Ukraine and the Žitomir District Council of the activities of the Zitomirthorf DP. IgoraKotva, Prime Minister for proposals for the second reading of the draft Ukrainian Act "On Ukraine's State Budget for 2019". AndrijaVadaturski to the Prime Minister for the restoration of the function of the Mikolai regional branch of the Marine Training and Diplomacy Inspection. Group of Deputies ( Papieva, Boyka, Pavlovka) to the Prime Minister, Minister of Internal Affairs, on solving the problem of illegal amber mining in the territory of the Zitomir region. Vladimir Parasyuka to the Minister of Interior, Head of the Board of Directors, Henprocuror for the possible kidnapping of the control and measuring equipment from the so-called "Energy-Novoyavorovsk" which led to the "break-up" of the heating season in the city of Novoyavorysk, Yavorovsk district, Lviv region. Victor Wolfe to the Cabinet of Ministers on bringing the activities of the "project reform offices" to the Cabinet of Ministers and the central executive authorities in accordance with Ukrainian legislation and preventing illegal external administration. Victor Wolfe to Vice Prime Minister Paul Rosenk on the examination of the numerous facts of gross violations of labour law and the rights of citizens by agroholding Pat "Miron bread products" and its subsidiaries, including for the purpose of political pressure. VadimKrivochatka to the head of Zaporozhi's government for the vaccination of children in Zaporozhi region in the 18th year. Vladimir Litvina to the Prime Minister for the payment of arrears from salaries to employees of Novagrad-Volinska DED DP "Zitomirski oblovtododor". Vladimir Litvina to the Prime Minister, temporarily acting as Minister of Health for the treatment and provision of medicines at the expense of the budget to a disabled person, 3 gr. Vasilyanicki to Prime Minister, Acting Minister of Finance, Head of the National Television and Radio Broadcasting Foundation, Head of the Ravenna government administration on the need to increase the amount of public funding of the Community language. Vasilyanicki to the Prime Minister, temporarily acting as Health Minister for the creation of a separate state support programme for patients with juvenile rheumatoid arthritis. TetjanaOstrichov to the executive duty of the Head of the State Fiscal Service to provide information on the number and effectiveness of the customs administration of the DFS by Ukraine of forms of customs control from the law enforcement initiative. TetanyaOstrichovov to the executive duty of the head of the State Fiscal Service of Ukraine to provide information on the results of the operation of the tax system. Alexander Kodola to the Prime Minister for taking appropriate measures to ensure compensation for the damage caused by the property of local residents as a result of a fire in a military warehouse near the city of Ichnya Chernigiv district. Alexander Kodola to the Secretary of Defense to provide conditions for the renovation of citizens’ homes and social facilities that are on the balance of military intelligence, which were affected by a fire in a military warehouse near the city of Ichnya Chernigiv district. Andrija Galchenka and Constantine Pavlov to the Prime Minister about the threat of a break in the heating season in the city of Krivom Rose. Andria Galchenka to the Prime Minister on the hearing of cochlear implants and on the rehabilitation of adults and children with deep hearing loss. Yuri. Oleg Kulinich. Oleg Kulinić to the Deputy Prime Minister for Regional Development for the allocation of funding for the implementation of programmes and projects. HanniGopko and Ostapa Ednak to the Ministry of Internal Affairs on systematic attacks against public activists, lawyers and journalists who expose the abuse of the city and the pro-Russian forces in Odessa and the lack of a proper response by the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine to a parliamentary appeal on this issue. Groups of Nardepas (Shinkovica, Gerega, Macola) to the deputy head of the State Forest Resources Agency, the procurator of the Hmelni district for the verification of the legality of the mass deforestation in the Theophilus region of Hmelnit. Groups of Nardeps (Shinkovich, Gerega, Macola) to the Theophilus District Government of the Hmelnitsk Region on the use of measures to address the problem of the unsatisfying state of roads in the Theophilus region of the Hmelnitsk district. Aunts of the Bacheva to the Prime Minister for the vaccination of children with inadequacy or perhaps falsified vaccines in private health institutions. ValentinaNiciporenka to the Prime Minister, Deputy Prime Minister - Minister for Regional Development, Head of the Department of Water Resources, etc. Head of the State Department for Geodesy, Minister of Ecology, Head of the State Service for Emergency Situations, Head of the Bilgorod-Dniestrov City Council, Head of the Gulf Village Council of Odessa Region, Head of the Odessa Administration for Contributing to the Stopping of Unlawful Action, regarding the use of land, and in particular the beaches of the Gulf Village Council of Odessa. IriniConsensual to the Minister of Foreign Affairs for the provision of information on Ukrainian citizens who are in places of non-freedom in other states. SergiaLabazuka to the Supreme Council Committee on Construction, the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, the National Commission for State Regulations in the Field of Energy, the Ministry of Regional Development, the Hmelnicka Observatories, the Hmelnicka City Council on Problems of the Activities of Hmeljnické. SergiaLabazuka to the Ministry of Justice of Ukraine, the Hmělnice Municipal Council, the Hmělnické observatoire de l'communals. John Ribak to the Prime Minister, the Minister of Finance, the Minister of Education, the Head of the Chernobyl Observance for the financing of the educational sector of the Vashkovsky united territorial community of the Visniky region of the Chernivets region. John Rybak to the Prime Minister, temporarily acting as Minister of Health, head of the Chernivetske observatories, head of the Vižnice district government of the Chernivsky region for the provision of medical assistance to an oncowl resident of the town-type village of Berogomet in the region of Chernivetsec. Jury Bublika to the head of the Ukrainian Pension Fund for unlawfully delaying retirement by age. Vladimir Aresonkova to the head of the Žitomir Observatories concerning the commission to determine the status of persons affected by the Chernobyl disaster. Vladimir Aresonkova to the Prime Minister on the debt from the payout of vacationers who work in the areas of enhanced radio-ecological control. Paul Kishkar to Henprocuror with regard to the investigation of the capture of power in the city of Varas. Paul Kishkara to the minister of justice regarding the participation of the State registrar in the capture of power in the city of Varash. RuslanaDemczak to the minister of defense for the award of the inhabitants of the Nemirów district of Vinnitsk. Sorry, about the birth of a resident of the Nemiriv district of Winnitsk, Find Grigory by Order of Courage for saving 25 ATO soldiers during a battle in the village of Kovské Donetske region on July 25, 2014. I'm going to continue our work, our 15-minute session, in order to be able to announce all 308 requests. And I keep doing that. RuslanaDemczak to the Director-General of the Public Shareholders Association "Krupposta" for the inclusion of the village of Mukhovci Nemirovski district, the village of Nova Priluka and the village of Vachnovka Lipovecko region, the Chinese Agricultural Council of the Illinecko region in the computerization project of the villages of PAT "Krupposta". Andrija Illenka to the Prime Minister, head of the Kiev City Government, to provide sufficient funding for the continuation of the construction of the Dalio-Vristen bridge crossing in Kiev. Andrija Illenka to the Head of the National Police, the Attorney General on the improper examination of the MP's appeal and the non-application of actions taken by the right-wing police department of the HUNP in Kiev on the massive damage and destruction of the trees of the forest farm in a quarter between the Brovarsky Prospect and Kyoto Street, the Leroy Merlin T.C. and the Lisova Metro station in the right-wing district of Kiev. Mikhail Golka to Prime Minister, Minister of Education, Acting Minister of Finance’s duties to increase the cost of salaries for Ternopil’s education workers. Michael Golovka to the Head of the Board, Minister of Internal Affairs, Henprosecutor for the misconduct of the National Police officers in relation to activists of the public organization Unknown Patriot. VictoriaSumar under the executive responsibility of the Head of the State Road Agency, the Ministry of Infrastructure to ensure satisfactory road cover for N-23 and T-0606. PaulDublika to the Prime Minister on the non-admission of the mass closure of the Pat Departments of Crucifixion. Sergia Kaplin to the Prime Minister on the illegal appointment of the Director General of the National Specialist Enterprise "Cornobil Special Unit". Sergio Kaplin to the Head of the State Security Service of Ukraine on transport, the Pritsky City Head, who is responsible for the headship of the Chernigian Authority on the problem of freight traffic on the streets of Priluka. OlegaOsukhovsky to the Minister of Ecology, Zdołbunowski’s Urban Head, the Head of the Plains District Government, the Plains City Head, the Head of the Plains Authority, the Head of the Ddolbunovo District State for the restoration of Lake Basiv Kut and the river Ustya. Oleg Osukhovsky, head of the Committee of the Supreme Council on Economic Policy, the first deputy head of the Committee on Social Policy, Employment and Pensions, the first deputy head of the Committee on Fuel and Energy, the head of the Committee on Budget Affairs, the Prime Minister, the Chief Executive of the President, the Council of Security and Defence for the immediate use of comprehensive measures to address the appeal of local self-government bodies. Alexander Wiekula until the provisional duty of President Pat "Ukratransgaz", Head of the Board of the Public Stock Exchange Society "Smalling" on the value, volume of production and volume of transporting of own gas for the 13th to 18th years, and scheduled for the 19th year. Alexander Wiekula to the Prime Minister, acting Minister of Finance, Head of the National Bank for Information on IMF Cooperation with Ukraine: the current, approved in March 15th, extended funding programme, which is due to be completed in March 19th and the new 14-month program with Ukraine in formatistandby. Borislav Bereza to the Head of the National Police of Ukraine on the inaction of officials of the DRC of the Darnicke UPP in Kiev. Irina Konstankevich to the Prime Minister, Head of the Volin Observatories for the 19th year of the repair of road works for the general use of local and state importance in Kamen Kashirsky, Kivertsevsky, Ljubsevsky and Manevicki areas. RomanaMatzoli to the Prime Minister, Head of the Pension Fund of Ukraine, Ministry of Social Policy on the settlement of the issue of social benefits to internally displaced persons. RomanaMazoli is under the temporary responsibility of the Minister of Health, the head of the Hmelnick observatories for the provision of medical care and for the provision of prompt treatment at the expense of Panchuk Valentini’s budget. Romana Semimenha under the executive responsibility of the Head of the National Fiscal Service of Ukraine, the Head of the Government of the Pension Fund of Ukraine, the Head of the State Service of Ukraine for the work on providing information on the implementation of measures aimed at the childization of employment and the income of the population in the 18th year. Romana Semimenha to the Head of the Supreme Court of Ukraine on the problems that arise during the drafting of the protocols on administrative misconduct and accountability. JuriyaLevchenka to the director of the Institute of Archaeology of NAN Ukraine on archaeological research in the area near House No. 1 on Makarovska Street in Shevchenkov district of Kiev. JurijaLevchenka to the Director of the Institute of Archaeology of NAN Ukraine for information on archaeological research and other land issues addressed: Polovatska Street, 4 in Shevchenkov district of Kiev. Victor Bondar and EugeniaGeller to the Kiev city head for the provision of facilities for the Kiev City Veterans Organization of Ukraine. Jury Pavlenko to the Prime Minister on the serious shortcomings of the draft Ukrainian law on amending certain legislative acts on the reform of the institutional care and child rearing system. Jury Pavlenko to the Prime Minister on the use of measures to return to Ukraine under the care of the grandmothers of Ukrainian citizens who became orphans while living with their mother in the Federal Republic of Germany. Julia Yooffe to the head of the Central Electoral Commission on the need to protect the constitutional rights of citizens, to urgently resolve the issue of the appointment and the holding of the first elections in the Mountain City Joint Territorial Society of the Lugansk Region. Julia Yooffe to the Prime Minister on the need to apply a level playing field when paying wages to employees of an industrial and non-industrial group of coal companies. SergijaVlasenka to perform the duties of a minister of finance in relation to the financial obligations of the State of Ukraine to the International Monetary Fund. Oleg Petrenk to the head of the National Police Department in the Cherkas region for information on the state of investigation of the cruel treatment of homeless animals in the city of Vatutin. Sergija Leschchenka to head the National Architectural and Construction Inspectorate of Ukraine on construction work at the Ocean Mall. Sergey Lechchenka to the Attorney General for the purpose of controlling the investigation of the unconscionable execution by Alex Bud, his commitment to the construction of a housing building on the Avenue of Truth, 80-82 in Kiev. GrigoriaTimisa to the head of the Montenegrin Ombudsman on the promotion of the distribution of medical subsidies from the State budget to local budgets between budgets of cities of regional importance, district budgets and budgets of the united territorial communities for the fourth quarter of 18th year. Yuri Solova to the executive duties of the Head of the State Road Agency for the repair of public roads in the areas of Svetinski, Kosovo, and the regions of the region of Ivano-Frankov. AlexanderKorsa, acting director of the Society with limited responsibility for setting up the "dealing police" to stop the illegal night race and disrupt public order in the parking lot of the Ashan supermarket on the street of Hero's Works, 7 in the city of Kharkiv. Jaroslava Markevich to the prosecutor of the Dnipropetrov region, prosecutor of the Kharkiv region, for the introduction of information into the Single Register of Trials. Sergey Rudika to the temporary duty of head of the State Geology Service and Nadr Ukraine to extend the special permit for the use of the nadrama for the purpose of extracting the bold municipal company WaterGeo. Sergija Rudika to Deputy Prime Minister for Regional Development, Head of the Public Shareholders Association of the National Shareholder Company Naftogaz Ukraine, Head of the Management of the Public Shareholder Society Cherkasigaz, Smilan City Head of the Cherkas region, Head of the Cerkas District Public Administration on the urgent use of measures to stabilize the heat supply situation in Smila. Edward Matviychuk to the Committee of the Supreme Council on Family, Youth Policy, Sport and Tourism, the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, the State Property Fund, the Odessa District Public Administration on the objective consideration of the collective appeal for the signature of 229 employees and parents of children who are involved in the sections of the Sport Palace "Sunness" of the State Enterprise "The Administration of Ukrainian Seaports" of the City of Black Sea Odessa on the need for an objective review of all the situation that has occurred in recent months with the operation of this Sports Palace to avoid the negative consequences, as well as the comprehensive protection of the interests of children, young athletes, trainers and attendants of the physical culture and sports facilities. Igor Alekseieva to the Director of the Institute of Legislation of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the improvement of the legislative regulation of the Institute of Lawyers in Ukraine. Igor Alekseyev to the executive duty of the Head of the State Agency for Road Traffic in Ukraine to maintain a stop to public transport "Southern Borszagivka" on the road to the general use of the state value T-10-27 Kyivska Half. Jurya Berezi to the Prime Minister for an improper examination of a parliamentary request regarding the non-admissibility of mass infringements of the right of citizens to purchase housing for the first time without paying the congregation for a compulsory state pension insurance. Mikoli Kucher to the Head of the State Television and Radio Committee of Ukraine on changing the format of the author's "Folk-music" program Ivan Melniczuk to the procurator of the Vinnitsky region, the head of the National Police Department in the Vinnitsky region, for the provision of information on the conduct of investigations into the illegal activity of officials of the INC "Energosurs" during the implementation of the project for the reconstruction of the Sport Health Institute "Yoność" in the city of Žmerinka. John Melniczuk to head of the General Directorate of the Dergeocadastre in the Vinnitsk region to ensure the realization of citizen Melnik's land rights. JuriyaTimoshenka to the Head of the State Audit Service of Ukraine for the verification of the use of state funds. JuriyaTimoshenka to the Colomian City Head of the Ivano-Frankow region for project documentation and information verification. Julius Lübecken to the Prime Minister for the protection of the rights of persons affected by the armed conflict in the east of Ukraine. Igora Lucenka to the Attorney-General of Ukraine to ensure that the Office of the Attorney-General effectively executes the State's interests in order to recognise Ukraine's right to state property in the person of the Ukrainian State Property Fund as part of the Grozny-Armaver-Trudov oil pipeline. Igora Lucenka to the Head of the State Department of Special Communications and Protection of Information on the conduct of a targeted verification of the state of technical protection of state information resources and information in DP Information and Telecommunications Systems "Prosoro Sales" and DP "SETAM" and the monitoring of measures to address the shortcomings of DP "PROZORO". Oksana Biozr to the Department of Food Safety and Veterinary Medicine of Ukraine on the need for immediate vaccination and sterilization of stray animals in the settlements on the line with temporarily occupied areas of Donetsk and Lugansk. Oksana Bilozer to the Prime Minister on the implementation of the provisions of the Ukrainian Act on Amendments to Certain Laws of Ukraine on the Strengthening of Social Protection for Persons residing in Temporaryly Occupied Areas and in Human Settlements on the Collision Line. Paul Rizanenka, head of the Kyiv District State Administration, on the use of urgent and effective measures to ensure that repairs are carried out on the road area of local value O100402 Boryspiel Dudarkov-Bzov-/M-03/. AloniBabak and Taras Shepherd to the Minister of Defense again on the provision of detailed information on KPCW 2101190 "Built (acquisition) of housing for ZUS military personnel". AloniBabak to Odessa's city head again on immediate exit from the balance sheet of the house in the management of the Harmonia Plus OSBB. Edward Matviychuk to the Ministry of Regional Development, State Architectural Inspection, Odessa District State Administration, on the objective review of the collective appeal of the people of the new building on Parusniy Street, 18 in the city of Black Sea Odessa for the benefit of 549 families, more than 100 of whom are forced to live under inadequate conditions of virtually unbuilt housing. Bogdan Matkovski to the Minister of Interior, the Kiev City Head, regarding the possible raid of Ukrainian citizens' property, members of the autostand, etc. Congregations (United) 21 A, Kiev Group of Nardeps (Gorva, Lunchenko, Petovka) to the executive duty of the Head of the State Fiscal Service to implement the provisions of Law No.2360-VIII "On amending certain legislative acts of Ukraine on the development of the production of wine and natural copper. And the last request from the National Deputies Group (Gorvata, Lunchenka, Petovka) to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the identification of sources and the development of a financial provision mechanism for higher education institutions I-II levels of accreditation without individual legal personality status in 2019. Dear colleagues, we have completed the announcement of the requests registered in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Once again, I appeal to my fellow officials in the government, in other executive bodies, to request comprehensive, thorough, thorough responses to the Ukrainian people's deputies so that we do not have dissatisfied representatives of Parliament for the answers they have received. And now, dear fellows, there's a 30-minute recess. Right after we break up, we have time to speak to the national MPs on various issues. So I'm asking all my colleagues to come back and register on time. As for the bills, we'll be considering them next sessional week. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-09-m0.u112	Dear fellow national deputies, we continue our work. We're moving on to the discussions in the "different" section. And I'm asking you to prepare for the recording to participate in the discussion. Please hold the recording. Welcome to the speech of the People's Deputy Bondar.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-09-m0.u113	Good afternoon! Bondar Mikhailo, 119th constituency, Brodovščina, Radehovščina, Kamyanka-Buzki and Buzak regions. I've been speaking out of this high rostrum on my district a number of occasions. Especially with regard to the treatment of children with cancer and organ transplants. And today, again, that's what I'm going to do. I was contacted by a resident of the village of Tetetevčica in the Radehiv region of Lviv, requesting financial assistance for the treatment of the daughter of Kutzuba Miroslava Jaroslavovna in 1989. Miroslavi was diagnosed with sarcoma, and treatment was estimated at 250,000 dollars, both in chemotherapy and surgery. He made appropriate calls to the district’s social services, to the district to provide assistance in the form of appropriate benefits, subsidies, or medical care, or material treatment. I also turn to my colleagues and all who care to help my family. Every bracelet is important. Together, we can help, and that is not difficult. None of us are immune to sickness. This will not save the MP's integrity. The important thing is to remain uncaring and help those in need, to the extent possible. I'm calling on my fellow MPs not to ignore this kind of appeal and to provide assistance. Often in the family, the last hope is to help carefree people. I'm going to publish props for help on my Facebook social network page and I can give it to all my willing colleagues. Turn around and join in, help is just important, join in, and do not be apathetic. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-09-m0.u114	Thank you. I invite you to the speech of the People's Deputy of Parasius.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-09-m0.u115	Thank you. I want to tell you what's going on in Novoyavorysk, as I can see the solution to this problem. And maybe this speech will be seen by Vladimir Borisovich Groissman, who promised to take care of it. But what I'm surprised is that he consciously doesn't see what's going on, he's talking in the high hall about the fact that in all of the guilt measures of cities that don't start a heating period, but he doesn't realize that there's a lot of thermal power plants run by private structures and the state, and the measures of cities have nothing to do with it. But I want to talk about the city of Novayavorysk. Now, when one of the companies that gave heat to the city was arrested, the Armat is the structure that defined the new manager. She had a contest, a steward was found, but previous leaders began sabotaging and convincing people not to go to work. But when everyone sat down at the negotiating table, people went to work and prepared the boiler for the heating period. But then it turned out that programmed controllers were missing from the boiler room, and without these controllers, it was impossible to start boilers. New controllers can be made in Europe, but it's a two-to-three-month term, and we all have to understand that it's just going to be ice cream and people just won't be warm. I think here, first of all, they need to understand the owners, the temporary owners of the company that once took it into control, that these controllers should be given up and not sabotaged during the heating period, because people are just left without heat. I want to convey the words of the citizens of Novayavorovska, who said, "If there's no solution to this problem by Monday, they'll just block the Lviv-Krakowitz road and not let anyone into the checkpoint." And that's the reality, and that's what I was passing on to Vladimir Borisovich Groissman. So I hope that this statement will be seen by people who have a bearing on it and give back the stuff that was stolen from the boiler room. And in the 35,000th city of Novayavorovsk there will be a heat return, I truly believe it. If that is not the case, people will again cover the road and go to the owners of this boilerhouse under the house, and they will live under those houses. They wrote about it on Facebook, and that's what I'm handing over right now from the Supreme Council. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-09-m0.u116	Thank you. I invite you to the speech of the People's Deputies of Galasukh.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-09-m0.u117	Victor Galasuk, Oleg Lachka Radical Party. Dear Ukrainians, the International Monetary Fund requires an increase in the price of gas for the population and thus for municipal tariffs in Ukraine. At the same time, it opposes raising social standards in Ukraine against raising minimum wage. The position of Oleg Lášk’s Radical Party is quite the opposite. We insist that municipal tariffs should not be increased but reduced and stabilized. This is all possible if you don't dance under the International Monetary Fund and increase Ukrainian gas production, make extensive energy-generating in the country, and introduce an honest formula for gas price. Because Ukrainian gas is cheaper than imported gas, and the country has had every opportunity in a few years to give up gas imports and switch to domestic gas. This is an opportunity to lower gas prices for the population, industry and honest tariffs for people. Unfortunately, today the authorities are pursuing a completely opposite policy — a policy of shock, economic shock, no therapy. The tariffs have risen to a level that is already approaching European wages in Ukraine, according to the latest report, the IMF is the lowest in Europe. Oleg Lachka's team proposes to significantly raise social standards in Ukraine. We have made an adjustment to the budget that we insist on setting a minimum wage of 6,000 dollars. That's what today's opportunities are, there's resources, there's a policy that's capable of providing, and there's certainly an indexation of pensions, and there's certainly a wage raise for budgeters, educators, doctors. That's what we have to do. In order for this increase in Ukrainian income to be economically secure so that it is not consumed by the frenzy of inflation, which unfortunately is imposed on us by the wrong economic policy of the government, we offer to adopt an industrial reform package. Create favourable conditions for the development of Ukrainian production, industry, investment participation, cheaper credit through the Export Credit Agency, investment incentives, guarantees, lower taxes for manufacturers through industrial parks, new markets, hundreds of thousands of new jobs and higher wages for Ukrainians, through "Buy Ukrainian, pay Ukrainians!“free connection to engineering networks to remove barriers to the development of the Ukrainian economy. This will allow tariffs to be stopped, it will allow wages to be raised and millions of Ukrainian workers to be actually returned home. This is a policy that the Radical Party insists on.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-09-m0.u118	Thank you. I invite you to the speech of the People's Deputy Vuka.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-09-m0.u119	Victor Wolf, the faction of the Radical Party of Oleg Laska. Ladies and gentlemen, last week, at the commission of the leader of the Radical Party, Oleg Laska, I presented our positions at a meeting of factions with Chancellor Angela Merkel of Germany. From the beginning, after reminding Mrs. Merkel of her comment to Putin in March 2014, that he was not in contact with reality and was in another world, he stressed that such a wild world perception of Putin was partly the result of the policy of a peaceful Western aggressor, both before and after the beginning of Russia's aggression against Ukraine, including the result of Germany's position at the 2008 NATO summit in Bucharest on Ukraine's failure to provide a plan of action for NATO membership. He also reminded the Chancellor of Germany that Ukraine had inherited the third largest nuclear potential in the world, 2.5 times the size of Britain’s nuclear arsenal, France, and China combined. So Russia’s aggression against Ukraine undermines the entire world regime of nonproliferation of nuclear weapons. What signal does this send to North Korea, Iran, and others who see the example of Ukraine giving up nuclear weapons and suffering from Russian aggression? Without the guarantees of the Budapest Memorandum, nuclear security in Europe and the world is impossible. He also stressed the consistent position of Oleg Láska's team on: the anti-constitutionality and inadequacy of the international law of the so-called Minsk Treaties; the need for the Budapest format of international negotiations, namely, Ukraine, the United States, Great Britain, France, China and Russia, with Germany's involvement as leader of Europe instead of the norm format; the need for a United Nations peacekeeping mission throughout the occupied area of Donbas and international control over the Russian-Ukrainian border; the inadmissibility of building the North Stream-2; and, ultimately, the need to preserve and strengthen the international anti-putin front and sanctions policy. The German Chancellor also received the position of Oleg Láska's team on the need for a radical change in Ukraine's economic policy, because the main internal threat to Ukraine is mass poverty and population emigration. Ukraine has become an exporter of raw materials and people instead of exporting finished products, this is the path to a national disaster. Our mission is to stop this slip-up and secure an economic breakthrough in Ukraine. Oleg Lazko and his team intend to win the presidential and parliamentary elections next year, so Germany and our international partners should prepare for a radical change in Ukrainian politics in 2019.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-09-m0.u120	Thank you. Welcome to the speech of the People's Deputy Krivenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-09-m0.u121	Good afternoon! Victor Krivenko, National Movement of Ukraine. You know, our Prime Minister is somehow trying to call people populists, those who raise the question of a fair price for gas. Since February 15, when most members of the coalition of three hundred deputies stood up front of the IMF and said, what a wonderful memorandum, I said yes, we should work with the IMF, but we can't agree on any part of the gas. I was speaking on dozens of airs in February, in March, and I was talking about how the U.S. was comparing gas tariffs for the population and industry from 38 to 89. For more than 50 years, the price of gas was proved to be equal. In normal economies, the price of gas for the population and energy resources is higher than for industry, because industry has a cumulative effect, it takes people out of unemployment, it does a lot of positive things, taxes are paid. I was then in the office of the then head of NCRE, Mr. Wolfe, and I told them that the time would come, and you would be on the bench of the defendants. An independent controller can't guess the price of gas in a memorandum from the IMF, with all due respect to our partners with the IMF. I did not vote in favour of the Budget Act, which introduced these subsidies that destroy the soul of the Ukrainian. They make him into a restraint, they make him into a nonprofit, because people in power need people who will be poor, and they will be easy to manipulate, who will be dependent on subsidies, subsidies. And by the middle of the 16th year, more than half of Ukrainian households were getting more than half of their income from unearned money. Now today, the Prime Minister has again started to talk about what turns out to be the government of Groysman, we see in the presentations, but in every particular problem, it is the individual minister who is responsible. It's wrong for us to run the holding fund, the TEC didn't run, the wrong energy minister, the wrong other minister, and for some reason it's called the Groysman government, not the Ukrainian government. I was with the inhabitants of Smila yesterday, with the head of our headquarters Victor Ovcharenko, the People's Movement of Ukraine in Smila, we delivered yesterday to the deputy minister of the Cabinet of Ministers a letter of appeal asking Mr.Groysman to take personal control of the situation in Smila, because it is a disgrace. If it was just yesterday, it happened -- all last year, people were actually hanged, the gas was always shut off. There's no heat now. The same is true in Vasilkov – the city is not running, and the mayor of Vasilkova is covering both the law enforcement authorities and the entire vertical government is covering it because he promised a worthy result in the elections. Therefore, the National Movement of Ukraine requires the Prime Minister to create a headquarters, personally head it, not translate it into vice-ministers, personally lead it and show how he can run the state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-09-m0.u122	Thank you. I invite you to speak to the People's Deputy of Lozov.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-09-m0.u123	Andrey Lozovy, Radical Party of Lazka. "The word of family is eagle-skinned, strangers laughing," wrote Alexander Olesia. Today is the day of Ukrainian writing and language. Our sacred and most beautiful Ukrainian language in one form or another was banned hundreds of times by Moscow King Alexius, Peter I, Anna - Ioanivna, Catherine II, Lenin, Stalin, Postusev, Hataievich, Kaganovich. They hated the Ukrainians, just as the Kremlin's vertical hates us today, and taking away one of our most precious languages, our own identity, is their goal. Remember the Andrusian covenant, remember the Lyublin Union. In 1918, here in Kiev, when the Bolsheviks arrived, they shot 5,000 people, 5,000 of our fellow countrymen, think only because they spoke Ukrainian and wore national clothes or had a portrait of the chief radical of the Ukrainian people, Taras Grigorovich Shevchenk. And today, in English, they kill again. And in addition to the political ban, in addition to the ban on business, Moscow did everything in its power to deprive the Ukrainians of the right to speak to the Lord in their own language, the right to pray in that language of our ancestors. This is what the apostle Paul writes in the Bible in his letter to the Corinthians: “When I pray in a foreign language, my spirit prays, but my understanding is barren.” Various manipulations seem to be attributed to us by the Moscow Church that we Ukrainians do not have the right to speak to God in our own language. It's all "breed of the gray cobilla," as you say, unrespectable cassavas. Because the Ecumenical Patriarchy, too, other dining churches pray in the language in which the community understands one church or another. And today, as historical events take place, when historical justice and anaphema have been restored from the Holy Patriarch of Russia-Ukraine, which has been waiting 30 years for this historic justice to be restored, when we have more than ever before the chance of having our own canonic church, it is very embarrassing and painful when politicians are parasitic about it. But it's not enough for the Ukrainian Church to get a car cafalium. Ukraine is a secular state and a democratic state, where everyone has the right to go to the church he considers necessary. But there is no moral right of the Moscow Church in Ukraine to be called Ukrainian is absurd. It's as Ukrainian as, for example, "The Ukrainian Choice" by Victor Medvedchuk, the godfather of Putin. The word Ukrainian in the name does not fit the point. And today we have to make the exarhat of the Moscow Patriarchy in Ukraine called the Russian Orthodox Church in Ukraine. We Ukrainians have our language, we have our national dignity, and we will win. The glory of the nation!
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-09-m0.u124	Thank you. Welcome to the speech of the People's Deputy Hannu Gopko.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-09-m0.u125	Good afternoon, dear fellows! Today, Ukraine celebrates the Day of Ukrainian Language and Writing. And this is a good opportunity to mention how important language is to freedom, unity in general for the very existence of our nation; to mention how much oppression and persecution in the three centuries of the Moscow occupation has survived our language, how many people have struggled and worked to preserve, protect and develop it. And so, colleagues, I wanted to say that language is a matter of national security. And we, as legislators, have to do that part of the work with its approval and development. I very much hope that in the second reading of the bill on national language we will finally adopt. I would also like to remind you that two years ago, radiofire was occupied by Russian pops Ichanson. And for 1 Ukrainian song, there were 20 Russian songs. I remember how much opposition even in this room was during the adoption of the Ukrainian Radio Song Act and how the lobbyists of Russian radiomen in this room put sticks in the wheels so that the law would not be approved. Yesterday, the law was fully operational. And now 35 percent of the songs on the air of each radio station should be Ukrainian. But the radio stations are already doing this, they're resetting this quota. You know, this year, the proportion of Ukrainian songs on the radio is now 54 percent, because it's cool, fashionable and popular to listen to Ukrainian music. And that those who said that radio stations would shut down because there would be no Ukrainian songs, that listeners would stop listening to the radio, there would be protests, there would be divisions -- all that was and when we approved the Decommunization Act. So I really hope that in the area of strengthening Ukrainian identity through decommunization, by establishing and ensuring the function of Ukrainian language, by supporting Ukrainian cinema, Ukrainian culture, we will be able to give away "Russian peace" more powerfully, and no attempt will be made. Also this week we discussed the issue of involving the Kremlin in elections in Ukraine and the instruments that will be. It's once again a matter of financing political parties, it's a question of the energy sphere, when energy oligarches have the resources to continue financing. We also need to ask the government: Who is receiving funding now? I mean, yesterday we voted in favour of the European Union Promacrophine Agreement, that's 1 billion euros. The first tranche is 500 million to come in. But if we look at how the government spends the available funds, when we see that the Mironian Bread Product is supported by one of the programs. The compensation for the construction of animals receives almost 800 million dollars. I have a question: If we want to support farmers, why do we support the largest agroholdings? Is that a top-priority? So I encourage the government to stop spending next year's budget on those agrooligarch programs, as well as on energy oligarchs known by the whole state. Otherwise, we borrow money and then give it to the oligarchs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-09-m0.u126	Thank you. And I invite you to the speech of the People's Deputy Silantiev.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-09-m0.u127	Dennis Silantiev, faction of the Radical Party of Oleg Lášk. Dear Ukrainians, in the last months of this year a budget is being drawn up for the following year. So just so you know, out of 100 percent of next year's expenditure, 40 percent of it goes into paying off the debt that we have to pay our international financial partners. Next. 20 percent go to the military and defence sector and there's 40 percent left for everything else, and all the rest are salaries and pensions, subsidies and subsidies, such as health, science and education and many more. What am I talking about? The direction to be financed from the government budget is very large and, as always, is not enough money for everything. And this is where the cut begins. The government starts to choose which programs to finance and which programs to not. So that's when the sample begins. sample moments, it's very important here to put the priorities that need to be left behind and funded first. So the Radical Party team, led by Oleg Lashk, thinks that the top priority and the main treasure of our nation is man. And the main thing is to keep this person from running away from Ukraine. So that money will not be spent in vain to stop this mass migration of young people, young professionals and professionals in order to finally give impetus to infrastructure development, to attract billions of investments, to make new jobs for the Radical Party team in the next year's budgeting requires the government to renew funding for the grant of a long-term government loan to young families and to single young citizens for the acquisition and construction of housing. If this program is funded in full, it will allow for the creation of some 2.5 thousand jobs in the construction sector, which is additional revenue to the budget, to include more than 10 billion dollars in the adjacent sectors of the national economy. We're saying that we need to restore the Ukrainian economy. So this is one of the steps that you have to do, how you can do it. And I also want to point out that it's a loan, it's not a non-refundable aid, it's going to go back to the budget, and it's going to go back to the percentage. And the main thing is that it will allow about two thousand young families to be provided with housing. The main problem today that holds people in Ukraine is the absence of housing and the first job. Let's make it right. So, the honorable government, properly, please set priorities and listen to the demands of Oleg Láska's Radical Party, then we will be able to stop the migration of people from Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-09-m0.u128	Thank you. I'd like to invite you to the floor of the national deputy Jurinec.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-09-m0.u129	Madam Chairman, honourable national deputies, distinguished Ukrainians, I would like to welcome everyone to the Day of Ukrainian Language and Writing, because this is a truly important holiday for us, for Ukraine, which is now becoming a nation. But it is very important that we, in the Ukrainian budget, be able to anticipate the appropriate funds and resources in order to raise the salaries promised this year for the professor's and lecturer's warehouse. It is very important that these people today hold our future in their hands and communicate with those who will then change our country. It is very important to note that today is the day when the head of the NATO Parliamentary Assembly is on his way to Russia. Today, the president of this Assembly, along with the head of Parliament, will visit the east. This is the first time in the history of both NATO and Ukraine that a guest of this high level is going east to see what's actually going on there so that we, the Ukrainian delegation, which will take place in Halifax on 15 November, can do our job. I mentioned in this room that for the first time in the history of Ukraine and NATO 2020, the Spring Assembly will be held in Kiev. This is the work that has been reported on in the last two years in this assembly. The next thing I want to say is that it's in Galifax that important things will be accepted for both Georgia and Ukraine. As far as my district is concerned, in June 2019 one of the actions of the NATO Assembly will take place in my district in Lviv, where we will be able to visit the Yavorovsk region and see how joint learning is taking place today. In addition, President Yuknavivesen, former Lithuanian Defence Minister, who has created the Polish-Ukrainian-Lithuania Brigade, which has already begun active training and cooperation. We can talk a lot today, but gradually through parliamentary diplomacy, adopted with the appropriate and necessary laws to reform our special task forces so that they can do their work of quality, and we could claim to become members of this security umbrella. It is very important that the decisions taken today show the willingness of the Ukrainian Parliament and, in general, the Ukrainians who are making their choice today for Euro-Atlantic integration. We are strong when we are alone and when we understand the priorities of our nation. We can argue with you in what way and how fast we can move, but the fact that the vector of Ukraine is constant and that it is today that Euro-Atlantic integration is a priority is already an undeniable fact. It's very important that we understand that NATO is not just defence security, it's education standards, it's health standards and it's quality of life standards. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-09-m0.u130	Thank you. I'd like to invite you to the floor of the People's Deputies.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-09-m0.u131	DmitriLenko, Oleg Lachka Radical Party. 236 houses, 10 kindergartens, 6 schools and 2 hospitals this morning ended up with no heat from an accident in Kropivnicki "Kirovogradtépelénergo". This is because of the systematic debts owed by the utility company before Naftogaz, which today is actually caused by bankruptcy, and the city today is without heat. More than 117 million dollars were owed today to Kirovogradtěplo before Naftogaz, which is why today they are forced to buy gas at 13,000 dollars. And they're going to pay for it. The peasant town council of all this time, and this situation did not happen yesterday and not yesterday, but for more than a year they were systematically bankrupt, took no steps to prepare the city for heat. Today they're returning, they're going to return Kirovogradéplénergo to the municipal property of the city council, but it's too late because it's hot in the streets today, and the residents (school children, residents of Kropivnické in the hospitals) are going to freeze today. And so far, almost 200,000 people have been deprived of heat. Not only is this situation related to Kropivnitsky, but the whole of Ukraine, because more than 45 billion today is owed for gas before Naftogaz. That means an increase of 23 percent is another tens of billions of dollars that today will not be able to pay the Ukrainians, for which they will then take the apartments for which people today lose their heat. Oleg Laska’s radical party takes a week to adopt a moratorium on the price of gas. Parliament has not worked for two weeks, has been working for a week, and has not yet been able to put this order to the vote. We've come up with a real plan to beat the price of gas and overcome the frenzied rises in municipal tariffs. First of all, it's a big-scale energy-modernization to keep those utility heatcommuneers out of a state of emergency, which is causing heat loss, loss of huge amounts of gas, and people are running out of heat. People's greenhouse credit so 2 million Ukrainians can save gas and pay less. The reform of Naftogazu is not needed today as a monopoly structure such as Naftogaz, in a country that produces billions of dollars at the expense of Ukrainians. And the last one is gas production. This year, Ukrainian gas production dropped by 1 billion cubic feet. Instead of increasing -- and the Supreme Council, by the way, has done everything we can on our initiative, reduced the rent, made it possible to extract a new Ukrainian gas -- instead, we reduce the production of our own Ukrainian gas and buy expensive imported gas. So we're going to demand that next week we take our decision on a moratorium on gas price rises and a real programme to combat huge tariffs.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-09-m0.u132	Thank you. I'd like to invite you to the floor of the People's Deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-09-m0.u133	Ivan Sporish, 15th District, Winnitzkin, Peter Dust Block. Of course, today, really, a successful speech by Culture Minister Eugene Destroyer from the rostrum, where, indeed, it is said, and again I want, as the previous speakers say, Ukrainian language, Ukrainian culture is really Ukraine. And we have to build it. And it depends on the young generation, on the schools, on the higher education institutions, because we know very well that they are the future of our Ukraine, they will create and build it. Sadly, though, we would like to build it, not destroy it. Because we're now preparing for the President's election and we're going to hear a lot of populism, populism from this rostrum. And we have heard many things today, not just today, but questions to the government. Because I understand well, as the head of my family’s subcommittee, a youth policy, it is also important that young mothers receive money, receive expenses for a child under the age of 3. And it has to be this way, the price of gas, the price of gas should be lower, and we also understand that. But what I'm going to say is that I've got money in my neighborhood, they don't want a 7 dollar gas price, they don't want 3 bracelets, they want a fair grant, and they want a 50, 1 December 80, and that's how we're protecting these poor sections of the population today. The main thing is that this subsidy would reach them, and that would be much more fair here. I'm going to say that the minimum wage that we talked about today is 4,000 200, it's really small. Somebody wants six, I want eight, for example, but the main thing is not who wants it as long as we don't let the default in Ukraine, I want the current financial figure to be equal to that. But still the viewers, when they watch TV, they think, well, everyone who pays a higher price is probably going to vote for them. So I would very much like us to be united, united, and united in this direction. It also hurts for the middle class, because we understand very well, and it really depends on the future of our country. And right today EugeneNishtuk said from this rostrum that financing schools from the local budget should be, this is utopia, this should be funding from the central budget. Because if we neglect schools today, we won't have middle class, agriculture, farmers won't have specialists in that direction. We already know that today the price of sugar, farmers are already refusing to sow sugar beet, because the price of sugar today is pretty low, 9 G's 50 K's, where they sell in a supermarket for 14-15 G's, there should also be sugar regulation and.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-09-m0.u134	Ten seconds, please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-09-m0.u135	And that's why I think the perspective is that we should really think in that direction so that we can actually look for this price for the 2019-2020s to sell sugar.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-09-m0.u136	Thank you. I'd like to invite you to the floor of the People's Deputy Rudik.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-09-m0.u137	Dear Ukrainians! The words I would like to address you with today have spoken in this room more than once. And in the presence of the government, the Prime Minister, other high officials, and now that this bed is empty and only those who are most in pain are left in the room – it's warm. Don't even charge for gas, dragons, but it's the fact that it's warm. Today, representatives of at least ten cities spoke of what is now in the city, the central city of my constituency, Smila, with 68,000 inhabitants. Although they say less, no one wants to count because they're afraid because they're much less likely to be -- it's also a poor truth. 13,000 apartments, 139 multi-story houses, 13 schools, 13 kindergartens, 7 hospitals, 4 with a night stay, and so on, and so on, and so on and so on throughout the country. You're asking the Prime Minister I was talking to, well, eleven times, why? They don't, they don't have people to take responsibility for paying their services all the time. When you come to the store and pay for the bread, for the water, for the butter, for the sugar, they give you the goods, you put them in the bag, you go home and feed the children. Why is it that when you pay for heating services, they don't give you a favor and tell you a story about who's to blame? You come to the Prime Minister guilty of Naftogaz, he says, "I condemn him." You come to Naftogazu, Kobolev says, "And the debt didn't pay." You come to the local authorities -- the local authorities say, "Guilty in all government, have Groisman come and see how the brave live." What about those who regularly pay for their services? Think about it, when we're talking even in this room about the problem, we're using words, gas balance, gas balance, debt liabilities, subsidies, but there's no living word -- human life. Society, I support those colleagues today who have urged the Prime Minister to create and lead the headquarters, but I very much doubt that he will. Because he's already stubbornly saying this: he's responsible for the local authorities. Yes, the local authorities are much to blame, and bold, including. Today, at 2:00 a.m., an attempt will be made to gather a session and decide on a 15 million dollar loan to buy gas. What if they don't take it again? And if the quorum is gone again, what will be the difference between Monday and Monday? Today, decisions have been made, as of Monday, all schools go for a walk, because it's not an option, it can be extended for a week or two. What's next? And when is negative 20? I've always tried constructively to resolve this issue, but if I tell you honestly, if by Monday in Smuli the heat issues will not be unlocked, I will be taking people out on the street myself and covering roads that I've never done before, and now I will, because I've had enough! Please support all the political powers of me who.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-09-m0.u138	Thank you. Welcome to the speech of the People's Deputy Ednak
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-09-m0.u139	Good afternoon, dear Ukrainians! Let us die with you today. Imagine that Ukraine was fully integrated into Europe’s gas transport system and gas market. The gas market is completely transparent, the gas is sold through the stock market, the price of the market. As a result of the transparent distribution of licenses and gas production in Ukraine, we have dozens of European and American companies that are rapidly increasing the production of Ukrainian gas, and income from rents is rising rapidly. Ukraine is beginning to export natural gas, and Ukrainians are beginning to buy it cheaper because of competition between sellers. Died? And now the reality. With the passing of the progressive Gas Market Act in 2015, the government and parliament, unfortunately, have stopped doing so. The government continues its shameful practice of regulating gas prices, making it cheaper. A cheaper price for the population and a higher price for industry. What did such a practice do? It's caused corruption, it's completely disincentived energy efficiency among the population, it's not actually allowed us to get a tranche from the IMF. And this, in turn, caused and added to the devaluation of the bracelets, and forced Minfin to borrow money in the markets to stop the government budget deficit, much more expensive than it would have been from the IMF. By such partial decisions at the end of October on gas prices, the government is in fact. By raising gas prices, the government has actually passed estaphet to the populists in Parliament who. Some of them are progressive political parties and factions who have registered a populistic decision to cancel the gas price hike, and they have been speculating on this insolently for more than a week. I, in turn, have registered an alternative decision, along with Natalia Weselova, with Paul Kishkar, where I demand the government to move finally to market pricing, continue to reform the gas market and effectively assist targeted subsidies to low-income Ukrainians who will not actually be able to pay the market price for gas. I'm up against populism, I'm up for market reform, and that's the right thing to do. We should learn to speak truth to Ukrainians, not to brake change. Finally, I would like to report the good news concerning political life in Ukraine. The "Power of Men" party today became a member of the ALDE (The Alliance of Liberals and Democrats in Europe) during a convention in Madrid. For our political power, this is an opportunity to work together with European Liberal-Democratic Parties from all over Europe, more than 60 members. ALDE members have seven prime ministers, including Czech Republic, Luxembourg, Belgium, Denmark, Estonia, the Netherlands, Finland, and five European Commissioners, who can promote Ukraine’s interests in the European community. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-09-m0.u140	Thank you. I'd like to invite you to the floor of the people's representative of Kuprien.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-09-m0.u141	Oleg Kuprienko, faction of the Radical Party of Oleg Lášk. Respectable citizens of Ukraine, listeners, viewers! Dear National Deputies, colleagues in the Hall today! So today we've been asking the government what to do, what to do, why it's cold, why the gas is expensive, why the tariffs are high, why Kobolev gets millions of bonuses, why. For the fact that his lawyers, who receive a very small salary, have done their job professionally? Everyone forgets that they also hired a foreign law firm there for money. They don't say who won the court. We have not yet received the funds, but we have already received in our pocket the money that would be sufficient to cover the debt of all the cities and towns that Oleg Lazko spoke of from the rostrum that our fellow national deputies are talking about. Yeah, good people, what's going on? It's money for you, taxpayers, it's money for those who fill the budget, it's money for those who keep the law enforcement system, the Attorney General's Office, the Specialised Anti-Corruption Prosecutor's Office, eventually the NABU, or, excuse me, the "buyers" that we've chosen and given them crazy wages for tens of thousands of dollars. What do they do? I'll tell you. There's an article called Illegal Enrichment. Who, what, the ephemeral one of Vasi's uncles? No, the illegal enrichment of a particular person. Is it possible to violate criminal conduct based on the fact that an unknown person is illegally enriched? Funny, isn't it? No, they're doing this, they're violating criminal conduct regarding the illegal enrichment of an unknown more than a year and a half ago. And nine people investigating the NAB, reading the names, let the country know their "heroes." Followers of the National Anti-Corruption Bureau of Ukraine:Fursenko Viktor Volodymyrovich, if I am not mistaken, well, the small text of such court rulings can only be written by high-class specialists; Nemirovich, Atamánczuk, Verinczuk, Guljev, Dug, Magamedrasulov, Statur, Tobehtiev, Tkak, Tokar. Nine NABU investigators are being held in the Solomonese Court for a year and Judge Agaphonov, Oxuta, and Senin are making unjust decisions to remove the technical act against the building that the National Deputy acquired in 2007. People are good, because of your money, the government is engaged in falsifying criminal persecution against the future president of Ukraine, and stories tell you. Shame!
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-09-m0.u142	Thank you. I invite you to the floor of the People's Deputy Teteruk.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-09-m0.u143	Dear Madam Chairman, distinguished colleagues of the national MPs, the distinguished Ukrainian people! First of all, I would like to address a few questions and welcome all Ukrainians to the Day of English and English. In my own time, I also spoke Russian for over 40 years, and it was an absolutely peaceful attitude towards the pronunciation, the language, but after the beginning of Russian aggression, I realized that it was impossible to use the language of the country that sent its soldiers here to kill Ukrainians. I calmly switched to Ukrainian and felt the inner harmony of using my native language to communicate. And that was my conscious choice, which I call on everyone who still hesitates to go to Ukrainian for everyday communication. The second question I'm concerned about, and the question I've asked the Prime Minister of our country today, is that in our country today, about 1,000,500 illegal auto-fuelling stations are being used to generate more than $100 million, and all of these are corrupt shadow costs, not to strengthen our state, but to enrich the individual businesses that are trying to mate us Ukrainians with some kind of junk in these auto-fuel stations. All of this will move us to make choices that distinguish a free citizen of a free country from a totalitarian society? Because he has a choice and is responsible for his choice. He can do things both legal and illegal, but the consequences are affecting every member of society, so today I would like to urge everyone to make the right conscious choices for our society's strengthening, for our nation's strengthening: not to go to Ukraine, not to buy counterfeit fuel, not to enrich the corrupt equipment of those who continue to sit on schemes. And so we're going to weaken the shadow economy and increase the real economy and make our country stronger. And all this, and the reinforcement of the army, and the medicine, and the education sector, and in the end, mutual respect for each other, when we realize that it is our choice, the choice of a free conscious person, that makes each of us stronger and makes our country stronger, our Ukraine. Please make your choice, use it in the right direction and love our country and do everything you can to strengthen it every day. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-09-m0.u144	Thank you. I'd like to invite you to the floor of the People's Deputy Illenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-09-m0.u145	Andrew Illenko, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. Thank you, Deputy Sidorovich, for taking the floor. Dear Ukrainians, today I want to address you all with an absolutely screaming situation that is taking place in Kiev, in my constituency, in the Forest Massive, near the Lisov Metro, where journalists have discovered a few weeks ago that unknown criminals have destroyed more than 400 trees in the forest, in the forest area. In fact, destruction was caused by the drilling of holes in trees, the watering of an unknown chemical, and the trees were destroyed. After that became known, as a national deputy, together with the Kiyevrada deputies of Freedom, together with the representatives of the district administration, we held a field meeting on this site. The police were there. It turned out that the police had not even opened up criminal conduct on this horrendous fact! Then they said they'd open it. I wrote my MP's address. The right - hand police department replied that they did not see the logical connection between what happened to those trees that had poisoned them and what they had died, so they would not open the door. Well, actually, it's a completely abnormal situation, which means there's an agreement, obviously. Apparently, someone decided to build a building in this area. To do that, they first poisoned the trees, then they said, "Well, there's no trees there, there's no forest, let's build something there." And actually this sequel had this story. Because there were unknown criminals in the area yesterday morning with gas saws that just started cutting down those trees. In fact, they were able to stop the foresters. So this situation continues. I want to turn from this rostrum to the criminals behind these actions, to those who cover them, including the police, that you will not be able to build anything there! "Freedom" won't let any construction take place there! There'll be a forest. We'll plant trees there, and we promise you that. And know that only if you appear there will you confirm that you have committed this crime. And by the way, criminal behavior. We have achieved that criminal conduct has been discovered both by the fact that the trees were poisoned, and by the fact that their illegal logging took place yesterday. And we demand that law enforcement officials conduct a comprehensive investigation into this crime, punish those responsible, including those who ordered the crime, who are behind it. And finally I want to look in general at what's going on in Kiev, and unfortunately, because we've seen that with actually a new urban head that is now (not new, but how many years it is already), Mr. Klick has not reduced the number of illegal forgetfulnesss, various scandals, destruction of green zones, but just increasing. And that needs to be done, because otherwise there's just no way in hell we're going to be able to live in our city. But we won't let that happen.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-09-m0.u146	Thank you. And I invite you to the speech of the national deputy of Yemen.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-09-m0.u147	Thank you. Leonid Yemen, People's Front faction, city of Kiev. Dear voters, respectable citizens of Ukraine! Sometimes I feel like someone in high offices has some simple principles, such a life credo: don't God, don't do anything good to the Ukrainian people. What happened yesterday during the vote in favour of the Europeans Act shows that individual factions, individual committees in this Parliament, are clearly tasked with making the Ukrainian people poor, spreading poverty as widely as possible, distributing subsidies and thereby keeping every Ukrainian citizen on the hook for their political interests. I'll explain what you mean. Edits related to the introduction of benefits and zero rates for electric cars. Why would it be so important and convenient for every Ukrainian citizen? Look at the cost of gasoline today. Well, it's clear that only people or oligarchs themselves can pay that kind of money for gasoline today, or very close to the dooligarhat, because an ordinary citizen has to use the subway, even if he has a car, because he can't pay and find gas money anymore. The electric motor does not spend any, no liters, no ounces of gasoline. In a year’s savings, the Ukrainian family could go out with the whole family to rest abroad, at sea, or save 2-3 thousand dollars for their other needs. It would seem that when the tariffs rise by 23 percent, which could be, well, more indicative for Parliament -- to give people the opportunity to save every family $3-4 thousand a year, to install electric cars, to implement a gasoline economy? Yesterday, these drafts for the bill were introduced by me and the representatives of Fatherland, Alexia Rybchini and others. But the U.P. P.P. committee did, well, it did a huge deal with these rights and, in fact, the demands of the Ukrainian people that the state work for the people, so that the people don't work for the state in the same way as they think, by increasing the budget, but, in fact, the state has to work for the people and the budget has to work for the people. But yesterday, in the Ukrainian Parliament, it was demonstrated that this Parliament was not able to make people's decisions, but it was able to do the tasks that were set before it by some other high office, set the oligarchs, put the aggressor country in general for individual factions. How can this be resolved? First of all, we're going to leave the right changes and we're going to insist that the budget vote is possible only if the electric cars and the benefits on them are saved zero, and the Ukrainian citizen has the opportunity to save money at a time when the gasoline is costing, at a time when the money is flattened, the Ukrainian citizen can get the opportunity to save himself a very serious amount of money for each family. And the second question is, change in electoral legislation. If we want to make decisions in Parliament if we do.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-09-m0.u148	Please, 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-09-m0.u149	If we want Parliament to work for the Ukrainian people and it was the Ukrainian Parliament, electoral legislation must be changed. Open electoral lists must be implemented.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-09-m0.u150	Thank you. I invite you to the speech of the People's Deputies.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-09-m0.u151	ValeriaZarztko, faction of the Radical Party of Oleg Lašek. Dear citizens of Ukraine! Honorable colleagues! I love the good news very much, but unfortunately, with the current good news government very little. So you have to take it all in your own hands. A year and a half ago, 8,000 employees of the state-owned Selidivwowiel company started having trouble paying their wages at the right time. People got delayed on salary for 4-6 months. They came to Kiev with protests, stood here under the Supreme Council, under the Kabmin, starving their families and children, and there was nothing that people could accomplish. But because of the fierce struggle of the Radical Party faction at all levels, because we've been exerting tremendous pressure, because of our consistency and hard work, our team has finally succeeded in getting the miners to pay their wages. They've already paid them off for September, for October, even for June. People are very grateful. They thank us. They call every day. I'm glad to talk about it. I'm glad to talk about it. We've achieved justice for the miners, but we won't stop at that. We will continue to monitor the timely payment of wages on the national mines of Ukraine. We're going to be fighting for a real reform of the coal industry. To finally be accepted by Oleg Láska's Radical Party Industrial Reform Package for adoption of the bill "Buy Ukrainian, pay the Ukrainians!"which is central to this reform package, which will enable miners to be confident that they will have a job, a stable salary and some future in which they will believe in some stable and bright future. We're going to fight for, at last, the scale of energy-modernization that power has long promised to the Ukrainians. But we don't see this modernization right now. We will fight to increase the production of our own useful mines and our own energies. We're going to be fighting to get down, finally, tariffs for the population, not the way they are now raised. We're going to fight for real energy dependency, for creating new jobs, not for stimulating labour migration as it is now in power. We are for every Ukrainian to finally get a decent salary and a decent pension when he completes his work path; for people to feel worthy in their own country; for the country to become stronger; for it to actually be integrated not only in words but also in action into European society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-09-m0.u152	Thank you. I invite you to the speech of the People's Deputy Kishkar. Victor Krivenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-09-m0.u153	Thank your brother, Paul Kishar, for giving the word. Victor Krivenko, National Movement of Ukraine. Today is the celebration of our language, of our writing. But, you know, a holiday with a little bit of this conflicting feeling. On the one hand, we've really done a lot of things. As the head of the interfractional union in Parliament, "For language!', I see those changes that we have managed to vote on together. I want to thank all those who voted for the Ukrainian language on the radio, all those who voted and when we stood still for the actual return of the second Russian national language. Because you all understand very well that in 2014, it became clear to Moscow agents that the question of the second state language would not pass. And how did they go? They called it "the language of the national minorities" and began to prescribe several of our ethnic minorities under this defiance. That's what they started playing at. But there was actually one thing behind this was to keep Russian education in schools up to the 11th grade. Not learning, as in all countries of Europe and the world, but learning. I remember seven hours ago we spent on the 3rd floor of the year, in the Education Act, when the 7th article voted like Paul Yuhimovich Grizenko, who then joined the Movement, the director of the Institute of Ukrainian Language of the National Academy of Sciences, as we fought with some of the neoliberals in our Parliament, who sincerely said that we should leave and what the problem was. Because everyone understands that language is a medium of culture. Hungarian, Hungarian, Russian, Russian. The medium of culture orders the state, orders a system of government that will come to this area and will be loyally accepted here. On 64 occasions, Russia banned Ukrainian language in the years that it took us into slavery and took over our territory. In nearly 400 years, they banned our language 64 times. And it is very important for us to tolerate, calmly explain, that there are indeed many Russian - speaking Ukrainian patriots. To explain to them the pragmatic role of language that there is no "Russian world" in Ternopol, not because there is nuclear weapons or because there is a NATO member, but because there is Ukrainian cultural space. If we want to be in Kharkiv, in Dniper, so that we don't have that threat, in Mariupol, in Berdjansk, we need to go to Ukrainian for consumption. What is happening to us, and why is it sad? Because the proposals of the People’s Movement were not heeded. Instead of a year of Ukrainian language, a decree of 10 years of Ukrainian language was issued to ask for work. In April and May, the government was commissioned to develop a Ukrainian language programme within two months. November. Where's the program? Experts.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-09-m0.u154	Ten seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-09-m0.u155	You were given 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-09-m0.u156	I gave you 10.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-09-m0.u157	You were given 30.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-09-m0.u158	I gave them all 10.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-09-m0.u159	Okay. Meetings were held, and we made proposals back in July -- no response. There's a sum there. I call on the government to do so.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-09-m0.u160	Thank you. I'd like to invite you to the floor of the People's Deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-09-m0.u161	Thank you. Hennaday Kryvoshea. Thank you, Vitaly Philemonovich Staszek, for your word. People's Front faction. In my speech today, I would like to raise the issue of the work of the Cabinet of Ministers and the State Architectural Inspection. We all know and hear in principle with you, we've heard of a problem that has existed for at least the last 10 to 15 years. The corrupt schemes were, various methods of sorting into the exploitation of housing infrastructure, persistent corruption scandals. I am the author and co-author of more than one bill. Some of these bills have already been voted on in Parliament over the last few years. And I was quite pleased to hear that literally a few days ago, public organizations, representatives, construction organizations, builders who have the right experience of work have started to notice, and they're quite productively showing positive results in the work of the State Architecture and Construction Inspectorate. At the same time, I would like to highlight some of the facts, in fact the positive points that are there today. First. We all know very well, I'd like to remind you that most of these, and that's about 80 percent of the statements that are coming in today's State Architectural Inspection, are statements from ordinary citizens. So it's the registration of the ordinary simple house of the SS1 category. So far, all 100 percent have been removed from the corruption component. And I'd like to draw the attention of every Ukrainian citizen, no "decided," no substitute, no assistant to any district administration, no council, no local deputy, no one can forbid you in any way, not even get a copy, and don't let anyone solve your problem of registering your construction in the State Architectural and Construction Inspection. That's a pretty big positive -- 80 percent. The other one. Investors are now quite productive in registering rather serious, important investment projects. It was a pretty big problem and a complicated problem that no one wanted to solve in any way. But thanks to the fact that the government, led by the Prime Minister, today has been able to organize and make the so-called State Architecture Building Inspection, and by running the DABI Transparent Programonline System, today we can and can control the hit of every document that has ever been filed, who has registered, what is the remark and which has been refused. So given the perspective and the positive results of the State Architectural Inspection, I think we should go out.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-09-m0.u162	Ten seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-09-m0.u163	We have to get to the final result. And I'd like the government to put the end point in that we're going to do all of the building in our country.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-09-m0.u164	Thank you. Welcome to the speech of the People's Deputies of Kocheljev.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-09-m0.u165	AlonaKošeljeva, faction of the Radical Party of Oleg Lášk. Dear Ukrainians! I want to dedicate my presentation today to the kindness of the hearts of our citizens. I recently learned about the fate of 90 - year - old Kharkivyan Mikhail Ivanovich Litovka. Think about it. He had to sell books at the Kharkiv subway crossing because of his lack of livelihood at an important age. What's more, it's not just books, it's written by him and it's children's stories he's been able to print out of his tiny pension. I thank those caring Harkians and volunteers who have joined thousands of Ukrainians to help with the terrible social networking conditions of their grandfather. For my part, I turned to the head of the Kharkiv government to ask him to improve his material and economic status and to provide adequate social and legal support. In general, I want to point out that there is an army on the shoulders of Ukrainian volunteers, as well as defenseless ranks of people who are in difficult circumstances, who, because of the indifference of officials, can be alone with their woes, we are definitely the strongest and most merciful nation. Why, we can even help others when we are living outside the poverty line. Consider, according to a study by the United Nations at the poverty line, about 80 percent of the population of Ukraine now exist. And it doesn't require a complex arithmetic, because the government's proposed minimum wage for 2019 is only one and a half thousand dollars, which is even less than the government's budget for an unfair minimum of living. Currently, 12 million pensioners live in Ukraine, with only 10 percent of them receiving really high pensions, while all other Ukrainian pensioners simply survive. And we notice them more and more on the streets, on the subway stations, where they sell the last items from home to survive at all. Such a situation is the result of inconsistent economic and social policies, which need to be changed immediately. The Radical Party team, led by leader Oleg Lášk, is making every effort to change existing anti-social policies and propose a radical formula for Ukraine's success and every citizen of Ukraine. Those who fail to honor their parents, grandparents, and grandparents will not have a successful future. That is why the faction of Oleg Láška’s Radical Party requires that the project’s budget for 2019 has a minimum wage of 6,000 dollars, allowing pensions in turn. We also propose a radical economic recovery plan, a poverty reduction plan and an increase in the welfare of Ukrainians, a return plan for workers to return home, a plan to protect national interests, a resurgence of national production. Our plan.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-09-m0.u166	Thank you. Are you done? Welcome to SergeyVlasenko's word.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-09-m0.u167	A few weeks ago, President Dustenk’s decision to increase gas tariffs came about. Yeah, I didn't say anything, it's not a government decision, it's a President's decision, and everyone in this room understands it. I think it's time. It's time for Armia, Language and Faith to change into "gentlemen, young men, corruption." Or I don't know, "high tariffs, salary freezes and pensions, military corruption." Well, such slogans should be used by the President-in-Office to really reflect what he's doing with the country. In front of me, not in front of me, but in front of me for a few speeches, there was a representative of the Presidential faction who said, "That's what happens because there's no money in the state -- once, and there's a war -- two." You know, I have a very interesting case in my hands. This is about the loan that the Bogdan Corporation took from the Ukrainian state bank Ukreximbank. I'm asking a simple question: where will the Ukrainian economy get the money if a corporation close to President Dustenk gets the credit? Attention, colleagues, below 0.46 percent of the age. 0.46 percent per year of $220 million. Of course, the state bank won't get any profit. Of course, it can't pour. Can't put that money into the Ukrainian budget. Of course, these unreceivable amounts of money will not be able to lower tariffs, nor will wages and pensions be raised. They can tell me that these funds were used by the Ukrainian Goddan Corporation to develop the Ukrainian economy. No, dear fellows. During the first half of this year, tens of millions of euros were exported by Bogdan to the aggressor country, the Russian Federation. Here's an army with faith together, and there's a little bit of language there. So there's no such desire for President Dusty to do anything today, he's got a desire to get the money under. 46 percent of the annuals and then pay them to the aggressor country. By the way, another news came before you. According to an investigation of the Scheme, around 2 billion dollars were withdrawn from Januković Bank through the bank of Prašenka. This is what happens, this is where Ukrainian taxpayers' money goes. I am convinced that the new President will ensure that the Ukrainian economy is functioning normally, and that tariffs are reduced, and that all those responsible will be held accountable. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-09-m0.u168	Thank you. I'd like to invite you to the floor of the People's Deputy Borislav Berezu. And then we're going to have the last performance.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-09-m0.u169	Good afternoon! I am acting today as chairman of the Temporary Investigation Commission on the murder of Catherine Gandzück and the attack on public activists. I want to report that the commission has already met for the first time. Of the 19 members there were 17. Ms. Olena Sotnik, secretary of the commission, was elected. In addition, the next meeting will take place on the following Thursday. As long as I can see that all the members of the committee are working together, they have a lot of gratitude. Moreover, despite the fact that no one expected positive, I am prepared for the commission to be able to work, all the more so that the representatives of the IMF and the Ukrainian Security Service have already provided their good offices with their cooperation, for which they also have a great deal of gratitude for their understanding. I hope the Attorney General will cooperate as well. We will see this on Thursday if their representatives appear on the committee and are able to provide the information we need. On Thursday, we want to see, with the exception of the Ukrainian Security Service, the National Police and the Henprocuratory, representatives. Head of the Herson State Department, Mayor Herson, as well as representatives of Mrs. Hansuk himself. I hope that we can achieve a result that does not satisfy someone, but shows whether the follow-up was done in the way that they were supposed to, or whether it was done in order to recognize who the customer is, who the perpetrator is in every case that we receive. And I hope that the public will see how MPs can work together to meet the social demand. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-09-m0.u170	I'd like to invite you to the floor of the People's Deputy, Oleg Laska. Rules - 6 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-09-m0.u171	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. The story I'm about to tell is the pain and despair of one woman, but this story applies to everyone, because it could have been your mother or grandmother. She hanged herself for refusing to grant -- that's the kind of sign that's supposed to be on Natalie Mikhaylovna Nesterenko's grave, 61-year-old pensioner from Sartana on Donetskina, who was buried two days ago. She reduced her age by leaving instead of her death note a receipt for a utility with borrowed debt. Natalie Mikhailovna’s husband died a few years ago. Until recently, the woman had lived with her son Michael, who had been prescribed in the house along with her. The son worked as a welder for a salary of 3.5 thousand dollars. She got a pension of 1,000 and 600 dollars. A month ago, Michael married and began to live separately with his wife. My mother went to turn the subsidy into new rules, ran from the office to the office for new and new help, complained to the neighbors that there was no more force to pursue the papers, but eventually she was denied the subsidy. It turns out that women have a debt of utility -- 2,000, 400 dollars. For a woman with a pension of 1 thousand 600 dollars, this amount was cosmic. Complaining of her son's violent injustice, the mother said, "Take it and hang yourself." This phrase was also heard by neighbors, but no one could have thought it was just a phrase. Natalia Mikhailna saved everything: she ate water soup, the cheapest sausage, although she worked all her life as a cook and fed delicious food to hundreds of people; she nearly turned off the light; she worked only the refrigerator; she did not turn on the heat despite the ice cream; she slept dressed in a chair. There was a lot of raw stuff in the house, because the woman panicked that she would never get the grant and pay for the utility would be nothing, so she was deliberately frozen. At work near the stove, the woman suffered anxiety and a host of diseases, but there was nothing to be treated for, so she endured. Natalia Mikhailna borrowed money from her neighbors for a short period of time, paid off her debt for the station, and was hanged. Before taking this terrible step, the woman placed a payment receipt on the table. They were more eloquent than any pre-mortem note. All relatives and acquaintances have no doubt that the cause of suicide was the bloody subsidy that the woman was not given because of the bureaucracy and indifference of the officials. Absurd subsidy rules force people to remove children from homes that have spread out around the world, and this is why they cannot be collected for income. Retired parents have become accustomed to helping their children, spending at least 100 dollars a month on chocolates to their grandchildren, and it turns out that it is now up to the children to pay for the community service to their parents, since the income of all family members is included in the receipt of the grant. This death on the conscience of power. God forbid she's the last one. Please, people, don't throw your loved ones away alone with their own misery. We'll help this family. But such families are millions in Ukraine. So I'm going to do everything I can to ensure that people in my country are not killed in the war on the front or in the tariff war declared by the authorities. So me and our team, we demand that the authorities return the subsidy rules, lower the price of gas and introduce a moratorium on tariff increases. Enough with the deaths. We have to win this war. The time of justice will come.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-09-m0.u172	Thank you. And there will now be the final address by the First Deputy Head of the Supreme Council, Mrs. Irina Heratchenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-09-m0.u173	Thank you, Your Honor! Respectable citizens of Ukraine, distinguished voters! I want to draw your attention to the serious danger that the Kremlin provokes, the President of the Russian Federation Putin, in the occupied areas of Donetsk and Lugansk, where on November 11th, the Kremlin is trying to carry out illegal, not under the laws of the pseudo-pseudobor Ukraine. It's a scary scenario that completely reminds us that the Kremlin played on the occupied Donbassa in November 14th, when some prime ministers were elected there, some heads of the pseudo-republiks, and not only by destroying the mine negotiations, peace negotiations, diplomatic negotiations, but also by seriously exacerbating the situation first on the front. It was after those pseudos that terrible tragedies occurred at Donetsk Airport, where the best Ukrainian military forces were simply destroyed. Then came the tragedy of Debaltsev. And we want to remind the whole world what's happening now from the Kremlin is a gross breach of the Minsk Accords. The Kremlin does not carry out any of the Minsk Treaties. And these elections should not only cause other worlds to be disturbed. It is clear that this adventure requires a serious increase in sanctions against the Russian Federation, which puts more real and legal elections in Ukraine, the Presidential and Parliamentary elections ahead of time, at the heart of the security, the politics of Donbassa. And I also want to go to all the Ukrainian politicians, to the leaders of the parliamentary factions, to the leaders of the political parties with the request. This is our common challenge today, facing Ukraine. I ask you to publicly condemn these pseudo-divorcs and together to address the world community, to our partners in the United States, to the European Union with a request, as required, it must have a serious responsibility for the Kremlin, it must have a serious increase in sanctions. Well, in fact, the Ukrainian Security Service has already published the information they have received regarding the fact that even the results of these pseudosbors have already been drawn in the Kremlin, that the Karabas Barabas has already written how many of its marionettes in Donetsk and Lugansk will receive. Today the United States, the Security Service, is addressing the Ukrainians, our brothers and sisters in the occupied territories to boycott these pseudos. Obviously, we realize that there is a terrible pressure, a terrible risk today of these puppet regimes armed with new Russian weapons, which they involve with ordinary Ukrainians demanding elections. At the same time, knowing all of this, we urge and appeal to Ukrainians in occupied areas -- ignore these Kremlin scenarios. And to the Ukrainian politicians, please let's publicly condemn this Kremlin provocation together.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-09-m0.u174	Thank you. And we finished our work today. I want to remind you that next week, the national MPs are working on committees, commissions and factions. The next plenary meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine will take place on Tuesday, November 20, 2018, at 10 a.m. At this morning’s meeting of the Supreme Council, I declare closed.
