ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-05-m1.u1	Dear colleagues, break time is over. I'm asking you to come into the hall and get ready for registration. Colleagues ready for registration? So please prepare to register. So please take part in the registration and please register. [[16:05:05]] 369 national deputies registered. I hereby declare the evening session of the Supreme Council open. By the way, I want to tell you that during the last dialogue, when we had theoretical discussions about the work of the Ukrainian Parliament, we agreed on one position: the introduction of a single e-card for the national MPs, which will also be the entrance to the Hall, which will also be the ballot. And I think that's going to help us make our registration more responsible for the morning and evening meetings. I mean, all the factions' heads supported this idea. It's being implemented in the European Parliament, and we're taking the model of the European Parliament and we're starting preparations for the committees to be equipped with an electronic card and for all the inputs to be equipped with a single card. We realize that technically it will take some time, but I hope that by the end of the cadence we can get this system into place and start working according to this system. And this is going to be a huge victory for the Ukrainian Parliament and a big step in reforming the Ukrainian Parliament. I would also like to inform you, colleagues, that from April 1st to April 7, 18th, there is a delegation from the French-Ukraine Inter-Parliamentary Liaison Group in Ukraine headed by Mrs. Valeria For-Muntian. She is present in the hall, the birthplace of Ukraine, the birthplace of Odessa. Let's welcome our delegation, welcome our French brothers. [[Applause]] We are confident that friendship between our nations and nations will develop. And I want us to continue working together. Thank you for the support of Ukraine. Thank you! By the way, the delegation was in the city of Audiivka and Kramatorski and made a trip to the line of delimitation and got acquainted with the work of the Mayorsk checkpoint. Now, colleagues, may I have your attention? The organization of our work. We have a block of national security and defence, but in the morning, when we included issues in the agenda, we included in the agenda a draft Act amending some of Ukraine’s legislative acts (for the investment attractiveness of the construction of renewable energy objects). During the day - to - day session, virtually every faction of the Ukrainian Parliament voted in favour of this law. I can put him on the stand right now. And I think everyone in the room, all the factions, will support it. And I, my colleagues, am announcing the beginning of the draft Law on Amendments to Certain Legislative Acts of Ukraine (about the investment attractiveness of building renewable energy objects) (8015). And I'm asking you to support the proposal so we can look at it in a simplified way. If there is understanding, if there is support, let's vote, colleagues. So I'm voting on the proposal to review draft Law 8015 under a reduced procedure. Please vote and please support. Vote. [[16:09:00]] For-73 The position of the hall is determined to consider the fullness of the room. [[B in m in s a l in]] I respect the principle of the people's deputies. And we're going to consider the draft law in full procedure. And Andreyevsky Dmitry Josephovich in the hall? Come on. I'm asking you to find Dmitri Josephovich. I'm going to put the motions down again, if they don't pass, we're going to be looking at the whole thing. But please, the Andrew machine. [[B in m in s a l in]] Colleagues, the author of the bill is in a traffic jam and says there'll be 5-7 minutes. [[B in m in s a l in]] Please. They haven't started yet. [[B in m in s a l in]] Can someone report from the committee? Colleagues, please, from the committee. Colleagues, please come into the hall, we take up jobs. Colleagues, therefore, attended a meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Now I'm going to re-supply for a reduced procedure, colleagues. I'm asking you to come into the hall, take your jobs. People's deputies are on their way. And, colleagues, then we have a cluster of security issues. And I think we worked very hard before lunch to show the same efficiency after lunch. So I'm re-voting the proposal that the draft Law amending some of Ukraine's legislative acts (about the investment attractiveness of building renewable energy objects) (8015) be considered by a reduced procedure. Let's support it. Please vote. I'd like your support, colleagues. Hold on! Support me, colleagues, short-circuited procedure. Please vote. Please be supportive. [[16:14:04]] For-137 Colleagues, we are close to making a decision. One more time, I'll do it three more times. So, colleagues, I'm going to put once again on the vote succinct. If there are no votes, we'll go full. But I emphasize, then we won't be able to look at the bloc of issues of national security and defence that the Ukrainian army and the Ukrainian people are waiting for. So, colleagues, I'm putting in a final, third proposal, once a proposal, a review of draft Law 8015 under a reduced procedure. Please vote and please support. Vote. Please be supportive. Please support, colleagues, we vote. [[16:15:49]] For-166 166 – a.k.a. Decision taken. And I invite you to the report of the first deputy head of the Committee on Construction, Construction, and the Andrieev Dmitry Josephovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-05-m1.u2	Thank you. Dear colleagues! Dear Andrew Volodymyrovich! The Committee submits a draft Law amending certain legislative acts of Ukraine (as regards the investment attractiveness of the construction of renewable energy objects) (registration number (1815), introduced by the Ukrainian National Deputies: Andriyevsky, Galchenk, Stasuk, Šinkovic, Ryabczyn, Pisarenko, Jephim and Martovitch. The project is designed to support the attractiveness of investment and investment in this sector. This, first of all, refers to wind generation, in particular, it simplifies, greatly simplifies the harmonization of the procedures for the analysis of construction projects and the refinement of the characteristics of the objectization to the impact classes. The bill is considered by the Committee on Environmental Policy. According to the committee, the bill can be supported on a basis. The Chief Scientific and Expert Authority of the Supreme Council also believes that this bill is urgent and can be adopted on the basis of appropriate observations. After considering and discussing at its meeting on March 20, 2018, the draft Law on Amendments to Certain Legislative Acts of Ukraine (for the Investment Attraction of Renewable Energy Buildings) (registration No. 1815), the committee decided to make it available for consideration by the Supreme Council and to recommend that the first reading should be based on it. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-05-m1.u3	Thank you very much. And I'm asking you to do the recording: two in, two in, two in. From Fatherland Rybchin, please turn on the microphone. Please turn on the microphone behind the rostrum. On, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-05-m1.u4	Alexy Rybchin, "Fatherland" faction, Donetsk. I'm one of the co-authors of this bill, and today's faction of Fatherland has decided to support this bill. He will allow the construction of renewable energy facilities without unnecessary bureaucracy. When we met with the Wind Association, they showed a bunch of documents that needed to be collected in order to build windmills. They're touching those documents, almost to build an atomic station. This little thing makes no sense; in all countries it is supported by the construction of renewable energy objects. Today, our distinguished colleagues from the French Republic with whom we met after a visit to Donetskin (which is a special thanks to them) said that they wanted to take French investors to Ukraine. And they're interested in investing in energy conservation in renewable energy sources. If we do these things, we'll be able to improve the energy balance of Ukraine based on renewable energy sources. And this is green jobs, this is our contribution to combating global climate change. By the way, colleagues, you and I should be proud that the Ukrainian Parliament has become one of the first parliaments to ratify the Paris Climate Agreement. Yes, we have a war in the country. Yes, these questions are not a priority for all citizens at the moment. We have priority: peace and security. But this is a question of global dimension. It's a question of connecting to a European continent. It's a question of connection with America. This is a question of connection with the global world, for which it is essential. In 2019 there will be elections to the Supreme Council, there will be presidential elections. I call on all candidates for the presidency, all the political powers to include the issue of green development in the agenda of their political parties and their political agendas in order to make us different. We support this bill. We're working on the second reading because there's a note, for example, in the OCD, that bill that we've adopted, whether it needs a discount or not. And we support green energy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-05-m1.u5	Thank you. From the Radical Party of Halasyuk. Please, Mr. Victor.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-05-m1.u6	Victor Halasyuk, Oleg Lachka Radical Party. Our team supports all the bills aimed at making Ukraine energy independent. That's why green energy development is one of the top priorities, because by developing it, we're not going to be buying energy abroad that eats up our trade balance and doesn't allow us to raise the standard of living for Ukrainians, so it's a priority. But in addition to developing green energy, you have to make a highway wager for the production of Ukrainian fossil fuels. Because it's completely stupid to buy coal abroad, to buy natural gas abroad when Ukraine has all these resources. So I'm very grateful to all my colleagues who have supported Oleg Lašek's adjustment, which we've set up a mining regime for Ukrainian natural gas that starts to work this year, 12 percent and 6 percent instead of 28 percent and 14 percent. It's very important that Ukrainian gas is cheaper, that's the basis for reducing municipal tariffs, reducing municipal tariffs. It's very important to buy Ukrainian coal. You see, last year we bought more than $4 billion of U.S. import gas and coal -- it's totally unacceptable. We need to extract our own resources, consume them, but consume them cheaply. So the next priority proposed by the Radical Party team is massive energy modernisation. You see, the government gives 70 billion dollars to subsidies that can only preserve the problem, put in the pocket of raw olives our money with you, taxpayers, and for energy-generating less than 1 billion dollars. So our team introduced a bill: at least 10 percent of the grant, for energy-generating. So this year it was going to be 7 billion, not a billion for energy power generation, it was going to be real energy savings, tariff cuts and new jobs for Ukrainians.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-05-m1.u7	Thank you. Colleagues, we're about to make a closing statement and then we're going to go to the vote. I'm very much asking you to invite the deputies into the hall. Heads of factions, if you have no one, please invite us to the hall. In three minutes, we will move on to the decision-making process. And, Secretariat, please let everyone know that the discussion is over. From the Self-Help faction, I invite you to Helen Babak's performance. Please, from a place like this? Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-05-m1.u8	Dear colleagues! There is no need to speak highly of Parliament's willingness to support all projects related to the development of renewable energy. But let's note that this law at first, for example, led us somewhat astray by its name. And it refers to all of, like, renewable energy. However, this law is about simplifying building control procedures for objects producing electricity from wind energy, a dot. Moreover, it has been pointed out that it will be possible to transfer objects from the impact class or responsibility class from the SS2 to the SS1 only if a positive authorized body from the protection of the natural environment has been reached. So, of course, we support this because it doesn't extend to all objects, like biomass, geothermal and so on and so forth. And it only applies to the power output of the wind. So, of course, we have to support it, there's no problem here, just improving the investment climate in this particular area. That's why we're going to support it.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-05-m1.u9	Thank you. The discussion is over, we're moving on to a decision, and I very much ask everyone to come to the hall. And I'm asking everyone to take their jobs, get back to their jobs. Colleagues, I'm asking who's not in the workplace right now to go back to work. And I'm voting on a draft Act amending some of Ukraine's legislative acts (for the investment attractiveness of building renewable energy objects) (No.8015) on the basis of the committee's proposal, just on the basis of the first reading. And I ask everyone to take part in the vote, and I ask everyone to vote. Boys, at the entrance, vote please. If you'll excuse me, I'd like to vote. We're voting on the basis. 8015 on the ground. [[16:26:10]] For 233 Decision taken. Now, colleagues, I'm asking for your attention. Show the factions, please. Showed by factions. Colleagues, now I want to place on the rating vote the ratification that stands before the bloc of national security and defence. 0163 is a draft law on the ratification of the Guarantee Agreement between Ukraine and the International Bank for Reconstruction. Since this is a ratification, colleagues, I want to put it on the ratings if there are no votes so we don't put the ratification at risk. So I ask you to take part in the rating vote now. And I'm betting on a rating vote on the draft Ratification Act, 0163. Please vote, please support. Vote. Please be supportive. [[16:27:24]] For 216 Can we come in? Let's go in. So I would stress that this is the bill that follows the 8015 in the agenda, and we're going into the consideration of draft Law 0163. And I suggest, colleagues, that we look at it in a reduced procedure. Please vote, and please support the brief discussion. Please. [[16:27:58]] For-166 Decision taken. And I invite you to report to the head of the government of the public stockholders' association, Grezenek Alexandre Viktorovich. Alexander Viktorovich, please. Please report.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-05-m1.u10	Dear Mr. Head, the distinguished national deputies of Ukraine! I have the honour to present to you and ask for your support in ratifying the project. on the approval of the draft Ukrainian Law on the Ratification of the Guarantee Agreement (The Long Term Financing Project) between Ukraine and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development. The project involves a loan of $150 million for a term of up to 35 years and a debt period of 4.5 years. The objective of the project is to lend to export-oriented small and medium-sized enterprises. The implementation of this agreement will also have a positive impact on the Ukrainian banking sector, because lending will be carried out both directly by Ukreximbank and through commercial Ukrainian banks, which will be included according to criteria agreed with the World Bank. Such a project implementation scheme will allow for more resources for enterprises in different regions and areas of the country. Ukreximbank will ensure the efficient use of funds based on the previous successful experience of similar projects. Yeah, the bank was running four World Bank projects, and they all got the highest. The bank's highest rating. Past projects will allow you to generate about $3 in additional exports of these companies per dollar. The important thing is that the servicing of this loan and repayment will take place without. It's going to be done without the state budget spending on Ukreximbank. Therefore, it is a great request to support this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-05-m1.u11	Thank you. The committee head, Hanna Hopko, is invited to the report. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-05-m1.u12	Dear chairman, dear national deputies, citizens! On 21 December 2017, the Committee on Foreign Affairs considered the draft Law on the Ratification of the Guarantee Agreement (the Long Term Financing Project) between Ukraine and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development and approved the decision by a majority vote to recommend to the Supreme Council the adoption of the bill and the ratification of the agreement. But at the time of this ratification, the committee members asked very clear questions to the representatives of Ukreximbank about a $150 million loan under Ukraine's 35-year guarantee with a 4.5-year premium period, which specific projects would business initiatives be supported? Do they already have a view of their investment lending and financing of the Circumstances Capital? How will this continue to spread? So we encourage, in particular, that Ukreximbank can use this 150 million to really get our best small and medium-sized businesses access at very low percentages, given the debt period. Also, colleagues, I wanted to say and look to the government before the Conference on Reform Support, which will take place in Denmark, it is very important for us to show our strategy, as we see where and the priorities for public investment, which will ensure GDP growth of 5-7 percent, which should specifically be projects. The government also needs to increase project management centres, improve institutional capacity, even the funds that are already available, to be more effective. Because if we look at the accountancy report, 49 percent of the funds we've already received are being used very ineffectively. So the call: the money we're taking under State guarantees, we want entrepreneurs to be better able to use it to develop the country. Thank you. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-05-m1.u13	Please record: two in, two in. Please. Lesjuk Jaroslav is handing over to Dovbenkov. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-05-m1.u14	Dear colleagues, the problem of lending in Ukraine is now extremely relevant and important, because it is very important for small and medium-sized enterprises, where there is a very large deficit in both credit and circulation costs. I think that the Agreement is guaranteed with the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development is a pretty good tool for us to grow the potential that we have here in small, medium-sized enterprises, especially those that are export-oriented. I think we should welcome this part of the deal signed by our Ukreximbank. And I think they have enough opportunities today for export-oriented enterprises, their agreements with partners from other countries, to be implemented through the Ukreximbank capabilities. So I think that today we need to support the ratification of this agreement and allow us to develop our export-import companies, especially in the part where we are now looking at new markets. And, I mean, there's enough serious demand, but the problems of guarantees, the problems of insurance were not fully met. Today we have the opportunity to help. And I ask everyone to support this ratification and vote in favour. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-05-m1.u15	Please, from Fatherland, Sergey Sobolev.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-05-m1.u16	Dear colleagues, I am addressing the manager of the Ukreximbank. I'm going to the head of Ukreximbank, and the answer to our questions will depend on the position of our faction. Please tell me what part of the GDP is, and what part of the real money is in the structure of your bank? That's the first question. The second question. At what cost are you going to pay these loans? Again with the budget? Or at your own expense? Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-05-m1.u17	Thank you. The People's Front is Medunica Oleg. The answer after the discussion. Now, don't ask questions. Now, come on. I'll give you a final answer, but now the factions are coming out. So, Oleg the Meduntary.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-05-m1.u18	Dear colleagues! The International Bank for Reconstruction and Development is a world-renowned financial institution that has long worked in Ukraine. In Ukraine they have implemented more than 70 projects of both credit and grant nature. It not only lends credit but also provides irreparable financial assistance in the areas of social governance that require reform. This is true of health care, such as utilities, energy savings. This document, which we are now ratifying, provides an opportunity to get long and cheap money to Ukrainian businesses in the real economy. So I think it is the responsibility of every national MP who is here in this room to support the ratification of this agreement. The People's Front will support this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-05-m1.u19	Thank you. Colleagues, we're about to make a closing statement. After three minutes, there will be a vote, so I ask all the factions to invite deputies into the hall, because we had incredibly few votes during the rating, and so we need maximum faction mobilization. From the Radical Party to the word, Victor Halasyuk is invited. Please, Mr. Victor.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-05-m1.u20	Victor Halasyuk, Oleg Lachka Radical Party. Dear colleagues, two-thirds of European exports are industrial products. Two thirds of Ukrainian exports are raw materials and unprocessed products. Europe specializes in manufacturing and success, and we specialize in providing raw materials, talented people, money for other economies. What is proposed to be done by means of this tax credit? It is proposed to preserve the structure of the Ukrainian economy. So we can stay the same raw supplement. Why? Because despite repeated requests by the Radical Party team, the government has not changed the terms of the ratification of this agreement. There's a very simple thing to do: to predict in this ratification that credit is credited not only to raw, but to manufacturing enterprises, so that no raw materials can get into these premium loans. Is that so hard? If you wanted to do that, you'd have done it a long time ago. And that's how they pull and pull that story again. They want to lend their friends instead of creating a transparent, competitive, law-abiding Credit Agency. Today is 278 days of violation by the Government of the Export Credit Agency Act. It was to be created 278 days ago. Today, I have turned to the Prime Minister as the deputy leader of the Radical Party to demand an end to the rule of law, to create ESA and to use these funds to support non-offer exports, because the product costs 10 times more than the raw material. How long can the Ukrainians be drawn to poverty, depending on foreign loans? Economic policy priorities, production of finished products, high technology, not business, like the previous 25 years, on raw materials, on Ukrainian poverty, and at the expense of Ukrainians. We're behind a radical change in economic policy. Change the terms.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-05-m1.u21	Thank you. From the non-fractional, one minute, Victor Pinzenik. From the rostrum, right? Please, from the rostrum. And I'm asking you to invite the deputies into the hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-05-m1.u22	Dear colleagues, make a request to the National Bank of Ukraine for how many loans are issued for five years. I think the answer is almost zero. I'm not talking about loans that are issued for 10 years anymore. The reason is that banks don't have long liabilities. Most people keep deposits for a year, no more than a year. Enterprises have current deposits. Banks don't have the resources to invest. For the first time, we have a project that offers a 35 - year loan. But we don't have that kind of credit. 150 million, the mortgage rate, the credit service period. There's a question Sergey Sobolev asked about, it has nothing to do with this loan. Because the issue of capital in Eximbank is about old loans, and it's about a new project. And we don't have a choice today to fix the bill, ratify it or not. We have a choice: either we accept a long loan of 150 million dollars, or we do.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-05-m1.u23	Please, 30 seconds. We're done. Colleagues, Victor Pinzenic, forcefully asked for the support of all. Let's all go into the hall. I see the MPs are still good. Please come in, colleagues, everyone in the hall, take your jobs. There was a question from Sergey Soboljev. I'm giving Griesenk Alexander Viktorovich another minute. And I'm going to ask you to take up jobs. Please. Grizzenko Alexander is one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-05-m1.u24	Ladies and gentlemen, the World Bank has given Ukraine more than $3 billion in history. At this point in the past year, only half the funds in Ukraine have been recovered. The only program that was fully developed was the energy efficiency program that was done by Ukreximbank. A huge request, we're going to completely get these programs, we're going to choose the cost, a long resource that the World Bank will no longer provide. The GDP in the structure is 40 billion. The GDP is 40 billion dollars. That's about 25 to 30 percent. It is a great request to support this bill. It's an export proceeds, it's jobs that are mainly created in small and medium-sized businesses. They're not created in large businesses, they're created in small towns and villages by the MBI. It is a great request to support this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-05-m1.u25	So let's move on to making a decision. Colleagues, please prepare to make your decision. Take up jobs. And I'm voting on the draft Law on the Ratification of the Guarantee Agreement (Project on Long-Term Financing) (number 0163) as proposed by the committee on the basis and as a whole. Colleagues, an important, responsible decision that will strengthen the financial state of Ukraine. I ask you to take part in the vote and please support me, colleagues. Please vote and please support. Vote carefully, every voice. Please be supportive. Please vote. Vote. [[16:43:54]] For 248 248 – yes. Decision taken. Hello. This is, I think, a big success and a big step. The next ratification, too, is short, colleagues. Excuse me, I've got an application from two factions for an ad, to make an announcement from the Tribune of the Fatherland faction and the Self-Help faction. They're ready to take a break from the rostrum. And I give the floor to Vadim Yvchenk for three minutes. Please, Mr. Vadim.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-05-m1.u26	Dear colleagues! Dear colleagues, on behalf of 22 members of the Agrarian Committee, on behalf of agrarian associations: The All-Ukrainian Agrarian Council, the Association of Farmers, on behalf of the people who are already in the second week in a row, starting with the overlap of the routes in the regions, ending with the summits under the Supreme Council, please. Andry Volodymyrovich, in the daytime are Bills 7403-2 and 7403, other alternatives. We ask now while there is a quorum in the hall, while the deputies present are transferred and put to the vote. Colleagues, agrarians are out in the field, and it's very important that we adopt this bill today, and it's already warm. We know that today, if we accept it, we're going to unlock the whole soybean process, because agrarians today need to know what they're going to do with soy and what's going to be the future price. Today, the issue is to compensate the VAT directly to the farmer, to compensate the VAT on exports of soybeans, rapes, feces, and so forth. There are the answers to the bill. You and I will be able to discuss them in a professional way, to fully explain what is behind what, what is the bill, what is it that brings and who gets out of it, let's say, its benefits. We're here to set up and we're talking professionally, and we're here to show all of you where there's a small farmer's place, where there's a small, medium, large trader. This includes explaining how we can compress cooperation, cooperatives, and allow small farmers to receive VAT compensation when united, thereby increasing the cost of their products. Colleagues! Andrew Volodymyrovich! We ask you to move it now, put it in the agenda, and start talking about these issues. Thank you, colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-05-m1.u27	Thank you. So, colleagues, I'm now putting to the vote the proposal that the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Tax Code on certain matters of taxation by adding the value of export operations outside the customs territory of Ukraine Nos. 7403-2 and 7403-d be transferred to the consideration for now. Whoever supports this proposal, please vote. [[16:47:23]] For 135 The decision is not made. And we're moving on to the next question of order of the day. Colleagues, the next issue of the agenda is also ratification. That's why I'm going to put the ratings first, too. So I'm voting on the draft Act ratifying the Trade Agreement between the Government of Ukraine and the Government of the Kingdom of Thailand (0170). Colleagues, these are ratings. He who supports it, take part. Who's behind it. Don't let us take him down, colleagues. So, who supports 0170, the rating vote. Please vote. Please be supportive. [[16:48:12]] For a hundred and I think we can't put ourselves at risk. And we're going to the question box. Again? Let's do it again, all right, colleagues. Colleagues, this is the next issue of the agenda, this is the ratification of the Trade Agreement between the Government of Ukraine and the Government of the Kingdom of Thailand. I'm going to put the ratings vote again. Whoever supports this bill supports, please vote, please take part in the rating vote. Please vote. [[16:48:58]] For 197 We're not getting out, we're not getting out, guys. We're finally moving on to the National Security and Defence Block, which is the next one. And I'm asking the first question of this block for consideration. 7330 and 7331 are draft laws amending some of Ukraine's defence laws. And I'm asking the hall to vote in favour of its short-term review. Please vote, please support, vote. [[16:49:44]] For-157. Decision taken. And I invite you to report to Russia's first Deputy Defence Minister, Ivan Stepanovich, to prepare the author of the alternate Schrome of Helen Ivanovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-05-m1.u28	Honourable Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, distinguished national deputies of Ukraine! The draft Law on Amendments to Certain Defence Laws of Ukraine, the bill provides for amendments to three laws of Ukraine, in particular the Act on the Armed Forces of Ukraine, the Law on Defence of Ukraine, the Law on the Legal Regime of the State of War. It's proposed to change the name of the High-Military Army to "Descent Storm Force of Ukraine." This regulates the legal basis for the task of assigning a particular type of army of the Ukrainian Armed Forces, the Descent Storm Army. The name "Destructive Storm Troops" reflects more precisely the specifics, the essence, the principles of the combat application of troops and the standards of the NATO member states. Today, the portion of the Air Force is 80 percent of the total number of troops. In particular, the Air Force, the Airborne Brigade, the Aeromobile Brigade, the Training Cent. Please be supportive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-05-m1.u29	Thank you, Sir John. Ms. Alona Skrum is invited to report on the alternative bill. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-05-m1.u30	Alona's splinter, Fatherland faction. Colleagues, I'll explain the situation with our alternative bill. At the time of the registration of the alternative bill 7330-1, it had been almost seven months since we could not accept and consider Bill 6268-1. With regard to such an important question, if you remember, in fact, those families who died of injury, injury, or injury in the ATO area but died after being released from service, their families could not receive a penny, in fact, for the death of the most important person for them. And I thank you very much, in fact, all the authors of this alternative project, who then, in an effort to resolve this situation, passed this alternative bill to both the President's attention and the attention of the U.S.S.U., and the attention of the Supreme Council to raise such an important issue. They were MPs from three different factions, they were both non-fractional deputies, and Mr. Teteruk from the People's Front, and Mr. Alexy Rybchin, to whom I thank very much, from Fatherland, and Mr. Shepherd from Self-Help. And then, really, thanks, including this, we were able to adopt Bill 6268-1 in the first reading. But I ask you to speed up the consideration of these issues, because throughout the country there are already more than 25 complaints against the State than the families of those people whose close relatives died after being released from service because of the trauma, disability and injury they suffered in the service against the State. This is absolutely wrong, and we need to make this legislative. And this bill, given the importance of the issue of defence, we've been passing it, and I think we're all expecting the President. All factions expect systematic major changes to protect our military personnel and their families, not just to be renamed into one line of one type of army. That is exactly what we and society expect of the President of Ukraine. And this is a bill that I'm going to make with my co-authors. Thank you, colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-05-m1.u31	Thank you for your constructive position. The secretary of the Committee on Safety and Defence is invited to attend. I beg your pardon, Mr. Winnick.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-05-m1.u32	The Committee on Safety and Defence has considered a bill submitted by the President of Ukraine on the question of the renaming of the High Mobile Army in the Air Force. This is done by amending the Ukrainian Armed Forces Act and the Ukrainian Defence Act. As far as the alternative is concerned. Indeed, the only difference in positions was the need to settle the issue of the payment of one - time assistance as a result of death due to injuries sustained during an anti - terrorism operation or national security arrangements. Indeed, this project as an alternative was rejected because the committee, together with colleagues from other factions, had prepared a bill of profile, which had already passed the first reading, was now on the committee. A comparative table has been prepared, and all we have to do is vote in the room. I believe that this could happen in the next session. That's why the committee supports, as a whole, a presidential project to amend some of Ukraine's defence laws, and that will allow for the renaming of the High Mobile Army in the Air Force. Please vote in general. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-05-m1.u33	Thank you. Dear colleagues, please register Bill 7330 for discussion, because the alternative has been removed from the author's consideration. Please. Please, Igor Mosiyczuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-05-m1.u34	Igor Mosiyczuk, faction of the Radical Party of Oleg Lášk. Our faction has always supported and will support all the laws aimed at enhancing the security of the Ukrainian state. We have always supported and supported all the bills aimed at the social protection of Ukrainian military personnel, defenders and members of their families, so we will support this bill accordingly. At the same time, with the opportunity, I would like to make a statement about the radical party's position in connection with the events that have taken place today. As the leader of our faction, Oleg Lazko, has stated, in connection with the launch of the terrorist attack under the espresso channel, we demand the President of Ukraine, who is responsible for international politics, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and our international partners, to respond to this terrorist act, which resulted in the deaths of 2 people, namely, the breakdown of diplomatic relations with the aggressor country, the Russian Federation terrorist country and the recalling of ambassadors, members of diplomatic institutions from the terrorist country. As a sign of solidarity, the Ukrainian State and Britain, where two British citizens were poisoned, called off 13 diplomats. We demand the same decisive response to the killing of Ukrainians. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-05-m1.u35	Thank you. Please, from the faction of Peter Dustenka, National Deputy Davidenko. You're welcome to speak.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-05-m1.u36	Vitaly Goodenko, 92 constituency. We count that everything about defense needs to be done, not by populism, but should be voted on and discussed in an urgent and minor way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-05-m1.u37	Thank you. Please, from Fatherland, Sergey Eutuszek is invited to the floor.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-05-m1.u38	Sergey Eutuszek, "The Fatherland" faction. Thank you, Madam Chairman. In fact, of course, it's about our elite armies, and the faction will support the initiative. On the other hand, I would like to turn to the reporter who has just reported this bill. When it comes to elite armies, of course, we need to approach the quality, the social components, those who serve in these armies. And to the President of Ukraine, of course, we have a question, because this law can't be such an initiative. Give systemic things, give some social components to those who serve in this kind of army, and it'll be the right situation and the right story. And this initiative, of course, we support, but we consider it not the same level, not the level of the President to take such initiatives. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-05-m1.u39	Dear colleagues, I'd like to speak to representatives of other factions. Did all factions take part in the discussion of Bill 7330, the draft Law on Amendments to Certain Ukrainian Defence Laws? I want to remind you that this is about the first reading, and we're only talking about the first reading of the bill. And I'm asking. [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear colleagues, yes! I am. Please, I'll give Mr. Winniku a minute to put it this way, I take it, the consolidated position of the hall. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-05-m1.u40	Colleagues, it's a very simple project. It's important, and that's why I think we should vote it out in general right now. The only way to avoid any regulatory remarks is to refer to the conclusion of the Chief Scientific and Expert Directorate, which says that we need to specify the title of the bill, we propose that under the transcript we change its name now: "To amend some of Ukraine's defence laws (for the Desert Storm Army)." It thus becomes perfect. We can vote in general right now. There is no discussion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-05-m1.u41	Dear colleagues, I ask you to return to the session room. This is the happy moment when there is consolidation of all factions and groups, and the requirement to vote not in the first reading, but in general, no one denies. I ask the deputies to return to the session room. I am voting on the draft Act amending some of Ukraine's defence laws on the basis and generally on the demand of all factions. Please vote. As amended by the transcript, the Secretary of the Committee on Safety and Defence, John Winnick. Please vote on these amendments. On the basis and in general. Please. [[17:01:59]] For 202 Dear colleagues, please return to your posts. We're going to put this vote back. But I am very much asking you to return to the session room. Colleagues say: we put the vote on the ground and in general -- and then they tear down this important vote. Please. Dear colleagues, we're back. Dear colleagues, I'm just going to have to put it to a vote right now. I am now asking the question of the return of a bill amending some of Ukraine's defence laws (7330). Please vote for the return. And I'd like everyone to come back to the session room. There's a vote, a very important vote. Please come back, dear fellows. Vote. Go back to the study. [[17:03:16]] For 223
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-05-m1.u42	Dear colleagues, I don't think they're all oriented. I'm asking everyone to take up jobs. Now we're going back and then we're going to put it to a vote. I'm asking you to come into the hall right now and take your jobs. So, colleagues, the first vote is to go back. And then I'll put it to the vote again. So we have a decision-making vote, and I'm putting to the vote the first sentence, to go back to the draft Law on Amendments to Some of Ukraine's Defence Laws (730 and 7330-1). Please vote and please support, colleagues. Carefully, each voice has a weight. Please be supportive. Please vote. [[17:04:21]] For 240 And now I'm putting a bill amending some of Ukraine's defence laws (7330) with an amendment that was presented by Vinnik John, a representative of the committee, based on and in general, under the stenogram of the Supreme Council. Please vote. Please be supportive. Vote. Please be supportive. [[17:04:56]] For 236 The law is passed. Colleagues, I've got a statement from two factions for a break. It's from the faction of Peter Dustenk and the will of the people. And I'd like to invite you to the two factions. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-05-m1.u43	Dear colleagues! There's been a merger campaign, but instead of going out and working, they strike. They are on strike because the changes to the Tax Code have taken away VAT. Today, agrarians pay VAT, but they have no right to compensate when exported. Today, southern Ukraine’s crops don’t even know what to grow in the south of the Hersonian region, because soybean compensation is losing its appeal to irrigation. We propose that Bills 7403-2 be immediately transposed, a bill developed by the Tax Committee, 7403-d, in order to return the money to the agrarians, to return the money to the village. There are two proposals, there are no intermediaries, there are no traders, the issue is the return of VAT is the agrarian. So we ask you to bring these bills to the table, return the money to the agrarians, return the money to the village. Let each of us, by this vote, see who really cares and who only does it in words. Thank you for your attention. I'd like to postpone these votes.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-05-m1.u44	Thank you. Colleagues, I want to report that 10 minutes ago, I was asking a question about the transfer, and it got 135 votes. 135 votes, colleagues! I now report that I am ready to consider the draft Act amending certain Ukrainian legislative acts (6052), which we included in the morning's agenda for the day's session for decision-making. And that was a committee requirement. So this second reading doesn't need a separate procedure. We move on to the next question: National Security and Defence, 6052. And I invite the head of the National Security and Defence Committee of Shepherd Taras Timothyovich to report. Please, Mr. Taras.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-05-m1.u45	Dear National Deputies! Dear Ukrainians! I want to remind everyone, literally two weeks ago, or three weeks ago, we were looking at a bill that's pretty important to military personnel who, as a result of their service, got hurt and got disabled or disabled. As a result, such military personnel were still unable to serve in the Armed Forces and should be released. What did they get? As a result, when they returned home, they could not find a job and were actually forced to beg. Today those military officers, having patriotism inside, in their souls, today have the good will of the Ministry of Defence, the General Staff, have agreed that the Ministry defines a separate category of positions, and those boys can continue to remain in the Armed Forces and continue in the service. Also, the Chief Science and Export Authority has proposed that we do not make specific changes in the new edition, but have proposed a new edition of the 26th article, where there are grounds for exemption from military service and the order of release. As a result, together with the Ministry of Defence, the General Staff, the Security Service, the Border Guards, such an article was worked out and the amendment of the National Deputies of Shepherd and Vinnik was made to this bill. In addition, several amendments were made, in fact all of them included in the second reading of the bill. And so the committee concluded yesterday to recommend that the session room consider the bill in second reading and adopt it in general, taking into account those rights that have been taken into account, as well as technical legal revisions during the drafting of the bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-05-m1.u46	Thank you. Colleagues, all the changes that have been made have been agreed upon. Colleagues, I'm really saying, all of these are agreed upon. And that's why we can go to the vote. I ask everyone to come into the hall, take jobs and prepare for the vote, colleagues. Please, everyone, take your seats. I also want to say that I have been approached by factions who have announced a break to reposition 7403-2 and d. I put 10 minutes ago, if there's a demand for that number of factions, I'll put it again. But now we're going to draft Law 6052. I'm asking everyone responsible, colleagues, to approach this law, get out of bed, take your seats, because you may not be able to vote. The bill is well-worked by the committee, unanimously supported, all the amendments are taken into account, and I think we should go to a positive vote. And I'm moving on to making a decision. So I'm voting on the draft Act amending some of Ukraine's legislative acts (for the improvement of individual issues of civil service) (6052) on the second reading and in general. Please vote, please support with technical law. Please vote and please support. Vote. Please be supportive. [[17:11:25]] For 210 210. We didn't make it. We'll be right back. Colleagues, he's not coming out of the hall right now, look who's not around and invite the national MPs into the hall, colleagues. In matters of security, we cannot show non-discipline. Colleagues, we need to be at work. Ukrainian military personnel are on the front line while on duty and there are no excuses for their absence. The same should be true of all national MPs. I ask you to come into the hall and take your seats and prepare for the vote. And please don't mess with security and defense issues. I ask everyone to prepare for the vote, the first question I'm going to ask is the return to 6052. And I ask everyone to take part in the vote. I'm putting a motion on the vote so we can get back to the vote. It's not coming out of the hall! Come back, Anton! I propose to go back to voting for a draft law amending some of Ukraine’s legislation (for the improvement of individual issues of military service) (number 6052). The first vote is the return. Please vote for the return. Please be supportive. And please vote. Careful, coordinated, responsible. Vote. Every voice. Please be supportive. Vote. [[17:13:26]] For 228 We're back. Now, pay attention! A two-vote advantage. Please put to the vote draft Law 6052 in the second reading and in general with technical and legal rights. Please vote and please support. Careful! Every voice. Let's vote, colleagues. Please be supportive. Please be supportive. We vote very carefully. And I'm asking you to back me up. Vote. [[17:14:03]] For 231 The law is passed. Thank you for your support. Welcome to the authors. Welcome to the committee. Colleagues, as I promised, should be next. Please be prepared. This is 6473. But I'll do it again. But this is the finale, colleagues. I will put to the vote a proposal for draft amendments to the Ukrainian Tax Code on certain matters of taxation with added value of export operations outside the customs territory of Ukraine of oil crops (7403-2 and 7403-d). To now move on to its consideration, that is to say, the other questions put aside, now move on to its consideration. Who supports the proposal? Please vote. [[17:15:09]] For-164 The decision is not made. And we move on to the next law. Draft Act amending the laws of Ukraine on the clarification of military service matters by contract (No. 6473). And I'm asking you to support the proposal to consider it with a reduced procedure. I'd like your support, colleagues. [[17:15:42]] For-162 And I invite you to the report of the Ukrainian National Deputy, Mr. Tétyana Mikolayevna. Please, Mrs. Tetjana.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-05-m1.u47	You know, this law has already been passed, a bill that has been passed a long time ago, and entire blocks have lost their relevance, i.e. they are already in other bills in the process of drafting and preparing for second reading, for example, the previous vote also applied to what was put into this bill. However, this bill is now extremely relevant because it has one block, unfortunately, which has not yet started, although it is one of the most urgent in the country. What do I mean? The point is that this bill appeared after a diversion at the first ammunition depot in Ukraine when we burned an extremely large number of ammunition. Unfortunately, there was a second fire after the registration of this bill, there was a third fire, we lost much of the country's credibility and some of the issues of protection from these diversions and we were called upon to regulate this bill. What do I mean? Now we have a situation where when we consider a military commission to sign a contract for future military personnel, there is no verification of whether this person was involved in terrorist, separatist movements on Donbassa, or whether this person was led by anti-Ukrainian agitation. So there's no test right now and there's no reason to refuse a person, actually a separatist, a terrorist, to take him into military service. So we're in no way safe now against the diversions that occur inside the system, inside the Ukrainian Armed Forces. So I ask you very much to support this bill in the first reading. I very much request that you join the development of the best special inspection system for these individuals.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-05-m1.u48	Please, 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-05-m1.u49	They're signing military contact. And I very much ask him to support it now in the first reading and continue to raise this debate and resolve it at least on this side.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-05-m1.u50	Thank you. I invite you to report to the National Security and Defence Committee of Vinick John. Please, Mr. Ivan.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-05-m1.u51	Colleagues! This project was actually about two blocks. The first block referred to gender equality issues so that we could fully compare a Ukrainian woman to a Ukrainian man in matters of military service, but the bloc had somewhat lost its relevance to the fact that we had already adopted Bill 6109 as a basis. Part of the issue has been settled in the newly considered and adopted Bill 6052. So this part of the project is already working on the committee. The second part is equally important; the second part refers to questions and procedures for the special examination of persons who contract military service. I would like to remind everyone that, by law, persons may have Ukrainian citizenship, may not have Ukrainian citizenship, and that the law allows them to carry out the contract. In addition, we have a situation -- the Russian Federation's armed aggression in the east. We have a powerful job in the Federal Security Service of the Russian Federation, a recruitment effort that is being carried out all over Ukraine, in relation to Ukrainian citizens, to men who may want to continue with some non-state goal, to serve in the Armed Forces of Ukraine. That is why the idea of the drafters of the bill is that, according to the consent of a citizen or a stateless person who makes a contract for the conduct of military service, such a special examination should be carried out by the Ukrainian Security Service against State interests, the territorial integrity of Ukraine as a whole. At the same time, we support the idea, but we do propose a two-read procedure, because some of the issues of the Ukrainian Security Service's interaction with the Ministry of Defence need to be reconciled, including taking into account the rights and freedoms of the Ukrainian citizen, who will go through such steps to verify and preserve the main essence and idea of the project. On the basis of the first reading, let us send and work on the committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-05-m1.u52	Thank you. Please hold the recording. In fact, my colleagues gave me advice that reading was not the right thing to say — first reading, second reading. Maybe we'll get this terminology right, because we used to read, but let's adapt to modern Ukrainian, and read is more correct, and let's use this term in a parliamentary discussion. So, Roman Semenich, from the Self-Help faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-05-m1.u53	Give the word to Taras the Shepherd.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-05-m1.u54	Taras Shepherd, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-05-m1.u55	Taras Shepherd, Self-Help faction. Indeed, the bill probably already contains two standards that will either be regulated by the bills already adopted in the first reading. And there's also a rule that allows new contracts to be redesigned, not from 3 to 10 years old, but from 1st year to 10th. And in fact, according to the Ministry of Defence, this will allow the General Staff to persuade military personnel to leave and continue their service for not three years, but for one year, which military officials believe may be more specific to them. The only question that actually sparked the discussion was the conduct of special inspections by the Security Service. Obviously, this idea listens to its place in this bill. And really, we need to think about the algorithm and the mechanism to prevent us from getting into the ranks of the Armed Forces, and actually not just the Armed Forces, because today we have military personnel in both the National Guard and the Border Guards, and the same Security Service, so we don't have people working against the Ukrainian State. However, the wording that is now proposed in this edition before the first reading is imperfect and needs to be further developed. So as a faction, we support this initiative and we want to ask not only the deputies to join the process of this terminology, but also the services that will continue to implement this rule of law, namely, the Security Service and the structural divisions of our state, which are composed of military personnel. We also urge the entire room to support this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-05-m1.u56	Thank you. From Peter Poshenko's Block, Rudik Sergey Jaroslavovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-05-m1.u57	Dear colleagues, an extremely important bill that needs immediate approval. It has a set of standards that we really need. A few years ago, he registered a bill that would make it impossible for people suspected of separatism to enter the public service. Regrettably, the National Building and Local Self - Rule Committee rejected it, saying that there would be a new complex law that. This issue will be settled, but unfortunately, so far, a huge number of people, who have concrete evidence of separatism, are still in the public service and local self-government. A bill that we are. proposed for consideration, foresees a specific mechanism, how by testing the Ukrainian Security Service we can prevent such people from joining the military. Yeah, he's not perfect. There's a question after. Commissions by individual articles, but this is the case when we have to accept it, and I invite all of my colleagues, we vote in favour. The Peter Dusty Block will vote, and I invite everyone to support.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-05-m1.u58	Thank you. Colleagues, we're about to make a closing statement from Fatherland. So in two minutes, we'll move on to making a decision. So I'm asking the factions to invite all the deputies into the hall, and in two minutes we'll move on to the decision-making process. And now, from the Fatherland faction to the word, the Kugel Alexander Volodymyrna is invited. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-05-m1.u59	Alexander Kugel. I support the drafter of the bill that unfortunately this bill has been in the Supreme Council for a very long time, and many of the issues it contains have already been settled in other bills. But in this bill, for example, it's very important to me how we protect people who believed in Ukraine and signed a contract. First of all, it's when health is changing. Only yesterday I got a phone call from someone who signed the contract, but now she has a second degree hepatitis C, it's a very big disease, but he's not getting released. And I think we need to write down not only the duties of these people for the second reading, knowing that they came decent, but also for the protection that we as a nation will protect them. Because we have to figure out if he got this hepatitis in a year, under the conditions that we created or earlier, that's the first question. And the second is the chapter, where one can continue to operate and review a new contract from 1 to 10 years, is questionable because it conflicts with some of the bills. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-05-m1.u60	Thank you. But the committee's proposal, I remind you, is just on the basis and we'll be able to make these corrections and those suggestions that you just made. I'm asking everyone to take up jobs, we're moving on to making decisions. Please, colleagues in bed, well, you made your living there, I'll tell you, in that bed, go back to the hall, my friends. Mr. Popov, Sidorovich, go back to your family. [[Noise Nodes]] They can't hear me. So, colleagues. Call them in the hall. So I'm voting on the draft Act amending the laws of Ukraine to clarify matters of military service by contract (No.6473) on a basis, colleagues, just on a basis. And I'm asking you to support everyone, and I'm asking you to vote. Vote, please. Please vote, vote. [[17:27:40]] For-200 We didn't make it, we didn't make it. I'm asking you to invite all the deputies into the hall right now. I'll be back. I'm begging you, colleagues. Now show the factions. Peter Poshenko's Block – 82, People's Front – 54, Opposition Block – 0, Self-Help – 17, Radical Party – 16, Fatherland – 8, Will of the People – 3, Rebirth Party – 0. I'm sure we can do more under this law and give more votes. I'm asking you, colleagues, to come to the hall. Now I'm going to put it back on, and then I'm going to put it back on the ground. The Rebirth Group, are they in position? Please support! This is the support of the military. Keep it up, will you? Because I see you've had insufficient mobilization. So, can we vote? I am voting on the proposal to return to draft Law 6473. I ask everyone to participate carefully in the vote. And I'm asking you to support the return to draft Law 6473. Please vote. I'd like your support, colleagues. Let's mobilize and vote responsibly. Vote. Please be supportive. Please be supportive. [[17:29:15]] For 213 I'll do it again. Colleagues, let's mobilize. And I ask you now to see that no one comes out of the hall, at the door to stand firm and confident, to invite MPs into the hall. I see there are columns of MPs entering the hall. Please, colleagues, everyone take up jobs. We can give more votes. I urge everyone, colleagues. Now I'm going to put another one on the way back. I ask everyone to take part in the vote. So I'm going to put it back on now, and then I'm going to put it back on the ground. So please take part in the vote. And I'm offering to go back to 6473. Please support and please vote. Keep it up, fellows. Please vote. Vote. Careful! Every voice. Please be supportive. [[17:30:47.]] For 225 I see not all of them have made it. Yeah? So I'm voting on the proposal to go back to voting for draft Law 6473. Please vote carefully. Stay in the workplace. I ask everyone to vote carefully. Please vote and please support. Vote. Please be supportive. [[17:31:24]] For 233 We're back. And I now put to the vote the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on the clarification of military service matters on a contract basis (6473). Please vote and please support, colleagues. I ask you carefully to vote, and I ask you to support me. Vote. Please be supportive. [[17:32:00]] For 231 Decision taken. Colleagues, and the next law. This is a draft of the Act amending certain laws of Ukraine regarding the service of the military reserve for a special period (6474). And I ask you to support the consideration of the reduced procedure. Please vote and please support. Vote. [[17:32:33]] For-161 Decision taken. And I invite you to the report of the Ukrainian National Deputy, Mr. Tétyana Mikolayevna. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-05-m1.u61	We have already had a great deal of Ukrainians through the front: those who were mobilized and fought; those who were military officers but were released for some reason from military service — that is, very many people who had real combat experience. And the state of Ukraine cannot lose that potential. The experience of these people, they need to not lose their skills, they need to support them, we need to always have a reserve that we could mobilize if suddenly Russia starts a large-scale attack. Therefore, it is very important for us to adopt the Military Reserve Act. This law regulates payments to give individual motivation to those in the military reserve, to go to congregations, to increase their skills, to be in tune. This law offers many different social guarantees. This law establishes responsibility. Of course, I'll tell you that there's a lot of discussion to be done. But I emphasize, it's just the first reading. Again, before the second reading I invite everyone to the committee, we will discuss everything so that the law is as perfect as possible. But it is essential that we have the full capacity to start our backup service. That's why I'm asking you to back me up.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-05-m1.u62	Thank you, Mrs. Tetian. And we invite the Secretary of the Committee for Security and Defence of John Winnick to report. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-05-m1.u63	Colleagues, in the Constitution of Ukraine, determine that the protection of Ukrainian territorial integrity, independence and sovereignty, its economic and information potential, is a matter of concern to the entire Ukrainian people. That's why we have a large category of persons now who have been through combat, who have received actual combat experience, they are reservists. We have a valid First Queue Operational Reserve Act. And this bill is trying to sort the state's and the citizen's legal relations with regard to serving as a reserve. According to the Ministry of Defence and the General Staff, as the military administration expects the reserve to be accounted for, looks forward to the possibility of holding a meeting, looks forward to the possibility that any military response may be made in order to further mobilize such persons to be ready, mobilized, motivated to take action against any aggression that may take place against our country. At the same time, of course, there is a point to this project. There's a note from both the committee and the Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration. There are some competing rules already with valid legislation. There is a certain set of terms regarding the military reserve or the operational reserve of the first queue and is already regulated. There is a question of responsibility in connection with the avoidance of military service. Indeed, the proposals for amendments to the Ukrainian Criminal Code seem somewhat controversial, and the dispossibility of these proposals is not clear either. So the committee proposes that the first reading only accept this project for the time being, send it to the committee. And in the rest of the committee, we're going to work on it, we're going to order the implementation of the citizens' and the state's powers of military reserve, and the question of responsibility, I think we're going to look at it separately in another project. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-05-m1.u64	Thank you. Colleagues, I'm asking you to sign up for this bill. Please, a national MP from the Radical Party faction, please, Igor Mosiychuk. "Peter Prashenka's Block," will be determined by a reporter for this bill. Please, Mr. Igor.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-05-m1.u65	The faction of the Radical Party of Oleg Lášk, Igor Mósiyczuk Our faction has supported and will support all laws of a defence nature, all bills aimed at strengthening the social protection of Ukrainian military personnel, Ukrainian heroes. At the same time, using the opportunity, I would like to draw attention to what was happening in this room on Tuesday right here and what is happening now. Here, colleagues blocked the rostrum, demanded justice in connection with the investigation of John the Ripper. And what do we see? The man, the prosecutor, I mean the coat of arms who's responsible for this right now, when the prosecutor's office has dropped the charges against the drummer, he's speaking and he says, "No, he has to sit down." So you figure out who's responsible for the prosecution, because we have a 4th year in the Maydan crime investigation, four attorney generals changed, one coat of arms remains unchanged -- no punishment. And you run it and you protect it on the air, on the hall and all that. I have a very firm offer to the Garbatuk, he either has to come out and say why he doesn't do it and for what money, or go out to Midan and shoot himself, because this man is responsible for the blood of the Heroes of the Heavens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-05-m1.u66	This is Tetjana Richkov's Peter Dustenk Block. I'd like to invite you, Mrs. Tetyano. They'll come out of the place. Out of the way. Please turn on Mrs. Rick's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-05-m1.u67	Peter Prashenko's Block will support this bill. The bill proposes to amend a number of bills regarding the service of the military reserve for a special period. It is designed to improve the conditions of service reserves in the military reserve, to increase the benefits and social security of reserve personnel, to establish the responsibility of reserve personnel for violations of military legislation, to ensure that the Ukrainian Armed Forces and other military formations are fully operational. So I ask everyone to support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-05-m1.u68	Thank you for the representation of the Peter Prashenko faction. Please, Sergey Shahov from the rostrum will present the position of the "will of the people" group.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-05-m1.u69	Luganshina, Sergey Shahov, the political power of Our End. Dear colleagues, this is a very important bill. If we don't build and feed, raise our army, we'll pay a foreign army. Today the Ukrainians have empty pockets. Tax payers, whose hands are twisted, have no money at all. Pensioners who cannot buy a crust of bread are ready to build an army. She's been on the road for 30 years. In four years, 300,000 armies were built, and we need a backup. That's why we're going to support this bill. And I call on each of the national MPs to support this very bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-05-m1.u70	Thank you. And please, Alexander Kugel, who represents the position of the Fatherland faction. Please, Mrs. Alexander will be speaking.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-05-m1.u71	The fourth year is the war that President Prašenko promised to end in three months. During the fourth year of the war, we start talking about the military reserve -- very interesting. But have you read this bill? He predicts that the person who has not received the message will be fined up to 85,000 dollars, and there are more. Go to your constituents and tell them that you're saying from the rostrum right now that we need to support a soldier, and we've seen how they've been and most of them have spent this winter, how they're getting sick, how we're fighting with you right now to save them after they've been disabled. And that's why I think this bill should be sent to the committee for work, because everyone sitting here is going to be considered three years in Parliament and it's a year of military service, because you're all on reserve here. Ladies and gentlemen, let us protect those who today stand in the defense of the country rather than write down laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-05-m1.u72	Thank you. So, colleagues, the discussion is over. I ask you to invite the deputies to the Hall, I ask the heads of factions to be very responsible right now to invite all the national deputies to the Hall, and in a minute there will be a vote. Since some warnings have been made, I will now give a minute to speak to the representative of the Committee, John Winnick, for one minute. And I'm asking all the factions to invite deputies into the hall, and in a minute, we'll move on to the decision-making process. Please, Mr. Ivan.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-05-m1.u73	I have already mentioned this in my statement from the committee that the proposals for amendments to the Ukrainian Code of Administrative Offences and the Criminal Code raise many doubts. Therefore, in support of perhaps the criticism that came from colleagues in Fatherland, with the aim of finding some compromise, unifying decision, I propose, at this moment, by voting on the first reading of the draft, that it be sent to the committee for a second reading to exclude the Ukrainian Code of Administrative Offences and the Criminal Code. Let's just leave what was the main goal. And the responsibility, if necessary, will be settled when all the reserves will work properly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-05-m1.u74	Is that the position you're taking? I'll take it. Very good. So, colleagues, let's move on to decision-making, please take your jobs. So I'm voting on a bill amending some of the laws of Ukraine regarding the service in the military reserve for a special period, with an amendment that was made under the transcript by the representative of the Committee on Security and Defence, John Winnick, in closing. You're in, right? Based on the base. Please vote, please support. Let's vote, colleagues. Very carefully, please vote. Vote, please. Vote. [[17:44:55]] For 199 We didn't make it. Now show the factions. Colleagues, come into the hall, I'm asking you to invite the deputies into the hall. The factions are: "Block of Peter Poshenko" – 79, "National Front" – 56, "Block Opposition" – 0, "self-help" – 18, Radical Party – 18, "Fathership" – 7, "will of the people" – 2, "Party of Rebirth" – 1. Colleagues, we've found a compromise decision, let's support it. In terms of security and defense, I think there should be maximum mobilization. So I'm asking you to come into the hall and take your jobs. I ask you to prepare for the vote. Please invite the deputies into the hall and ask everyone to maximize their mobility. So, colleagues, we gather, we wait, we invite. Please, everyone, please take part in the vote. The first vote will be in favour of the return and the second vote will be on the basis. I'm asking you to support everyone, colleagues. Let's say that we went through those questions on a daily basis on the Net Thursday, let's vote it just as a basis, before the second reading, we'll be able to take other amendments into account. I ask everyone to prepare for the vote now easily to support the army on air, it turns out it's very difficult to be in the hall at the time. So please support the return to the draft Law 6474. Please vote, please support the return. Vote, please. Vote. [[17:47:13]] For 215 Another 10 votes. Please invite the deputies to the hall. I'm asking the members of the Security Committee to keep an eye out so no one leaves the hall. On the contrary, I ask you to invite the deputies into the hall. Please don't leave the hall. Invite MPs. Come on, come on, Okay! We'll wait one minute. Please, Mrs. Winnick Ivan, one minute. We'll wait a minute, invite all the deputies.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-05-m1.u75	Colleagues, well, what is being suggested about the order of service in the military reserve, is quite innovative and important, including in the social aspect that is now important in Ukraine. For example, there are suggestions that the reserve will receive a certain salary in the form of financial security, they will receive full social protection as military personnel, they will have the right to receive a military pension, which I hope we will be reforming this year, at last, an appropriate bill we expect from the government, soon, hopefully will be introduced. So it's an important project, and let's do this part, taking into account the compromise proposal that I made, we're going to vote and send it to the committee, we're going to do our job. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-05-m1.u76	So we vote. So I would like everyone to be careful, colleagues, to take up jobs. Please prepare for the vote. I'm going to all factions and groups: I'm asking you to support me! And "will of the people," and "rebirth," I ask for your support. Colleagues! Guys! So I'm putting the vote back to 6474, and I'm asking everyone to vote very responsibly. Please vote and please support the return to 6474. Vote, please. Voting, voting, colleagues. [[17:49:42]] For 210 So, colleagues, I'm going to put it one last time, then I'm going to make an offer: to the committee. Invite people into the hall, we have fewer votes than we ever heard. Don't come out of the hall, I'll do it again, colleagues, go back to the debate, and I'm asking everyone to vote. So, colleagues, please take up jobs. I'm voting on the proposal to return to debate 6474. Please vote and please support. Vote, please. [[17:50:34]] For 213 I'm going to put you on a committee to work on. Will you support me with the committee for further work? Let's, the next proposal, colleagues, to draft a law amending some of Ukraine's military reserve laws (64.) return to the committee for further processing. Please vote and please support the committee for a second reading. Keep it up, fellows. Please vote, please support. It's a committee to work on. Hold on! Please be supportive. [[17:51:27]] For 216 And the last is the subject of a legislative initiative. Colleagues, come on, we've just got a national MP out of the hall! Well, what do you do, committee members? I told you not to let anyone out of the room! Colleagues, please don't leave the hall. Now, I'm going to make a third proposal: the author of the legislative initiative for further development. Let's mobilize. And please all take part in the vote. Thus, the third proposal is 6,474 to correct the subject of the legislative initiative for further work. It's a safe law. Mikhail! Hold on, guys! The subject of the legislative initiative for further development Please vote and please support. Vote. Please be supportive. Vote. [[17:52:25]] For the 220. Six votes. Show by factions, by factions. Colleagues, the subject of the legislative initiative is a compromise proposal, let's support it. Please, let's support it, it's going to be a very compromise proposal that needs to be brought together. Six votes. All right. I'm being shown that there are two other national deputies. I am now re-voting the proposal that the draft Act amending certain Ukrainian laws on the conduct of military reserve service for a special period. [[B in m in s a l in]] Let's go back, okay. 6474. So that we can get back to his consideration. And I beg you, colleagues, every voice! Pay attention, vote responsibly. I ask you to vote for the return to 6474. I'm asking you to back me up. All factions, all groups, please support. Please vote. Please support the return. We vote, carefully, every voice. Please. [[17:53:53]] For 222 I see the deputies are here. Colleagues, don't leave the hall. Please come back. [[B in m in s a l in]] I see, I see. It didn't work, I'll put it back. So take up jobs. every vote matters during the vote, and I am now putting to the vote the proposal to return to the consideration of draft Law 6474. Since each vote has meaning, please take part in the vote. Please vote and please support. Keep it up, Kulinich. Support the hall. Please support and ask your colleague to support you. We're voting for the return. Keep it up, fellows. There is a consensus and a responsible vote. Please be supportive. Please be supportive. [[17:54:58]] For 216 What's the matter? Well, I see. Why are you holding up? Wrong. Okay. I'll do it again. Colleagues, we're short a few votes. Please return to the hall and be at work when we vote. I am voting once again on the return to the draft Act amending some of the laws of Ukraine regarding the conduct of military service (6474). And I ask you to take part in the vote now. Colleagues, in front of my eyes, you talk to each other, you don't vote. Vote, colleagues, every voice. Please be supportive. Please vote. Vote. Please vote. And carefully, no mistakes. Please vote. We're voting for the return. [[17:55:59]] For the 220. The decision is not made. Six votes. Guys, let's try it again. We're going to have a discussion right now. We'll try to put the bill down once, colleagues, otherwise the bill will be rejected. If we get to the debate, the MPs will split up. Six votes. Please, every voice. I'm voting now. I see. Anton Gerashchenko, please. Colleagues, we vote. I would like to now support the proposal to return to the draft Act amending some of Ukraine's legislation on the conduct of military reserve service for a special period (6474). Mr. Igor, please, we count every vote. I beg you very much, Mr. Igor. It can't be. Parliament counts each vote. Please vote. And I'm asking you to back me up. Vote, colleagues. We'll vote for everyone in this room in a responsible manner. Vote! Please be supportive. Please vote. [[17:57:16]] For the 220. Six votes. Colleagues, I'm going to have to reject the law, the safe law. That's it. Okay. 30 seconds is a representative of the committee. The law will be rejected simply. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-05-m1.u77	Colleagues, I see that there are no voices in the room, regardless of political unity. I understand that this military reserve project is probably going to be rejected at the moment, and we're going to have to rework it and start it at the next session, and it's very sad. What I'm saying is, we're next on Project 6689, that's the second reading. I'm just asking the speaker of the Supreme Council not to go into this project, because we can be disgraced strongly in connection with this project. The point is that the next project increases the one-time payment. Shall we come in? Okay. That's all I wanted to say. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-05-m1.u78	Colleagues, me. There's no point in betting anymore, is there? All right, colleagues. By factions, give everyone a word? We can't make it. Colleagues, we can't make it. Dear colleagues, I will do as follows. Listen to me carefully. We haven't finished the consideration of this bill, but, nevertheless, since we have passed all the necessary procedures, I have to reject it. I'm forced to reject him.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-05-m1.u79	Let's try it again, shall we? Let's do it again. No, yes. No, it's not. All right, colleagues. I'll say that's very sad because we've had a very productive day today, and unfortunately, the last six votes are not enough. I want to consult. Can I leave that law for Tuesday? No, yes. I can't. So, the draft Act amending certain Ukrainian laws regarding the conduct of service in the military reserve (6474) I declare rejected. The law is rejected.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-05-m1.u80	You can't!
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-05-m1.u81	And I want to let you know that we've had a very productive and important day today. We've passed four laws in general, seven bills – on the basis of one decree and one – in general, which are very important systems bills: national security, the Diplomatic Service. And it's a very important reform of Parliament. It was an important day, it was a beautiful day in the Pure Quarter, which was worked by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. I welcome you all to this stressful, emotional, but very responsible day. And since it's 18 o'clock, I'm announcing that the evening meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is closed. Tomorrow at 10 a.m., I'm inviting everyone into the conference room to continue our work. We're having a debate with the government tomorrow, so I'm asking everyone to come to the hall. And at 10:00 tomorrow, I'm expecting everyone to continue our work. Thank you. Good-bye.
