ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-20-m0.u1	Good morning, dear fellows! Please enter the hall, prepare for registration. So, are you ready to register? Dear colleagues, please register to attend the meeting. [[10:03:00]] 335 national deputies registered. The morning plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Today is the birthday of our colleague Roman Mikhailovich Zvarič. Welcome to Mr. Roman's birthday! [[Applause]] And I want to remind you that today we have 30 minutes of speeches by MPs and factions. And I ask all groups and factions who intend to participate in the discussion to record. Please hold the recording. From the Fatherland faction, I invite you to Sergey Sobolev's performance. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-20-m0.u2	Dear colleagues, respectable TV, radio listeners! I think, without exaggeration, that the situation that has arisen with the raising of tariffs on gas and, accordingly, the tariffs on utility charges are virtually unprecedented. What is happening in the session room, when the profile committee is nearly 30 days old, is unable to deal with the issue of a moratorium on gas tariffs. And actually today, we've looked at the agenda of the committee in particular, and there's no question again. I am speaking to the Head of the Supreme Council with a proposal: there is a clear position of MP factions and groups where we insist on putting the issue in order daily. There's a committee meeting tomorrow. Please do your best to ensure that the decisions of the six heads of factions and committees that will deal directly with this issue are made and considered in the session room. What's happening now in a whole series of population locations where they're trying to get out of their head and accuse the mayors of cities that it turns out that gas failure, elevated tariffs -- that's their problem, I think, to a lesser extent, it's messy and unconscionable. Because everyone knows exactly who controls the gas market. Everyone knows very well how the President of Ukraine got his license to turn gas. Everyone knows very well what's going on in this market and who controls, including single companies, who first collect population funds, and the population pays almost 100 percent at all tariffs, even at these prices, and then these firms disappear with the funds, and the population is guilty of not being able to continue to account for gas. I think that the questions raised in connection with the unjustified rise in gas prices and tariffs respectively are the question that should be considered first in the session room. We have a number of bills that allow the final settlement of this issue and the gas of our own production to send to the population of Ukraine. Our faction requires consideration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-20-m0.u3	From the Radical Party to the word, Oleg Valeriyovich Ljashko is invited.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-20-m0.u4	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Tomorrow, five years from the beginning of the Dignity Revolution. My team and I participated in this revolution with millions of Ukrainian citizens. But what did the Ukrainians get in the past five years? Instead of dignity, they were given the power of humiliation, the humiliation of poverty, and that's the worst thing that could happen. At the request of the International Monetary Fund, gas prices and utility tariffs are raised, and people are forced to remove their children from their homes to receive a grant. When gas prices rise, prices for medicines, food, millions of Ukrainians are unable to afford low wages and pensions, and they can buy neither drugs nor food. This week, at the request of the International Monetary Fund, the budget will be adopted. So gas prices go up, so the budget goes up -- and it's all for IMF loans. I have a question for the President, the government and the parliamentary majority. When will you do so in the interests of others? When will the budget work for the welfare of Ukrainians, for wage increases, for pensions, for price cuts, for the restoration of government control over prices, for the reduction of food, medicine, for the reduction of prices and gas prices? You don't work for this because instead of dignity, you've given the Ukrainians humiliation. If you humiliate people with poverty, go away, do not humiliate the people, do not humiliate Ukraine in your home country, and in front of the international community. So our key budget requirement is to increase wages for millions of Ukrainian citizens, to recalculate pensions for millions of Ukrainian pensioners. Two weeks ago, we, together with the heads of other factions and groups, registered a draft decree repealing the government's decision to increase gas prices. We're proposing that all the Ukrainian gas be directed to the needs of housing and utilities, that a fair price be set for gas so that people don't pay for those space battles for corruption and the inability of the authorities to bring order in the country. The government gives billions of orders to our foreign competitors and tells us that we can't live without IMF loans. Last week, the Deputy Prime Minister of Cuba was present at the signing of the agreement to a half-billion dollars Chinese will be ordered to produce turbines for the construction of the Dniestrów GRESS. Instead of getting those orders from Harkowi's Turboat, the leading domestic enterprise. For a billion dollars, they're ordering French helicopters, instead of making the Sich Motor cap and tens of thousands of Ukrainians work and earn and implement this order. The end of the disgraceful raw government policy is the return of jobs to Ukraine, the fair price of gas, the increase in wages and the recalculation of pensions, which will allow the IMF to give up its loans, not to humiliate Ukraine, not to humiliate Ukrainians. I appeal to the authorities: Do not humiliate the Ukrainians with poverty. Get out of here!
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-20-m0.u5	From the Opposition Block, I invite you to the word Vilkul. Wilkul Alexander Yuriovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-20-m0.u6	I would like to inform the people of Ukraine, honourable members of the people, that half an hour ago the faction of the opposition bloc ended, which excluded Boyk Yuri Anatoliyovich and Ljovcken Sergey Volodymirovich from the ranks of the faction. Now to the urgent problems we have. Over the past 4.5 years, current authorities have raised gas prices for the population nearly 10 times. Prices and heat have increased accordingly. Naftogazu leaders have begun to charge themselves millions of wages and billions of bonuses. What did the common people get? Has the quality of utilities improved? Ask the residents of Shepetovka, Smiley, Herson, Severodonetsky, Curve Horn, Odessa, and other cities where the temperature was cold in their apartments was not warmed up in schools, hospitals, and kindergartens. What else did the authorities receive as a result of a colossal increase in tariffs? Debt for utilities is already about 40 billion dollars, and the authorities are taking money from people with unrealistic tariffs. Moreover, Naftogaz was also granted the right to disengage entire cities from the heat of winter. As a result of the pressure and widespread protests of people all over the country, Kabmin has now cleared this rule, but not because he cares about people, but simply because of the instinct of self-preservation. But there is a real danger that as soon as the tension in society subsides, the authorities will return to that standard. An increase of 23.5 percent of the price of gas, Kabminu stated, is not the last. The following year, two more promotions are planned: April, after the elections, and October. We demand that the Supreme Council review and cancel the decision to increase the price of gas, according to numerous people's requests. We have already submitted the relevant draft regulations; secondly, I demand that the head of NAC Naftogaz report to Parliament; thirdly, I demand reports from the head of "The Crushing". It is also a company that extracts enough gas to meet the needs of our population and the heatcommunerge. And we know that his worth is 2,000 dollars, and selling it to people is now going to be 8.5. I'm addressing the President. Mr. President, find a mechanism to reverse the decision to increase the price of gas. We also tabled bills not only on lowering the price of gas, but on introducing any ban on increase. As we can see, the cost of gas allows this, only political will is needed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-20-m0.u7	Thank you. Please welcome to Victor Bondar's presentation, which presents today's position of Rebirth Group. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-20-m0.u8	Thank you, Your Honor. I think that the cynicism of power and this communal terror is causing the country to just be crazy about everything that's going on in the state today. These tariffs are inoperable to the population. In the last four years, gas and electricity tariffs have risen 3.5 times and 10 times per gas. I think the whole country already understands that such energy and energy conservation policies will lead to a complete collapse and essentially to industrial bankruptcy and total destruction of the population of Ukraine. At the same time, look at this Naftogaz of Ukraine. You've had it, in a straight language, if you say so. The salaries of the leaders of Naftogazu Ukraine today are the largest in Europe. They are even ahead of the salary paid by the manager of British, French oil and gas companies. What does this talk about? The government has crossed the line, and it no longer feels what is happening in Ukraine’s life, in the lives of every Ukrainian family. And for them, this situation is becoming normal, and they don't even pay attention to the speeches of the MPs and the MP factions. Two years ago, we said we had to introduce a moratorium on tariffs and conduct energy audits. A few months ago, we repeated this over and over again. For six months, 22 cities in Ukraine were inflamed. And only the President's decision had to be made to turn on the gas. This speaks of the absolute collapse of the administrative network of government authorities and government teams. The Naftogazu executives write $8 million in wages and bonuses and send Mom to the United States. What does this talk about? They no longer feel the reality of what is happening in Ukraine and are willing to jump out of here in two hours and move to where money is stored. What should we do with you? And I'll give you the answer. Six factions in Parliament signed a bill to stop these tariffs, introduce a moratorium on tariffs, and conduct an audit of energy tariffs. Our factions from every district, city and district organization of the Rebirth Party in every district and district council signed an appeal to the leaders of Parliament, to the leadership of the country to support this draft decree, to cancel the increase in tariffs and to settle the issue of the value of Ukrainian gas and its value to Ukrainians. Ukrainian gas costs $70-90 today. What are you offering us to buy it for 300 dollars, who's profiting from it? At the expense of Ukrainians, you build and buy villas, yachts, you get crazy wages, bonuses that no one in the world sees. In Europe, there are no oil - gas companies in charge, you allow yourself, by the way, to do so and continue to raise tariffs. That is why we demand a vote and stop the increase in tariffs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-20-m0.u9	Thank you. Please welcome Oleg Berezuk, head of the Self-Help faction. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-20-m0.u10	The oligarchic authority in Ukraine has its own nature, regardless of the words in which it covers it. And today's government policy, and the current government, is reflected in the macroeconomic indicators of the state. As a result of this "success" (in paws) the government's GDP declines from 3.8 to 2.8. This is a sign that the real sector of the economy is stopping, and this "success" (in paws) is kept exclusively on trade and, by the way, exclusively on imports, because the country's trade balance in deficit is 62 percent. Moreover, imports from Russia increased by 21 percent over the same period last year, and we even buy cotton in Russia. These are the successes of an effective government and a valid authority in the economy. How did this government decide to escape? Because of what he robbed, it turns out, the budget of the country for which he is responsible is the pockets of the people. First. Bridge Grabbing. Subsidies for education and medicine are not paid to cities. A fragmented tariff on fuel materials is not paid to cities. The difference in tariffs is not paid to cities, and local budgets are physically robbed. What other pockets did the government want? In the hands of entrepreneurs, because in this particular budget he plans to raise taxes for entrepreneurs, the only social contribution -- and solve his problems at the expense of entrepreneurs. What will entrepreneurs do? They'll go into the shadows or they'll close because they won't be able to function. And the economy is even more slowing down its development. And the same government went into the pockets of ordinary people, raising tariffs. Why? Because I didn't do anything to create quality market conditions, which is to increase the production of my own gas, and these are energy-efficient technologies for people and "heat credits" that could actually, rather than simply, lower gas tariffs. What do you want to do? Don't let go. Do not give in to the mayors, do not keep quiet, but protest against robbing people’s budgets. It is impossible to prevent entrepreneurs from raising the EU. And there's no question about giving people away, not letting them rob themselves. It is now Parliament's task, today, when voting for the budget, to show the government that its path is the way of bankruptcy of the state and bankruptcy of the Ukrainian person.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-20-m0.u11	Thank you. And I would like to invite the head of the People's Front faction, Maxim Burbak, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-20-m0.u12	Hello, fellows! Since the first days, our People's Front team has taken a course for the EU and NATO. In the first instance, in the 14th year, Prime Minister Arsenij Yatzenuk signed the political part of the Association Agreement with the EU. Last year, Parliament removed from legislation the nonblock status imposed on Ukraine by Yanukovic. We have also advocated the introduction of a NATO entry into the Constitution. We refer to our colleagues as soon as the Constitutional Court comes to a conclusion on the changes to the Basic Law, we must immediately vote in favour of the NATO regime. The eve of the beginning of Maidan, this will be a responsible step for Parliament as evidence of our aspirations for NATO membership. This week we will have another important vote -- the adoption of the State Budget of Ukraine. And in his discussion, it is important not to rush into the pit of pre-election populism and demagogia, lulling in awe - inspiring promises and cosmic requirements. The budget should be balanced and realistic, for it is very easy to guarantee, but it does not explain where the money will come from. This is done only by irresponsible demagogues. We are convinced that Parliament and the government must stand in the way of cheap promises during the electoral period. You have to have a conscience and not make the budget hostage of pre-election populism. The main challenge of the elections is to keep the course chosen in 2014 – the foundation of a stable and independent country. Next. The People's Front supports the statement by Minister of Interior Arsen Avakov that Ukraine's membership in Interpol can be terminated if it is elected head of former Russian intelligence officer Alexander Prokopchuk. The Supreme Council will respond harshly to such an assignment. We are also convinced that under such guidance Interpol will turn into an organization that pursues dissidents to order dictatorial, authoritarian and totalitarian regimes. The EU and the countries that share the principles of freedom and the rule of law should be the only ones with Ukraine in this regard. Finally, the Ukrainian Security Service should finally conduct an official investigation into Medvedchuk and provide society with full information about the Kremlin agent’s activities in Ukraine. It is surrounded by anti - Ukrainian and pro-Moscow forces. Medvedchuk has purposely fought against the Ukrainian state in a consistent manner. In all their political projects, all BAF posts and other authorities should likewise reveal sources of financing for proputin media that work unscrupulously to surrender to Russia, covering up freedom of speech to spread lies. NewsOne, 112 and some of the others have long been connected to Medvedchuk. We urge the power and other authorities to implement Parliament’s decisions on these branches of Russian television in Ukraine as soon as possible. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-20-m0.u13	Thank you. Arthur Gerasimov, head of the Peter Dustenka bloc, is invited to the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-20-m0.u14	Dear Madam Chairman, distinguished colleagues, distinguished Ukrainians! Five years ago during the Dignity Revolution, whose anniversary we will celebrate tomorrow, the Ukrainian people undoubtedly chose the European and European development of Ukraine. Today, it is our responsibility to support this choice. Therefore, we should consider the changes initiated by the President of Ukraine to the Constitution regarding the NATO and EU course, as soon as the relevant bill receives the conclusion of the Constitutional Court. In doing so, we will protect the choice of the Ukrainian people and reject the attempts of the rematch. About trying to get the Kremlin to start a rematch. Putin recently explicitly stated that he did not want to see the next president of Ukraine, Peter Prashenko. Such a statement is a powerful testimony that it was Peter Poroshenko who destroyed the Kremlin's plans from the return of Ukraine under the control of the Russian Empire. Moreover, similar statements are the direct intervention of the Kremlin in the election of the President of Ukraine. It's a common practice for Russia to try to manipulate elections in other countries for the benefit of its agents. By the way, Russia, with such a candidate in Ukraine, has already been identified, even named by the mouth of the main editor of Radio Echo Moscow. Next. They are now trying to blow up another betrayal regarding the Permanent Representative of Ukraine to the OSCE, Igor Prokopchuk. For this reason, Ukrainian diplomats have already given their opinion. In turn, as head of a permanent delegation to the OSCE Parliamentary Assembly, I personally know Igor Prokopczuk as a professional, patriot of Ukraine, who is doing everything possible to restore Ukraine's territorial integrity and establish peace. We must not overlook a critical situation that was overcome in the city of Smil of the Cherkas region. All of this seems to have been artificially organized with only one purpose: not to include inflammation in people to discredit and accuse central authority. But the full responsibility for heating up lies with the local authorities, and the vast majority of mayors have done their utmost to get the heat in time. Thank them very much for that. With regard to Smila, however, only the harsh reaction of President Peter Poroshenko allowed the city’s homes to be warm within hours and to avoid an extraordinary situation. Four years ago, the President of Ukraine carried out a decisive reform of decentralization. As a result, for example, Smil had a budget of about 250 million dollars this year — almost twice as many as four years ago. Decentralization, however, also provides for the responsibility of local officials to their constituents, including the provision of timely heat. Smiley people, for example, might wonder why the local authorities did not find 8 million bracelets to start the heat in the city’s village, but without hesitation they allocated 10 million dollars to their prize. Our faction is convinced that both law enforcement and the Supreme Council should give their assessment of the actions of local MPs and the mayor of Smila. As far as tariffs are concerned. We hear a lot here, but I think Mrs. Timoshenko has a full political responsibility for raising tariffs to heat. It has no one else to understand the reason for the increase in tariffs, and not just because it has raised and transferred $24 billion in debt to the next generation. 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-20-m0.u15	Please finish 30 seconds. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-20-m0.u16	It is also because its signature is under a memorandum from the IMF, where Ukraine has made a clear commitment to balance the prices for internal gas and non-imported gas. And in plain language, raise the price of Ukrainian gas. And I'll finally remind you of that. The Supreme Council is entering the final stage of the budgetary process. Our faction highlights our principled position: budget support is possible only if the needs of the army and the defence sector are fully met, the expansion of the subsidy programme and the simplification of their accounting system for vulnerable population groups initiated by the President of Ukraine, as well.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-20-m0.u17	Thank you, Mr. Arthur. [[B in m in s a l in]] I hear about the line. [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear colleagues, now, first of all, let's exchange our thoughts, because we mentioned the name of a national MP who's not in the hall. He's not in the hall! Last name is not in this MP's room. I can give Yuri Timoshenko my word if he wants. Please, "The will of the people," Labazük. [[B in m in s a l in]] Let's do it later. Please turn on Mr. Labazük's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-20-m0.u18	Dear Ukrainian people! Dear Madam Chairman, colleagues! This week is unusual for the record of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. People do not remember when the second - reading budget was not accepted under the tree. But you have to say, haste doesn't mean quality. First of all, when you're analyzing the main document -- the cost for 2019 -- the question is, why should the Supreme Council be required as such? You can all see perfectly that the plump majority of the MPs' proposals have been thrown into the trash. Minfin and the government say that these are IMF requirements, the price of gibberish. What do we really see? That our proposals don't count, and the document forms somewhere in separate offices. For example, what increases the income section, new excise duties, taxes, and rent? Open only one Bill 9260 -- and you can see that there, the answer to the question is obvious. Or take a new idea from the University of Minnesota about paying a single social worker. The minister wants "white wages," but it's a hit on those who are already paying "white wages," official, legal, and this business is going to go dark. That's why our "will of the people" MP does not support this proposal and asks Parliament to support our position as well. Then the old holes in the budget don't fly, but new ones are created. That is why an article on premeditated privatization is being re-introduced in the 2019 fundraiser project. But we can see very well what political relevance today, so obviously the Supreme Council is voting on the budget as a whole, although under other conditions it should go for work and have no chance of adoption. Colleagues, in order for the country to be constantly free of the Damocles sword of creditors, we really need to raise the economy of our state, primarily by stimulating entrepreneurship, creating new jobs. What kind of painting do we have? Instead, young people move abroad in search of a better life, in search of wages. Producers have lost their popularity, and today more than 20 percent of Ukrainian school graduates are going to vocational schools, and even graduates who receive special skills do not have jobs in Ukraine. The issue of the return of the value of employment for young people needs careful work. That is why my team and I began to study this issue in detail at my home farm. A series of round tables, meetings with business, education, and employment centers have produced results. Last week, a professional education committee supported our draft Decree 9173 on the conduct of a dual education system in the Hmelnicki district. Therefore, I would like to ask the Supreme Council to put this decision to the vote in the near future and to support it. Gentlemen.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-20-m0.u19	Please, 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-20-m0.u20	Gentlemen, the agrarian community has waited for its agrarian day in Parliament. A number of agrarian issues remain unresolved. Among them is number 7060 — promoting the development of family farms, number 3157 — for the transfer of water objects to rent. Also important is the Euro-Integration Bill 8075 on Stimulating Domestic Machinebuilding and.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-20-m0.u21	Please. Thank you, Your Honor. As far as I can tell, we're done speaking from all the MP groups and factions. There is a requirement for one faction to give them a replication because a national MP was mentioned in a negative context, but the Rules require the presence of a national MP. 30 seconds, please. Dear colleagues, one request now. I ask you very much in a negative context not to mention each other so that we do not waste our time exchanging kindness. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-20-m0.u22	Just a favor, Mrs. Irina. Because I think that what Julia Timoshenko's government did when, in fact, the gold reserves of the country increased to $32 billion when all the loans were repaid six years ago, the time of the most severe economic crisis, I think that's the best way to manage even in the face of the worst economic crisis in the world. But what is happening today is the best example of the payments paid during the economic crisis for the administration of Tymoshenko by Ukrainian citizens, and the payments they receive today and will continue to be paid by citizens. I think that's the best support for what was balanced and correct policy of the Timoshenko government and is today a completely failed policy of today's President. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-20-m0.u23	Dear colleagues, we've finished our performances. [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear colleagues, we have been asked and offered by factions to honor the memory of Diana Petrinenko, a well - known Ukrainian singer who has invested a great deal in the development of operatic Ukrainian art. And I ask everyone to pay tribute to the moment of silence to the memory of the great Ukrainian singer.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-20-m0.u24	Thank you. So, colleagues, I want to remind you of where we ended our previous session. We have concluded the draft Law amending some of Ukraine's legislative acts (for the implementation of certain international agreements and EU directives in the field of animal and plant protection). We had a full discussion, but we still have a closing word, after which we can go to the vote. And I have a request, colleagues, to all factions. In a few minutes we'll go straight to the vote, I ask everyone to come into the hall, take their seats, and prepare for the vote. So we continue to consider draft Law 6598. And I invite you to the conclusion of the report, the head of the Committee's Subcommittee on Environmental Policy, Environmental Use and Elimination of the Consequences of the Chernobyl disaster, Djublik Pavel Volodymirovich. So, Mr. Paul, please, the closing word, three minutes. And please invite everyone to the hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-20-m0.u25	Good afternoon, dear fellows! Thank you, Andry Volodymyrovich. We had a full discussion of the bill last week. Once again, I'd like to draw your attention directly to what's under the transcript. For example, there is one article, that is, 20 articles, which indignant our hunters directly, the Association of Hunters. And the only moment I'd like to read it under the transcript. What article 20 of the Animal World Act says in such an editorial is: "It is forbidden to use bears at hunting testing stations, as well as to carry out tests, competitions and hunting dogs." I mean, with these changes, I would ask for this bill to be supported. Ladies and gentlemen, I'd like to address the faction of Fatherland and the Radical Party directly. It's not a political law, it's a law that we should sow kindness and raise humanity directly. It's a law that will help, let's say, protect animals directly. It's a big request to move away from the words you said and still support and vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-20-m0.u26	Thank you. So, colleagues, I'm once again asking everyone to come into the hall. We're moving on to making a decision. Excuse me? So I'm asking everyone to take up jobs. We have concluded our discussion of the draft Law on Amendments to certain legislative acts of Ukraine (for the implementation of certain international agreements and EU directives in the field of animal and plant protection) (6598). We're moving on to making a decision. I ask you to come into the hall and prepare for the vote. So let's move on to making a decision. I am voting on the draft Act amending certain legislative acts of Ukraine (for the implementation of certain international agreements and EU directives in the field of animal and plant protection) (No. 6598). It is proposed by the committee on a basis, colleagues, only on a basis. Please vote and please support. Vote! Please be supportive. [[10:39:45]] For-151 Colleagues, I'm going to make this proposal so that we don't lose the bill, send it to the committee for work, colleagues. Come on, I'm asking everyone to unite around this proposal: the committee for processing. Colleagues, I'm asking everyone to come into the hall. A large number of public figures are now watching our vote, which have repeatedly called on the Supreme Council to support this bill. Let's get him to the committee, it'll be a compromise position, colleagues. And I am voting on the proposal that draft Law 6598 (for the implementation of certain international agreements and EU directives in the field of animal and plant protection) should be sent to the Committee for further work. Colleagues, I'm asking you to support everyone, this is a compromising position. Please vote. Please be supportive. Vote! Please be supportive. [[10:41:11]] For 169 The decision is not taken. Colleagues, I take the following: Return the subject of the legislative initiative for further development. Let us, fellow workers, unite so that we do not lose the bill. I'm asking everyone to take up their jobs and come into the hall. Final proposal: To return the subject to the right of legislative initiative for further work. I ask all of you to support this proposal. Take up jobs. So I am proposing that the bill of Law 6598 should be returned to the subject of the right of the legislative initiative for further work. Please vote. I'd like your support, colleagues. Let's support it. We'll support it, colleagues. Vote. [[10:42:22]] For 177 The factions. Peter Poshenko Block – 73, People's Front – 51, Opposition Block – 9, Self-help – 15, Radical Party – 1, Father's Front – 0, Will of the People – 5, Rebirth Party – 7, non-fractional – 16. Colleagues, the bill of Law 6598 has been rejected, unfortunately. And it's very sad that we haven't been able to give an adequate answer to these problems that we have in this area. Colleagues, we have the next law on the same subject, and I want to remind you in general of our logic today. So we have the issue of consenting to criminal liability. Yesterday, the Regulatory Committee made its decision, and the Supreme Council should review it without delay. Then we have an agrarian block to which the Agrarian Policy Committee has been preparing for a long time. And, colleagues, today, to my conviction, we need to address the issue of decommunization: the renaming of the Kirovograd area, the Kirovograd district, and the Dnipropetrov region. It's a very ambitious and great order of the day. To do this, we need to work effectively and effectively. And so, colleagues, my proposal is this. The next draft of Law 7267, which deals with the same subject as the previous law, I will place it on a rating vote. If the votes are not enough to keep us from losing the law and losing half an hour of our time, I will suggest that we move immediately to removing the inviolability. So, colleagues, I'm asking everyone to participate in the rating vote. And I'm voting on the draft Act amending some of Ukraine's legislative acts (for the introduction of the identification and registration of animals for the purpose of strengthening responsible treatment of animals) (No. 7267). The rating vote. Please vote, please support. Vote. Please be supportive. [[10:44:55]] For-164 There is no support for the bill. So, colleagues, and so we're moving on to the issue of consenting to criminal liability, arrest and arrest of Ukrainian National Deputy Berezhkin Stanislav Semenović. Honourable National Deputies, in accordance with part three of article 80 of the Constitution of Ukraine article 27 of the Ukrainian Law on the Status of the People's Deputy, the Supreme Council of Ukraine agrees to bring criminal responsibility, detention and arrest of a national MP. The Supreme Council received the submission by the Prosecutor-General of Ukraine, Yuri Vitaliyovich Lucenka, of consent to be held criminally liable, detained and arrested by the National Deputy of Ukraine, Berezkin Stanislav Semenović. The National Anti-Corruption Bureau of Ukraine is conducting a pre-trial investigation, and the Specialised Anti-Corruption Prosecutor's Office, the Office of the Attorney-General of Ukraine, is a criminal procedure since 16.05. In 2016, according to the signs of criminal offences provided for in part two of article 364, part five of article 191, part one of article 366, and part three of article 209 of the Criminal Code of Ukraine. In accordance with the requirements of the Ukrainian Act on the Rules of Procedure of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the Committee on Rules of Procedure and Organization of Work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine at its meeting on 19 November, with the participation of the Attorney General of Ukraine, considered the submission of an agreement to bring criminal responsibility, arrest and arrest of the Ukrainian national deputy, Berezhkin Stanislav Semenović. The findings of the committee, the explanation of the Ukrainian national deputy and the submission of the Attorney General of Ukraine were distributed to you on the desks of registration in paper copies. And I want to remind you that we have a speech first from the Attorney General, then the word will be given to Berezkin Stanislav Semenovich, then the Regulatory Committee, then there will be statements by factions and groups. At our meeting, the Attorney General of Ukraine, Lucenko Yuri Vitaliyovich, as well as the head of the Specialised Anti-Corruption Prosecutor's Office. And I'm asking you now to speak to Yuri Vitaliovich Lucenka. I'd like to remind you that the rules are up to 15 minutes (both the speech and the answers). Please, Yuri Vitaliovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-20-m0.u27	Dear Mr. Head, distinguished national MPs! Today's submission of consent to criminal responsibility, detention and arrest is initiated by the National Anti-Corruption Bureau and the Specialised Anti-Corruption Prosecutor's Office. According to the Constitution and the law, these submissions are presented in the Supreme Council by the Attorney General. Then I would like to inform you that NABU and SAP are conducting a judicial investigation and a procedural guide in criminal proceedings since 16 May 2016. It is stated in this case that the Ukrainian national deputy, Berezkin Stanislav Semenović, from September 2013 to February 2014, has entered into previous conspiracies with officials and other persons under his control of the Creative Group, as well as with officials of the public shareholders association "The State Savings Bank of Ukraine" in the form of obtaining credit, as a result of the abuse by officials of subordinate enterprises. If you're not speaking in the official submission text that you're given, it looks like this. Mr. Bereskin, who was in control of the Creative Group, as a national deputy, had a need for a $20 million loan from the State Savings. As a bet, an electrician was given. The relevant units in the Savings Unit have determined that such a pledge is not enough to receive a $20 million pledge. Then, subordinates to the Bereskin People's Deputy, according to the investigation, the Creative Group's employees forged a contract for the sale of agricultural products, which seemed to be the basis for the loan. In this regard, the investigation is based on the view that as a result of the falsification of the original contract, which does not exist at all, which has never been executed by its parties, Creative Group received a portion of the loan totalling $20 million. In the future, this loan through a chain of offshore companies was listed for the acquisition of the Odessa company Black Sea-Lise-Beton, the Odessa region (then Illichsky, now Black Seas), whose beneficiaries were the children of the national deputy, Berezkin. Thus, the investigation is of the view that, at that time and at that time, the Ukrainian national deputy, Berezkin Stanislav Semenovich, arranged for the counterfeiting of the part of the loan to be received from the State Bank, thus directing the credit resources to enrich his family and not to return to the bank. At this point, a $20 million loan is not returned to the state bank and is an unclosed loss to that bank. The relevant investigation charges the officials of the State Bank who, in conspiracies with Creative Group, prepared a fictitious pledge, part of the pledge, as well as the National Deputy Bereskin, who is suspected of the NAB and SAP in the organization of document counterfeiting and the acquisition of funds, in the further legalization of these funds for the benefit of the relatives of the first line of the family. In this regard, at this point, the investigation has revealed more than ten suspicions to the various figures of the case and has the need to remove the parliamentary integrity of the national deputy to carry out a complete set of investigations and operations. The National MP is suspected in article 366 -- counterfeiting and 191 -- incarceration, and 209 -- legalization of funds. Under this article, I am submitting an application for consent to bring the criminal responsibility of National Deputy Bereskin Stanislav Semenović. Two more arrests and arrests I signed at the request of those operational and prosecutorial officers who are in charge of the case. In this case, I find myself in a difficult situation, because, personally, when I file a case of this kind, I never apply to economic and service crimes sanctions such as detention and arrest. In this case, however, I am now performing a greater role in this situation of the ceremony, which I am signing at the request of those conducting the investigation. I remind you, honourable national deputies, of your smiles that under the law that you have passed, I, as Henprocuror, do not even have the right to access the materials of a criminal case, and therefore I cannot determine whether the investigation, the prosecutors and the SAP have the need to detain and arrest a national MP. In this regard, I sign them for your consideration, and you have as legislators, as active citizens and anti-corruption fighters, to identify with all the three submissions I bring to your consideration.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-20-m0.u28	Thank you. So six minutes for a question to Henprocuror. Who's going to ask questions, please hold the record. Master Sergei, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-20-m0.u29	Thank you. Yuri Vitaliyovich, according to the decisions of the European Court of Human Rights in the Volkov v. Ukraine case, the Supreme Council, by making similar decisions, acts as a quasi-judicial body. Then the submission made by the Attorney General should be well - founded, well - documented, and so forth. I'd like to make it clear to you, Your Honor Yuri Vitaliovich, what action did Bereskin take in the organization of this crime? What kind of action does he have, whether he's been seeing anyone, whether he's been holding his finger at the door, whether he's done something else, and what evidence does that prove? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-20-m0.u30	Thank you for asking. My statement provides evidence of the involvement of the National MP in the organization and commission of this crime, including the testimony of PAT 'Creative Group' employees that the National MP, Bereskin, was actually managing the company, giving instructions that were required to be carried out, and it was his instructions that were mandatory in preparing documents to obtain a loan of $20 million. Thus, part of the loan that was granted for a virtually fictitious contract was prepared under the control of and at the direction of the national MP, Berezkin. This is what the employees of this company have shown, and this is why the investigation believes that the MP's integrity should be removed, and with Mr. Bereskin Stanislav Seminović, a whole set of investigators and operational actions should be carried out.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-20-m0.u31	Thank you. Scroak by Mikola Leonidovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-20-m0.u32	Dear Yuri Vitaliyovich, I have the next question. First of all, what's with the mortgage? Is it or is it not? Because if it was formed, then the Spare Party has the opportunity to pull it. And the second question is, are there any suspects in the Savings? Because there is a classic rule that only someone who wants to do so can be deceived. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-20-m0.u33	Thank you for asking. The answer is yes. Suspects include employees of the State Reserve during that period, including the deputy head of the Reserve. The state-owned Savings Company. Part two of your question: What was the bet? A $20 million loan was made to an electrician, and a decision by the Department of Problem Assets and the Department of Risks was found to be insufficient. In this regard, according to the investigation, the Bereskin People's Deputy has formed a contract for the sale of agricultural products, which has become an additional pledge. However, the investigation found that such an original treaty did not exist; it was never, in fact, executed and, accordingly, impossible to draw. At this point, the bank is really tight. After the investigation began, Sástádbánk started a pretentious job, and in his interest the eloquent as a mortgage, the personal obligations of the son of the national deputy Berezkin, who unfortunately do not have any.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-20-m0.u34	How much? Please, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-20-m0.u35	which do not have any living security, and this fictitious, under investigation, contract for the sale of agricultural products, which also has no monetary value. So this is the amount that the investigation considered to have been damaged, this is the amount that was claimed, and this is the amount that was transferred and bought to Illyshivsk, and now Black Sea, the enterprise for the benefit of the two children of the national MP.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-20-m0.u36	Thank you. The Kugel of Alexander Volodymyr.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-20-m0.u37	Your Honor, the Fatherland faction will support your appeal, because this is our position, we believe that everyone has the right, just like all Ukrainians, to defend his right, and we will not support the arrest. Because we think we're going to hear your vision, and what are we going to do about the banks that dumped hundreds of thousands of Ukrainians and left them with no funds, and with the Guarantee Fund that sold out all the population loans to one percent of the cost to the collective companies that people are talking about, and they're just killing people by taking the last place? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-20-m0.u38	Thank you for asking. I want to let you know that this is not the only thing about banking institutions. Now, both on trial and on trial, in fact, the defendants have the heads of certain commercial banks, such as Mikhailski, other banks where the court is to determine the degree of their guilt. We have reason to suspect them of being involved in the damage to both commercial and state banks. Regarding the Deposit Guarantee Fund, as I know, there have been many criminal investigations, but their actions are in line with your legal order. Whether they're fair, to judge whether they're legal -- at this point, signs of criminal offences in the institution's activities, in order to sell on asset auctions, neither the NAB, nor the PPA did, although the conduct was there and there. Regarding population complaints about collectors. Either way, if it's about threats or...
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-20-m0.u39	30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-20-m0.u40	threats or the use of physical force, we need to write a statement immediately either to the National Police or to the Public Prosecutor's Office, and we must certainly protect anyone from the physical violence of so-called collectors.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-20-m0.u41	And a final question. Olena Sotnik, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-20-m0.u42	Thank you. Olena Sotnik, Self-Help faction. I have three questions. First question. Throughout the presentation, the key goal is personal illegal wealth. Tell me, please, in the statement in no word, how this causal link has been established between the actions and the personal enrichment of the person you want to remove the parliamentary immunity to. The other one. It also mentions the legalization of income on more than one occasion. Please tell me, if you want to talk about illegal legalization of income, you need to talk about what the operations were. In fact, financial transactions have been illegal, some evidence has been established, and this is not included. And the last. Detention. It is confirmed that another precaution regarding this person cannot be chosen. Also, there is no evidence that a person can avoid being detained. And you as the Attorney General, now that you're presenting the application, you don't have to refer to the fact that you don't have information or that you've been given that information. You're a representative.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-20-m0.u43	30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-20-m0.u44	You're a representative of the Attorney General's Office and you're speaking in Parliament. We are obliged to deal with the matter, and you are obliged to give us, as appropriate, solid answers to the questions raised regarding the filing of facts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-20-m0.u45	Thank you. And it's short again. The BOA detectives' investigation has been established under the SAP process, and that's what I'm talking about in my statement that part of the loan was given under an existing, fictitious, investigation, mortgage. Accordingly, this is a sign of a criminal offence, article 191, "Encouragement at the expense of a state-owned enterprise." One. If they were possessed, what happened to them? Then, through a series of offshore companies, they were used to buy a business in Odessa, where the beneficiaries were the son and daughter of a national deputy. This is riches. Thus, we have a link between the acquisition of state - owned funds and the acquisition of these assets for the benefit of the national MP’s family. Appropriately, it is article 191, "encouragement" and article 210, "legalization or laundering of funds obtained illegally". In this case, that's why it's being followed.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-20-m0.u46	30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-20-m0.u47	The organizational role of the people’s representative, Bereskin, in this matter. With regard to the grounds for detention. From what the detectives and prosecutors have told me according to the NAB and the SAP, they appeal to the fact that a national MP, having an influence on the authorities, and a passport and an unhindered opportunity to leave Ukraine, can do what one of his colleagues who had sworn to do until the last day that he would be in Ukraine, but on the day of his suspicions.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-20-m0.u48	30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-20-m0.u49	disappeared from Ukraine. On this basis, at least that's the only reason I know it, the NAB and the SAP insist that two of the following arrests and arrests be made. I'm leaving them to your consideration, and in this case I think it would be better if I voted long ago on the bill that the national MP on which the application is made loses any passport on the same day: diplomatic, official, civic. That would be the answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-20-m0.u50	Finish up, 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-20-m0.u51	That would be a fair and correct answer to that submission. Because, in my view, the status of a national MP cannot be as incriminating, that is, if he is an MP, he must be arrested. On the other hand, unfortunately, Mr. Oneshchenko, for example, gave us a bad example of such a story. Therefore, the honourable national deputies, taking advantage of the possibility, urge me to vote in favour of a new order: after all the passports of the subject have ceased to be filed before the completion of the trial.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-20-m0.u52	Thank you. Thank you for your answers. And now we're invited to give an explanation by the National Deputy of Ukraine, Berezkin Stanislav Semenovich, within 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-20-m0.u53	Dear colleagues, it's a submission as a bad detective novel with fiction and conjecture, but there's no evidence to support the commission of a crime. In 2013, the company's revenue, which I created in 91st year, was over a billion dollars. They're trying to accuse me of stealing 160 million old-fashioned, that was 20 million. The company’s turnover at the time was 25 million per week. And now, essentially. Colleagues, detectives are trying to introduce the company as a one-day company that took credit and stole it. That's not true. In 91st year, there were two people working at the company: me and my friend. From '95 to '97, we built the first factory, attracted investment, borrowed credit from the EBRD, and built the first factory. From 99 to 2013, we built 9 factories, 9 factories in the goal area, 9 factories in the goal place, 4 factories in the main area. The company's turnover was a billion at the age of 13. The company processed millions of tons of sunflowers, 230,000 tons of soybeans, and 130,000 tons of air - conditioned fats and margarines, and 40,000 tons of pellets per year. And this company, says NABU, was bad. 32 per cent of the GDP in the Kirovograd region, more than 50 per cent of the budget. NABU believes that the money was stolen at the time the company took over. It's coming out, the kind of credit you took, it's already a crime. If communicating with a bank, communicating with a manager is also a crime; give me a letter like that, give it to me, it's a crime too. It's a conspiracy, it can't be. Colleagues, we're being accused of taking the money out, taking the money out. THE NAB is again misleading: the money is gone, and two and a half months later they went back to the same bank account, there are payments and court decisions. Here's the verdict of the court that the money's all gone in, and the payments are that the money's all gone back to Ukraine. FOR some reason, it's not going to work. (I apologize.) We're being accused of not returning this loan from the beginning and making an improper mortgage. That's not true. I want to show you, unfortunately, no videos, say you don't have to. The elevator, which was pawned (that is, he, the elevator), was handed in, the elevator, in November, at the end of November 2013. The cost was 174 million. These are the introductory declarations and estimated costs, which are 22 million. Plus, my son gave his personal message. Is it, we, was it a conspiracy if the son gave his, a personal one? And we didn't want him back or what? The NABU is bringing everyone in again, telling the truth. You know what, and the most terrible thing about all this is absolutely not true. NABU claims that the contract did not pay a full percentage. So let me tell you, interest was paid: $2 million was paid from the time we took credit until we were shareholders. Here, the payments are all about that. NABU does not say that, but says on page 33, it says, "No interest was paid at all." Deception again. The other one. NABU says that the company did not have any funds at the time. Deception again. I want to show you how there was no money in the company. Company, I told the press that in 2014, the company returned $250 million to banks, 250! So, there wasn't $7 million to buy this object?Oh, my God! These payments are all monthly: 212 million - body and 40 million - percent. Why is NABU lying? The company had no means of taking this object? You can see that the charges are without logic, completely groundless. Check it out. This gives you 56 pages. 26 times it is said: Under undetermined circumstances. Under undetermined circumstances. I gathered people (which is written here: under undetermined circumstances), and I gave instructions. And it's written, under undetermined circumstances, I've legalized some. Costs. Here's the data. My colleagues, I'm sure of myself, my family and my team. Neither I personally nor my loved ones did anything. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-20-m0.u54	Thank you for the explanation given in the session room. Ladies and gentlemen, I now ask for the floor to announce the conclusion of the First Vice-Chairman Committee of the Supreme Council on the subject of the Rules of Procedure of Paul Pinzenic. Mr. Paul, may I have a word with you?
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-20-m0.u55	Ladies and gentlemen, I'm going to make one report on all three applications made by the Attorney-General of Ukraine: and on consenting to criminal liability, arrest, arrest. Thus, I will save the time of the Supreme Council of Ukraine for fruitful work today on drafts. We discussed at the meeting on 19 November, with the participation of the Attorney General, all these submissions, which were initiated by the Chief of the Special Anti-Corruption Prosecutor's Office of the Netherlands-Nazar Ivanovic and supported by the Attorney-General of Ukraine to the Supreme Council. According to the reports, the preliminary investigation found that the Ukrainian national deputy, Berezkin Stanislav Semenović, between September 13th and February 14th, allegedly entered into a previous conspiracy with the officials, with other persons under his control, as well as with the officials of the State Bank, Savings Bank, under the form of obtaining a loan as a result of the abuse by officials of his controlled enterprises and the official position by them of arranging for the forgery of documents, the seizure of the funds of the bank, their legalization of their transfer to his controlled foreign company. In his conclusions, the Committee noted the legality of the Prosecutor - General’s submissions, as they were initiated and submitted by the appropriate subject, but it noted the lack of motivation and justification and noted this in particular in its conclusions. Bereskin from February 2011 to now, including from September 13th to February 14th, was and is now the national deputy of Ukraine. In accordance with article 1 of the Ukrainian Act "On the Status of the People's Deputy of Ukraine" is a representative of the Ukrainian people in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. A ministerial servant, in relation to the officials, business subjects, and public bank officials, has not been and cannot, according to the perpetrator of the crimes incriminating him, be either. With regard to the possible role of the Bereskin People's Deputy as the organizer of particularly serious corruption crimes, the Committee noted that the evidence of Bereskin's incriminating crimes, such as eyewitnesses, classified intelligence protocols, telephone conversations by officials, records of optical disks, e-mails, documents, do not, in our opinion, contain any evidence directly indicating the presence of oral or any written instructions, orders given to Bereskin personally to the service or official persons of the Creative Group and the State Bank of Stocks, and no signatures of the Bereskin People's Deputy are available on letters, documents deleted from the designated holders. As far as I'm concerned. Thus, if briefly summed up, the submission of consent to attracting the national MP Bereskin to criminal responsibility contains a version of the fact that the national deputy Bereskin was the organizer of a certain waste and a dissipation of the state bank's funds, in fact, this version is in no way reinforced. With regard to the grounds for applying a precautionary measure to the national MP in the form of keeping him in custody, as well as his detention. In fact, the appropriate submission is based solely on the severity of the punishment that could threaten the National Deputy Bereskin if his guilt were proved. And it is not surprising, more faithful, that it is no wonder, since other applications of the Attorney General have been repeated, that such a heavy measure of precaution is based on the fact that the national deputy has this very status as a national deputy. That is, the status of a national MP, according to the legal guardians, weighs down his fate and requires that he be applied to a person who is involved in criminal responsibility, more stringent measures. Stronger precautions than those of another person who would be held accountable in the same situation. Some evidence that would motivate you to go abroad and want to go abroad on your own or by using the influence on others to destroy or distort the evidence at that time, does not contain factual evidence in criminal proceedings. In our conclusion, we have done a rather detailed analysis of the relevant practice of the European Court of Human Rights in the selection of precautionary measures. This analysis is as elaborate as we think it is useful to study the MP’s corps. We now have too little time and opportunity to describe it in detail from the rostrum of the Supreme Council. Please see the written conclusions. And please make a decision to take into account the committee's conclusions. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-20-m0.u56	Thank you, Your Honor. And now, according to the Rules, I'm asking to sign up for a discussion of the submission that I brought to the Henprocurator's Hall of Jury Vitaliyovich Lucenko, representatives of the MPs and factions. Please sign up. Please, Sergey Shahov. You're welcome to speak.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-20-m0.u57	People's Will Group, Sergey Shahov, political force "Our End". Dear colleagues, first of all, I want to thank the regulatory committee for the professional meeting yesterday. The case against our colleague Stanislav Semenovich Brezkin is worthless. The only reason the committee found the application legal is because it was introduced by a legal entity, the Attorney General's Office. I have no reason to doubt the competence of the management and the regulatory committee itself. The evidence base provided by the NAB and the SAP is unfounded. There is no sufficient evidence to suggest particularly serious corruption, and the choice of a precaution is chosen solely because of the status of a national MP. Gentlemen, Stanislaw Semenovich Bereskin has come into great business policy. What was the motivation for the crime, to steal $20 million when it was the day-to-day traffic of a family company? From scratch he built an enterprise that provided 400 jobs a year. What turnover, this company, is a billion dollars a year. The company also built 15 factories and elevators in 12 years. Please tell me, in 2014, when a $300-per-cent devaluation took place, when the Cabinet of Ministers was to be responsible, all such companies suffered losses, and the Bereskin family had to sell the enterprise itself, it was in distress that it turned out to be like many entrepreneurs in our country today. At that time, the company gave the whole region a third of GDP and budgetary development. Please tell me if Stanislaw Berezkin himself, without being the boss at that time for this company, could be a criminal. So the know-how treatment of legislation and events on the side of the NAB opens up a box of Pandoras. And by the same approach, you can judge completely all the shareholders who have been credited by the management companies and who issued them. And any restructuring or postponement is already an act of duty. The MP's will of the people is entirely for removing the MP's immunity from all MPs, without exception. We already have a draft decree signed by 158 deputies to remove the inviolability. Why is he not put to the vote today? Why are individual national MPs being persecuted today, politically persecuted, please say? At the same time, we will not support such absurd decisions. Thank you. Sergey Shahov, the political power of Our End.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-20-m0.u58	Thank you. I invite you to speak to the faction of Self-Help of the People's Deputy Yegor Sobolev.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-20-m0.u59	Self-help will vote in favour of depriving the national MP Bereskin of the MP's inviolability. Let me remind you that this is our position, and we suggest we do it to everyone. According to our decisions already made, Parliament can by one vote deprive the entire parliament of parliamentary immunity and by another vote adopt a law that will block automatically foreign passports and other possibilities for national MPs to escape the law. The Anti-Corruption Bureau and the Anti-Corruption Prosecutor's Office are supposed to investigate corruption primarily in the Supreme Council, in the President's Office, in the government, we created them for that purpose. Therefore, it is a great request to support this vote. And so we ask all voters to monitor what button every national MP will press. This vote is the answer to whether all are equal before the law, whether there are those who still want to be above the law. We think that the national MPs should be an example, the first to put before the law under any circumstances, to demonstrate to people, to demonstrate to society that the law is, indeed, one for all.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-20-m0.u60	Thank you. May I have a word with the People's Deputy Melniczuk Block, please?
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-20-m0.u61	Good afternoon, dear fellows! In fact, on the one hand, it's a very simple question that we're considering today, and on the other hand, it's interesting. I'll give you my opinion on this. You know, of course, every national MP, all the more if he came from entrepreneurs, all the more if his children, his parents, and so on, he has some kind of indirect responsibility for what they do, how they run the business and so on. I'll tell you what my point is. You understand, Mr. Bereskin, I see you're in the hall. Remember, when I was talking to you two years ago, because the voters came to me and asked me to decide with you the question that you should give them the money that the Creative Group took for the sunflower that was brought to you from Winnitsky, in the Odessa region, you didn't count with them. When I came up to you and said, Mr. Bereskin, please, human beings, and people were picking up this sunflower, giving it to you for processing, you reworked it, count it out to the people. You told me to let them go to court and let them defend their rights there. My personal opinion, Mr. Bereskin. Go to court, stand up for your rights there, feel in the skin of those with whom you have not counted and sent to court, perhaps you will not be so fashionable as to feel like a national deputy in this room. So that's my personal opinion. I call on my colleagues to vote in favour of the removal, for attracting criminal responsibility. I am not sure that there will be enough voices in this room, but I am confident that there is a God - given power in this world that forces those people to be held accountable for their actions sooner or later, in relation to others who are speaking unjustly. Thanks a lot, guys. I'll vote yes.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-20-m0.u62	Thank you for the faction's position. And please, from Fatherland, Sergey Vlasenko introduces the position of this political power. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-20-m0.u63	Dear colleagues, on the top of the board, we're looking at the submission, the reason the key reason for which lies in one seems to be a simple and understandable thing that we don't have to do, but which we're told from all screens, how good it is when politics is united with business, when politics is also a businessman when he, a politician, is making political decisions and he's making business decisions. Unfortunately, we have a country headed by a man who tells everyone that he has been a successful businessman for 20 years. I opened his workbook. A national deputy, head of the National Bank Board, who, by the way, was responsible for the stability of the Ukrainian currency. After that, the minister of foreign affairs in the government of Timoshenko, in the government that he is now so smitten. After that, the National Deputy, then the Minister of Economics in the government of Yanukovic. Something I didn't see there was a businessman, an outstanding businessman of modern times, Peter Alexiyovich Dustyenko. But for 20 years, a man has been combining business and politics, breaking down his own business. Today, he continues to do the same, earning income even in the official part. Take a look at the latest rating for Forbes and the growth of businessman tire politics, by the head of the Ukrainian state, Peter Prashenko. I'm not talking about the things that happen in the shadows anymore. And by the way, out of all the television screens that are controlled by Dusty, by the way, including NewsOne and 112, which are now controlled by Dusty, they're pouring into our ears, as well as when a businessman is a politician, and a politician is a businessman, when it's all connected in one person, and when it's unknown to distinguish these Siamese twins, when it's impossible to divide them into two parts, when he's parasitic at budget, he's pumping up his own assets when he's handing out drills to his own massagers, like Putin to the cellists, we're told that it's okay. This is completely insane. So we need to divide politics and business hard. Politicians do politics, businessmen do business. And that's not what you should talk about after you came to Parliament, you sat there for 20 years, and then you started telling me that you were going to sell your own business. We have to do what Julia Timoshenko did, who, before coming to Parliament, has left any business and is a pure politician for 20 years. So there's a reason, unfortunately, for all of these criminal behaviors that we're considering. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-20-m0.u64	From the Rebirth faction to the word, Bondar Victor is invited. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-20-m0.u65	Thank you, Your Honor Andre Volodymyrovich. Dear colleagues, I am not Mr. Bereskin's attorney and I am not a lawyer at all in this story. I believe that long ago there should be a question about the removal of the parliamentary immunity of all deputies. It has to be voted on, it will be an honest answer to society. For many years, it's said, but unfortunately, every time it's asked, and then every Council says that the next Council will come and remove this issue from the agenda, remove the parliamentary integrity, and all will become equal. Sadly, though, this question is never considered. At the same time, it would be necessary to take a decision to remove the inviolability of any representative of the state institutions, authorities, the President, the judiciary, to create temporary commissions of inquiry of the Supreme Council in order to be competent, to have mandatory decisions to implement, in order for their decisions to really affect the results and processes of the country. Because today's commission investigators, who are created by the Supreme Council, are unfortunately incompetent, only lead to speech, but unfortunately there are no results for their activities. As for Mr. Bereskin. I am a member of the regulatory committee, listening carefully to all the material. We talked to the factions. A very questionable story, a lot of questions. It doesn't make sense in this criminal matter. At that time, the company’s commercial circulation amounted to $1 billion 100 million a year. The company's profits were crazy. The company paid the banks only $240 million in loans and interest for one year. The question therefore arises: Why, in such a stable, fine financial situation, do some financial transactions and steal $20 million? It's a completely illogical story. So we think that's too many questions, and that's more like a commercial court between banks and a commercial structure. What's more, as far as I know, for several years now, Mr. Bereskin has had nothing to do with that company, they and the whole family have sold it to a great trader, which has a global scale and a level. So this question is more like some kind of political internal breakdown, or really the desire of the law enforcement system, as always, to suck someone up and create some kind of history. Therefore, we will not vote in favour of this decision, and we consider it not to be valid today, and it is impossible to maintain it in the hall. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-20-m0.u66	Thank you. From the Radical Party to the word Lazko Oleg Valeriyovich is invited.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-20-m0.u67	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Mr. Head, I'm addressing you. Three weeks ago, in Parliament, we registered a draft decree repealing the government's decision to increase gas prices and to give Ukrainian gas to Ukrainian citizens at a fair price. This decision cannot be considered by Parliament for three weeks, although we believe that this is the most pressing issue for millions of Ukrainian citizens today. In Theophilus, I was approached by Mrs. Maria, a 79 - year - old woman who receives a pension of 1 thousand 945 dollars, and she has not yet received a grant, motivated by the fact that this woman has a son who does not live with her. And the condition of giving a grant to this 80-year-old grandmother, a retired woman, is to get her own child out of the house, and they don't ask if there's any place to write that child. And so millions of Ukrainian families today are forced to divorce their parents with their children because they can't pay the space price for gas because they can't pay the rent, and the authorities are saying you want to get that damn subsidy -- divorce a woman or a man, write the kids out of the house to give you that grant, and Parliament is ignoring these pressing problems of people. That's why we're asking you to give a commission to the committee right away to consider a motion for a decision to abolish the government's decision to increase gas prices, to direct Ukrainian citizens' gas at a fair price, and to protect Ukrainian citizens from looting policy. Today, instead of freezing tariffs, authorities are actually freezing millions of Ukrainian citizens in the heating season, entire cities: Curve Rig, Pavlovgrad, Smila, Shepetovka, Herson, Sevierodonetsk, Zlote, Mountain in Lugansk, and dozens of other cities in Ukraine - entered the ice cream without heat. Naftogaz did not give millions of Ukrainians heat for one reason: they are guilty of money. The total amount of debt for gas in these cities is less than the amount of the premium that Naftogazu managers wrote down and put on offshore accounts. He's a mother in America, he's a woman in Liechtenstein, he's somewhere else. And the anti-corruption authorities see nothing to stop this corruption and abuse of Ukrainians when the authorities go into the pockets of every Ukrainian, every pensioner, doctor, teacher, worker, and get the last money for Naftogaz to pay his own space wages and bonuses. We demand that the government eliminate the Naftogazu government, the Supervisory Board, where most foreigners sneezed at the interests of the Ukrainians. We demand that the authorities cancel the decision to pay off the Naftogazu space premiums and return them to Ukraine from offshore accounts. We demand that the authorities cancel the decision to increase gas prices. Stop humiliating people and robbing them!
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-20-m0.u68	Thank you. Now, speak to the national MPs. Six minutes. Anyone who intends to make a statement, please hold the record. Six minutes from the National Deputies. Grandmaster Mikola Romanovich conveys the words of Lapin. Igor Lapin, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-20-m0.u69	Dear colleagues! Glory to Ukraine! [[B in m in s a l in]] Yeah, they're quietly saying, "Glory heroes!"but still. I ask everyone to unite around the vote for the submission. Well, there are several reasons, but the main ones are that each of us, when we went to the elections to Parliament, promised. I propose not to prolong this process, to go to the vote and to make a shorter presentation, because supporting submission is our sacred duty. Each citizen has the right to defend his or her interests in court himself. The issue of the evidence base is not being resolved today, nor do we have any right to decide, because we are not the bodies of the pretrial investigation. The only thing I would ask is the Attorney General's Office, except for the motions, although sometimes he would tell us about the success in the context of the punishments of the people's deputies, with which you came to Parliament. Because I don't see during this whole period any indictments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-20-m0.u70	Thank you. The next two MPs, Ptachnik and Ednak, pass the word to Kishkar. And that's actually going to be a closing statement, because you're merging two performances. Turn on the microphone, Kishkar, in six minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-20-m0.u71	Thank you, Mr. Head. In fact, my speech is closely related to what I said on the committee, which is actually a repetition of the appeal to the Attorney General's Office to abandon its selectivity in the investigation of cases. Society demands justice. Yes, the ideal one cannot be achieved, considering objective and objective reasons. I was talking about the fact that the House of Accounts issued a two - celled corruption in the Ministry of Defense. Instead, the Attorney General’s Office did not respond in any way to the results of the material transferred, nor did the criminal proceedings. We are talking about the fact that the murder of Viacheslav Maximovich Crnovola as the foundation of the disaster that occurred in Ukraine just after his death is not being investigated. We have demanded and will demand that we continue to investigate the murder of a real hero of Ukraine, Viacheslav Maximovich Crnovola, and that the perpetrators be held accountable. We understand that finding customers in this matter will be difficult enough. A series of killings requiring the investigation and attention of the Attorney General's Office and the procedural leaders in these matters, namely, the murder of Sergey Lichman, then the official representative of the candidate for President Peter Prashenko, the murder of my assistant Gennady Tsukanova, the murder of lawyer Jaroslav Babic, the murder of former mayor Mirrod Vasil Tretsky, who left Mirrod in his Ukrainian position in peace, allowed all the Ukrainian forces to unite in the city. The whole series, 26, appears to have been attacked by activists in Odessa. We realize that Truhanov’s authority is advantageous in cutting up future presidential elections, but stop, and we cannot talk about justice in the future with the blood of those who are ready for change. There will be no justice until the law is observed. We have voted and will vote in favour of removing the parliamentary immunity, giving you the opportunity to investigate such criminal cases in which you see reasons for being held accountable by the national deputies, but there are also distribution issues, such as ineffective licensing for gas production, when the Poltava District Council or the Kharkiv District Council of the evenings meet, vote and licenses to unknown companies without a specific composition and without an engineering unit, without technology, without money, without an auction. If Paul Fuchs is behind this, if appropriate measures have been taken and there has been some corruption before such district councils have made a decision, take care of yourself. It's a public question, it's much more important in terms of restoring people's trust in power than in bringing people to justice for a stolen chicken or a bag of millet. No one believes, but without a return of trust, we will not rebuild the state. We're handing over criminal theft materials to state banks, especially the Ukreximbank, one of the national MPs, over 320 million dollars have been stolen. No procedural action has been carried out for years. Yuri Vitaliyovich, I'm calling your attention, the trial manager, John Holt, he or he's Stankevich, he has to follow the Criminal Procedure Code. Please do what you have to do to make sure that the investigation and recovery of Ukreximbank is largely done. With respect and support from the Attorney General's Office. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-20-m0.u72	Thank you. Thus, the speeches by the national deputies have been completed. And now we have three minutes to conclude: Attorney General Yuri Vitaliyovich Lucenko, then Berezhkin Stanislav Semenovich, then Paul. No, yes. So, two closing words, colleagues. In five minutes, we'll move on to the vote. I'm asking everyone to come to the hall. In five minutes, we'll be moving on to make a decision. Please, Lucenko Yuri Vitaliovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-20-m0.u73	Ladies and gentlemen, during the discussion, I was approached by many national deputies who doubt what decision should be taken now. In this regard, I would like to tell you the following. By simplifying the matter to generally understandable facts, the bank’s loan was obtained by a company that was formally and informally managed by a national deputy under a counterfeit mortgage of $20 million, passing through offshore jurisdiction, to purchase a factory whose beneficiaries are the son and daughter of a national deputy. I would like to draw your attention to the widely distributed material of the distinguished National MP, where he writes: "In 2015, Stanislaw Berezhkin and his family came out of the company's "Creative". All of the company's debts remained company by company." So in a bank, there's a hole in 20 million dollars, in a people's MP's family, a factory for 20 million dollars. Tell me, do you really think it's normal, and you can't take off the touchiness to give it a legal evaluation? I believe that it is necessary to remove inviolability and legally, objectively, to make a decision about the degree of responsibility. Of course, I hear the voice of the chairman of the regulatory committee saying, "No, you can't vote, because there's no written instructions on looting and laundering from the national MP." I don't know when a man who orders a murder orders it in writing. I don't know of a case where a person who wants to rob a government bank or a commercial bank writes about it in writing. Let's not make a bad game in a very bad case. It is the looting of the funds of the state bank, which resulted in the same enrichment of the national MP’s family. It seems to me that in this case a simple thing needs to be done. The law is one for all -- both for the employees of the bank, and for the agrohölding employees, and for the people's MP, who was probably the organizer of this money-sharing and asset-assessing in the Odessa region. Let's all put on one board, without parliamentary immunity, that's all I'm asking of you. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-20-m0.u74	Thank you. Colleagues, I'd like everyone to come to the hall. There will be a vote in three minutes. And the closing statement is invited by the Ukrainian national deputy, Berezkin Stanislav Semenović, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-20-m0.u75	My colleagues, once again, I want to say that the money that was taken, they went into the country, into the company and into the account, and into that bank where they went. Yuri Vitaliyovich, if you take two cabbages, cut them and throw them in a barrel, how can you split them? When the money came in all in the same account, how could it be divided? Our family, my colleagues are not to blame. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-20-m0.u76	Thank you, colleagues. So the discussion is over. And we're moving on to making a decision. I'm asking everyone to take up jobs. And I want to remind you that we're going to have three votes. The first is to give consent to criminal liability. The second is about granting a stay. And the third is to agree to the election of the Ukrainian National Deputy of Security in the form of security custody. Each vote will be put separately in the sequence that I have just heard. So we move on to making decisions, colleagues. Everyone please take up their jobs. In accordance with article 80 of the Constitution of Ukraine, part of article 221 of the Ukrainian Act on the Rules of Procedure of the Supreme Council of Ukraine puts to the vote the issue of consenting to the criminal responsibility of the Ukrainian national deputy, Berezkin Stanislav Semenović. People's deputies, please vote. Please take part in the vote. So we vote! [[11:48:37]] For-160. Please show by factions. Peter Poshenko Block – 70, People's Front – 43, Opposition Block – 0, Self-help – 16, Radical Party – 2, Fatherland – 7, Will of the People – 0, Rebirth Party – 0. Next. In accordance with article 80 of the Constitution, I am putting the matter to the vote. [[B in m in s a l in]] Oh, we can't. Yeah, yeah. In fact, one vote is held. And so I inform the Attorney General of Ukraine that the submission to the Supreme Council of Ukraine was not supported in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Colleagues, we have the next block, which is the inclusion in the agenda of the day session. We'll be there in 12 hours. And I'm going to be in this sequence, which is in the order of the day, and you have all the copies, in this sequence I'm going to put to the vote. So first. It is proposed to vote in favour of the inclusion in the agenda of the project’s Day Session of Remembrance and Jubilee Regulations in 2019 (No. 9234). Please vote and please support. Vote. Please be supportive. [[11:50:21]] For-170. Next. Draft Act amending Appendix No. 3 of the Ukrainian Act on the State Budget for Ukraine for 2018 (No. 9241). Please vote, please support. [[11:50:47]] For-162 Next. Draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act "On Ukraine's State Budget for 2018" (9151). Please vote, please support. [[11:51:22]] For-163 The decision is not taken. Colleagues, 9122: Draft Law amending certain Ukrainian legislation on the procurement of goods, jobs and services for defence purposes, 9122. Please vote and please support. [[11:51:57]] For a hundred and The decision is not taken. Next. Draft Act amending certain Ukrainian laws on the protection of information space (9275). Please vote, please support the inclusion in the agenda of the session. Vote. [[11:52:26]] For-153 The decision is not taken. Next. 8339: Draft Act amending the Ukrainian National Police Act. Include in the agenda of the day session. Please vote, please support. [[11:52:56]] For-140. The decision is not taken. Next. It is proposed to include in the agenda of the day’s session the draft Law on Freedom of Movement and Freedom of Circumstances in Ukraine (No. 9218). Include in the agenda of the day session. Please vote, please support. [[11:53:30.]] For-125 Colleagues, the decision is not made. And pay attention! I'll have everyone's attention in the hall. Now we have a review of the block of agrarian politics. The head of the agrarian committee came up with a legitimate question of what is the high risk that the issues might fail. So I'm going to ask the first question about the rating vote. The first question is, it's from the Euro integration block. And, colleagues, I have a request from you, to all those in the hall, to all the patriots. If, colleagues, we see that the rating vote does not provide sufficient support for the laws of the agrarian policy bloc, let's go through two laws of decommunization today, renaming areas. Let's think about it and make a state decision, colleagues. Let's really think about it, because we can't put them at risk, but today we would have a chance, a big chance, this is an hourly discussion. I know, let's think about it, I'm not talking anymore. Think about it, there might be no more chance, because all the weeks are so full all the time. The question of decommunization is already a few Thursdays in a row, and we don't come all the time. That's two hours of debate. I'm asking you to speak up, think about it. If the issue of agrarian politics doesn't go away, maybe we can focus today. Well, it's a question exactly beyond any political debate. This is a renaming of two areas. So I'm asking, when there's a break, just to have a debate, just to have a debate. And now I'm putting, colleagues, on the rating vote, the first law in the agrarian policy box is a bill for objects and materials that contact food. It's a Euro-Integration Law. It's a law from the contract execution block. I'm sure the entire Euro Integration Committee is here and now we're going to support the rating vote together. Please vote, please support. Vote, rating vote. [[11:55:55]] For 178. During the break, we will discuss how to proceed. Now I want two. First. Statement made to the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Paris, by the national deputy, Parasuk Volodymyr. The statement that he's asking to count his "yes" vote in favour of Bill 6598. I publicly announce this, Parasuk Volodymyr's position. And I want to point out that there have been two statements from two factions to announce the break, but the break they're willing to switch to the performance, it's from the Peter Prashenko and Self-Help factions, yes. And I invite you to speak to Irina Heratchenko. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-20-m0.u77	Thank you, Your Honor. You know, there's a lot to criticize today's Supreme Council of Ukraine, including essentially failed by all factions and groups of electoral promises to lift and undo parliamentary intrusiveness. And that will have to be done in front of the voters in a year. But there are certain successes that I would like to say about today. First of all, we have this Supreme Council that for the first time outside -- international delegations speak in one voice. I just got back from Halifax, where the session of the NATO Parliamentary Assembly took place, and our delegation is now on its way back. I want to thank you very much for the active and joint work of all the factions in this delegation, and this assembly has been extremely successful for Ukraine. First of all, we have succeeded in achieving that, already in 2020, the NATO Parliamentary Assembly will hold for the first time in Ukraine, honourable colleagues. And step by step together, we are approaching our strategic goal of NATO membership. Second, let me give you all a big welcome from our friend, Russ Yuknyavisen, who was the first chairman of the Assembly. And at the invitation of President Dustenk, she and the speaker visited Donbas. And her testimony to that humanitarian disaster that Russia had done on Donbas was extremely important during the assembly. The Ukrainian delegation together managed to amend several important resolutions, including the amendments relating to the militarization of Crimea and the Azov Sea, according to the report "Prevention of Hybrid Threats of the Russian Federation". We've also made all the amendments concerning North Stream-2, the opposition to this political project Putin, and we've called on our partners to include not only economic but also energy sanctions against the Russian Federation. We have been able to make amendments to the status of the territories of Georgia and Ukraine occupied by Russia, as well as to strengthen the NATO forces of deterrence in the east, where we call for increased presence of the Alliance in the Baltic and Black Sea regions. We have provided our partners with several reports for which we would like to thank the Ukrainian Security Service and the non-governmental sector. In particular, InformNapalm, which provided information about the grouping of Wagner, a Russian mercenary who also uses fighters not only in Donbasa but also in Syria. And it is very important, colleagues, that we see the unanimity of Ukraine's position in the NATO Parliamentary Assembly as to the need to give not only the prospect of membership, but the membership of Ukraine in the Alliance. That's why we're working on it. And also, colleagues, I want to point out that this is Madeline Moon, a socialist from Britain, who was reelected as head of the Assembly. And that just shows that today the issue of gender equality in the power structures is gaining special strength. We're in.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-20-m0.u78	30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-20-m0.u79	We took an active part in the debate on "Women, Peace, Security," where we informed our colleagues of the outstanding role that Ukrainian women in both the army and other social and political spheres play in restoring peace and restoring territorial integrity, and the sovereignty of Ukraine. And we also invited the newly elected Head of Assembly Madeline Moon to participate in the second women's convention, which will be held in Ukraine from 7 to 8 December.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-20-m0.u80	Thank you. And, colleagues, I would like to make another report that on November 20, 2018, the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Health Care, together with the International Diabetes Association of Ukraine, is conducting a day in the Supreme Council of Ukraine for the prevention of diabetes, with the aim of drawing the attention of State officials to the issue of combating this serious non-infectious disease. And as part of the event, there are measures to promote early diagnosis and prevention of diabetes, such as professional counselling and testing of both national MPs and employees. And I invite everyone to take part in this action in the walls of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. And now I'm going to call it a 30-minute break. And at 12:30, I ask everyone to come to the hall to continue our work.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-20-m0.u81	Dear colleagues, please come into the hall. Time spent for a break is over. Everyone please take up their jobs. I'd like to inform you, colleagues, that there's been a statement from two factions about the break, and I'll give you my word. But before that, I'll make an announcement and a message. So the announcement. In accordance with article 13 of the Ukrainian Law "On the Status of the People's Deputy of Ukraine" and article 60 of the Ukrainian Law "On the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine" I report that the opposition bloc in the Supreme Council of Ukraine has been expelled from the parliamentary faction of the political party "The Opposition Block" on the eighth call of Ukrainian national deputies Boyk Yuri Anatoliyovich and Ljovčina Sergija Volodymirovich. And, colleagues, I would like to inform you that two factions are on the intermission of the People's Front and the Radical Party. Ready to replace both factions with a break for the performance. And the word from two factions is Sergey the High. Three minutes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-20-m0.u82	Thank you, Andry Volodymyrovich. Thank you, Your Honor. And, honourable Ukrainian citizens, yesterday the Ecumenical Patriarch Bartholomew confirmed that by the end of the year, a canonic Ukrainian Orthodox Church would be established in Ukraine. I think you can welcome this news with applause, colleagues. [[Applause]] Thank you. Dear colleagues, when you, as a member of the eighth vocation, first made a call to the patriarch for auto-Cefalia to the Ukrainian Church, many did not believe that our appeal could be a reality. We, the president of Ukraine, who has worked hard on this issue, have been accused and accused of interfering with religious matters. We are accused of being involved in the matter of Ukrainian interest. This Russian propaganda brain virus is being absorbed into Ukrainian minds by all the pro-Russian media associated with Putin’s godfather, and all the so - called public figures involved in the same man by accident. By the way, somehow these media aren't still under sanctions, although you and I, colleagues, voted in favour of that decision. It is Russia, not Ukraine, that is holding meetings of Radbez on the issue of the Ukrainian church issue. It is the deputies of the State of Russia who call on the Turkish authorities to influence Patriarch Warfolomy in relation to the Ukrainian independent church, even considering acts of Constantinople since 1686. It was Russia that engaged the entire government car and its entire agency to halt the progress of Ukrainian spiritual independence. We can't do that without being honored by the "Moscow wolves." You're not gonna get away with this. Ukraine was and will be a place of freedom of conscience and freedom of religion. But when it comes to Russian interference in our Ukrainian affairs, the state must act decisively. From the rostrum of Parliament, we require Ukrainian law enforcement and Ukrainian protection services for those bishops and priests of the Moscow Patriarchate who will decide to join the unification council and join the ranks of the Ukrainian independent church. I and many of our fellow MPs know that these people are being threatened. And they are threatening not only spiritual matters and matters of their lack of church membership but also physical threats to their physical safety. The congregation must pass in the spirit of Christian love and freedom of choice, for freedom of choice is the cornerstone of all Christianity, a freedom of choice unknown to the Romans. Thank you, colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-20-m0.u83	Thank you, Mr. Sergei, for your position. I would like to remind you that Sergey Visatsky was one of the initiators of our first submission and letter to the Space Patriarch, and he raised an extremely important question: How could we have come to the point that in Ukraine they were threatening those priests who were planning to join the Ukrainian local auto-kephal church? It's hard to imagine in any civilized state threatening the priests for their desire to be in the Ukrainian Church. That is why I fully support this position, and I am confident that the law-enforcement authorities will protect those priests who, by heart, are supporting the Ukrainian Orthodox Auto-Cefal Church. Colleagues, I would also like to report that when we voted in favour of the prosecution of Bereskin, Stephen Barney's card didn't work. And I'm now reporting in public that he voted in favour, just that Barney didn't have a card. And, colleagues, after negotiating with the head of the agrarian committee, he asked to move the entire block of agrarian issues. It's very sad and painful, but we understand that we can put each of these issues at risk, and among them, the questions that are important for European integration. And I don't think anyone in the room will mind us moving the block to another day. But, at the same time, colleagues, I say, at 16 o'clock today, we have the issue of decommunization: renaming the areas of Kirovograd and Dnipropetrovsk. I firmly believe that all factions will delay any political differences, and we will be able to unite around these issues. I, colleagues, honestly tell you, I'm not sure if we can do this, we're not coming to them in the morning for the third week, as I've been saying. I'm asking you to debate inside the factions and support after lunch the issue of decommunization. Now we have the next one. After the agrarian policy bloc, there is a bill amending the Ukrainian Law on Urban Control (for transmission, termination or temporary suspension of powers of State architectural and construction authorities) (7266/1). And I, my colleagues, am the first to put to the vote the proposal to consider it with a reduced procedure. Anyone who supports the reduced procedure, please vote. Vote. [[12:47:21]] For 106 The decision is not taken. Let's move on to the full procedure. And so, colleagues, we're starting our consideration of draft Law 7266-1. And I invite you to the report of the Ukrainian National Deputy Kryosha Hennady Grigorovich. Mr. Hennaday, I invite you to the report, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-20-m0.u84	Good afternoon, dear colleagues. Gennady Krivoshia, faction of the People's Front. I've registered a bill amending the Ukrainian Law on Urban Control (on transfer, termination or temporary suspension of the powers of the State Architectural and Construction Authorities). On the basis of the need to adopt an act, I would like to remind you that, on 9 April 2015, in accordance with the Ukrainian Law on Change to Certain Legislative Acts on the Decentralisation of Powers in the Field of Architecture and the Improvement of Urban Legislation, there is a process of decentralization of the public administration system and the transfer of powers from the central executive authority, which implements public policy on matters of State architectural and building control and supervision, to implementing bodies on matters of state architecture and construction control in rural, rural and urban councils. However, based on the analysis over the last few years, we can conclude that not all of the newly created state-owned architectural and building authorities have adequately provided appropriate administrative services in the area of construction, are carrying out measures of state-made architectural and building control, which are responsible for the emergence of self-sustaining buildings, conflict situations, and, in particular, a considerable number of citizens' complaints, as well as ownership entities. If we take the moment of registration of the bill, then according to the same architectural and building inspection of the state at this time. By then, 87 executive bodies had been appointed. Today, this number is, if I'm not mistaken, about a hundred state-owned locals, a hundred state-owned local authorities of state-owned architectural and building control have been created. However, as of September 2015, about one hundred and fifty inspections have been carried out that have revealed that not all have complied with the requirements of implementing bodies, such as the field of transfer, the granting of State architectural and building control in rural, rural and urban councils. These powers do not fully meet the requirements of the legislation that we have voted on here in Parliament in terms of decentralization, and they significantly violate the rules on the construction of certain territories. According to the results of the tests, at least one hundred violations were detected at the beginning of 2018, with 72 prescriptions issued. And worst of all, it's the fact that the prescriptions are just to remedy the violations, most of all, that only four local self-governments have made the right decisions to address those shortcomings. Sadly, other authorities have not been objective enough to respond responsibly to their work. And so the observations remained outside and in fact the problems of breaking the law, which concerned the regulation of urban activity in one or more local governments, and remained virtually unfulfilled. What does this indicate? First of all, it shows that there's a low level of expertise in places, and that's actually a big problem. This was not included by me as the legislator when we voted in favour of the bill. However, I understand that this issue needs to be addressed and orderly, including that it does not lead to so-called potential corruption risks, particularly those related to the local authorities of State architectural and construction inspections. According to part of article 2 of the Ukrainian Law on Local Self-Government, local self-government in Ukraine is guaranteed by the State the right and the real capacity of the territorial community, the inhabitants of the village or the voluntary unification into the rural community of several villages, villages and cities, either under the responsibility of the authorities, officials of local self-government, to resolve matters of local importance within the framework of the Constitution and the laws of Ukraine. However, as we can see, the practice of amending this bill in terms of decentralization itself is evidenced, some of the newly created bodies today are not capable, and some of them do not even want to carry out the authority in the area of urban activity and architectural and building control. So at my suggestion, and my, by the way, the bill is an alternative, the author of the basic bill has withdrawn his bill, and so it is necessary to provide for the legal mechanisms for temporary suspension of powers in order for it to be possible. It's a matter of civil engineering. Building. architectural and building control in rural, rural, urban councils in the area of urban activities. In addition to the long-standing process of decentralization of archbud control powers, it is necessary to regulate the procedure and to consider applications for the creation of a joint commission for the transfer of relevant documentation and the resolution of issues related to the formation and functioning of the architectural and building control body. In the end, I would like to add that in the last six months, substantial changes have been made by the State Architectural Inspectorate in order to focus first on the possible and actual corruption that, unfortunately, is still in place in the remains, there is an Internet portal called the DABI Transparent, which clearly highlights all the materials that are needed, all the documents submitted by the owners. Today, it is the orderly builders who can trace the procedure of submission, refusal, observation -- everything electronically, which in turn stops this one, maximizes business contact with the State Architectural Inspectorate. Sadly, however, there are still corruptions in some areas. And so, I think if we vote on the bill in the first reading, which I would like to stress, that was the requirement and representatives of the Self-Help faction, we'll give some impetus and we'll be able to show everyone that we're going to continue and we're going to put the risk under. In fact, complete the procedure for a potentially corrupt system somewhere in the area of urban activity. Finally, I would like to say that, in principle, this bill was partly supported and by the Association of Ukrainian Cities with one comment, which I have just said, which we plan to take into account in the second reading. Therefore, it is a great request that all the deputies meet in the hall and vote on the bill in the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-20-m0.u85	Thank you. Please remain in the rostrum, Reverend Mr. Kryvoshia, your honor. Guys, I'm asking you to sign up for the bill. We're going in full procedure and now we have three minutes to ask Mr. Hennady for answers. Please, Mr. Kurilo, your question.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-20-m0.u86	Please pass the word to Andreyev.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-20-m0.u87	Please turn on Mr. Andreyev's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-20-m0.u88	Thank you. Dear colleagues, this bill is finalizing the legislative reform of the architectural and building inspection, the reform of the DABI organs, and we cannot help but welcome today the efforts that are being reported today to bring about the system in the permit documentation in construction. And here I would like to hear a meaningful report right now, and there's an answer to the question that the drafter of the bill sees the impact of this law on the order, on the fight against the corruption risks that. Unfortunately, we are still witnessing such risks. So how is this bill going to have an impact on risk reduction and order, on the effort to support the efforts that we have today at the central level of the State Architectural Inspection? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-20-m0.u89	Please, your answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-20-m0.u90	Thank you. Well, first of all, I've already said about the potential corruption risks that exist today in places. In fact, we didn't take this issue into account when we voted back in the 15th year, and the problem is that at least I can't be a national MP today. In fact, let's say that I can go to the State Architectural Inspection, and any one of you can turn. To date, however, architectural and building inspection does not even have the authority to verify whether or not to stop an illegal document of an arbitrary nature that appears in places. That's a pretty big problem, because today there are moments when these documents are published on the spot and they don't match the general plan. And there are cities that even today, unfortunately, have not approved master plans. I mean, actually, there's a clear violation of the Ukrainian City Activity Regulation Act in general. So again, I'm focusing on this fact, and this is the same issue that I'm focusing on in this bill. I think so.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-20-m0.u91	Please finish 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-20-m0.u92	I think that the State Architectural Inspection, which has introduced a transparent DABI today and is very active in initiating this at the level of local authorities, and I know that quite a number of cities are already joining, but there are cities like these that don't want to join this issue. Because in fact, it seriously makes it impossible for certain corruption elements there. At the same time, there is still a situation where some city authorities and local authorities generally refuse to accept these powers.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-20-m0.u93	Thank you. Next question, please, Ostap Ednak, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-20-m0.u94	Mr. Reporter, I've never personally encountered a State Architectural Inspectorate directly. But in the media's information, there's this notion that it's a pretty inefficient, corrupt structure. And from what I understand, we have in the concept of decentralization reform, the idea is to delegate these powers to places. But if a local authority, an authority of local self - government, is unable or unable to do so, should it not just identify or delegate these powers to or to more capable communities, or to district centres where such expertise is, in particular? What does this law foretell? Does he foresee that local self - government should determine this? And the second question. Surveillance. That is, we now have the rule of law, in principle, absent from the unified territorial communities as a failure in legislation. We want to hang it on the DAB or what's the concept here anyway? Explain, please, according to your bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-20-m0.u95	Well, first of all, from what you've said today, the local authorities already have that kind of authority. So today, they can fully use their decisions to create appropriate local authorities, train specialists, conduct proper personnel preparation in the State Architecture and Building Inspection and start working. I mean, in principle, most of them work. However, there are many, many, many cities that are now giving up these powers in general. There are several reasons for this. First of all, the lack of qualified personnel there, second of all, they understand the possible corrupt component that is there today in other neighboring cities there or in areas, and that's probably what scares them. However, when we voted in the 15th year on the Decentralization Act, we didn't take into account the fact that, if there is no other place in which an organ is created, the central body of the State Architectural Inspection cannot perform their functions today. So the questions that relate to common questions, such as SS1 (this is just a house and a house), people can't look if they don't have this local organ, they can't look back.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-20-m0.u96	30 seconds to complete.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-20-m0.u97	They can't go to another, that is, the central authority, and it's still in fact where the cut -- a year or two people can't actually lead their own (and that's 80 percent of the citizens' appeals for today's statistics, 80 percent of their claims), they can't do their construction. Regarding the second problem you mentioned, there is actually such a problem, we discussed it at the meeting with the Association of Cities, so I suggested that we vote in the first reading so that we could take those comments that we have into account in the second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-20-m0.u98	Thank you. Thank you, Sir Hennadia. Go back to your workplace, please. And I invite you to report to the First Vice-Chairman of the Committee on Construction of Andrey's Dmitri. Please, Mr. Dmitre, give me your word.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-20-m0.u99	Dear colleagues, you have before you a bill to amend the Ukrainian Law on the regulation of urban activities (for the transfer, termination or temporary suspension of the powers of the architectural and building authorities), Bill No. 7266-1, introduced by the National Deputy of Ukraine Krivoshei Hennady Grigorovich. The aim of the project is to develop a legal mechanism for the transfer, suspension and temporary suspension of the powers of executive bodies on the issues of state architecture and building control of rural, rural and urban councils. What I want to say is that between 1 September 2015 and 1 October 2018, about 100 local self-government authorities, 21 of them local self-government authorities, have started to exercise authority in the field of state-owned architectural and building control. To date, five local authorities have reported that it is not appropriate to create their own organs, such as the territorial communities of Poltava, Berdjansk, Jaremce, and the village of the townlike Twins. There is also the appeal of some authorities of local self - government regarding the cessation of existing powers. According to the State Building Inspectorate, there is a high rate of violations by local authorities of State architectural and building control during their activities. This is primarily due to limited human resources in the regions concerned. Occasionally, there are situations where in a local body of architectural and building control as a result of either dismissal or detention for corruption, unfortunately, such cases are not unique. The provisions of Law 7266-1 provide for mechanisms: the transfer of powers; the termination of powers shall be effected solely on the basis of a statement made by the relevant local government authority; the temporary suspension of powers shall also take place on the basis of a statement of local self-government. In the event of a suspension or temporary suspension of the powers of the respective territorial authorities, the State Architectural Building Inspectorate of Ukraine exercises such authority. In view of the appeal made by the local authorities, following a re-examination of the committee and discussion, the committee adopted a decision on the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on the Regulation of Urban Activities (for transmission, termination and temporary suspension of powers of the State Architectural Building Control authorities) (Registration No. 7266-1), as a result of its consideration in the first reading, to be adopted on the basis of the exclusion of paragraphs 16, 19, 24, paragraph 2, paragraph 2, of part 6 and part 8, of article 41. This point, I would like to point out, honourable colleagues, was the procedure for temporarily suspending the powers of local self-government authorities to exercise their powers of architectural and building control over the submission of the Chief Construction Supervisor, which, according to local self-government authorities, poses a threat and interference with their authorization. Thus, if this paragraph is excluded, the bill provides for the termination of the authority of the local archbud control authority only after the decision of the local self-government authority, which has requested appropriate powers. The proposed draft is also supported by the Association of Ukrainian Cities, with which we conducted serious and thorough consultations. The draft decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is added to this issue. So, honourable colleagues, please support Bill 7266-1 as drafted by the committee and accept it in the first reading on the basis of the proposal I made under the transcript. Once again, dear colleagues, I would like to point out to you that it is vital for us today to abolish this legal vacuum, which unfortunately is formed when the newly created organs, the organs that have created local self-government, are unable or unwilling to exercise appropriate powers. If there is such an appeal at the level of the state today, the authorities of the Central Architectural Inspection, the DABI of Ukraine, cannot exercise authority in the respective territories. And as a result, people are limited in their rights: they can't even get a building permit by category, for example, SS-1, or enter private buildings into operation, because the authorities of the state's appropriate building inspection in this area don't work. I am sure that the members of the Supreme Council will intervene in this situation, and we will support this bill in the first reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-20-m0.u100	Thank you. Colleagues, please sign up for Mr. Andrewsky's question. Please, Opanasenko, your question. Please give Ostrich a word. Turn on the microphone. Mrs. Ostrika's microphone, turn it on. I'm asking Mrs. Ostrov to turn on the microphone. Please. I'd like to ask the Secretariat to turn on the microphone. It's all there is.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-20-m0.u101	Good afternoon, dear fellows! I have another question for the honourable reporter. We're hearing from entrepreneurs and we're reading in the media that the State Architectural Construction Inspectorate has now introduced a number of services that fully, electronic services that are killing corruption completely when they go through documents about obtaining permits or putting into service. In particular, I'm talking about an electronic platform called Transparent State Architectural Building Inspection, and we see it at the level of the central executive authority. The bill now mentions DABI, which refers to local governments. I have this question: do they also implement this platform? Will this corruption also be overcome through a transparent system where you can trace your documents and who is blocking them? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-20-m0.u102	Please, your answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-20-m0.u103	Thank you, Mrs. Tetjana, for asking. Indeed, this bill, it completes the legislative provision and reform of State Architectural Inspection. Indeed, for a month now, the very powerful DABI Transparent system has been operating, allowing real-time monitoring of document passages and, in terms of both architectural and building inspection, and the developers of this platform, significantly reduces corruption risks. Today, there is work to be done for the newly created organs to join this system. Under the chairmanship of Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine Hennady Georgiyovich Zubka, an appropriate meeting was held. And at the end of the year, the summary will be given to see which newly created organs have joined this system. I'm sure the adoption of the law that we're considering with you today will give us an opportunity to get additional weights to combat the corruption risks that unfortunately are still in place.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-20-m0.u104	Please, the next question is Yuri Lewchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-20-m0.u105	Lewchenko, Freedom, 223 District, Kiev City. You know, first of all, we're going to vote for this law because it has a lot of positives. But unfortunately, he's getting away with what I think is a major benefit. And that's exactly what I'd like to talk to you about. The departments of architectural and building control on the ground are totally corrupt. I'm going to speak as a Kiev Mayor, and I'm going to argue right now, here in Parliament, on the other hand, I'm going to argue that the DOBK of the Kiev City Public Administration is a total seed of corruption. There's absolutely nothing going on. There is no reaction to the appeal of the national deputies. There are no inspections, there are no prescriptions, there are no reactions to citizens, and there are builders. So, you suggest, the committee proposes to remove from the first edition of this bill, right, to remove the possibility of taking it away from the DABK if they do not perform their functions, by force. You're proposing to clean it up. So I have a question for you as head of the committee: if you're taking this from this bill, what alternative are you proposing to give anyway?
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-20-m0.u106	30 seconds to complete.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-20-m0.u107	What alternative do you propose to make it possible to bring the local DACs into line with the architectural and building control departments? Because now there is no such legal mechanism in nature. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-20-m0.u108	Please, your answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-20-m0.u109	Thank you for asking, Mr. Yuri. Thank you for your principled stand that you have constantly in the fight against corruption, which, unfortunately, still has a place today. What I'd like to say is that the powers to fight corruption are primarily placed on law enforcement agencies, the task of MPs is to create legislation that will reduce and prevent the relevant corruption in the legislation that we are dealing with. That's the first one. The other one. Of course, we came out of the fact that we should consider the maximum position of the local authorities. We count and view local self-government as our trusted partners and in implementing architectural and building reforms, and improving and simplifying the granting of appropriate permits. Therefore, on that very point, it was decided that the position of the Association of Ukrainian Cities should be taken into account. Can I have 30 seconds?
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-20-m0.u110	Please finish 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-20-m0.u111	To take into account the position of local self-government authorities, to allow them to join the DABI Transparent system. I've already answered the questions and I've informed you that this system actually makes it impossible to manipulate any kind of arbitrary documentation, allowing real time to track down the passage of a document, get the right permissions and get the right documents. So once again, thank you for your understanding, thank you for your support. We rely on our colleagues from local governments as our partners first. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-20-m0.u112	Thank you. Please return to your workplace. Dear colleagues, I ask you to sign up for this bill now from MPs and factions. And we have representatives of the government's profile department present, and I think after the discussion we'll give the floor, no one will object to joining the debate on the bill. Mr. Alexia, we will give you our word after the debates between the factions and the deputies. Please, Your Honor, I give the floor to Alona Babak, who represents the position of the Self-Help faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-20-m0.u113	Honorable National Deputies, distinguished Ukrainians! Let's start with a little bit of history when we started decentralization of powers in the area of state architecture and building control, actually in September 2015. We've all talked to you about how wonderful it is that we're actually transferring administrative functions to the community level to bring the entire set of functions that citizens at the local level need, actually, to them in their communities. And we've allowed every local self-government body with 50,000 people to create a body of architectural and building control to accept applications from people for the start of construction, to put objects into use. Now we're talking about the local princes usurping power, putting off crazy sums, not doing theirs. It's for me to register these documents. That they don't respond to people's appeals today, and that we need to give these authorities in fact now local self-governance for their own willingness to write a statement and say6 we're giving up delegated powers. Dear colleagues, first of all, this will be a precedent, a precedent in Ukrainian law when a delegated mandate in a single order is passed on by the community to the state level. So it's not a contractual "state and community" relationship, it's when the local government itself says, "I can't do it, take it back." Please tell me, what other delegated powers are in Ukrainian local self - government from the State? It's medicine, it's education. What do we do then? We're opening up Pandora's box and we're saying there's going to be a situation now that the village, the village, the OTG will start saying that it's not dealing with duties, it doesn't have specialists, it doesn't have infrastructure, I'm giving delegated powers back to the state. Your Honor, you can't do this. With all due respect to Mr. Kudrivacev, who, in fact, is facing the entire opposition to corruption in the DABI system today, you can't play with the legislation that relates to delegating powers from the state to the local level, try to somehow play back through the DABI standards. So, of course, we need to change processes, we need to raise responsibility at the local level, but we can't do that when we first give authority, and in one area -- archbud control -- we say, and now the communities can refuse. Why did this start? To bring government functions closer to the citizen. And now we say, "You can't do it, you can go back to the state." Therefore, the Self-Help Association believes that the system of delegates cannot be destroyed.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-20-m0.u114	Please finish 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-20-m0.u115	And this is the law that we can support in this way, in this ideology we can't.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-20-m0.u116	Please give the next speech, Mrs. Novak, Natalia Novak.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-20-m0.u117	Ladies and gentlemen, today the issue of construction is very important at all levels, both at the state level and especially at the local level. We see what disorder is happening today in the area of construction, how communities are affected. We can see that today this has not just turned into a legislative one. It's happening in the legislative plane, it's already gone into the area of crime, into the area of fighting, into the area of dealing with activists who are trying to defend their rights. As far as this law is concerned, I think it can only be viewed as a transitional. Why? Because, first of all, the same branch, as it were, can't be governed by different principles: on the one hand, there's a control body of government, on the other hand, the same issues are solved at the local level. It's absolutely legally illiterate and wrong. But given that we've delegated authority to the local authorities, they make their own decisions and they control themselves -- that's also wrong. Today, many have failed to deal with this issue. And, indeed, without the possibility of today being excluded, you can pass it on to the central authorities, but you have to prepare a new law where the organs are. where authorizations are permitted and authorizations are divided. For example, local authorities can take certain objects into operation, but to control whether these objects have actually been legally accepted into operation, whether there are construction violations, they must be central government control bodies, namely the State Architectural and Construction Inspection. So I think that the law, well, is not, let's say, one that should work long, it can only work as a transitional. And it's a task to prepare a new law where to divide the powers that control and allow the same authority not to give permission and control itself. So I think we can support it, but only as a transitional law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-20-m0.u118	Thank you, Mrs. Natal. And here's the invitation to the head of the People's Front faction, Maxim Burbak, who represents the position of his political group. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-20-m0.u119	Dear colleagues, I would like to remind you that the decision on the beginning of decentralization in Ukraine was made by the Cabinet of Ministers of Arsenius Yatsenuk on April 1st, 14th. I am an ardent advocate of decentralization, and I think that the state must do everything possible to transfer functions and budget filling and the functions of additional authority to places. But everyone forgets responsibility on the spot. So, I was one of those deputies who helped to get the central authorities of the State Buildings to transfer them to places of authority. The city of Chernivci was given such authority. But you know what? After the coup at the Chernobyl City Council this summer, when 29 sellers took the responsibility of raping the entire city, it turned out to be a repressive body. to a repressive body. Now is the most interesting, final decision: the functions of the construction and land affairs department have been taken over by the secretary of the Montenegrin City Council. Now the builder wants to build something -- not go to the city architect, but go to the secretary of the project, who is also appointed by the sellers. With the process of decentralization, this is the experience of our French colleagues, and they also said that corruption is moving from the central authorities to the places. And we can see that the covert experience of the Montenegrins, where the coup took place, shows that these powers are transformed into a way of making money, which will then be counted in the local elections. The case of the deputy, Rostislav Bilika, who was buying votes in the 15th year that the public organizations had captured, and she's going to be in court for the fourth year after the local elections, shows that all this money will then go to the local princes, the elites, the pseudo-elites, the rest of the team of the Firtas in places to be picked over and over again. I believe that this bill needs to be supported. The People's Front faction will support it in the first reading. There's a note by our colleagues, we can work on the second reading. And finally, let's go back to the general surveillance function, because in places it's turned into a vacchanal of local self-government, when some local self-governments make decisions against current legislation. In particular, the secretary of the Montenegrin City Council on direct air said that if the community needed to, but that was contrary to the law, it was necessary to support the community. In public, on direct air, he says that the law can be broken. So, Your Honor, I ask you to support me. The People's Front faction will vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-20-m0.u120	Thank you. And please, from the Rebirth Group, the head of this group, Victor Bondar. Please, Mr. Victor.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-20-m0.u121	Thank you. Dear colleagues, dear ones. Dear colleagues, I think this bill is extremely important. Because in fact, we know how many complaints are happening locally from builders who can't get documents that are constantly walking and have problems with local authorities. In fact, decentralization has been done, many powers have been delegated to places, and safety nets, mechanisms that would allow for restraint and some sort of arbitration between local authorities, local architectural buildings, and local princes and builders have not been built. That's why we're proposing to support this bill, it's going to allow the State Architectural Inspectorate to bring order, to be able to act as arbitrators, and to bring the building structures that work to the housing and industrial market for Ukraine into normal living conditions. We think that this bill will improve the business climate, improve the conditions of the construction business and provide an opportunity to increase the construction industry, build volumes, create new jobs and build new modern neighborhoods that will really meet modern architecture and modern housing requirements and our cities in Ukraine. So we urge everyone to support this bill, we invite everyone to return to the hall, because I see that there are few people in the room. And we, our faction, will support this bill in the first reading, and before the second reading there are some amendments, we'll take them into the committee. And the bill is going to be normal, life, and it's really going to benefit our builders and the construction industry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-20-m0.u122	Thank you. Dear colleagues, not all factions have signed up for the performance. Are They Still Desirable? The opposition block didn't have a word, "The Fatherland," the Radical Party of Lachka. Are there no wanters? You've been performing, you've been performing. No, please, Mr. Shahov, present the "will of the people" position, please. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-20-m0.u123	Sergey Shahov, the political power of Our End. Dear colleagues, we will support this bill. It's a very important bill for our state, because today there's virtually nothing built for either the military or the displaced. Today, there is money that is loaded with money, and now everyone has district councils, city councils. Sadly, though, the carriage is there today. This bill is needed not only by the displaced today, but by those who have been in line for almost 30 years without housing. Thank you. We'll support the bill. Sergey Shahov, the political power of Our End. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-20-m0.u124	Thank you. There are no more willing to speak from the factions. And I'm asking you to sign up for the national MPs of Ukraine. We have 15 minutes for the national MPs, and then three minutes, I'll give Alexia Kudriavtsev, who represents the profile department.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-20-m0.u125	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-20-m0.u126	15 minutes is the MPs and then you, then you. Please, Hennadius the Creature, give me your word. Please turn on Gennady's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-20-m0.u127	Please pass the word to Levchenk.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-20-m0.u128	Please, please. Please. From the rostrum there will be a national deputy, Levchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-20-m0.u129	Lewchenko, Freedom, 223 District, Kiev City. Shevchenkovsky district of Kyiv, 223 district of Kyiv. Now, I would like to speak first of all as a Kiev Mayor, who is forced to respond every week to all new and new and new appeals by his constituents, and not just the electorate from the district, but the electorate, all the kyans, and not just the kyans, and from all over the country, to the building Waqhanalia. But in Kiev, Kiev, it's a particularly terrible vachanal led by Vitaly Volodymyrovich Klicka and his friends "the villains". Here, from this rostrum just sounded different sensations from different persons about. such general philosophical phrases about the authority of local self-government, about what something was delegated, and now they can't go back. Excuse me, is this room supposed to work for Ukrainian citizens, for most Ukrainian citizens, for people just whether this room should work for local government officials, for heads of architectural and building control, for city heads, for secretaries, for city deputies? Who's this room supposed to work for, please? The question is rhetorical, but let's see how this vote works. The point is that the Department of Architecture and Construction Control of the Kyiv City State Administration -- once again, I stress, I set an example in my particular work -- is a totally corrupt body. All requests by the national MP are not actually carried out, inspectors are not sent to illegal sites. The head of the department tells me: "Oh, I'm sorry, I can't send an inspector, because I have an inspector for the entire area, he's busy right now," and so illegal construction lasts for years, actually. This department registers illegal documents. After we prove to them that they are registering illegal documents, they refuse to cancel them for months, although they are clearly seen from the plan that they are illegal. Corruption is total! And there's no authority at all on them, because they're subordinated exclusively to the Kiev City Head. There is no control body that can influence them in any way. The law enforcement authorities are obviously closing their eyes because they are here in the midst of these illegal structures. So, of course, we need to create a mechanism so that the central authority of executive power -- the State Architectural Inspectorate could have the opportunity to take away from these local princes these powers that they abuse and they don't use to work for Ukrainians, for the people, for most people, for the majority of society, and which they use exclusively to cover up building schemes, to cover up illegal forgetfulness. Please, 20 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-20-m0.u130	30 seconds, please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-20-m0.u131	And unfortunately, though, in the first reading. In the first version, this bill had such a mechanism, it is now proposed to be removed from the committee. However, this bill still leaves important innovations that improve this situation. So I urge everyone in this room who works for the electorate, not for the mob, to vote in the first reading of this bill in order to at least try to put the order in this area. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-20-m0.u132	Thank you for supporting the bill. And I'd like to invite you to the floor of the People's Deputy Korchik. Please give him the word. [[B in m in s a l in]] He's given the word, I understand. Please, Mr. Amazanov gives the floor.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-20-m0.u133	Dear colleagues, an extremely important bill. We are all advocates of decentralization. And the decentralization of issues related to architectural and building control is also the right process. Unfortunately, however, we must note that, along with decentralization of rights and powers, the process of decentralization of corruption is also taking place. And we have no right not to react to that. This bill may be the instrument that will allow order in places where local authorities, unfortunately, view decentralization as permissive, as a right to abuse their new powers. I support those colleagues who cited actual examples of such activity, and I also urge everyone to support Bill 7266-1. I think that's going to allow you to at least improve the situation with architectural and building control. Thank you all. And I would like to be sure that this bill is supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-20-m0.u134	Thank you. And our colleague Lewchenko is now giving the floor to Alexander Kodola, please. Mr. Kodoli, turn on the microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-20-m0.u135	Alexander Kodol, Montenegro, 209th constituency. Ladies and gentlemen, as a substitute for a professional committee on construction, construction and housing, I want to say that, in fact, in recent years, there has been a very serious problem and, above all, violations of the newly created organs of local self-government regarding powers in the field of custodial control. That's why today is a very big need to adopt such a bill that would actually increase the responsibility of local authorities, this is question number one. And the main thing is the proper organization of the functions of state architecture and building control in places, resistance to self-building and so on. That's why this bill is designed to solve these problems. And I call on all factions, all deputies to support it in the first reading. Our faction votes in favour. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-20-m0.u136	Thank you for the position presented. Please, again, will Babak have a word? Alona Babak. Please pass the word to your fellow dentist. I'm sorry, dear colleague. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-20-m0.u137	Lubomir Zubac, Self-Help Unit. When I heard from individual speakers about the low level of expertise on the ground and the high corruption risks among the local authorities, this, frankly, gives me a very big surprise. Corruption, as at the central level, especially in the field of state architectural and building control, has not been and is not in place. I remember when architectural and building inspections worked at the district level. And I can compare, at least in my constituency, and not only how this is happening right now, it's heaven and earth. The formerly mentioned building mafia had been living physically in the reception facilities of the district DABI, and now there is no such thing. So the Self-Help faction is definitely against authorization. on the cessation of authority of local self-government in the field of archbud control over the submission of so-called chief inspectors. I want to tell you, by the way, that practice tells you that it is impossible to accuse these rules of the Chief Inspectors of today. So this will end by the fact that the prescriptions will be tumbling, the local self - government authorities will be placed in a certain position, and if they are uncontrollable, they will simply stop them. Therefore, we are firmly opposed to that standard. With regard to other standards. In large numbers, they have no meaningful load. In fact, that's how this law loses its meaning. So I emphasize that self-help has always supported local self-government, decentralization. And this bill is one of the elements of decentralization consolidation now in the field of archbud control. We've already gone through, unfortunately, a large amount of fiscal decentralization at the time of the budget adoption, when a large amount of expenditure was transferred to local self-government. This year alone, education and medical subsidies are underfunded by 20 percent. So I urge my fellow MPs to stop this slippery folding of decentralization, especially in the area of architectural and building control. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-20-m0.u138	Thank you. And Mr. Kodola had a word. Maxim Burbak, please. Please, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-20-m0.u139	Dear colleagues, I am also a strong advocate of decentralization, and I believe that the state must do everything in order to have additional powers, budgetary decentralization -- everything transferred to places. But this, I think, is a shame to say that there is no corruption in places, especially in archbudinspecting organs. I'm telling you about the example, not of Lvov, but of the Black people, where the rest of the Fertash group usurped power, raped the city, and did everything they could to make money go into their pockets to organize future elections. Let us speak honestly and truthfully. Yes, decentralization must continue, but there must be responsibility. I said in my speech that we should go back to the question of renewing the functions of general government control, who will control the cases of anarchy when decisions are made by local self-government authorities. Now it's gone, and they're doing whatever they want, there's a "meropad" in Ukraine, so I'd call it, in Chernobyl, what happened in Nicholas, well, there, at least because of the court. But, honourable colleagues, the essence of the bill is not to take away the authority, but to have the authority of the central authorities of the executive to test their inaction or criminal activity, because once again I want to refer to the example of the Montenegrins, it's going to turn into a banal busting of the money of the builders, and everyone in the city knows about it. And maybe in Lviv we weren't so lucky. So, honourable colleagues, I urge all deputies to return to the session room and vote this bill as a basis, and if you would like to have some insurers, please, between the first and the second readings, you can insert them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-20-m0.u140	Thank you. We are absolutely rightly urged by our colleague Burbak to return to the session room, because in a few minutes there will be a vote, we have two more speeches left. We ask our colleagues to return to the vote. Please, Mr. Wozniak, National Deputy, your word. Yes, then, National Deputy Novak. Do you take it? Novak, a national MP, already had the floor. National MP Marchenko. Yes, the national MP of Meparishvili. Marchenko, please. National MP. Now, just a minute. National MP Marchenko, then Meparishvili, and this concludes the discussion by the deputies. Please, Marchenko. Please turn on Mr. Marchenko's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-20-m0.u141	National MP Marchenko, Bila Church. I ask you to pass the word to Alona Babak.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-20-m0.u142	Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-20-m0.u143	Dear colleagues, I would like to draw the attention of all those who spoke today and spoke of the key problem that at the local level the organs that were created by local self-government bodies perform the function of state archbud control, that they are corrupt. Friends, but they are assigned to local self - government, which we Ukrainians appoint. Then let us be more responsible in voting for those who appoint at the local level people who do not give us the functions we need and the services we need. Not to mention that we will give to the State the powers that have been given to bring the service closer to man. At the central level today, there is a serious fight against corruption. And I said that Mr. Kudriavtsev is a person who is now consistently implementing this policy. But you can't play with delegated authority. They should be carried out locally for man. Let us choose those who appoint corrupters. whether or not to appoint and then fight corruption in this way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-20-m0.u144	Thank you. Please make your last statement by the Ukrainian National Deputies. People's MP Meparishvili. Three minutes later, Mr. Alexia Kudriavtsa’s word is given. And let's go to the vote. Please, Mr. Meparishvili.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-20-m0.u145	I give the word of Fedoruk Mikola Trochymovich. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-20-m0.u146	Please turn on the microphone, there will be a performance from the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-20-m0.u147	Dear national MPs, distinguished colleagues from Self-Help. I don't think you'll blame me for not supporting local self-government or supporting the question of decentralization. But the situation today, the practice that we have, in our country, in expanding the rights, the capacity of local self-government authorities is in conflict with responsibility and that some of our colleagues in places abuse issues of decentralization and make decisions that are completely contrary to common sense and contradict basic logic. For example, my colleague, Maxim Burbak, cited the cases of the Montenegrins when the City Council, through the City Council, takes decisions and deprives architects of the issue of the issue of construction conditions and restrictions. And there is a decision on the management of the execution that issues these urban conditions and constraints without a detailed planning plan, violating all the rules and regulations and all the decisions that we make here. So this bill, which is not clear, I think we need to adopt it in the first reading and prepare it, make some adjustments, so that the issue of control over local self-government decisions is also there. There is no such thing as for a local authority to make a decision that is contrary to the law, and it cannot be rectified or annulled. The question of the continuation of changes to the Constitution, the introduction of the Institute of Prefects and the monitoring of local self-government decisions is on time, and we need to resolve this in Parliament. I propose that this bill be adopted in the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-20-m0.u148	Thank you. Mrs. Novak was supposed to be there. She's handing it over to Lechchenkov. But one minute, because time is actually running out. One minute, Lechchenko. And then the closing word is Krivoshea and Andreyevsky. Please, Mr. Yuri.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-20-m0.u149	Lewchenko, Freedom, 223 District, Kiev City. As a result of some of the discussions here and some of the statements made by some national deputies, I would like to point out that national MPs should work for the interests of most societies, most Ukrainians, not one percent of the official class, heads of departments, local deputies, city heads, and so on. There is no real, stressed, real legislative mechanism to deal with the illegal activities of local departments in architectural and building control. This law, though, suggests that we move in this direction so that at least one day this mechanism will come into existence. If anyone has a question about an accusation, as you always said, you pushed these changes when you cleaned up the general custody, the prosecutors, go to the court, go to the court that you've done so honestly, and sue the DABI decision there. But the control mechanism of the local DAC has to be created.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-20-m0.u150	So the colleagues, the speeches, the discussion is over. I invite you to the closing statement first by the reporter Krivoša Hennady Grigorovovich and then by Andriyevsky. Who will be the first to speak of you, fellow workers? The crooked one? Andrievsky? From the place of Crimson. Please turn on the microphone. Then there's Andriewsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-20-m0.u151	Thank you. Gennady, the Faction of the People's Front. First of all, I would like to thank all the deputies who are now in the room and who are now fit to vote in favour of this bill. And the second. I'd like to focus further on the observations that were made by the Self-Help faction. We talked about this with the Association of Cities. And once again, we talked about how we're going to take that into account for their second reading. Therefore, it is a great request to support the bill and to vote in the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-20-m0.u152	Thank you. Colleagues, there'll be a vote in three or four minutes. I ask all the factions to invite deputies to the hall, 3-4 minutes, and there will be a vote. And I ask the Secretary of the Supreme Council to inform the deputies. For the final word, I now invite the first deputy head of the Committee on Construction, Construction, and the Andrieev Dmitr Josephovich. Please, Mr. Dmitri.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-20-m0.u153	Dear Andriy Volodymyrovich, honourable colleagues, there were many interesting thoughts during the discussion of this very important bill, and I am sure that most of them will be able to be taken into account by the second reading. I would like to answer those allegations about the collapse of authority in local self - government, to say clearly that my report reads a stenogram of the standard that provides for the cessation, the suspension of powers solely for the appeals of local governments. And once again, I want to say that most of the proposals that we've been making, we're going to try to do the best we can. We're looking at representatives of local governments, mayors of cities as our partners, and the purpose of this law is to help them put together in a very important way: to support the building industry, to simplify the maximum granting of permits, and to tackle the maximum corruption. Dear colleagues, I am sure we will support this bill. Andriy Volodymyrovich, I would ask, if possible, to give the floor to the central authorities of executive power from the government to speak to Mr. Kudrijavci. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-20-m0.u154	All right, I'll give you my word. Wait a minute! My colleagues, not all of them are still in the hall. Heads of factions, please invite, make sure we don't fail the law. And the closing statement is for the Kudravacs of Alexy Vitaliyovich, head of the State Architectural Inspection, in three minutes. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-20-m0.u155	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Good afternoon, dear fellows! First of all, I wanted to thank you for the kind words I just heard. And indeed, the Holdbudinspection is moving in that direction, which was initiated four years ago, by the previous government of Arsenija Petrovich and Vladimir Borisovich. And all those innovations, all those innovations that we've started, we're all supporting today, we're really at the final stage today. Act 7266-1 focuses primarily on the completion of the decentralization reform of the system of state-of-the-art controls. And I want to point out that no one takes any authority from the inspectors' regulations or for any other reason. The main thing today is the quality of these services that we provide. And if, for some reason or for some incomprehensible reason, the newly created authorities are unable to perform these functions, then only with the consent of the community or the newly created body will these functions be transferred to the central executive body. I want to point out that the Derbybudinspecies started reforming the sector four years ago. In particular, we've reformed the permit system, transferred all the administrative services to an electronic format, made the most of the information available on the verification and review of the permits. And today all the initiatives supported by the government and the Supreme Council have a result, and I've heard from you that you're feeling it, too. On the one hand, we also feel support from the business office, and on the other hand, unfortunately, there is a tremendous pressure today on me personally as on the head of the State Department. All of this says we're on the right track, and we're not going to stop on this path, because the reforms that we've put in place, they're really aimed at making the building industry move our tap forward. So when I look to the National Deputies, I ask you to support Law 7266 and to facilitate the integration of the newly created organs into our new "DABI Window" system. And also, honourable national deputies, please support me in completing the reform of the entire system of state-of-the-art control. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-20-m0.u156	Thank you, colleagues. The discussion is over, let's move on to the decision-making process. Everyone please take up their jobs. Fellows, look, as soon as the two deputies are in the towers, call them. Please take up jobs, colleagues, from the boardrooms, guests, please return to the hall. And let's move on to making a decision. And I'm voting on a bill amending the Ukrainian Law on Urban Control (for transmission, termination or temporary suspension of powers of the State Architectural Control Authority) (No. 7266-1) based on the Committee's proposals. Please vote and please support. Let's vote, colleagues. Please back up! Vote. Vote. [[13:51:50]] For 246 Decision taken. My fellow Members, I would like once again to report very responsibly to everyone that we have 16 hours to discuss the completion of decommunization, in particular the draft Act amending article 133 of the Constitution of Ukraine regarding the renaming of the region of Kirovograd. Also, we still have debt, we haven't renamed the Kirovograd region, and we haven't changed the name of the Dnipropetrov region. Colleagues, it's a matter of changes to the Constitution, it has a special consideration, up to an hour. And we're going from the fourth to the sixth to go through both of these changes to the Constitution, and we're going to rename the Kirovogradsky region to the Kropivnitsky region. So I'm going to all the factions, all the pro-Ukrainian forces at 16 o'clock be in the hall, put off and put off all the political contradictions, because this is a question of national dignity, a question of national memory that goes beyond our daily political disputes. I'm addressing all the factions where there were differences on other issues, 16 to 18 hours in the hall, supporting the completion of decommunization, colleagues, and I believe that the Ukrainian Parliament will once again demonstrate that this is the Ukrainian Parliament. And I urge all reporters to be on the scene at 4:00, the authors and initiators of those bills. At 4:00, I'm waiting for everyone in the hall. Now, according to the regulations of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, I am forced to close the morning session. But before closing the morning session, colleagues, I would like to read out a message that came in: that during the vote in favour of consenting to be held criminally responsible, the arrest and arrest of National Deputy Berezkin Stanislav Semenovich, which took place at 11:48, the card did not work for the National Deputy Winnik, and I'm telling you publicly that he voted, his card didn't work. And now, colleagues, I declare this morning's plenary session of the Supreme Council closed. And I emphasize that at 16 o'clock everyone should be in the session room of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to continue our work. Thank you.
