ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-17-m0.u1	Good morning. Please come into the hall and prepare for registration. Can we register? I see the MPs are still good. Please take up jobs, prepare for registration. So please register and register for the meeting. Let's register, colleagues. [[10:03:40]] 353 national deputies registered. The morning plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Today is the birthday of the Ukrainian national deputy to Artem Alexander Ilyuk. Let's say hello to our colleague. [[Applause]] And I would also like to report that on April 4, 2018, the Central Election Commission registered the National Deputy of Ukraine, elected on the electoral side of the Ukrainian National Deputies' elections on October 26, 14 in the state-wide multi-member constituency of Zvarič Roman Mihajlovich, who is included in the election list of the Party "Block of Petr Poshenko". In accordance with article 79 of the Constitution, Ukrainian national deputies take an oath before the Supreme Council of Ukraine before taking office. The National Deputy of Ukraine, Zvaric Roman Mikhajlovich, is invited to make an oath to the rostrum. Please, Mr. Roman.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-17-m0.u2	I swear allegiance to Ukraine. I commit myself to upholding Ukraine’s sovereignty and independence by all my actions, caring for the welfare and welfare of Ukraine’s people. I vow to abide by the Constitution and the laws of Ukraine, to carry out my duties in the interests of all fellow countrymen. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-17-m0.u3	Heroic glory! Congratulations, Mr. Roman. We wish you fruitful work. Dear colleagues, today we are starting a session day to consider an important issue, a bill to amend the Ukrainian Law on the Status and Social Protection of Citizens affected by the Chernobyl disaster, and then we will consider the issue of nuclear policy and nuclear security, the issue of great importance and our responsibility. We remember our citizens' heroes, who, in 86 years, at the cost of their health and even their lives, stopped a terrible tragedy, refused to allow nuclear apocalypse in the center of Europe. These issues are particularly important in the days leading up to the anniversary of the Chernobyl tragedy and at a time when Russia allows itself to be subjected to nuclear blackmail throughout the world. And that's why we're moving. Before we move on to daytime issues, colleagues, we have 30 minutes to speak from factions and groups. And I'm asking the factions and groups to record for the discussion. Please prepare and record. Please. From the "will of the people" group to the word, Shahov Sergei Volodymyrovich is invited. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-17-m0.u4	Sergey Shahov, Lugansk, political power "Our End". Dear colleagues, please tell me what can be said of the people who are robbing children today who are taking their children last? The trouble happened in Lugansk, again in Severerodonetsk. Six months ago, the Ice Palace was captured -- it's the heart and pearl of Severodonetsk, the district city. I went to the Attorney General myself, and we were immediately arrested. But these people can be called not just fascists, or even fascists. I'm calling on the Justice Minister today to cancel immediately, cancel his registration at the Ice Palace. I'm calling on the Prime Minister today to control this situation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-17-m0.u5	Thank you. From Fatherland to the word, Timoshenko Julia Volodymyrna is invited.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-17-m0.u6	My fellow Members, I think that in a non-sessional week many people have been able to visit the regions and see how much chaos the country is raving and how much chaos has already reached the apogee. At the very least, we've been able to see what's going on in atomic energy lately. You know, in recent times, monopolistic heat plants have put an extremely high price on their power supply, and in this way they've practically raised wholesale prices for the whole country for electricity by 9 percent and pushed nuclear power producers out of the market. State nuclear power plants have now run out of proper funding. Thousands of nuclear power stations have come to protest because the key branch of Ukraine, the atomic branch, is being destroyed right in front of the President, the government, the parliament. And we demand an immediate response from the government and the President, because we are now living on the eve of the Chernobyl days. And we already know that the tragedy is that when an atomic branch is consciously destroyed, it's running out of money, it can't carry out its technological cycles. And so before the Chernobyl days, it's also very sad to tell us that when we had to shut down the country with our bodies from the consequences of the Chernobyl tragedy, people went and gave their lives and health, and now they're essentially without any support. And they ask, on their knees they stand before this authority: adopt a bill that allows for at least treatment. Nobody hears, and there's nothing on the bill list except outright corruption, lobbyism. And we're going to be looking at a bill today to get the Chernobyl children out of school. Well, what kind of conscience does it take to do such things? And at the same time, medical reform is about to begin. And I think that the Supreme Council needs to take some time to figure out what's going on with the medical reform, where rural doctors and feldshers are obliged to do more than 2,000 contracts with people who will then serve in electronic form. Tell us how in the villages this can be done. Absurd just collapsed the country. Or we'll go back to setting order in the state and returning to all functions.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-17-m0.u7	30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-17-m0.u8	Either we spot people in all the corridors of Ukrainian power, and we start serving them, or this authority just goes into history as the gravestone of the Ukrainian nation. I'm asking you to set an order in the state immediately.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-17-m0.u9	From the Opposition Block to the word Wilkul is invited.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-17-m0.u10	Dear people of Ukraine! Dear fellow national MPs! From myself, from all of our factions, I express my deep sympathy to the families of those who died in the terrible car accident that happened this morning, in the city of Curve Rig. We will provide all necessary assistance to the families of those who have died and those who are now in hospitals. A terrible accident. Once again, I stress that there is an urgent need to increase the responsibility for violations of traffic rules. Now a statement from the faction. For two years, the government has failed to report, ignoring the requirements of legislation. Yesterday it became known that they had transferred the report that was due this week to June. We demand a report from the government and a proper evaluation of its activities. Last week Prime Minister Vladimir Groissman said, quote, "How can I fear retirement? Is there a reason for resigning?" Really? How can we measure the effectiveness of the Cabinet of Ministers? First of all, the economic situation of the state, the level of welfare and security of citizens. Apparently, the head of government thinks that this is all right, at a time when basic industrial indicators continue to fall in Ukraine. The decline in agricultural and industrial indices compared to the previous year was again recorded in 2017. What progress has been made in the Cabinet of Ministers, Groysman? For example, the collapse of the health care system under the leadership of Ulysses Suprun, which fully and fully supported the head of government. Consider the cynical allegations of the success of the medical reform in the background of infant deaths from the bark epidemic. And by supporting it, you, Mr. Prime Minister, also bear full responsibility. The prime minister is very fond of prying on repairs and road construction. But in the World Economic Forum, Ukraine’s quality of roads dropped 137 from 144. In many directions, even buses are refused to travel through fearsome pits. They're winning huge money on the roads, the key word is "advanced," and the head of "Autodor" of Polish citizens Slavomir Novak is being paid 900 percent of his salary for what's called "success" in his work. What else is the success of Kabmin? For example, the complete collapse of technology, such as aviation, the missile industry, including the purchase of billions of dollars of machine-building in foreign companies, is not.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-17-m0.u11	30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-17-m0.u12	Not in Ukrainian businesses, the authorities call it an unprecedented victory. We can see that the function of Groysman and his Kabmin can be described by two terms "piar" and "advancement," more precisely, the acquisition of funds. And the way it works is by one feature of cynicism. We demand an immediate report from the government and a proper assessment of their activities, that is, their resignation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-17-m0.u13	Thank you. I'd like to invite you to the floor of the Roman Semenich People's Deputies from the Self-Help Unit.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-17-m0.u14	Semenha Roman, "The Self-Help Union" faction. Dear colleagues, madame presiding, distinguished Ukrainian citizens! Having held many meetings on a nonplenary work week, I feel it is my duty to explain the questions people are asking at meetings. And the first question that's going on at every meeting is, how do you survive a pension of 1 thousand 700 dollars today? I want to ask the Prime Minister, the heads of the ruling factions, how do people in Ukraine today survive a pension of 1 000 dollars? And listening to these people's questions and analyzing the order of the day for this week, it seems that the government and parliament are living in parallel reality, and draft laws that resolve this injustice are not being considered by Parliament. The government continues to ignore the meager payouts of people, especially those living in villages, villages, scientists, and Chernobyl. The Prime Minister is reporting on television yesterday, and he should be reporting here from this rostrum first of all on why there is still no draft Military Pensioners Act, why the government does not list Chernobyl's pensions on the next anniversary of the Chernobyl disaster. Six months ago, the government put pseudo-retirement reform in place throughout the country. Indeed, the result is remarkable, with the 10 million pensioners, most of these people receiving less than 200 dollars. Moreover, these 200 bracelets continue to eat inflation each day, but what would be most important today is the review of these categories of citizens of pensions and the real reform of the second mandatory state level of accumulation. Every day the government talks about supporting the agricultural sector. But something today is not in order of the daily, perhaps the most important law -- 7304-2, which returns the stolen money to 51,000 producers and farmers who stole Parliament along with the government in this Parliament during the budgetary process. We often hear about the need to stop labour migration, improve the investment climate, and then where is the consideration of real laws that are designed to develop and protect business? Where is the draft Tax Law on the outstretched capital? Where is the project on the sole body of financial investigations? What's more, let's be honest: the Presidential draft of the Law on Bureau of Financial Investigations is not about business security, it's a draft law on business danger. And last time. At each meeting, people ask about justice, people ask why today and still those people who have been stealing budget for decades without being held accountable require the creation of a truly independent Anti-Corruption Court. The Self-Help faction calls for the immediate return of money to agrarians, the adoption of laws that will really protect and develop Ukrainian businesses, and a bill that will list pensions for people and enable them to implement a second accumulation level that will give future generations a chance for a decent pension and an economy for a strong driver of growth. We need to do this now.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-17-m0.u15	30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-17-m0.u16	This must be done immediately so that it is not too late, for all of us will have to answer to the people very soon. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-17-m0.u17	Thank you. May I have a word with the rebirth party, please, National Deputy Bondar?
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-17-m0.u18	Unfortunately, there is no Andrew Volodymyrovich. Dear Chairman, dear colleagues! I want to raise a question that has long been talked about by Ukraine and unfortunately no one wants to hear again about the people who saved the country from the Chernobyl disaster 32 years ago. More than a year ago, we registered a bill that was supported by all the Chernobyl organizations in Ukraine, a bill that brings back many of the issues that concern their personal health and solves these issues, the benefits, the issues related to the support of these people, who risked their lives for all of us today to live together in this happy and interesting country. For more than a year, we are talking about the need to adopt this bill because, in fact, more than five years ago, the Chernobylites eliminated everything they had in this country to live, to exist, to receive benefits from the state, to heal and so forth. One mach was taken away and promised, and one day we will resolve the matter. For five years nothing has been resolved! A year ago we registered this bill (6292). A few weeks ago, congregations were held in Kharkiv, where all the Chernobyl organizations of Ukraine, all the Chernobylers came and supported the bill and insisted that it be adopted. Therefore, the assembly concluded a resolution signed by all the Chernobyl organizations in Ukraine. Thousands of people support our draft law, which really solves the issue of Chernobyl. Unfortunately, we see a completely different position. Today the government, the coalition, is putting in order a daily bill, which is absolutely undecided, but it is very convenient for the authorities. He's funding literally copies for the Chernobyl people, and it's essentially a bill for the twig. And we're proposing a bill that gives the Chernobyls a real opportunity to live in this country, to be treated, to really get from the state some kind of benefit that will make it possible for people to realize that they risked their health for nothing, saving the country. That's why I'm addressing you, Andry Volodymyrovich. He'll come back -- I'll turn around again -- to adopt this bill, put it in order today, and look at it. Indeed, for more than a year, it is said that no one makes a decision. And we're passing on a resolution from these congregations of Chernobyl organizations to the President of Ukraine, to the Speaker of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, to the government that it is signed by everyone and we're demanding that this bill be put into the agenda. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-17-m0.u19	Thank you. I invite you to speak with the Radical Party of People's Deputies, Oleg Laska.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-17-m0.u20	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. It's easy to tell and hang a paw on the ears of Ukrainians when you're looking at an Illuminator helicopter and telling us what our best roads are, really, from the height of the flight, you can't see which roads. The driver can see them well. I want us on the board right now to choose from Facebook: people share their impressions of the road. To show that the authorities are looking at these roads. Here is a photograph of the road in the Poltava region, where the head of the district council of Ugledica, the Luben district council, stands in that pit. On drugs, 300 million dollars were allocated to repair roads in the Poltava region last year. You can see the results of these repairs. Show me the picture below. This is the Kharkiv area, which was allocated over one and a half billion dollars to repair roads in Kharkiv region last year. Here we see these repairs in Kharkiv district. In particular, 800 million dollars were allocated for repairs in the Mikolai region last year. See how the roads in the Mikolai region were repaired. There the whole family can settle down for a picnic, and cows can be put in that pit. These, by the way, are strategic routes. Next. Suma area. Last year there were almost 800 million dollars in the Sumskie region. See how the roads in Sumskie were repaired. The road to Mariupul. Mariupol, who we're talking about as Ukraine, is once again cut off from the great Ukraine. Since there is no road to Mariupol, it will reach from Zaporozhye to Mariupol, a minimum of five hours, no less, in the magic fields and in the magic fields that we see on this road to our Mariupol. In 2017, in the Lviv region, 600 km of roads were repaired according to reports, and nearly 4 billion dollars were allocated. Look at the Lviv roads, Lvivščina is next door to the European Union. A similar situation in Frankivsk, Sumski, my native Chernigiv region. How many phalanges can you hang on your ears? How many billions can be buried in the pit repairs each year? Then people can't feed on graves, and when they go through those pits, they swear on the world. So first. We demand to ban the pit repair. The other one. Here's the hole. You see those pits, don't you? On the way to Chercas, by the way. In these pits, bury those who have repaired the roads, starting with the manager of the repair yard and all those who have repaired the roads. Bury and go over the asphalt with concrete. As Hitler did, he struggled with the bereaved: a couple of men were taken out, shot, and everyone pays for tickets to this day. We want normal roads, we need to be the toughest responsibility for pits, for looting. There are no roads, no property like mushrooms after rain, and billions of people steal from the pockets of Ukrainians. Stop fooling people!
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-17-m0.u21	30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-17-m0.u22	This is, by the way, the road to the village of the Talalai district of Chernigiv. You see how peasants ride? So we demand that the authorities stop stealing, stop deceiving people and start extensive real-life repairs to restore Ukraine’s transit potential and, above all, save the lives of Ukrainians. Because these pits are people's lives, it's people's health, it's car damage and, most of all, lost nerves and lost time. Stop fooling around!
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-17-m0.u23	Welcome to the speech of the People's Deputy Maxim Burbak of the People's Front faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-17-m0.u24	Congratulations, fellows! The People's Front consistently favours the defense of the country, the expansion, the deepening of sanctions against Russia as an aggressor country. We will continue to insist on banning dual citizenship for civil servants and law enforcement officials, increasing defence spending and increasing the salaries of military personnel, completing the engineering of the state border with Russia. The People's Front has consistently insisted on Ukraine's membership in the North Atlantic Alliance. Six months ago Arsenius Yatsenuk initiated a clear plan for joining NATO and the European Union in Ukraine's legislation. We know that the President also supports this initiative. We're waiting for bills from the head of state, because foreign policy is his responsibility. At the same time, the People's Front is ready to develop and submit a bill to Parliament on its own. We also believe that the five aid packages that NATO has offered to Ukraine should be substantially expanded, namely training, joint training, assistance to veterans, assistance to those who have lost their health as a result of Russian military aggression, the fight against cyber attacks against Russia. It's defence weapons, it's new technology, and it's finally Ukraine's membership in both NATO and the European Union. Ukraine is now struggling not only for its freedom but also for the peace of the people of all Europe. This was stated by the leader of the People's Front in the 11th Security Forum held in Kiev last week. Our political power will likewise consistently and persistently defend Ukraine’s energy independence. We're going to fight against building and launching the North Stream 2 pipeline, and we're going to convince European countries to resist the gas spill. I thank the Supreme Council for having supported the People's Front initiative last plenary week to refer to this world community for banning North Stream-2. Parliament adopted a national security bill in its first reading. Now, in the profile committee, we need to work thoroughly on the bill's rights, consult our Western partners and allies, and approve the balanced, effective formulations of this law. Our faction also insists on strengthening the fight against violations during the electoral process. The People's Front supports the initiative of the Minister of Internal Affairs of Arsen Awakow and the decision of the coalition government regarding the urgent consideration and adoption of a bill to increase responsibility for violations of the law and for falsification in elections. The desire to raise votes in elections, as well as the desire to sell them for 200 dollars, but only the voices, and this is the future of their children, must be eradicated once and for all. Unfortunately, electoral bribery is a common phenomenon for all levels. In the 19th year we have another presidential election, then there will be another parliamentary election, but this law should be passed already. Because it's April 29th that there's going to be another election to the newly created OTG, and we have a lot of signals about forgeries during the electoral process. So let's get to work and support these People's Front initiatives. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-17-m0.u25	Thank you. There will be a closing statement now, and I ask you all to invite the deputies into the hall. In three minutes, we'll move on to the agenda. Now, from the Peter Prashenko Block, I'd like to invite Arthur Gerasimov to the floor. Please, Mr. Arthur.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-17-m0.u26	Dear Mr. Head, distinguished colleagues, distinguished voters! I have just returned from a meeting of the Bureau of the OSCE Parliamentary Assembly, where parliamentarians from various countries have once again testified to Ukraine's full support for its opposition to the Kremlin's aggression. The Bureau also discussed the issue of North Stream-2 in detail, and participants came to a clear conclusion that its construction poses a threat not only to Ukraine's security but also to the security of European states, particularly the Baltic countries. During the period of increasing hybrid threats from the enemy, especially through the restoration of the North Stream 2 project, a visit by the President of Ukraine to Germany played an important role in protecting the interests of Ukraine. Our allies have on the other hand confirmed the firm position that Ukraine must preserve the status of the gas transitor country and have also demonstrated its readiness to continue sanctions against the aggressor for the restoration of integrity and peace in our country. In the near future, the President of Ukraine will introduce a bill to the Supreme Council on the termination of the individual provisions of the Treaty of Friendship, Cooperation and Partnership between Ukraine and the Russian Federation. The breakup of the treaty will be another proof of Ukraine's irreversible return to the West and an absolute exit from the Kremlin. In addition, the faction of the Party of Peter Prashenko supports the position of the head of state as to the need for an exit from the statutory organs of the SND. I want to remind you that the SND countries refused to recognize Russian aggression on Donbassa and in Crimea. It's about internal issues. The Party of the Peter Prashenka Party believes that this week Parliament is obliged to decide first of all on personnel issues, primarily on the appointment of new members of the CLTC whose candidates will be reviewed and approved tomorrow. It is equally important to identify yourself with the judges of the Constitutional Court. This issue is also relevant, considering that there will soon be a review of changes to the Constitution regarding the removal of parliamentary integrity. The faction of the Party of Peter Prashenko also urges Parliament to take an important step this plenary week to strengthen the protection of intellectual property rights. This requires the adoption of Bill 7466, initiated by the government as a whole. Next. Prior to the terrible anniversary of the Chernobyl disaster, the Supreme Council has a very responsible approach to the issue of strengthening the nuclear security of the State and additional legislative protection of workers in the field. We pay particular attention to Bills 6089, 2021a and 6624. Finally, we remind ourselves that one of the main responsibilities of today’s call is to continue to reduce the pressure on the business of power organs by systematically moving to an international practice of combating financial abuse. I would like to remind you that a bill on the establishment of the National Bureau of Financial Security is currently pending. We urge Parliament to support this bill as soon as possible in the session room. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-17-m0.u27	Thank you. So let's move on to the agenda. As I pointed out at the outset, the first issue is the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on the Status and Social Protection of Citizens affected by the Chernobyl disaster. At the request of the authors and the committee, I will make a proposal for a reduced procedure. And so I now ask all the factions to invite the deputies into the hall and prepare for the vote. Please, everyone, please come into the hall. As the MPs enter the Hall, I will read a message that came to the presidency of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. So in accordance with part three of article 60 of the Ukrainian Act on the Rules of Procedure of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, I report the entry of the National Deputy of Ukraine, Zvarič Roman Mihajlovich, as part of the parliamentary faction and the Party "Block of Peter Prashenka". Welcome. Colleagues, please come into the hall and prepare for the vote. I'll bet. Please, Mr. Yuri, vote. I'm voting on the proposal for draft Law 6230 to be considered in a simplified procedure. Please support, in front of many important questions, so that we can effectively pass through the agenda. Please vote and please support. We're voting for a reduced procedure. Please be supportive. Vote. [[10:34:59]] For the 120th. So, colleagues, I'm going to put it again. And I remind you that today's agenda is a cluster of nuclear policy issues and an environmental bloc, which also has two issues concerning the social protection of Chernobyl. To reach them in order to effectively go through the agenda, I think it's right to support the initiative of the committee and the authors of the support procedure. I'm asking you, colleagues, I'll put it again if there's no votes, of course we'll go in full procedure, but it'll take almost an hour. So I'm asking you to take up jobs and I'm asking you to vote in favour of the draft Law on the Status and Social Protection of Citizens affected by the Chernobyl disaster under a reduced procedure. Please vote, please support. Vote. Please be supportive. [[10:36:14]] For a hundred and Let me show you through the factions. Peter Poshenko's Block – 51, People's Front – 43, Opposition Block – 0, Self-help – 6, Radical Party – 11, Parenthood – 0, Will of the People – 4, Rebirth Party – 6. Colleagues, I'll put a third, and a final one. I ask all the committee heads who have been waiting for their bills and insisting on reviewing their bills to work with their colleagues. You see the order of the day, everyone has it on their hands, and you realize that if we follow the full procedure, we're just not going to get to a number of important bills. I'm asking you to take up jobs. And I'm going to put in a final vote right now. Please take up jobs. So, colleagues, cats, right? I'm voting on the proposal that the draft of the Law on the Status and Social Protection of Citizens affected by the Chernobyl disaster (for the payment of financial compensation for the free diet of children) (No. 6230) be considered under the reduced procedure. Please vote, please support and please all take part in the vote. Please vote. Vote. Please be supportive. Vote. [[10:38:09]] For 133 133. The decision is not made. And let's move on to the full procedure. So I invite you to the report of the Ukrainian national deputy Aresonkov Volodymyr Yuriovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-17-m0.u28	Good afternoon, dear fellows! I understand that this is a working environment in the hall. But I would like to focus now because everyone who came in from this rostrum, the faction leaders, stressed the importance of the Chernobyl theme, especially considering that April is the day before the next anniversary. And those problems, that set of state problems that have to do with Chernobyl, unfortunately, are not simply not met, and over the years, he's just getting into an even more stalemate situation. I am today, on behalf of a group of developers, 17 deputies who signed the draft Law 6230 a year ago, representing a position. In general, it was a version of a government bill, and it was called on primarily to address a critical situation. This has been the case in eight areas of Ukraine, which are feeding children who are suffering from an accident at CHAES, such children are now in Ukraine of 85,000. So last year there was a situation where in a number of areas for months, over six months, it was impossible to arrange child - feeding procedures. What is today’s system? The funds allocated by the government for the nutrition of children go to social protection management in areas and then to areas. There are tenders that identify the winning organisations, which then conduct, organize the diet of children. And these organizations or businesses are getting direct costs, and today, on the average in Ukraine, this sum is 24 to 26 dollars a day. I would like to emphasize once again6 in the food organization the estimated cost of 24-26 dollars per day, depending on the area. This, of course, is not enough, even less than 50 percent of the physiological standard needed to feed children. But the financial reality is that the food system and the payment system were organized. At the same time, the Cabinet of Ministers Regulation No. 155 is in force, according to which there is an amount that goes as compensation for those families and children who do not eat. That is, in places where there was no food, where these tender procedures were broken, where the education departments, along with the authorities and the social worker, were unable to organize food, paid this compensation. So today it's an average of 370 dollars per month, which means 18 dollars per day. Now I'm giving you two numbers to compare. In the case of monetary compensation for today's 18 bracelets per day, in the case of the food organization and the pay that works, about 24 or 25 dollars. So when the government offered to change the system last year and turn to direct payments to parents, let them decide whether to feed their children on their own or to direct the money to the food organization. The idea was to work together on the position of MPs, and the government that would raise the amount of this monetary compensation, and it would have to be at least equal to that level today for the food that works, that is, not 370-380 dollars, but at least 600 dollars. The financial possibilities for this were confirmed by the government. But once again, the current state of affairs remains that of paying exactly 370 dollars per month to families who do not attend school or who do not go through the food system. So I think that until the government confirms its position that it is willing to raise the amount of this monetary compensation, it will adopt this bill in the way it is extremely risky. We can vote for it, and the government can vote for it, if it fails to deliver on its promise and does not increase the amount of this monetary compensation, we can only make the financial security situation worse. So in summary of what I said, yes, we had lengthy consultations, including. Recently, my colleague, Konstankevitch, along with the parents of the parents' committees from Volina, and the Volinsky region, so far, has been in critical situations with tendering, and the food organization is on hold for a month. By the way, just like in Sumskia, the Žitomir region, and in a number of other areas. So, at this meeting with the minister, it was confirmed by the Ministry that the government is willing to propose a mechanism, which is how these funds are going to go to the district level. But so that their parents will actually target their children's nutrition organization instead of getting it and still using it as they think it's necessary. Knowing the situation in a rural area where there are an extremely large number of crisis families, we may get the situation that such families receive money, but they still do not send them to feed their children, and then the situation, I say, will worsen again. So we need to come to a common position with the government, and we need to adopt this bill in parallel, and we need to adopt a government decree on increasing monetary compensation, and we need to adopt a mechanism that will still ensure that children are fed, that these funds are directed towards these very purposes. That's why I'm addressing today, honourable colleagues, to you, my personal proposal, even though I'm part of a group of co-authors, to send this bill to the authors themselves so that we can come to a joint view with the government and only then vote in favour of the bill. I make this offer to all leaders of political factions, groups and non-factional deputies. I think it's going to be a balanced, balanced common position and then we can avoid the risk of making things worse. In this way, the Chernobylites will tell us today that we are not improving, but we are making the situation more difficult. And to conclude, I agree with my colleagues: today they were supposed to bring to the session hall the 4,442 bills that I tabled. Oleg Lazko and the other deputies were to submit the laws of Shahova, which Bonda introduced – 6292, the drafts of the Opposition Block, from other political factions, where there are broad issues. Restoration of the broad rights of social groups, in the case of Chernobyl. Instead, we found the smallest option, but once again, this one doesn't solve the situation until the end. So my proposal, once again, I stress, is that this bill should be drafted with the government and only then decided upon. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-17-m0.u29	Please, three minutes of question to the reporter. Reporter, return to the rostrum. And I'd like you to record it. Please, Sobolev. Suggests a word for the speaker.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-17-m0.u30	With all due respect to the main author of the bill, of course, and we've had the same doubts as the Self-Help Association as soon as we read it. Because we're constantly faced with a situation like we're adopting good laws for a noble purpose, but then, when Cabin's months of delaying the process of normative acts and under these bills, we just face the fact that people really don't get the benefits that the MPs offered. We have questions, first, now this bill, it only applies to children who live in polluted areas and to children who are affected by an accident. But this tender procedure, which breaks down, breaks down all over Ukraine and not only touches this category of children. You know, maybe Kabmin might finally give the MPs a piece of machinery so that our children can still eat for free.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-17-m0.u31	30 seconds. We're done, aren't we? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-17-m0.u32	Thank you. Once again, 17 deputies supported this bill. I completely agree with you. We went to the Cabinet of Ministers, to Minfin to review the tender procedure, for the first time, until we found a common language. Secondly, I agree with you, perhaps to ask questions about the nutrition of all children, all categories, not just black people. This mechanism, we've offered it to the Cabinet of Ministers, but so far we can't find common ground if we think. In this direction we have to move, I absolutely agree with you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-17-m0.u33	Thank you. Please, Sergey Eutuszek.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-17-m0.u34	Sergey Eutuszek, "The Fatherland" faction. Well, what I want to ask you really is, did you realize when you signed this bill, that the government's initiative to monetize such a benefit would lead to no such benefit at all, would it not exist? Because we have seen a trend in recent years, especially 2015, when all those in this sessional room voted in favour of budget-making legislation have deprived the children of their fourth-zone diet. And actually, I want to ask you if you agree with this initiative of government. Although I'm looking at it as authorship, there's a large number of national MPs, and you're reporting that this is an initiative by the government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-17-m0.u35	Mr. Sergei, I remind you. A year ago, when the bill came into existence, there was a very critical situation in all areas of Ukraine. It was. The process of these tendering was constantly disrupted, the children were not fed, and it was a search for ways to get out of the situation. And we considered, including the government's proposal to change the flow of these funds, not through tenders, but directly to parents. But at the same time, we had an agreement that there would be a mechanism that would still be proposed so that the tripartite agreements -- parents, those organizations that feed and local self-government -- and through this mechanism, it is imperative that the funds be directed by parents only for food. But this mechanism was never offered, so there was a simplified procedure that was very risky. I agree with you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-17-m0.u36	Thank you. And a final question. Igor Mosiyczuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-17-m0.u37	Dear Mr. Reporter! Dear Ukrainians! Well, everyone understands what's going on around the tragic events in Chernobyl, around the niggers' benefits. I have a very specific question for you as to the person concerned with these problems. Tell me, who and what in the government, in parliament, or where, does it prevent you from passing Bill 4442, which completely erases all the issues around the Chernobyls, about the benefits to the Chernobyls? What prevents the forerunner of this tragedy from engaging, not in ossification and shucking, but in helping those who have saved the country from this tragedy?
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-17-m0.u38	Thank you. So, in fact, every week at the Ministry of Social Policy. And what I want to say right now is the words of support to the address of Deputy Minister Shambir, who's there, he's holding meetings with national MPs and representatives of public organizations. They're starving, starving under the Ministry building on Thursday. We find a common language. So far, the Ministry of Finance is refusing because it says there's no funds, and that's about 6 billion dollars to pass Bill 4442, where it's about increasing the pension security of liquidators. We'll insist that he be admitted to the session room. These funds, we think, can be found, and that's exactly what we're doing with government officials. But once again, this is the key role of the Ministry of Finance, which is still refusing to speak on this subject. And the Ministry of Social Policy has us in this regard.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-17-m0.u39	Thank you. The report invites the head of the Djublik subcommittee, Pavel Volodymyrovich. Please, Mr. Paul.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-17-m0.u40	Good afternoon, fellow countrymen, dear Ukrainians! Paul Jublik, 66 constituency, Žitomirščina. Regrettably, I have to note the fact that the Chernobyls are mentioned only in the preceding years of a terrible catastrophe. Every year since 1986, people who have been directly involved in the elimination of this terrible tragedy have become less and less, similar to all those who have suffered the disaster and are now living in the infected areas, and they are also becoming less and less. If we take a position on our committee, we send a huge number of proposals each year to provide financial support for those or other types of populations affected by the Chernobyl disaster, but once again no funding was available in any year. In addition, a huge number of drafts, which are registered again by various deputies, representatives of different factions, supported by the committee, but unfortunately are not brought into the session hall because the government has objections and cannot find funding to provide all of these types of people. Unsolved issues remain regarding both pension compensation and housing compensation. And there's a huge number of questions that are really bothering the Chernobyls right now. In addition, we have repeatedly referred to the issue of land use in the second zone. Again, the question is not solved. Unfortunately, there are a lot of examples like this. Along with colleagues from our committee, we have developed and proposed a bill of 4714, which, let's say, does not require such enormous expenditure from the State Budget, but provides for the protection of even though those really liquidators who participated in this terrible disaster. And once again, this bill, let's say it's being watched out there and it's not going into the hall. With regard to the bill, the Committee on Prevention and Anti-Corruption of Corruption notes that the bill meets the requirements of anti-corruption legislation. The Budget Committee concludes that the bill has no direct impact on the budget indicators, since it can be implemented at the expense and within the limits of the funds foreseen by the State budget for the year in question. The Ministry of Social Policy supports the adoption of the bill. The main scientific and expert body in the general conclusion supports the adoption of this bill as a basis for the first reading, as it aims at more effective protection of children's rights. The Committee on Environmental Policy, Environmental Management and the Elimination of the Effects of the Chernobyl Disaster, having considered the draft law at its meeting, says that the bill should be adopted as a basis and as a whole with technical and legal remedies. But given that again the relevance of this bill has been lost, because the really huge critical problem was a year ago, we support the author. But I would suggest that I accept this bill in the first reading and go directly to the government to develop all the mechanisms listed above. So I'm going to ask you to support this bill in the first reading, and for the second reading, we're going to decide all the points in order to provide these costs to our children. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-17-m0.u41	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I'd like to consult you. The Bill 6230 was filed as a request from the factions of Parliament and the authors to the Conciliation Council, but now the authors are asking him to return to work. Maybe there's no point in talking about an hour and putting it to a vote? There's a need, yes. Okay. Then let's have a discussion. Then I ask the factions to record the discussion. Questions? Is there a need for questions? There's a need, isn't there? Please, three minutes of questions. Please, Lensky Alexei. He's handing over Igor Mosiyczuk. Two performances from the Radical Party, and that's six minutes of Mosiyczuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-17-m0.u42	Igor Mosiyczuk, Oleg's Radical Party. In general, I have a question, not even as much to the reporter as to the government, but to the people responsible for social policy as to those who saved the nation and the state from that disaster. It would not have been for Ukraine if the Chernobylites had not saved mankind from this technological catastrophe. And the question is very simple. Here people are said to be starving, well, 'we're having a dialogue with them, we're doing something else. "How long will it take? We demand that on Thursday's vote there be a bill of 4442 from the Radical Party of Oleg Láška, which completely removes all these social issues, and that the Minister of Finance is going somewhere in the IMF, it is absolutely not the interest of the Ukrainians or the Chernobyls. So say the answer: Is the committee in favour of bringing 4,442 to the hearing on Thursday?
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-17-m0.u43	Please let me finish 15 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-17-m0.u44	What's 15? And there's more. A very important question that was asked to be raised by the Lubenskys from my homeland, from Lubenščina, in Poltavščina. They took the benefits, they took everything, they tried to do something manually. People, in fact, who saved the country, saved the nation, were thrown into the back. The question is simple: Why does an official come back to them with his buttocks? Why are officials in the Ministry not paying attention to the activities of the Chernobyl public organizations? Why does the official act like that? Do they want them to come in these buttocks and go out with oaks? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-17-m0.u45	Thank you. Your answer, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-17-m0.u46	Well, unfortunately, the last question I'm not going to answer is why. But from the committee, I can say that the committee is always in charge of protecting the rights of citizens affected by the Chernobyl disaster, and I support Bill 4442. In addition, once again, I would like to point out that there is a registered bill by committee members and a committee member is 4714. So again. And I'd like to talk to everyone else. Let's not delay the discussion, but let's move on to other important bills. Because today important environmental laws are also included in the agenda. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-17-m0.u47	Thank you. Answers on. Question-answer complete. Mr. Jublik, I'm asking you to come to your workplace. Dear colleagues, I'm asking the factions to sign up for a bill. Please, Eutuszek, the national MP from Fatherland, is invited to speak.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-17-m0.u48	Sergey Eutuszek, "The Fatherland" faction, Ravenshkina. Madam Chairman, honourable colleagues, the distinguished Ukrainian people, when we see the initiative of the government, and I remind you that once the drafter of the bill, along with the team, proposed to postpone the bill for further work, they testified that it was not their initiative, but their own initiative of the government. So what I'm saying is, once we see such an initiative that leads to monetaryization, you should know that there will be no such benefit in Ukraine at all. Let's get a little bit of history, take a tour of history. In 2015, when we were here in the session room, we were voting on all budget-making legislation, laws that clearly predicted that we would eliminate a category like Category Four, any kind of benefits. I would like to remind you that, along with the removal or exclusion of this fourth zone of so-called zone, we have denied a number of benefits to all citizens who lived under the Chernobyl Disaster Act. At the same time, we have deprived our children of food in schools, in this fourth zone, without having done any research into whether or not these children have more oncosa than in other areas. And it's very sad. I believe that everyone who voted in favour of this budgeting legislation has a personal responsibility to the families of all black people. And I remind you, those people's deputies who have receptions in the areas, and I have receptions in the areas, they clearly see the dynamics of how many people are asking for help. These include children who are very ill with cancer. Statistics are very sad. I also want to say that I have repeatedly asked myself, both personally and from the Fatherland faction, to the Antimonopoly Committee, which has blocked the sale of food, or the provision of food services to these children in educational institutions. And this is also a very bad and sad situation. We need to anticipate the mechanism and the ability to control those poor entrepreneurs who have no forks or spoons to win tenders, and then look for firms that are fully capable of providing these services. And if they're looking for a subterranean firm, then know that they're stealing from our children. And that's the masculinity, that's the pitfalls that are meant to be eaten. I also want to say that this is going to lead to the mechanism that's set out in this bill that we're going to lose and shut down dining schools and children can't.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-17-m0.u49	Thank you. Please, from the Radical Party of Oleg Lazko.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-17-m0.u50	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. I have a question for the coalition. Why bother people, especially on the eve of the 32nd anniversary of the Chernobyl disaster? Here's the newspaper Voice of Ukraine for today's issue, and we read the headline, "Parliament wants to restore benefits to black people." This is the order of the day for today. Show me where are the laws that restore the benefits to the niggers? One, provided it's a Chernobyl issue: the Money Compensation Act for Free Eating of Children (registration number 6230). You don't vote in favour of a reduced procedure, you propose to consider it in full, and the reporter comes out and says, "The law is out of date, bad, let's take it off the table. If we're taking this law off the table, show me where else the laws are on Chernobyl. No, it's called a lie. Is there a conscience at all or not? Why would you cheat people? You're telling me that you want to restore the rights of the Chernobylites, and instead of doing a very simple thing: to put Bill 4442 on our website today, which actually restores the rights of the Chernobylites, protects them, you put one law, and you take it out of consideration, and you talk about it for an hour, an hour, an hour, and in summary, these hours of transfusion from empty to empty end with the Chernobyl being without anything. Everyone knows I'm eloquent, but I find it hard to find words when I see injustice and deception and when it's done cynically and abruptly. You're telling me you're protecting the Chernobyls, and you're actually just lying to them. Think of the people who are now starving in the Ministry of Social Policy, millions of people are starving in Ukraine. Because when 32 years ago we had to go and protect both Ukraine and the world from the nuclear plague, people went -- they didn't ask for the benefits, they didn't ask for anything. Today, when there's no basics: pills, medicine, God forbid, some kind of oncology, the last thing you have to do is get out of the house. And people. The state has passed the law, guaranteed State guarantees, is not being implemented today. The Chernobyl people are asking you to implement the law as a matter of fact. You deprive them of that right by telling them that there is no money. To steal from repairs, from corruption, from offshore, from space gas prices, there are billions of dollars to give to basic black people -- there is no money. We're asking Parliament to draft Bill 4442, look at it, and return the real benefits to the black people. And their great gratitude and respect for their feat, these heroic men and women who saved Ukraine and the world from the Chernobyl plague.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-17-m0.u51	Thank you. Please, from the Self-Help faction, Roman Semenich. I'd like to have a word with you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-17-m0.u52	Semenha Roman, "The Self-Help Union" faction. Dear colleagues, madame presiding, distinguished Ukrainian citizens! On April 26, the 36th will leave. 32nd, I'm sorry, the anniversary of Chernobyl's terrible tragedy. And today, my address in the Supreme Council is the demand of the inhabitants of the village of Pisochin in the Kharkiv region, the disabled who suffered as a result of the Chernobyl tragedy, as well as other thousands of Ukrainian citizens, who in 2011 were frozen by the government of Azarov in their Order 1210. Since then, more than six years have passed, power has changed, several governments, ministers of social policy have changed, but the attitude toward these people remains the same. I want to give everyone a few examples that eloquently show the state's attitude toward the Chernobylites today. Especially the apartment. In Kiev, on January 1st, 18th, for the additional diet of citizens affected by the Chernobyl tragedy, only 27 dollars per person is allocated to the hospital in the hospital. Moreover, the annual relief aid to the victims of the tragedy is 98 bucks. Listen: 98 bucks. Since 2013, the state has not financed a housing scheme for citizens affected by the Chernobyl disaster. Some of the victims of the 1st category have been in housing since 1995. This attitude toward citizens is viewed as cynicism. Notice that today, the Supreme Council, by imitating the bills, the ruling coalition is already introducing the bill itself by insisting on two factions -- and itself, during the report, is proposing not to consider it further. What is cynicism? I think we need to consider today a bill that mentioned my colleagues, which will fully restore the benefits to the black people. As far as the bill is concerned, the monetaryization of the benefits is a necessary and important step that is worth supporting. However, the mechanism is important, and so is the amount of compensation and the very fact that such a procedure is being implemented. Regrettably, the authors failed to make calculations, simply stating that the amount of payments is fixed at Kabmin’s legal level. But it's obvious that there might be a gap if we don't say more -- a tragedy that, as long as it's once again, it's possible to delay the development of appropriate sub-legislative acts for months, there will be no provision for free nutrition. Therefore, this bill can only be supported in the first reading. But most of all, the Supreme Council has to vote on a bill that repeals that disgraceful decree of Kabmin Azarov in order to list pensions for the disabled of the Chernobyl disaster. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-17-m0.u53	Thank you, my dear fellow! And please, Mr. Barna of the Peter Dust Block. Please, Mr. Stepan.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-17-m0.u54	Praise Jesus Christ! Dear colleagues, there is a problem with children’s health in the country, especially in view of the fact that 35 percent of children complete educational institutions with chronic digestive diseases. And so now that we're talking about this problem, it's very global, and it needs to be addressed systematically. It's not selective, it's systematic across Ukraine. Because we have children, all of our children, Ukrainian. And you don't have to divide them into Chernobyl children, children of the gunmen or children of the disabled. Us. For us, we care about all the children of Ukraine. And that's why we need to go so that all the kids can finish school in a healthy way. There's a need to renovate the benefits. Obviously, this is a step that should eliminate the corruption risks of the heating, lighting, and passing system. But, Your Honor, the monetaryization of food is a complete absurdity. We must do everything we can to ensure that all children are able to eat at school so that local self-government, school management, executive authorities can provide adequate nutrition for all children, all classes in schools in Ukraine. Another point is that parents of individual categories, who are not sufficiently provided, should benefit from feeding their children. But once again, I don't need to focus on Chernobyl children at the same time, because I also have Blackwater Pollution Zones, Radioactive Pollution, but not everyone expected this status, although the radiation was more than in the areas where they got it. So obviously I'm going to the government of Ukraine, and I'm going to the Head of the Supreme Council and to the deputies in a fundamental and systematic manner to address this issue and to put into order the daily bill 4682 -- on the organization of compulsory feeding of all students in schools from 1 to 12 with the participation of local self-government authorities, executive authorities, school management and with the participation of the same parents, where there will be partly parental pay, but this will be decided by the local self-government authorities, coming out of their financial capabilities. We must return, not formally, but objectively and truthfully to our nation’s health. Thank you. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-17-m0.u55	Thank you, Your Honor. Please, Mr. Kulinich, the National MP, is invited to speak from the Rebirth Group. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-17-m0.u56	Oleg Kulinic, MP of Rebirth, 147th constituency, Poltavščina. Dear colleagues, very soon, on April 26th, we're going to have an action in the state dedicated to the 32nd anniversary of the Chernobyl tragedy, the Chernobyl disaster. And it's clear that we have to do everything we can as legislators to support these people who have suffered from this catastrophe. Bill 6230, which deals with benefits for. certain food products that produce radionuclei for children certainly need to be supported, and our group will support it. But let's be realistic, it doesn't solve fully the problems that now exist in our country in this category of people who have suffered as a result of the Chernobyl disaster. Recently, in Kharkiv, in April, early April, the All-Ukrainian Congregations of Chernobyl Organizations were held at the initiative of our "Party of the Renaissance", where almost all of the Chernobyl organizations from all parts of Ukraine were present. And all of them, as one, supported our legislative initiative, this is Bill 6292, which is complex, which is designed with it, where it's about restoring those benefits and social guarantees for the Chernobyls. These are the benefits they deserve and should have. So we must do everything we can to ensure that these benefits are restored and that people receive these benefits. And I'd like to go to the Supreme Council leadership on Thursday to put 6292 in order and, in fact, all those bills that are registered on this issue, on this issue, and consider and finally give the Chernobyls an answer, whether we support them in words or in specific legislative initiatives. I've been in my district recently -- the city of Mirgorod -- meeting with the Chernobyl organizations. They also support 6292. And as one, all of them are talking about restoring the benefits that these people deserve. So let's give our specific legislative initiatives, really, support these people, because it's really a disaster, it's a tragedy. And I think these people have these benefits, and they have the guarantees they deserve, they have to get them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-17-m0.u57	Thank you, Your Honor. And I invite you to the word of Natal the Royal, who will present the opposition to this bill, the faction of the Opposition Block. Please, Mrs. Natala.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-17-m0.u58	Good afternoon! Well, traditionally, we have a lot of terrible tragedies ahead of us, and in Parliament, they're starting to mimic the concern of the Chernobylites. Unfortunately, we're now looking at a very pointy issue that doesn't really solve the global issue of eating children or protecting families or protecting black people. In Parliament, a whole package of bills aimed at actually correcting the mistakes made by the authorities over the past four years have been drafted by different factions, different MPs. But something today we're starting a parliamentary week with a bill that the author himself says should be sent to work on. Dear colleagues, raise your hand in the hall who feeds your child for 18 bracelets a day. There's none. What, then, is the government offering to feed on 18-24 bracelets a day? Well, that's extremely unfair. And what are we not saying that after the great reform that the government has done, the feeding of children in many areas of Ukraine has been disrupted today? Why do we go back to correcting some of this government's mistakes, and we don't see the government's report here, and we don't see the responsibility of the profile ministers for being bullied by the black people right now, taking away almost all the benefits, compensations, benefits and guarantees that these really brave people had? In the last four years, people have been deprived of medicine, medical care, free nutrition for children in polluted areas, health programs, housing and transportation, pension payments, retirement benefits, discounts on municipal services, and a number of other legal guarantees. Moreover, the fourth category of Chernobyl was abolished, and the Constitution and the rights of 1 million people were severely violated. So we insist that, first, all the compensations and guarantees that were taken out of law on 1 January 2015 be restored. And secondly, the issue of the protection of the Chernobyl population today is being addressed in a comprehensive manner to review all the bills. We insist on reviewing the opposition block bill and colleagues from other factions. And so that we don't imitate the concern of the Chernobyl people here, but we do that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-17-m0.u59	Thank you. Please welcome the People's Deputy Korczyk, who represents the position of the People's Front faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-17-m0.u60	Dear colleagues, we are considering Bill 6230 today. We hear a lot of different thoughts, both pros and cons, as well as refinements. And I want to say that today we are considering this bill. And all those efforts, and all those suggestions, we could sort between the first and the second readings. As co-author of this bill, as a person who was born in Plainsland, which was also affected by the Chernobyl disaster, I propose to support this bill, which is aimed at more effective protection of the rights of children who suffered as a result of the Chernobyl disaster, through their monetaryization. That is to compensate for the cost of food for students in public schools, for students in vocational and technical schools, college students, technicians, schools in the area of radioactive pollution, and children with disabilities as a result of the Chernobyl disaster. That is, they will be paid for the cost of these products. And let's not forget, we're talking about kids today. We say this before this sad anniversary. So please let us vote and do what people expect us to do. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-17-m0.u61	Dear colleagues, I would like to remind you that we have had a substantive discussion of this bill from factions. And the copyright team is asking the session room to submit this bill. Now, why don't we put it to a vote and save 10 minutes on the floor from the deputies? Is there no objection to the hall? Dear colleagues, then please return to the session room, and we will now be determined. What? There's a denial, I'm asking you that. Please sign up for the speeches by the deputies. Dear Mr. Eutuszek, will you take your word again? Please, 6 minutes, National Deputy Mishchenko. He is given the right to speak by the national deputy Eutusek.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-17-m0.u62	Sergei Mishchenko, Kyivščina. Dear citizens of Ukraine, you see today's circus in this Supreme Council. I want to go to the deputies right now and ask those who were in the districts: and the Chernobyls came up to you and said that this is the last week before our Ukrainian people had this tragedy, these years of protecting these people of our country. Everyone was approached and said: Make every effort to make sure that the bills that exist in the Supreme Council are put in place this week. What do we see? We see the only bill this week that the authors themselves ask him to withdraw. This is not the first time in our country. When, on the one hand, the country tells our citizens: Go protect our country. Or is it the Chernobylers who have been forgotten once and for all, who are now forgetting those who are fighting in eastern Ukraine, because when they go back, they can't get land either under the OSH or under the construction or under the other benefits, they're constantly beating the thresholds of officials. So in the case of those who protect or work in this country, the same pensioners who worked for 40, 50 years, who were forgotten by this pension reform, they had to work for the country, and now they're forgotten. Black people are also forgotten. We're going to see 26 numbers of huge action all over the country. There's going to be a grand concert at the Palace of Ukraine, and there's going to be huge concerts in all the clubs, renegades and cities, and there's going to be going to the memorials and the memorials of the dead. And you've calculated how much is this going to cost our country for the budgets? I think the money they're talking about today about renewing the benefits for the Chernobyls is better for these bills than for someone to come forward and sing to them at the Ukrainian Palace. You ask them, niggers, they want the concert or the benefits back. They'll all tell you: "We want to restore justice because we have protected you with our lives, with our health, and in the last week of Parliament you've put in place a bill that doesn't decide anything, and you say this coalition says, let's call it off." They'll tell me there's no money. I mean, there's money, there's money for stealing, there's money for hotels, and there's no money for niggers. So, you know, I'm talking to the neighborhood right now. Today is the day, today is nothing, there is one day – it is the Thursday where they can put these bills. So I'm calling on all the troublemakers, if you just miss this Supreme Council right now, and you don't give an answer, who's in the house of the landlords, the people or the deputies who stand here and don't want to do anything, you're going to go under the walls of Parliament, under the Cabinet of Ministers, and tell you where the money is, or you need concerts of 26 numbers. That's when they might put these in. And to the factions that have their own drafts, I have a call. Oleg Valeriyovich, here's your bill, there's a "rebirth" bill, there's other MPs bill. Block this Parliament on Thursday or Wednesday, I'll be in on it. People will go to Parliament, under the Cabinet of Ministers, you'll block the rostrum, then there will be action, then we'll not just talk here, but let's talk about it, and we'll vote for your bill. Only by force can this power be forced to do something.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-17-m0.u63	Dear colleagues, I invite you to the floor of the People's Deputy Rosenblatt. At the same time, I call on the deputies to work on Thursday, not to block. Because all categories of Ukrainians and citizens expect jobs from us, not blockades. Please, sir, Mr. Rosenblatt.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-17-m0.u64	Good afternoon, dear colleagues. Good afternoon, distinguished Ukrainian people. Good afternoon, you nuns. Yes, indeed, on April 26, many of us will be present at the events that will take place throughout Ukraine. We will worship the Chernobylites, standing next to the people who saved our country 32 years ago. We will look into the eyes of those who lost their breadwinners, have lost their loved ones, because the ills of the rays, the oncops, they have taken these people. I remember those days of April 26th, 86th, last century. I remember the cars, the croissants, the buses, driving the other way. From there people were transported from the Chernobyl area, and there were firemen, soldiers, going to rescue our country. They went to do what the same people do today, only 30 years later, which are now in the trenches. And you know what's hard? It will be difficult to look them in the eye and tell them why we have not again been able to honor them with words, but to restore those not easy benefits, but the monetaryization of the benefits. Restoring all the opportunities they have lost because of their illness. I want to remind you that today, when our military are on the front line, when they're protecting our country, they don't think about the benefits they're looking for. And it's very hard to feel that one day, in 10-20 years, there's going to be a government, a prime minister who's going to cancel for our ATS, or our military, the monetaryization of these benefits, or those, if you'll excuse me, the monetary rewards that they're making with their blood today and then. I want to invite everyone again, those laws 4442 that are actually introduced. There's a lot of extra bills before them, and they're all set up to at least monetize the benefits and restore the Chernobyl pension. I call on everyone today, let's not insinuate, some sort of event for the Chernobyls, but let's actually vote. And I am addressing Parliament's leadership. Let's pay back on Thursday, the eve of the 32nd anniversary of the Chernobyl disaster to those people who, without regret, saved Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-17-m0.u65	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the final speech in the House of Deputies. People's MP Krivenko. One last speech, please, I'm announcing it. And I'm asking you to come into the hall, there'll be a vote in three minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-17-m0.u66	Victor Krivenko, National Movement of Ukraine. Dear viewers, colleagues! I remember this February 2015, we're only two months away as deputies. And as more than half of those who are now on fire criticizing the decision to pay off the benefits when they have taxed their pensions. When everyone was standing like this in front of the IMF, they just swore allegiance to him. We should all work with the IMF, that's our creditor. Some idea that maybe we should have announced the default in 2014, but not now. When I stepped against the population tariff requirements from February, they showed all the calculations, they showed all the algorithms, how to raise 45 percent of the total tariff. And this completely balanced with our own consumption, with our entire production of gas for the population. Similarly, the question, in that package, was voted on by the question of the kind of zealous fulfilment of the external requirements of complete internal integrity. So, of course, right now, I think we're going to vote on this bill. I agree with my colleague Mishchenk, who said that it is clear that the last week, and how now those who were willing to support, look the niggers in the eye that we did not vote on other bills. But we need to think and be subject to our own household and not simply meet the external requirements. Yeah, we have to work together, yeah, we have to make a deal, yeah, we have to play by the rules, but we have to protect our own. When we're a forest round, first of all, the Radical Party did a lot to do it, when we broke this bill, like we broke through our knees to get it over with. Standings are normal, jobs are being created, we're being co-operated, we're still developing. That's right and all the rest of the questions. Therefore, the request to vote and move on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-17-m0.u67	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues, this was the last performance. And I'm asking my colleagues to return to the session room because there's going to be a vote. I would like to remind you that we have discussed the bill in full procedure, but the drafters have asked the session room to support the return to the draft, so this will be the wording immediately.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-17-m0.u68	Thank you. So, colleagues, let's move on to making a decision. I'm asking all the deputies to come to the hall. Please take up your jobs. My colleagues, I would like to remind you that the recommendation for this bill is to accept it as a basis only in the first reading. And we can get everyone who has a warning to him to work on the second reading. And so I ask everyone to come into the hall, support this legislative initiative, and this will be an important sign for the anniversary of the Chernobyl tragedy. So, colleagues, let's move on to making a decision. Please return to your workplace from your beds. And I'm voting on a bill amending the Ukrainian Law on the Status and Social Protection of Citizens affected by the Chernobyl disaster (for payment of money for free nutrition for children) (No. 6230) as a basis. Please vote, please support. Based on the base. On the ground, just on the ground. Please vote and please support. Vote. Please be supportive. Let's support this as a base. [[11:38:26]] For 252 Decision taken. Let us turn to the issue of nuclear policy and nuclear security. It's a cluster of questions, five questions, we're going to start looking at them now. The first is a bill amending certain laws of Ukraine in the field of nuclear energy (5,550). And I would like to stress that this bill is part of the list of laws necessary for European integration. And I'm asking you to support his consideration of the reduced procedure. Please vote and please support. Support me, colleagues, short-circuited procedure. Please vote. [[11:39:22]] For 178. Decision taken. And I invite the head of the State Nuclear Regulatory Inspectorate, Grigory Ivanovich, to the report. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-17-m0.u69	Dear Chairman, distinguished national MPs! Your view is on the draft Ukrainian Law on Amendments to Certain Ukrainian Laws on the Use of Nuclear Energy (Registration No. 5550). This project ensures implementation into Ukraine's legislation of certain provisions of Directive 2013/59/Euratom, which sets basic safety standards to protect against the dangers posed by ionising radiation. Legislation in Ukraine on the use of nuclear energy and in general is consistent with the provisions of this directive, but some of the provisions of the directive need to be implemented into Ukraine's laws. The Bill 5550 therefore provides for amendments to a number of laws, namely: “On the use of nuclear energy and radiation security”, “On the extraction and processing of uranium ores”, “On the protection of humans against the effects of ionizing radiation”, “On the free use of nuclear energy”. The adoption of the draft Law will help harmonise Ukraine's legislation with European Union legislation, international requirements and MAGATE standards that operate in the field of nuclear energy use, the establishment of the only basic safety standards for the protection of the health of the population and those under professional medical exposure, the improvement of the efficiency of radiation safety and radiation protection in the application of nuclear energy in various areas of the economy and human activity. With regard to the proposals of the Committee on European Integration and the General Scientific and Scientific Administration, we consider them appropriate and suggest that they be taken into account when preparing the bill for second reading. In view of the above, please support the draft Ukrainian Law on Amendments to Certain Ukrainian Laws on the Use of Nuclear Energy (No.5550), submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, and adopt it in the first reading on a basis from.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-17-m0.u70	30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-17-m0.u71	Please provide support on the basis of further development. On the offer. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-17-m0.u72	Thank you. I invite you to report to the First Vice-Chairman of the Committee on Fuel and Energy in the Dombrovsky Alexander Georgievic complex. Please, Mr. Alexander.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-17-m0.u73	Honorable Presidium, distinguished fellow national MPs! Today, I think, is an extraordinary day in the walls of the Ukrainian Parliament, because before the Chernobyl tragedy, we are looking at a box of very important bills that have to do with enhancing the safety of nuclear energy in Ukraine. I would like to remind everyone that the great tragedy that happened many years ago, to this day because a sufficient level of security was missing at the Chernobyl nuclear station, echoes have a direct impact and attitude today towards energy and economic activity in Ukraine. I would like to support the bill and ask you to vote because this bill, 5550, is not only part of the road map of our commitments from the point of view of European integration, but it also harmonizes the standards and standards that should be in place to ensure the work of Ukraine's nuclear energy. I would also like to remind you that today, the nuclear energy of Ukraine generates more than 50 percent of the electricity consumed by Ukraine's economy and the security issue, and the social protection of the people who work there and who have suffered from the Chernobyl accident, is a key challenge to which the Ukrainian Parliament has to answer. So please support this bill in the first reading as a basis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-17-m0.u74	Thank you. Please record: two in, two in. Liszko Oleg Valeriyovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-17-m0.u75	On the eve of the 32nd anniversary of the Chernobyl disaster, we perceive with particular concern the events that are now taking place in the world, our world at the threshold of chaos. Russian aggression-provoked events in Ukraine, Syria, 6 military conflicts involving Russian weapons on the European continent testify to one thing: contracts do not work, borders are despised, rights are trampled. And today, a country that cares for its security, for its future, each one dreams of establishing a nuclear button and a nuclear weapon. Iran, Pakistan, India, Israel, Korea, and even Saudi Arabia have already declared that they would produce nuclear weapons. Why do they view nuclear weapons as the only way to protect themselves? Because the Budapest Memorandum is not being implemented. Because the whole world sees that Ukraine, for the first time in the world, has voluntarily given up nuclear weapons under the assurances of great nations in 1994, Ukraine is now a victim of aggression, and the guarantees given are not being fulfilled. The Budapest Memorandum’s signatures shyly silence even the fact that it exists, and they do not recognize it as a legally binding document. Because of the failure of the Budapest Memorandum of Understanding, nuclear weapons spread around the world, endangering the future of mankind and the future of our planet. We call on those who signed the Budapest Memorandum to do so. The guarantees given to Ukraine are done -- and this is the best addiction to nuclear proliferation, the guarantee of peace and the future for our planet and our children.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-17-m0.u76	From the Fatherland faction to the word, Sergey Sobolev is invited.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-17-m0.u77	Dear colleagues, this bill cannot be approved without approval of MAGATE. The experiments carried out at the Chernobyl nuclear station led to the world’s violent catastrophes by other nuclear objects of peaceful purpose. This is the reason why MAGATES regulates clear rules for the creation of control organs that are required to meet their requirements. But this bill contains another very important standard to agree with the Ministry of Health, since the bill limits those X - ray machines that we use by almost 80 percent in our hospitals. Yes, indeed, the world went much further. MRT, other very high-quality medical facilities allow you to do this without any radiation. But imagine that if this ban starts and we stop X - rays in rural or district hospitals for millions of our citizens, taking into account the terrible danger that our country has experienced in the five most dangerous diseases of tuberculosis. That's why our proposal, factions: to return to the authors of the legislative initiative and settle two issues. The first question is MAGATE standards, which should be clear when creating new bodies. And secondly, to prevent X - ray machines from disappearing from the district, even district, hospitals, and our citizens from getting the proper help they're about to receive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-17-m0.u78	Thank you. From Storm's Opposition Block. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-17-m0.u79	Igor Shurma, Opposition Block. Dear colleagues, let's call things our names. But look what the implementation of this bill will do. They offered to ban the use of all X - ray devices that did not meet the requirements in February. Please tell me, where is the Ministry of Health in this bill? Today, the Ministry of Health should have been a coreporter here, they should have given us a description of what happens in our x - ray offices, how much equipment we have in Ukraine, how much time they have exhausted themselves, which of them meets the requirements and which are not. It's, you know, if someone's setting themselves up for the purpose of this law to run a state program of mass replacement X-ray equipment, and that's very expensive equipment, please call things by your names. We have x-rays today, we have people working in X-rays. The question is about lowering ionizing sources for interns and students. Can you tell me if the X-ray labs don't work there? Don't they get radiation? So there's kind of a subterfuge here. And the next. If we want to make these radical changes in the x-ray service today, let's not change our minds. Why are we here at once covered in the Chernobyl tragedy? This subject and the problem have always been painful for health care. But if this bill goes into effect at one point, we know what performers there are, boom, they've shut down all the X-rays. No fluorographs, no X-rays will work. Thus, the bill can only harm patients who need it. You can't vote for him like that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-17-m0.u80	And a closing statement from Peter Dustock's Block. In three minutes, the decision will be made, and I ask everyone to come into the hall. And now we're talking about Spores Ivan Dmitrovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-17-m0.u81	Ivan Sporish, Peter Dusty Block. Please pass the word to Alexander Dombrowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-17-m0.u82	Dear colleagues, I may disappoint someone, but in this bill it's not about closing up in rural medicine or in the city's no X-ray offices. It's about introducing the terms of the law. And once again, I would like to point out that the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine is proposing that the first reading be based. And as in our practice between the first and the second readings, we always work out in detail all the bills before the second reading, this is a perfectly correct and correct approach so that we don't just declare the safety of atomic energy, but move forward. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-17-m0.u83	Thank you. So the discussion is over. Let's move on to making a decision. And I'm asking all the MPs to come into the hall, prepare for a decision. Heads of factions, please invite the national deputies to the Hall. I would like to emphasize and confirm the committee head's words that all the amendments can be accepted and settled between the first and the second readings. And now it's being proposed by the committee to allow us to work on it so that we can take it as a basis in the first reading. And I ask everyone to uphold this law. And I ask you to take part in the vote. Guys, please, let's move on to making a decision. And I'm voting on a bill amending some of Ukraine's laws on the use of nuclear energy (No. 5550). Just on the basis that we can work it out. Please vote and please support. Jaroslav, vote. Please be supportive. Please vote. We're voting on the basis. Please be supportive. [[11:54:00]] For 205 205. We didn't make it. I'll bet on my return, colleagues. But please invite the deputies to the hall. Please show by factions. So most factions support it. All I'm asking is for everyone to come into the hall, get ready for the vote. And please take a close part in the vote. Please, the secretariat of the Supreme Council will request members of the Chamber. Now I'm going to put on a return and just an important mobilization in the hall. Please take up jobs. So I'm voting on the proposal to go back to the draft Law on Amendments to Certain Ukrainian Laws on the Use of Nuclear Energy (No. 5550). I remind you, this is a Euro-Integration Bill, which is on the road map of the implementation of the Association Agreement. It is only accepted in the first reading, and so I ask everyone to support and grouply vote responsibly. So 5550 is a return. Please vote. Carefully, each voice has a weight. Please vote, please support. Vote. Please be supportive. [[11:55:34]] For 218. 218. Eight votes. Please invite members of the National Assembly. I'll put it back again. Please, Olya. Please go into the hall and get ready for the vote and I'll put it back on if there are no votes, of course I'll put it to work. I'm asking the maximum of factions now, please invite MPs into the hall, please mobilize as much as possible. And I propose once again to go back to the draft Law amending certain laws of Ukraine in the field of nuclear energy (5,550). I'm asking everyone to vote carefully, we're out of 8 votes. Please vote and please support. Colleagues, every voice, I very carefully ask to vote for the return. Vote. Please be supportive. Please vote. Colleagues, pay attention! [[11:56:47]] For 215 215. I'll bet the next one on the committee. Do you vote for the committee? I would like to make the next suggestion that Bill 5550 be sent to the committee for re-reading. Please vote, please support the draft Law 5550 on amending certain laws of Ukraine in the field of the use of nuclear energy to be sent to the Committee to prepare for the re-reading of the first reading. Please vote, please support. Vote. We vote that we don't lose the bill. [[11:57:31]] For 241 241 – yes. Decision taken. Bill 5550 on the Committee for Re-reading. Colleagues, I'm asking the committee to prepare more quickly. And it's very sad that we haven't been able to accept it as a basis today and allow it to be worked out. We don't have time to start the next draft of the law. We have two minutes left. And that's why, according to the Rules, I'm calling it a 30-minute break. After the break, we will continue our consideration of the nuclear policy and nuclear security cluster. The next is draft Law 7471. And so I ask at 12:30 to arrive in the hall, and also the head of the State Inspectorate of Nuclear Control, and I ask everyone to arrive at 12:30 to continue our work.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-17-m0.u84	Dear colleagues, we are continuing our meeting. I ask you to return to the Ukrainian National Assembly Hall. I would like to remind you that we are now discussing the issue of nuclear policy and nuclear security, the drafts of the first reading. And I ask you to return to the session room. Dear colleagues, we now have, according to our agenda, Bill 7471 is on the table -- it's a government bill. Draft Act amending certain Ukrainian laws on the safety of nuclear energy use. And I suggest that we consider it as a reduced procedure. Dear colleagues, we will not violate the Rules without discussing it, but we can try it with a reduced procedure. Please return to the session room. I ask you to support the vote on this bill in favour of a reduced procedure. Please vote in favour of the summary procedure, please, colleagues. [[12:37:13]] For-54 There's no potential. An important question. We're going into full procedure. I'm dusting the reporter. I invite you to report to the Head of State for Nuclear Control, Gregory Placzkov. Please, Mr. Placzkov, we invite you to the report.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-17-m0.u85	Dear Chairman, distinguished national MPs! Your view is on the proposal of a bill amending certain Ukrainian laws on the safety of nuclear energy use (registration number 7471). The bill proposes to amend two laws of Ukraine. The first is the Ukrainian Act on Basic Principles of State Oversight (Control) in the Field of Economic Activity. The project proposes to identify a list of laws that will extend to overseeing the safety of nuclear energy. These are rules on public policy, principles of oversight, on the introduction of information into an integrated automated system of government oversight, on the responsibility of officials by the supervisory authority, on the rights of landowners. Thus, the procedural issues of State enforcement of security requirements for the use of nuclear energy will be governed by special nuclear legislation, namely the laws on the use of nuclear energy and radiation security, and the laws on the free use of nuclear energy. The other one. Second, it is proposed to amend the Law on the licensing of economic activities, which provides that the acts of this law do not extend to the order in which licences for the introduction of economic activities in the field of nuclear energy and the control of licensing in this area are granted. Both licensing and State oversight in the field of nuclear energy use have significant features that are subject to licensing and surveillance, namely nuclear and radiation security. Ukraine's laws on the use of nuclear energy and radiation security and on the free use of nuclear energy take into account Ukraine's international obligations to participate in the Nuclear Safety Convention, the United Convention on the Safety of Spent Fuel Management and the Safety of Conduct with Radioactive Wastes and take into account the MAGATE standards of which Ukraine is a member, are also consistent with the State regulation practices that are implemented in virtually all countries where nuclear energy is used. Thus, a bill has been drafted with the aim of restoring the independence of the State Security Authority for the use of nuclear energy in its decisions and in accordance with the referral of G7 ambassadors to Ukraine, which raised the issue of the violation of the independence of the Nuclear Regulatory Authority, i.e. the Rule of Procedure. It should be noted that a nuclear regulation body has been established according to the international conventions and standards I have set up. In accordance with these international instruments, Ukraine is obliged not only to create a nuclear regulator but also to grant it the right to make decisions independently within the limits of its mandate. The adoption of the draft law will help ensure the security of the use of nuclear energy in Ukraine and maintain Ukraine’s image as a state capable of meeting international obligations. In view of the above, please support the draft Ukrainian Law amending certain Ukrainian laws on the safety of nuclear energy use (registration number 7471), submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, and adopt it in the first reading on the basis of further work on the proposals made. I would also like to point out that according to the MAGATE Director-General's report on the Fukushima AES accident, one of the reasons for the accident was the lack of unhindered access of regulators to energy companies to carry out inspections. Instead, the inspection was allowed only for a period of time. Thank you for your attention. Please support in the first reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-17-m0.u86	Thank you. Please remain in the rostrum. And we're looking at a full-procedure bill. Colleagues, I'm asking you to sign up for a question to the reporter. Please, Mrs. Kugel. Alexandra Kugel, your question.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-17-m0.u87	Thank you very much. Dear reporter, you know perfectly well that I have met with the European representatives of MAGATE, to whom I have responded, why it is absolutely against, that your bill is not supported by the team. And when I made our arguments, they were surprised at what the Ukrainian side reported about the false information about the license rules in Ukraine. Once again, in all the countries of the world, there's a bill in place by order of license. You, as a licensing authority, have to prepare the licensing conditions that will be approved in the Cabinet, and in this bill, you want to write them yourself, and you want to confirm for yourself what you're giving birth to corruption. Excuse me, what is your ideology?
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-17-m0.u88	Our ideology. We are clearly working in accordance with the current legislation of Ukraine, the rules and the rules. We're ready to work out this bill between the first and the second readings and take all the notes into account. Thank you for asking.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-17-m0.u89	Thank you. Please ask the following question from the national deputy Eutuska. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-17-m0.u90	Sergey Eutuszek, "The Fatherland" faction. The special feature of this bill on licensing for economic activities is that it establishes a uniform order of licensing, supervision and control in the field of licensing, it establishes framework legislative conditions without interfering with a particular area of economic activity. Therefore, there is a need for sufficient justification for the need to exclude the use of this Law in the field of nuclear energy. If the bill is passed, is there a risk of abuse by the "Keeping Regulation" organs under his control? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-17-m0.u91	Thank you. As the head of the "Keeping Regulation" I want to assure you once again that "Keeping Regulation" is acting in accordance with the current legislation, norms and rules in force in Ukraine, as well as the best practices that we apply as a party to the MAGATE convention, a united and so-called "great" MAGATE convention. Thank you for asking.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-17-m0.u92	Thank you, Your Honor. I'm asking you, Your Honor, to come to your workplace. And I invite you to take the floor in the report of the Ukrainian National MP, the first deputy head of the Committee on Fuel and Energy in Alexander Dombrowski's complex. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-17-m0.u93	Dear colleagues, distinguished national MPs! I allow myself quite often at meetings of the Conciliation Council to criticize the Supreme Council for giving very little attention to the issues of nuclear safety and the development of nuclear energy in Ukraine. I have to say today, looking at this room, that my criticism is absolutely fair, because one of the key issues of the country's security, one of the key issues of the development of the state, its energy security and independence, unfortunately, may not be able to raise the necessary number of votes on a very important key issue concerning the security of Ukraine's nuclear energy. I would like to point out that the countries of the Great Seven, I want to say that the MAGATES leadership is strictly demanding that Ukrainian legislation be brought into line with the requirements of European energy legislation relating to the regulation of nuclear energy. I'd like to go to my colleagues about the Licensing and Deregulation Act, this is a fantasticly correct law, fantastically correct and very much has been done in this regard. But I want to give you a few examples. For example, that public oversight of high - risk entities cannot be performed more often than once every two years, a requirement for checking all 15 atomic blocks requiring such inspection of the MAGATE instruction and the European directives cannot be met. And many concrete steps and decisions relating to the safety of nuclear energy in Ukraine cannot be implemented in the context of existing legislation. Therefore, we need to make changes and restore the actions and standards of the laws that were in force. This, once again, is not the desire of the government, this is not the desire of the Fuel and Energy Committee, this is the demands of MAGATE and our European partners. We have had enough discussions, meetings, and I believe that in the first reading, the Supreme Council of Ukraine is obliged to vote on this bill in order to continue the discussions, perhaps at a higher level, in order to reconcile all positions with the current progressive legislation and legislation that will not allow the Chernobyl nuclear disaster to happen again. Thank you for your attention. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-17-m0.u94	Please remain on the rostrum. Colleagues, we are discussing this bill in full procedure. I'm asking you to sign up for a question. The national deputy of Eutuszk, your question.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-17-m0.u95	Mr. Chairman of the Committee, I have another question for you. In the event of the adoption of the bill, did you discuss on the committee the risks of abuse by the State and its organs? Because at the moment, the Ukrainian Law on licensing for economic activities stipulates that it is subject to licensing for activities in the field of nuclear energy use. Such licensing takes place with regard to the Law on Free Activities in the Use of Nuclear Energy. Similarly, electricity activities are currently licensed under the Ukrainian Law on the licensing of economic activities, taking into account the Law on Electricity. Did you discuss on the committee the risks that might be in "Keeping Regulation" or not? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-17-m0.u96	We discussed the risks both at the committee meeting and when we held working round tables. I don't see any problems associated with any of the risks you're talking about. But I'll give you an example of that. See, we can't, no one has the right to come and check the business on the weekends, according to the law. Including today’s weekends, no institution can come to inspect nuclear blocks at our nuclear stations. Today we can't go in at the same time for a test of 15, by 3, by 4 atomic blocks. It's not a discussion that someone wants to do worse, it's a discussion that we're better off dealing with security issues, for prevention, to make things impossible that we had many years ago because you can see what is going on in the country. So the question of the safety of atomic blocks should be question number one. I don't see the risks to the questions you're talking about today.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-17-m0.u97	Thank you. Please ask the following question from the National MP, Alexandra Kugel. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-17-m0.u98	Dear Mr. Dombrowski, with great respect for you, I'd like to say that you have mistrusted your information. The check-in law is not exactly distributed for control. There's a list of both tax and nuclear energy. That's the first one. Secondly, the understanding of permissive procedures is set out in the law on permissiveness, only procedure, and there is no point in any way, because all other issues are written out in licensing conditions, which are written only by the State Department, they write out. But the warning is one thing in our law that these licensing conditions are approved by the Cabinet of Ministers to take a sense of collective responsibility. And you write license terms for yourself, you validate them, and you control them yourself. This is direct corruption and there is no question of protection.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-17-m0.u99	Answer, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-17-m0.u100	Alexander Volodymyr! Alexander Volodymyr! You know how much I respect you as much as you do me. But I, on the other hand, want to say that it's not like we're giving ourselves some kind of authority, but some of the licensing conditions you're talking about, someone has to control hard how they're being implemented or not being fulfilled and have the opportunity to control these licensing conditions. But there are discussions that we had with you both on your committee and on our committee, and that's true. But between the first and the second readings we have the opportunity to find those compromising positions that will allow us to have safe atomic energy in the country and not allow any abuse, because then, God forbid, it'll be late and then we won't be able to point our fingers at each other.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-17-m0.u101	Thank you for your answers. Dear colleagues, I ask you to sign up for this bill from the factions. Please sign up for factions. Thank you. Excuse me, please. Mrs. Olga Belkova is speaking from the Peter Prashenko faction. She'll be out of town. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-17-m0.u102	Thank you very much, ma'am. Well, really, we're discussing this bill in terms of what was previously adopted legislation that changes approaches and makes our approaches more liberal with regard to both licensing and testing and other issues related to control and regulation of different businesses. At the same time, it should be noted that nuclear fuel requires a rather restrictive and cautious attitude. And we held consultations both between parliaments and our colleagues from Europe, and we agreed that today it would be better to return some of the norms that allow the monitoring authorities to implement their powers in the way that it is in Europe today. So today we would like to focus on the fact that, in fact, all the enterprises that are subject to this bill, they are in state power, they are also controlled by the state authority. There is nothing surprising about this situation. I think that risk and corruption are such, we think more about them today without any reason, so our faction will support this bill. And I very much ask my colleagues to reject all political motives. This is about the security of our European security, and our European colleagues expect a balanced approach from us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-17-m0.u103	Thank you, Mrs. Ola. Now we invite you to the speech of the National MP, Alexander Kugel. She represents the position of the Fatherland faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-17-m0.u104	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I very much request your attention. You realize that when you and I have adopted fundamental European bills in this room, not liberal bills, they're not liberal bills, they're framework projects that in Europe and in all democratic countries have three basic stages: which are subject to permission, licensing, checks that are not appropriate to apply and how to stop. There's nothing more about these bills. That's about nuclear energy. You're all talking about security, and you're not saying that you're not doing anything to improve security, you're putting profits, corruption into this security. Why is that? Because today, according to the Licensing Act, where this activity is necessarily licensed, Kabina has been entrusted with the task of preparing licensing conditions. And in these licensing conditions, as in every country of the world, they write out all the fuses that should be matched by those who get this license. Next, to make sure there's really security, not either espionage, or corruption, these licensing conditions are approved by the Cabinet of Ministers, this is a collegiate body that bears the political responsibility of your coalition. But what I'm trying to say is, Mr. Dombrowski, is that the licensing conditions are the same. If you're removing the Cabinet of Ministers, if you're getting out of the License Act, that's not the point of licensing, it's corruption in the process of filing applications, detention and others. As far as the tests are concerned. Short, loud. They do not fall under the Law on the Periodicity of Tests. As far as permits are concerned. There are no documents in this procedure. And so the conclusion. In Soviet times and in Japan, countries with very serious total control, there were tragedies at nuclear power stations. This raises a question, not a question of who approves licensing terms, but who performs their professional skills and answers to the state. And so please see who you have working in this body, who's checking in and how things are going today, and how Mr. Ahmedov's business is being buried in Ukraine today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-17-m0.u105	Thank you. From the Opposition Block, Yuri Pavlenko will be speaking out of place. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-17-m0.u106	Dear Chairman! Dear colleagues! There is no doubt that the safety of nuclear energy is relevant and important. And that must be the prerogative and priority of the state. The State itself must be responsible for the safety of nuclear energy. And that's what national interests are all about. Unfortunately, the bills that we are considering today do not in any way enhance the influence of the State and the ability of the State to use nuclear energy safely. Instead, in our view, they strengthen, create opportunities and preconditions for external influence and external control of Ukrainian nuclear energy. That's why the Opposition Block abstains from voting for the bill. In addition, I wanted to draw the attention of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to the fact that today it has been reported that draft legislation will be considered to protect people who have suffered the Chernobyl disaster. Instead, we have virtually no law to protect and support people and liquidators, but there are, again, laws that protect or lobby people's interests. So the Opposition Block insists on Thursday, because this is the last week of the anniversary of the Chernobyl disaster, so that on Thursday there will be bills aimed at protecting and supporting people, liquidators, those people who in 1986 have been protecting the country and the world, they will be filled with units, 2-3 thousand, no more, citizens. They're firemen, soldiers, sergeants, law enforcement. In addition, the last meetings I held in the Žitomir region, in the Corstene region, Ovrutsky, Narodinsky, Emilczynski, show, as well as the round table that had just ended here in the Supreme Council, show that the ruined state system of social protection for black people, both liquidators and victims. Most programs, social programs aimed at social protection for victims and liquidators are not working. That's why we're demanding Thursday to lay down laws to protect the liquidators and survivors of the Chernobyl disaster. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-17-m0.u107	Thank you. And from the Radical Party, Oleg Lazko. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-17-m0.u108	The development of domestic energy, whether nuclear or heat or wind or solar or other alternative sources of energy, is crucial to the national security of the country. And that's why the Radical Party team requires power to radically change economic policy. Instead of trading raw materials and mimicking an energy dependency that doesn't really exist. Because we don't care where they buy gas, whether from Russia or Slovakia, actually the same Russian gas, it's important to extract more of our own gas, build more new production power to be energy independent. It was on the initiative of the Radical Party team last year that Parliament passed the law and substantially reduced taxes on gas from new wells. We require the government to lower taxes on other energy sectors in order to boost economic development, so that more Ukrainians will work, make less money to buy gas. Last year, $3 billion was paid for Russian, American, Vietnamese, South Africa coal. Ukrainian miners without jobs, without wages, and have to cover roads to pay them huge multimonth wages. We're talking in Parliament about the development of our own energy. Last year and the past one from Russia were buying electricity through construction companies, and the difference that every Ukrainian pays for was sitting in offshore accounts of those who introduced these corruption schemes. Why is Ukraine’s energy independence so important? Because it's a reduction in tariffs. It's less people going to pay for the utility station and they're going to have more opportunity to spend on their children, on food, on other needs. Because today, when we're told about the government report, about the government report, every Ukrainian in their pocket can mess up this report. The real report is prices in stores. Inflation, expensive drugs, expensive utilities, low wages and low pensions are real government reports. We're proposing another policy: raise wages, raise pensions, stable prices, overcome inflation, new jobs for our Ukrainian people. And I want to take this opportunity to say hello. Today, on our street, a great holiday is the Day of Fire Protection. Tens of thousands of courageous fighters, heroes, save the lives and health of Ukrainians every day. The Radical Party team is doing everything they can to ensure that they have a decent salary, a means of protection, and that they return home alive. We welcome our courageous firefighters with a professional holiday.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-17-m0.u109	Thank you. Allow me, on behalf of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, to join the warmest words of thanks, of course, to all the Ukrainian firemen who do important, sometimes very dangerous, always dangerous work. Colleagues, we've finished discussing the bill and speaking from factions. From factions. And now I'm asking you to sign up for the Ukrainian National Deputies. And I want to talk to my colleagues, who will be voting in nine minutes, it's time to go back to the session room. Dinner's over. Kuluars have to end, too. Please, there will be a vote in six minutes. We only have two people willing to speak. Please, National Deputy Moseschuk. I'd like to have a word with you. The two buttons just worked. We have everyone in the room who cares and who is responsible for going to work. Please, Mr. Igoru, we invite you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-17-m0.u110	Igor Mosiyczuk, Oleg Lachka Radical Party The next week, in my native Lubenstein, in Zazur Mountain, the clearing agents of the Chernobyl AES crash will be back planting the shores. Why do they plant the shores? They plant shores in memory of those who have died each year as a result of the technological disaster that took place in Chernobyl. The officials will go and place the flowers in the monuments. By the way, my native Lubenčina has the most liquidators in the Chernobyl AES, because it happened that the 25th Tank, then the Chapaev Division, was expanded, staffed, and accordingly almost all of the people of the Lubensk region of the male sex took part in the elimination of this greatest technological catastrophe in human history. And what do we have, more than 30 years after this tragedy? What we have is that the black people are being spat in the soul, that the Azores have taken the benefits from the Chernobyls, and today's government officials don't want to return them, they're engaged in the word of fornication, they call the Chernobyl bills, which have absolutely nothing to do with the social support of the Chernobylites and those who have suffered from this tragedy. What do you want? You want to come back here like in the days of Azir, take down fences and break down doors? If you want it, you can have it. But our faction, the faction of Oleg Lachka's Radical Party, offers a much better, much more effective mechanism. We propose to adopt our Bill 4442, which returns all participants and liquidators to the Chernobyl AES benefits and allows each of you to look these people in the eyes, look them in the eyes and not hide them in the floor, because we are all in an invaluable debt to the one who saved the nation, and in the future our country from this terrible disaster. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-17-m0.u111	The final talk in this discussion. National MP Sergei Kaplin, please. They'll come out of the place. And please return to the session room.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-17-m0.u112	I'd like to point out right away, Madam Chairman, that it wasn't a button that worked, that's all. And this conscience of only two Polish national deputies worked when there was such an important and responsible discussion on the subject of nuclear security, which meant the safety of ordinary people. Underlining, the safety of tens of millions of ordinary people. Today, we should not be looking at bills that have an entirely circumstantial attitude toward people. Yes, the current energy bills, which are indeed prerequisites. The adoption of which is a prerequisite for our energy sovereignty, the protection of the interests of the national economy. Today, we should consider laws on the fate of those who have saved not only Ukraine but also the whole world from the Chernobyl plague, those who have covered their shields, their lives from the danger of Europe, and all without exception of the country. They're left on their own. Today, they want attention, they want more pensions, and they want social benefits. We've worked on a series of bills on the committee that clearly describe those to be given, and the Chernobyls are there in the first place, because they are true saviors of Europe and of the whole world, and where to take them. This bill, which deals with the issue of part of the cost-of-work fund worldwide, is from 22 percent to 86 percent, as in Norway and Sweden. In our country, 8 percent, and our employees, millions of Ukrainian workers are barely paying for their wages. And then there's no EUSR, then there's no pension, then there's no money for the Chernobyls, Afghans, military veterans, retired military personnel. We've drafted a bill on the second level of the pension system so that today's young people don't end up facing one of the challenges of bankruptcy in the solidarity system, and we've worked on laws that apply to the collection of high-paying taxes. Just think: the authorities who receive millions of wages pay only 40,000 dollars per month to the EU. Naftogazu Manager, Crossroads, Minister of Social Policy, his deputies, the heads of the Pension Fund, getting a few hundred dollars' salary, pay to the Money Pension Fund! And from a simple job, from a simple milkmaid, they're almost pulling a large, left-hand part of her salary. We have to destroy this circle of injustice, and here we have to focus our attention on the entire parliament, all the factions, there has to be unanimity support for similar social initiatives. And I call on the National Deputies to adopt this bill, and yet to hold a separate hearing on the issue of Chernobyl and to vote on these initiatives, to give them a pension and social protection.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-17-m0.u113	Thank you. So the discussion is over. Now the closing word will be Dombrovsky Alexander Georgievicz. I ask all the heads of factions to invite deputies into the hall, in two minutes we will move on to making a decision. And I'm asking the Secretary of the Supreme Council to invite the deputies to the Hall. Please, Alexander Georgievich Dombrowski, 2 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-17-m0.u114	Dear colleagues, frankly, I am very sorry that before the Chernobyl tragedy this black tragic lesson teaches us nothing. It doesn't teach that more than any political insinuation needs to look at the problem of nuclear energy security, from the difficult consequences Ukraine has today after Chernobyl. I am very sorry that Ukrainian politicians and the Ukrainian Parliament do not unite the Chernobyl disaster in terms of what needs to be done, never to be repeated, and that the issue of nuclear safety requires a cold blow so that no one will ever suffer. Are there nuances in terms of licensing, testing, discussion? Of course, there is no law that is discussed and discussed in this room, it is not ideal. And today no one is proposing this law as a whole. We propose that this law be adopted as a basis for continuing the discussion between first and second reading. But once again, I want to stress, MAGATE, our partners in Europe, they don't ask us, they asked us four times, they demand that we change Ukrainian legislation, they demand that Ukrainian nuclear energy be safe and that it be properly controlled, without corruption, but that it be safe and reliable. So I'm asking you very much, despite the small, unfortunately, number of national MPs, to concentrate and support this bill in the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-17-m0.u115	Thank you. So let's move on to making a decision. I'm asking everyone to take their jobs, get back out of bed, get ready to make a decision, please. And I'm voting on a bill amending some of Ukraine's laws on the safety of nuclear energy (No.7471) on the basis of a committee proposal. Colleagues, let's support it. All the suggestions we'll be able to make between the first and the second readings. So 7471, on a base, please vote and please support. Vote, colleagues, please. [[13:15:50]] For 196 We didn't make it. I'll be back. Why don't you come to the hall? [[B in m in s a l in]] I can see it's not working. Please return to the hall. The factions. "Block of Peter Poshenko" – 79, "National Front" – 55, "Occupy Block" – 0, "self-help" – 18, Radical Party – 15, "Fatherhood" – 0, "will of the people" – 6, "Party of Rebirth" – 2. So I'm going to put it back. Please prepare for the vote, and I ask you to support the proposal to draft Law 7471. We're back to looking into it. The committee's proposals are based. Please vote and please support. Vote. Please support the return. [[13:16:57]] For 196 Now I'm putting the next proposal on the committee for further work. You'll support her, won't you? So the next proposal, which is to vote, is to ask everyone to come into the room and support this proposal, so that the draft Law amending certain Ukrainian laws on the safety of nuclear energy (7471) is sent to the committee for re-reading. Please vote and please support. For processing. Please be supportive. Please vote so we don't lose the bill. We'll vote carefully. Let's vote, colleagues. [[13:17:52]] For 215 We didn't make it. Take up your jobs, colleagues. Please invite the deputies to the hall. Colleagues, they asked for one minute so the MPs could come. I'll give Dombrowski another minute. And I ask the factions to invite the deputies to the hall. Please come into the hall, we're all short 11 votes. One minute to Dombrowski. In this moment, I ask everyone to come into the hall and prepare for the vote. Please, Alexander Georgievich.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-17-m0.u116	Andrew Volodymyrovich! Dear colleagues! Well, frankly, I'm ashamed of what's going on in the walls of the Ukrainian Parliament. It's extremely embarrassing for Ukrainian citizens, both in front of Ukraine and in front of our partners, because everyone has long expected us to have a very professional, professional discussion on Ukraine's energy security and energy independence. I want to say that I don't see the possibility today and the number of votes we need to vote on all the other bills so that we don't crash them. That's why I'm asking the committee to put them to a rating vote. If there are no votes in the room, I ask them to remove and transfer them to another plenary day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-17-m0.u117	Thank you. Please take up your jobs. And, Mr. Dombrowski, we need to mobilize the maximum fraction for the votes to be, because Parliament today has a working day, all the national MPs have to be at work, and in order to do that, we need to raise discipline by factions. And, fellows, I'm putting once again to the vote a proposal that's compromising is to return to the committee for work. And I'm asking everyone to support this proposal. And during the vote, when we vote and each vote has a weight, I ask everyone to return to their jobs. And I ask everyone to prepare for the vote now. So, factions heads, I'm addressing you in particular, I'm asking you to go back to work. Now I'm going to re-proposal for work. So I'm voting on the proposal that the draft Law amending certain laws of Ukraine on the safety of nuclear energy use (No. 7471) should be sent to the committee for further work. And I ask everyone very carefully to take part in the vote and I ask you to support and vote. So please vote and ask everyone to take part in the vote. Vote. Please support 7471 pre-processing. Please vote. Vote. [[13:21:07]] For 217 I'll do it again. If this proposal does not get a vote, the bill will have to be rejected. But there will be a proposal to return the subject to the legislative initiative. I now ask the members of the committee and the heads of the factions to invite the deputies to the hall. And don't leave the hall while you're looking at the bill. Do not leave the hall, but go into the hall. So I'm voting on the next proposal that the Rules provide. This is to return the subject to the legislative initiative for further development. And I'm asking everyone to support this proposal. Colleagues, this is a compromise proposal so that we can completely overthrow the bill so it won't be rejected, and I'm asking you to support it. So please, everyone, prepare for the vote. And I am voting on the proposal that the draft Law amending certain Ukrainian laws on the safety of nuclear energy use (No. 7471) has sent the subject of the legislative initiative for further development. And I ask everyone to take part in the vote now. Mrs. Ola, help the factions to mobilize deputies. Please vote. Please be supportive. Why don't we go back to the committee? Okay. It's a back-to-back committee. You're ready, aren't you? Please have a few deputies. Please prepare, please take your seats. Mrs. Ola! Mrs. Ola, the card next door, yes, you're going to vote, right? So I'm voting on the proposal that the draft Law amending certain laws of Ukraine on the safety of nuclear energy use (7471) should be sent to the committee for re-reading. Please vote and please support. Please vote, colleagues. Don't leave the hall. Please be supportive. Please vote. We count each voice. Anna! Please vote, please support. Vote. [[13:23:39]] For 233 Decision taken. Colleagues, now I'm going to be, as I asked the committee head, out of respect for the committee, for their work, I'm going to ask the following questions first for the rating vote. This is my right as Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Everyone, please remain seated. Colleagues, please remain seated. I am now voting to determine the degree of support, the next draft of the Act amending certain Ukrainian laws on improving legislation on radioactive waste management (No. 6089). The Minister of Ecology has arrived and asks for the support of this bill. And I'm conducting a rating vote to support the draft Law 6089. Please vote and please support. Let's vote, colleagues. Please be supportive. The rating vote. 6089. [[13:24:50]] For 206 206. What is the position of minister? [[B in m in s a l in]] So we can come in, right? Okay. Then we go into the draft Law 6089. And I'm asking you to support the proposal for a reduced procedure. Please vote and please support. It's a short-term procedure. Please be supportive. [[13:25:25]] For 158. Decision taken. And I invite you to the report of Minister of Environment and Natural Resources Semerak Ostap Mikhailovich. Please, Mr. Ostap.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-17-m0.u118	Thank you, Andrey Volodymyrovich. Ladies and gentlemen, your opinion is proposed by the draft Act amending some Ukrainian legislation on improving legislation on radioactive waste management. The substance of the bill proposed by the government is to change the classification of radioactive waste from the old Soviet system to the standard proposed by MAGATE. The bill implements and responds to the approaches set out in the Council of the European Union directive and foresees the introduction of a new classification of radioactive waste. In doing so, all the safety requirements set out in international basic safety standards are met and met: GSR Part-3. This classification, as I mentioned earlier, meets international standards and is introduced, is supported by MAGATE. When this bill was drafted, we received positive feedback from the sovereign regulator, and we also consulted our European partners. Please, Your Honor, support this bill in the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-17-m0.u119	Thank you, Your Honor, Minister. The first Deputy Head of the PEC Committee on PEC matters, Alexander Dombrowski, is given the floor for the report. Let's have a word with you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-17-m0.u120	Dear colleagues! Honorable Predestination! In order not to repeat myself, I would just like to point out that this bill allows for the introduction of a new classification regarding the treatment of radioactive waste. And that, in turn, will enable us to optimize the process and budgetary costs that are in the state today. And this bill meets those standards that today have a direct bearing on the standards of MAGATE and the countries of the European Union. The Fuel and Energy Committee discussed the bill at its meeting. He recommends that the Supreme Council, in its first reading, accept it as a basis and work out the work between the first and the second readings, and then take it back to the second. for the second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-17-m0.u121	Dear colleagues, I'm asking you to sign up for the faction bill. Is everything pressed yet? And this time, the constructive deputy is not Kaplin, but the fisherman from BPP. Please, Mr. Rybak, give me your word.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-17-m0.u122	Dear colleagues, we support, our faction supports the initiative of Bill 6089 to create modern conditions for dealing with radioactive waste. The proposed changes are necessary to extend the categories of radioactive wastes from 2 to 4 to allow the mechanism to be extended for their effective and safe storage. It is noteworthy that today, in fact, the entire cycle of radioactive waste was formed as a result of the Chernobyl disaster. To increase protection against radiation threats, we need to find a mechanism to preserve them safely. Thanks to the involvement of international experts, our scientists have created a legislative mechanism for the distribution of radioactive wastes into four categories. This approach will allow you to reduce the cost of 10 times, from 750 billion dollars to 75 billion, which is an essential criterion for the implementation of the project. However, without the real cost mechanisms provided by the bill, the disposal and storage of waste and the start of the process are prolonged for many years. It is also worth reminding us that Ukraine generates more than half of its energy at nuclear power stations. And today we have a problem with 3 million tons. I was right about 3 million tons of radioactive waste. Given the urgent need to make appropriate administrative decisions, I urge everyone to support the bill and vote on the basis of the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-17-m0.u123	Thank you, Mr. Fish. And now for the position, to express the position of the Fatherland faction, the word is given to Boris. Oh, Alexia Rybchina. Please, Mr. Alexia.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-17-m0.u124	The Fatherland faction, Alexei Rybchin, Doñecina. Colleagues, we had a debate in the faction about this bill and we decided not to support it. Why? First of all, we can't figure this out. Even The Explanatory Note says, "It will be 10 times cheaper to store all radioactive waste in Ukraine." And there's no calculation: cheaper, cheaper. Should we take the government's word for it, without any other reckoning? It's written that some firms are going to enter foreign companies, something is going to be done here. We had two criteria, two classifications. And you're trying to enter four of these qualifications. Yet we have not seen the depth parameters where the shelters will be located for reliable insulation of these wastes. Maybe this is really a very important state bill. However, from the very documents that have been delivered to Parliament, we do not see that. So work harder, please. And when speakers say that this bill is proposed to optimize budget spending. I'm sorry, I hear it's "less spending money on things related to radioactive waste." No! No! Take more money from the budget to keep it safe, not to classify it and hide it somewhere less deep, and it'll be an economy. There must be protection of the population and there must be more efficient work and the Ministry of Environment and the Ministry of Finance in order to protect people. And not just like that: come on, we're on four criteria, we're a little bit less dusty on the ground, and we're all good at it. Work. To further develop this bill so that it is better prepared for the Supreme Council. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-17-m0.u125	Thank you. Please, from the Radical Party of Igor Mosiychuk, from the Radical Party faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-17-m0.u126	Igor Mosiyczuk, Oleg Lachka Radical Party Our faction has always supported and supported all laws related to nuclear safety. But in the context of this bill, there is a very specific question that the minister of ecology presented it. As far as the dumping of nuclear waste in Ukraine and the involvement of foreign companies are concerned, our faction, and, I'm sure, every Ukrainian, is wondering whether they're going to bring foreign companies here and turn Ukraine into a nuclear grave in Europe and the world. This is extremely important and is of great interest to the Ukrainian people in the context of this. That's the first question. The second question. We talk a lot about the dumping of nuclear waste, about nuclear safety, but at the same time there are other issues, the question is, if Ukraine is giving up certain things in nuclear energy, in any case, will we be able to develop this sector in time? Because the Western partners, and the more the eastern enemy, are doing everything they can to destroy Ukrainian energy, make it dependent on it to influence it, to destroy, including the Southern to avoid any possibility, and to enable Ukraine to restore nuclear weapons as necessary, and to protect itself, both physically and in the energy sector.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-17-m0.u127	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the last performance by the Self-Help faction is Leo Podlisecki. He'll come out of the place. And I ask everyone to return to the session room, there will be a vote in three minutes, and today is a pretty destructive day for us and you to support important draft legislation on the field of nuclear energy. I'm asking you to return to the session room. Don't argue, colleagues. And please give the word to Mr. Podlisecki.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-17-m0.u128	Leo Podlisecki, Self-Help faction. We are now very much talking about energy security, nuclear safety, and promotion, and the importance of nuclear generation, as well as its preservation as a key sector in Ukraine's electricity system. In fact, the bill that we first considered in the chain of these nuclear bills, as it were, involved the production and processing of nuclear fuel and uranium ores that are in Ukraine for abundance. Sadly, though, he was not supported. We are now considering a bill that deals with the dumping of nuclear fuel. In fact, combining these bills would allow us to create a complete cycle of nuclear fuel management, from the point of production of uranium that we have in abundance to the point of processing and to the point of final burial. In fact, we all know that we have taken many steps to build a central repository of spent nuclear fuel in the Chernobyl area, and it is already being built together with American partners. This bill will contribute to the completion of this project. And so Ukraine can give up the services of Russia to temporarily preserve the remnants of nuclear fuel and thus store it in a specially built place in the Chernobyl area. And later, in the future, if we can use this spent fuel for further use, we can benefit accordingly. That is why we must clearly support the draft in the first reading, at least this bill. And actually, who doesn't vote really works more on Russia's hand, which benefits from what we are.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-17-m0.u129	30 seconds to complete, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-17-m0.u130	In fact, what benefits us is that we are forced to export processed fuel to Russia. That's why we vote yes.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-17-m0.u131	Thank you for your position. I give the floor to the summation, dear colleagues, as they come to the session room, to give two minutes to the Minister of the Ecology of Ostap Semerak. It's in spite of the Rules, but as long as we're going to the session room. I'm asking everyone to come back because in two minutes of voting, and so we don't break the law because there are no deputies in the room, because of the irresponsible position of some of our colleagues. Please, Mr. Ostap.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-17-m0.u132	Thank you, Mrs. Irina. Ladies and gentlemen, thank you very much for the fruitful discussion and discussion. In particular, I would like to thank the factions of the Radical Oleg Lachka party and the faction of the Fatherland party for the comments and questions that were raised during the discussion. I would like to point out that it is as important for us as it is for these factions and all the factions of Parliament, the radiation security in Ukraine, especially in the country that suffered accidents at the Chernobyl station. This is a law on radioactive waste, which was created by more than 95 percent of the waste after the accident at the Chernobyl station. The National MP, Moseschuk, asked if he was going to move into Ukraine, I say that no radioactive waste from other countries is being carried into Ukraine. This is forbidden by law, and this law does not change. So the warnings that the Radical Party has raised are absolutely right, and they are warned in this law. Please be supportive. It's about economics. The point is that two people are working in Ukraine today. Classification of two types: this is a classification that was introduced back in the Soviet Union. Ukraine today wants to adopt standards that have been developed and developed by MAGATES. This is about extending these classifications from two to four types. And since this classification explains in more detail how to work with individual waste, you can certainly pay more and store the waste in a small way. But using the standards of the European world, we get cheaper, safer, and absolutely.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-17-m0.u133	30 seconds to complete, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-17-m0.u134	And it's completely controlled by the Ukrainian state process. It is safe, it is modern, it does not allow imports into Ukraine from other countries. Please be supportive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-17-m0.u135	So, colleagues, the discussion is over. I'm asking everyone to take up their jobs, come into the hall. I ask everyone to prepare for the decision. And, colleagues, I ask the factions to invite deputies to the hall. From the bed please return to the voting room. So we're moving on to making a decision. And I'm voting on a bill amending some of the Ukrainian laws on improving legislation on radioactive waste management (No.6089), on the basis of a committee proposal. Please vote and please support. Colleagues, we vote, please support, please vote. Vote. [[13:41:42]] For 211 We're not all there. We'll be right back. I'm asking you to invite the deputies into the hall. Look who's not around, call me back, and invite me to the hall. Please, everyone, please come into the hall. I ask the Secretary of the Supreme Council to invite all the deputies to the Hall. I'm just going to remember who's not in the hall and then the same attitude will be with your bills. Please prepare for the vote, take up jobs, stop any discussion outside the workplace. And I am voting on the proposal to go back to voting for the draft Act amending certain Ukrainian laws on improving legislation on radioactive waste management (6089). Please support me, colleagues, please vote. You're ready, aren't you? Vote. Please support the return, everyone vote and everyone vote, we vote. Please be supportive. [[13:43:12]] For 224 Two votes. The MPs are here. I'll do it again. Please enter the hall, prepare for the vote. Please be careful about taking up jobs. Two votes was not enough for us to come back. Careful, fellows! Every voice matters. Please take up jobs. And I'm voting on the proposal to go back to the draft Law 6089 and ask everyone to vote carefully and to vote. Everybody ready? Vote, colleagues, for your return. Please be supportive. Please vote. Every voice! Please be supportive. Vote. Please vote. [[13:44:17]] For 232 We're back. And now I'm voting on draft Law 6089 as a basis, and I ask everyone to vote carefully. Based on 6089. Everyone, please take part in the vote and please vote. Vote, colleagues, carefully, in agreement, responsibly. Vote on the basis of 6089. Please be supportive. [[13:44:57]] For 229 Decision taken. Next. Colleagues, stay put. I am voting for the next draft of the Act amending certain laws of Ukraine to regulate the legal regimes of the territory at places where nuclear facilities and facilities are located for the management of radioactive wastes (2021a). The rating vote. Please vote. Please be supportive. Please vote. And take part in the rating vote. [[13:45:42]] For 185 I'll bet the next one on the rating vote. Draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on the Use of Nuclear Energy and Radiation Security to provide socio-economic compensation for the risk to the population living in observation zones in the united territorial communities (7369). Please participate in the rating vote. Please vote. Please be supportive. Vote. It's a rating vote. Please be supportive. [[13:46:25]] For 206 Can we come in? Let's go in. 7369. And I'm asking you to support the consideration of this draft law by a reduced procedure. Please vote. Please be supportive. It's a short-term procedure. Please be supportive. Let's vote, colleagues, for a reduced procedure. [[13:46:59]] For-154 Decision taken. And I invite you to the report of the Ukrainian National Deputy Bandurov Vladimir Volodymyrovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-17-m0.u136	Dear head! Dear colleagues! Respectable compatriots! Christ the Resurrection! Thank you so much for supporting this bill. It's essentially technical, but it's very important to those communities that are on the path of decentralization. Today, according to the current edition of the Ukrainian Nuclear Energy and Radiation Security Act, the population that resides in observation zones, which is a 30km zone near nuclear stations, has the right to compensate for the risk of populations living in these observation zones. The corresponding subsidy is channelled from the State budget every year and is distributed between the three levels budgets: the district budget, the district budgets and the city satellites of nuclear stations. Unfortunately, there is no unified territorial community in the law. The bill proposes to introduce an entity such as the unified territorial community and to provide compensation for residents of the united territorial communities at the district level, that is, 55 percent. Ladies and gentlemen, taking into account the country's further decentralization course, I ask you to support this bill and vote it on a basis and in general, because the committee has made this decision, and there are no such essential rights to the law in force. In fact, it's technical. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-17-m0.u137	Thank you. To the report, I invite the first deputy head of the committee of Dombrovsky Alexander Georgievovich. Please, Mr. Alexander.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-17-m0.u138	Dear colleagues, this bill is very simple because we have united territorial communities, and united territorial communities are formed, including in the area where nuclear stations work. And the funds that are now being used to compensate citizens from different levels of budget from the point of view of social justice and from the perspective of the new legal realities that Ukraine has today must be allocated, including to the unified territorial communities that are the subject of the budgetary process. So this bill really is purely technical. We put the notion of a "united territorial community" into the possibility of allocating those resources that are directly related to those areas that connect to activities. Not just to the alienation zone, but to the atomic zone, our atomic stations. Please support in the first reading. For the second reading, we will then have an additional discussion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-17-m0.u139	Thank you. Please record: two in, two in. Please. Capplin Sergey Mikolayovich is invited to attend. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-17-m0.u140	This bill is essential for ordinary Ukrainian citizens, the Ukrainian State. And I'll give you an example of why. People’s deputies, Caplin and Sugonako, were approached by the inhabitants of the three districts. Two districts and cities (Kievska oblast, Polski, Ivankovsky and Slavotic) with information that money, namely: 3.8 billion dollars allocated to the construction of a nuclear warehouse called HOT in the Kyiv region, and 10 percent of that money should go towards compensation and construction of social infrastructure and transport infrastructure, is spent in an absolutely corrupt way. For example, about 20, but 100 million dollars were spent on unrepaired bridges, no repairs were needed, and no one was driving at all. I, using the presence here of the Minister of Ecology, the People's Deputies of Kiev, and the fact that we are now being watched by several million compatriots, I am addressing the Prime Minister, the Minister of Profiles, personally. The Attorney General, we've sent appropriate requests to the NABU to investigate the cost of every single penny. And I guarantee to all the people in the Kyiv region that our team will control every bracelet that's being spent for the benefit of the common people, is actually being stolen through corrupt devices. This law is absolutely relevant, it is necessary. And once again, we would like to express our concern that there are not enough deputies in the House of Parliament today to fully discuss these bills and make the right and necessary decisions for the people of Ukraine when it comes to the security of all Europe, Ukraine, all over the world.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-17-m0.u141	The People's Front is Bennady Grigorovitch.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-17-m0.u142	Thank you. Good afternoon, dear fellows! The crooked Gennady Grigorovich. I would like to point out that this bill, the purpose of this bill, is to address the issue of granting socio-economic compensation for the risk to the population of the territory that resides in the area of observation in the united territorial communities, as it is indicated that, for the time being, there is also a distribution in the area of observation, provided for in the budgetary legislation of a subsidy for the financing of socio-economic measures for the risk of the population living in the area of observation, is not being implemented. It is a fairly important bill, and it deals with the issue of decentralization of power itself, the transfer of financial powers to local governments, particularly to unified communities. But I would still like to make sure that we don't forget our alienation zone, which, by the way, my colleague was just talking about. We need to understand where these costs will be spent. And we need to understand that if, God forbid, God forbid, there is any warning, it does not apply to one territorial community, and that is to say, the security of the entire country. And that's why it seems to me that these funds should go, first of all, to the territorial community, but to ensure the health of the people living in this area, so that they understand that they are protected not only by their local community, but are protected by us: parliament, government, the President, and they have the funding to do so. The People's Front faction will vote for this and please support the entire hall. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-17-m0.u143	Thank you. Colleagues, we're about to make a closing statement. And there'll be one more. I ask in three minutes all the heads of factions to invite deputies into the hall, in three or four minutes there will be a vote, and I ask that you maximize your factions. I now invite you to speak from the "Fatherland" faction, Cugel Alexander Volodymyrovna. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-17-m0.u144	Thank you. I am one of the co-authors of this bill, and I very much ask everyone to support this bill, because it places emphasis on the help and responsibility of the entire community under the same conditions as the city satellites of the same nuclear power plants. For example, Mr. Bandur's and I represent the Zaporezian region in which we were born. And I can say that everyone living next door in villages in the united territorial communities works for Energodarsk in Zaporezki district of the nuclear power plant. But none that a united community can send to health care and care for these people is left in the city. I understand Mr. Krivoshei, who hopes that someone in the country will support these people’s health. Understanding the policy of Mrs. Suprun, who has abolished fluorography in a country that is five TB patients, I do not have the hope of public health care, which has provided in the budgets of all levels of support for education and health subsidies for only 50 percent. And so please support the bill, where we understand with you that only a community, just local self-government, just its own initiative, can help us. And I would like to ask the chairman to go back to Mr. Dombrowski's previous bill, which is very simple, and requires technical change, and can be voted on without discussion. We just didn't figure out what the rating vote was. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-17-m0.u145	Thank you. So please invite the deputies to the hall. Heads of factions, please see who's not here and invite us to the hall. Now from the Opposition Block - Dudenkov, from the rostrum. Turn on the microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-17-m0.u146	Dear colleagues, citizens of Ukraine, the faction of the Opposition Block will support Bill 7369, which is essentially technical. Why Technical? Because the government budget subsidies, the state budget special fund, which is directed towards local budgets, compensates for the socio-economic development of areas under State control that have suffered as a result of the Chernobyl disaster. As a result of decentralization, unified territorial communities were formed, and in fact, the entire text of the bill is complemented by the additions that the subsidies are part of the unified territorial communities. But what I want to point out is that very low, very low number of laws protecting the constitutional rights of those affected by the Chernobyl disaster are being considered in this room. And on the eve of the 32nd anniversary of this technological disaster, unfortunately, there's very little in this room.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-17-m0.u147	Please finish 30 seconds. One minute. Give me a minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-17-m0.u148	Thank you. A small number of bills that renewed the corresponding guarantees, unfortunately, were repealed sometime in 2014-2018. The benefits for the socially unprotected population were cancelled. The Opposition Block faction calls, in particular, for the Constitutional Court to consider those constitutional submissions that we have sent to the Constitutional Court in order to recognise those laws that have abolished significant benefits for the Chernobylites, such that they do not comply with the Constitution, and yet they have been reinstated by their constitutional rights. We now urge the Hall to support this legislative initiative. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-17-m0.u149	Thank you. So, colleagues, in a minute, we're going to vote. I'm asking everyone to take up their jobs, come into the hall. Now one minute is the representative of the Dombrowski Committee. And let's move on to making a decision. I will continue this session until the issue is resolved. Please, one minute. And we vote. 13:59:1
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-17-m0.u150	Dear colleagues! As one of the co-authors of this bill, I want to thank you for your public support and for understanding the importance of it. But at the same time, I would like to introduce, correct one flaw because our position and the committee's decision to adopt this bill as a basis and as a whole. So I would like to support it as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-17-m0.u151	Thank you. So let's move on to making a decision. I ask everyone to prepare for the vote. So I am voting on the draft Law amending the Ukrainian Law on the Use of Nuclear Energy and Radiation Security to provide socio-economic compensation for the risk to the population living in the area of observation zones in the united territorial communities (No. 7369). First, I'm going to put the proposal on a base. Please vote and please support. Colleagues, we vote, please support, please vote, we vote first. [[14:00:48]] For 208 We're not there yet. I'll put it back. I've moved on. Please take up jobs, colleagues. All factions support, in fact all the political forces in Parliament support the bill. I'm asking you to be very careful about the vote, to come into the hall. Please, the deputies' columns are entering the hall. So I would like everyone to take part in the vote very carefully, please. Please come in. Mrs. Ola, come in. I'll wait a few more seconds. The Secretariat, announce that this is a vote. And I'm voting on the proposal to go back to the draft bill 7369, and I'm asking everyone to take part in the vote and vote carefully. So, please vote for the return, and I ask everyone to vote. We carefully vote, vote and vote, please vote, vote, please support, colleagues. Every voice matters, we vote. Please be supportive. [[14:02:26]] For 217 I'll do it again. If you don't have a vote, you're on a committee to work on. So, colleagues, I now ask all law-abiding people to take up jobs. I'm asking the factions to show, by factions, that we can see where we have the potential. Please vote. So you're ready, right? I'm voting once again on the proposal to go back to voting for draft Law 7369 as a basis. Please vote and please support. Vote. Please be supportive. Carefully, I ask everyone to vote. Vote, please. [[14:03:25]] For 214 I'm betting on a motion to vote, so that we don't lose the bill, on a committee to work on. I'm proposing to draft Law 7369. Colleagues, we have to finish our consideration of the bill. And I'm voting on the proposal that Bill 7369 be drafted into a committee for re-reading so that we don't lose the bill. Please vote, please support for further work. Please vote, please support. Please support, we vote. [[14:04:23]] For 216 Thus, the final proposal is the subject of a legislative initiative for further development. The authors, you have a chance, now all nine of us are missing, or 10, for work. So I am voting on the proposal that draft Law 7369 should direct the subject of the legislative initiative to work. And I ask everyone to take part in the vote. And please support and please vote, otherwise the bill will be rejected. So please support me and please vote on this proposal. Please vote and please support. Vote! The subject of the legislative initiative for further development Vote! [[14:05:38]] For 212 Colleagues, I'd like to read you through the factions of the vote: "Block of Petra Poshenko" – 67, "National Front" – 55, "Block of Opposition" – 15, "Help" – 17, "Practical Party" – 12, "Paternal Party" – 8, "Will of the People" – 9, "Party of Rebirth" – 3. Let me remind you, when we enter into the bill, we have to finish its consideration. And so, not me, but in your factions, raise questions about the discipline of participation in the meetings of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. I'm going to make another motion to go back to the voting proposal. This will be the final vote. It's 30 seconds, Dombrowski. Put it back up again? [[B in m in s a l in]] Decline? [[B in m in s a l in]] So, colleagues, I'm going to put it back again. If there are no votes, the bill will be rejected. And I will continue to ask all factions to participate in the session, as teachers participate in the lesson they are conducting, as the military stands at the fore when their military rotation, as our firefighters and law enforcement personnel perform their functions. Raise that question on the faction so that the deputy is at work when the job goes, and that's the only way out of this situation, and there's no other option. Now I'm putting the vote again. If there are no votes, the bill will be rejected. I am voting on the proposal to return to draft Law 7369. And I ask you to vote, and I ask you to support everyone. Please vote, please support. [[14:07:41]] For 207 There is no political will in the room to go back to the draft law. The bill of Law 7369 was therefore rejected. According to the Rules. So, my colleagues, according to the Rules, I'm calling it a break. At 4: 00 p.m., I ask you to come to the hall to continue our work. And now for the morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. I declare the morning session closed.
