ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-15-m1.u1	Colleagues, 4:00, I ask everyone to come into the hall and prepare for the registration at the evening meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Please, everyone, please come into the hall. So, please prepare to register and please register. Please register. [[16:05:01]] There are 361 national deputies registered in the hall. I declare the evening plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine open. And we're moving on to the next issue of the agenda, the appointment of the Supreme Council of Ukraine for Human Rights. Honourable National Deputies, in accordance with article 85, paragraph 17, of the Constitution, are appointed to the Supreme Council of Ukraine as the Authorized Supreme Council of Ukraine for Human Rights. In accordance with part two of article 208 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Rules of Procedure, I propose the following candidates for the post of the Authorized Supreme Council of Ukraine for human rights, submitted by the Ukrainian National Deputies according to the requirements of the current legislation: Alekseiv Sergey Olegovich, Denisova Ludmila Leontiyevna, Mamaliga Andri Volodymyrovich. I would like to inform you that the National Deputy of Ukraine, Alekseiev Sergey Olegovich, has addressed me with a letter concerning the withdrawal of his candidacy for office as the Authorized Supreme Council of Ukraine. In accordance with the requirements of part three and fourth of article 208 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s Rules of Procedure, the Committee’s decisions and information on candidates for the post of the Authorized Supreme Council of Ukraine on human rights have been handed over to you. This information was also published in the newspaper Voice of Ukraine. Dear colleagues, the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine provide for this order of treatment, including a report by the head of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Human Rights, National Minorities and International Relations, 3 minutes; statements by candidates for the post of the Commissioner of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on human rights for 3 minutes each; statements by all MPs and groups for 3 minutes and statements by national deputies: 6 minutes, 2 speeches by national deputies. So, colleagues, we can move on to this issue. Me, too. Who will be speaking from the committee? Colleagues, I am addressing the Human Rights Committee, national minorities and inter-national relations. I invite Grigori Mikhailovich, head of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Human Rights, National Minorities and International Relations, to address the issue. Please, three minutes. Mr. Gregory, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-15-m1.u2	Dear colleagues! You have in you the materials that are given out, the position of the Human Rights Committee, which in its own time, in May of last year, examined the question of the application of the Ukrainian Law on the Authorized Supreme Council of Human Rights. I'm not going to repeat myself again, because I repeat, all of your materials are present. Instead, I remind you that in June last year, and June 6th, that was the last, the extreme date when the elections and appointments of the Human Rights Commissioner were to take place in accordance with the law. As a result, this was the first time that the appointment of the Authorized One was not in the legal field. The second situation arose when changes were made to the Ukrainian Law on the Rules, which now provides for the election of the Authorized Supreme Council by an open vote, following changes. Thus, we have been given a very serious coalition when the Law on the Authorized Supreme Council for Human Rights provides for a secret ballot, the Rules allow this to be done by open vote. A corresponding statement was issued to members of the Human Rights Committee, who addressed the Head of the Supreme Council with a proposal for a breach of procedure and given that the situation was in the wrong field, to relaunch the procedure for the election and appointment of the Commissioner for the Supreme Council, and to do so according to the requirements and criteria of the Paris Principles of the United Nations. Unfortunately, that didn't happen, and right now I want to ask everyone, including the Presidium and the honourable colleagues of the National Deputies. How to choose and appoint a Human Rights Commissioner for the Supreme Council, in violation of human rights.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-15-m1.u3	30 seconds to complete.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-15-m1.u4	violating the Ukrainian Law on the Authorized of Human Rights? How is that even possible? Andriy Volodymyrovich, Head of the Supreme Council, I repeat my question: How can you choose the Commissioner from human rights by violating the Ukrainian Human Rights Commissioner Act?
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-15-m1.u5	Thank you. Answer. In view of the repeated appeals made to me about the procedure for election, I appealed to the regulatory committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to clarify the situation. The Committee on the Rules and Organization of Work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, at its meeting on 28 February 2018, provided an explanation of the procedure for the appointment and discharge of the Supreme Council of Ukraine from office, in which it stressed that the procedure for the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is determined by the Constitution of Ukraine and by the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Rules of Procedure, the decision on appointment and release from office of the Authorised Supreme Council of Ukraine from office of the Supreme Council of Human Rights under article 208 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is adopted by the Supreme Council of Ukraine by an open vote by a majority of the national deputies from the constitutional composition of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. And only this document for me and for the entire Supreme Council is an explanation of how to act in this situation to the Supreme Council of Ukraine. And today, when we ask this question, we rely on the decision of the regulatory committee that was elected here and that we all gave a quorum of trust. Thank you. Now I'm inviting you to the candidates' address, first Denis's Ludmila Leontiyevna, three minutes. And I invite Ludmila Leontievna to the rostrum. And I remind you that it's been set for up to three minutes. Please, Mrs. Ludmila.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-15-m1.u6	Dear Head! Dear colleagues! Respectable citizens! In Ukraine, the right to life is needed as a matter of priority. More than ten thousand citizens have died to ensure our right to a peaceful life. These civilian, military, and child prisoners are condemned. I will make every effort to protect the rights of Ukrainians, Crimean Tatars and all those in need of protection. Not to be overlooked are internally displaced persons. There should be no discrimination at all in Ukraine. The Ukrainian Constitution guarantees the protection of all human rights and citizens by the courts. I advocate the comprehensive implementation of a large-scale judicial reform. Today, citizens are concerned about the right to a fair trial. I support the development of free legal aid centers. Thank you to the legal community, the civil rights organizations that are the first to defend human rights. In Ukraine article 6 of the European Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms is violated. Not implemented or delayed at the time of execution of the decisions of the national courts. We have 12,000 applications filed against our country, which are united in one case of Burmić and others against Ukraine, and 7 thousand are still awaiting consideration. In 2014, the government agreed with my proposal as the minister of social policy and approved the mechanism for the execution of court decisions primarily for the benefit of the Chernobyl and the children of war, 172 thousand awaiting state guarantees. We need to put the money in place to make these decisions. Respectful colleagues, one of the main problems in Ukraine, are poverty, which has worsened in wartime conditions. According to the report, 60 percent of our population is outside the poverty line. It is a violation of human rights and deprives all other rights. Because of poverty and a lack of decent work, a person is seeking earnings abroad. Labour migration is a threat to our Ukraine, and most of our migrants work illegally. They are in danger of becoming victims of human trafficking. Ukraine must provide protection and legal assistance for its citizens. And that's the Human Rights Commissioner's question. Most cases of human rights violations are reported by journalists without freedom of speech, without honest journalism, without citizens’ right to information, and it is not possible to build a state in which human rights are not easily declared, but also daily reality. This is especially important in hybrid and information warfare. I will always support and protect the rights of journalists and, above all, their right to professional activity. Ladies and gentlemen, we come from the fact that all humans are created equal and given certain unalienable rights: the right to life.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-15-m1.u7	30 seconds, complete.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-15-m1.u8	the right and the desire for happiness. And protecting their rights is our duty. I'm counting on your support. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-15-m1.u9	Thank you. Thank you, Mrs. Ludmila. I invite you to speak on behalf of the Commissioner-in-Office of the Supreme Council for Human Rights, Andrija Volodymyrovich Mamaligu. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-15-m1.u10	Glory to Ukraine! The highest values that determine the content and orientation of the State’s activities are man, his rights, and his freedoms. Parliamentary control over the observance of human constitutional rights and freedoms is exercised by the Authorized Supreme Council of Human Rights. I, Andrey Mamaliga, aware of my full responsibility to the people of Ukraine and the Supreme Council of Ukraine, ask the Ukrainian National Deputies to choose me as Commissioner for Human Rights. I've been in law enforcement for about 20 years now. In my account, hundreds of criminal cases won in the European Court of Human Rights. Among the loud political affairs in which I took part is the protection of Ukraine without Cuchma in 2001-2002. And the protection of the playgrounds during the 2013-2014 Dignity Revolution. After returning from the area of Anti-Terrorism Operations, where I participated in the Idar battalion, I took part in a legal action to protect the rights of military personnel and volunteers in the courts of Ukraine. In addition, he participated in the drafting of many draft laws, such as the 3722 Bill on the Instituto Unacceptability of Evidence of Suspense and Precautionary Measures. In view of this, it is logical for my team of defenders to lead an important instrument such as the Human Rights Commissioner. The right to propose amendments to Ukraine's legislation, which, if approved by Parliament and the President, can radically improve the conditions for the detention of those convicted and taken into custody, since the Stalinic Union and the colonies are to go into the past. The reform of the courts of the first instance is urgent, for the left hand side of the decisions against Ukraine refers to the violation of article 6 of the Convention on Human Rights, or the right to a fair trial. I am confident of the necessity of repealing certain laws that violate human rights — some of the standards of the Ukrainian Criminal Procedure Code adopted in 2012. Parliament must intervene without delay in the situation that has arisen in Ukraine's lawyers since the adoption of the Law on Bar and Bar in the days of Yanukovic. Few lawyers without their consent have made members of a self - control association, and lawyers for the maintenance of the NAAU RAU have collected money that is spent.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-15-m1.u11	30 seconds, please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-15-m1.u12	Representations in Spain and Turkey. It raises concerns about social reform. Unthought - out and often unbalanced steps of power have brought down the social benefits of the Chernobylites, the disabled, the war veterans, the participants in the Anti - Terrorist Operation. The liberation of hostages in Kremlin veils became the subject of political agreements. I think the public should be involved in this process. For the purpose of openness and transparency.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-15-m1.u13	Thank you. But I'm sorry, time's up. Thank you very much. Colleagues, now come out of factions and groups. I very much ask that we be as concise as possible during the discussion as possible so that we can go through the entire agenda. I'm asking you to record statements from factions and groups.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-15-m1.u14	Dear colleagues, please welcome Yuri Pavlenko of the Opposition Block, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-15-m1.u15	In the past four years, the country’s honourable nationals, who presided, respected citizens of Ukraine, have suffered a significant decline in the level of human rights protection in Ukraine. Therefore, the independence and integrity of the Institute of Human Rights is one of the key tasks for today. The conflict in the East and, as a result, the suffering and grave violations of the rights of millions of Ukrainian citizens who live on occupied, uncontrolled Ukrainian authorities, displaced areas, people, and Ukrainian citizens in the Crimea. The increasing level of poverty, oppression and persecution by state and law enforcement structures, pseudo-reforms: pension, health, education, decentralization, which have a beautiful goal, and are actually being done with total disregard for human rights and the Constitution of Ukraine. The cost of human reform is too high, the working population suffers, both older people and children. Efforts to subordinate interests and human rights to the task of the State are a major challenge and disregard for human rights. Any honest statistics on the human development of our nation indicate a decline in law enforcement and human rights. The very words and terms: "human rights", "child rights" are often spoken by high-ranking people as grounds for their violation. The inability of public authorities to perform their direct functions leads to a total violation of human rights, from the right to life to the right to self - expression. It is because, more than ever, an independent, virtuous, and equidistant institution that can guarantee protection for everyone. In such circumstances, in my view, the Authorized Institute can become such an organ. Regrettably, the very process of expulsion, consideration, the change in voting procedures seriously undermines trust in this institution. Therefore, the first challenge of a newly elected Commissioner is to be a lawyer of power or to defend a person against the will of authority. The requirements of the Opposition Block to the newly appointed Authorized Simple. This is primarily the protection and restoration of the rights of Ukrainian citizens in uncontrolled areas of displaced persons, Ukrainian citizens of Crimea, Chernobyl, pensioners, veterans, patients, the restoration of child rights policies from an orphan child to a child who is a victim of military action. We hope that the Authorized Council will become an institution entrusted to Ukrainian citizens. The Opposition Block faction will express its position by voting.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-15-m1.u16	Thank you for your position. Please, from the faction of the Radical Party of Oleg Lazko. Let's have a word with you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-15-m1.u17	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Today, unfortunately, the authorities are violating most of the constitutional and natural rights of Ukrainian citizens: the right to work, the right to a safe environment, to a safe life, the right to earn a decent living in their home country and to feed their family, the right to health care, the right to a secure old age after working honestly, with dignity, and then, unfortunately, people go to the dumpsters to make a basic living. The law doesn't work, the Constitution doesn't work, they can go to everyone's house, they can take life and property, they can raid the enterprise, as it was in the case of farmers in Dniproperty, when they didn't get to die, they already took and copied the property. Or, for example, Maria Mikhailovna in Mariupola, who I met at the first hospital, who told me that 44 years of retirement and a thousand and 400 dollars of pension, and millions of pensioners who do not have the right to a secure old age. Sadly, the authorities are constantly violating human rights. And that's why our task of the Radical Party faction as an opposition team is to protect human rights, the same task as the Human Rights Commissioner. Unfortunately, the person who holds this position today is Mrs. Lutkowski, then. Enough to point out that when people were shot at Maidan, the Commissioner's office was closed. The authorized one to take the stand against the shootings of the Ukrainians just ran away instead of going to Midan alone and protecting the Ukrainians. That is why the deadline for her authority is over. Sadly, the Ukrainians will remember it as a person who, instead of protecting them, became afraid and protected the authorities and the Yanukovich gang. We want the next Human Rights Commissioner to be elected, whether it is Ludmila Denisova, a worthy colleague of ours, or proposed by our faction, Andrew Mamaliga. The authorized one should protect, not the authority, not his own pocket, but the principles, the Constitution, and the rights of Ukrainians, especially when the rights of Ukrainians are violated by the authorities. Authorized as a lion, he must stand for every Ukrainian. Or Ukrainians who sit in prisons abroad, set an example for Americans and Jews as they fight for each other abroad. Thus, we must fight for every Ukrainian outside the country so that millions of workers can return home, work, earn a family in their home country, and reunite in prisons so that people do not sit in prison without court sentences for years, and that people may live decently in their own country. This is the primary task of the authorized one, and we ask you to do so.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-15-m1.u18	Please give the next speech from Fatherland Sergey Sobolev. Please, Mr. Sergei.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-15-m1.u19	Dear colleagues, the Human Rights Commissioner, is in fact a separate authority that is no less than the executive, the judiciary, the journalistic authority. Do we have examples of such ones authorized for the long history of our nation? I think that we should conclude that a human rights officer is a person who has the right to access any document that has the right to have access to any court hearing that has the right to access and analyse any charges until the court has passed the decision. But there's no less important function of authorized -- it's actually at a stage where the power structures approve decisions that violate human rights, and it's this person that has to react quickly and quickly. We had a very long discussion at the faction about the candidature, first of all, of Ludmila Denisov. We have different thoughts, but the faction has approved the next decision. There is a clear position of the Human Rights Authorized Law, articles 5 and 6, where the procedure is clearly defined. What the Regulatory Committee refers to in its decision is an exclusive question of the election of the Head of the Supreme Council, and there is no reference to the Human Rights Commissioner's question. Therefore, it is a great request to resolve the key issue, to distribute the ballot, to organize the work of the Counting Commission and to allow members to vote in a legitimate manner as defined by the Human Rights Commissioner Act. All other interpretations refer, not to the regulatory committee, but to the exclusive powers of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-15-m1.u20	Thank you, colleague. And I invite you now to the word of Ruslan Sidorovich from the Self-Help faction. Please, Mr. Ruslan.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-15-m1.u21	Honorable Ukrainian Parliament, distinguished Ukrainian people! Ruslan Sidorovich, Self Help Union. The question that we are considering today is the question of choosing the Commissioner for Human Rights is extremely important for all citizens. We need to understand what a Human Rights Commissioner is. He is a person who should be on guard over the rights of detainees, prisoners. What kind of organs do we have in Ukraine care about these matters? This is the Ministry of Justice and this is the Ministry of Internal Affairs. A representative of what political power are we invited to choose our colleague, Mrs. Denisov? Representative of the People's Front Party. I've heard a lot of positive feedback about our colleague Mrs. Denisov in terms of her organizational abilities, other things, but what are we talking about right now? We're talking about that the person who is to be appointed Commissioner of Human Rights should not allow any of these offices to sleep peacefully, because he has to go to every prison, every establishment, to share the protection of the rights of anyone there. During the past year, such bodies as the UN Monitoring Mission in Ukraine, the OSCE Bureau of Democratic Institutions and Human Rights, Freedom House, Amnesty International, and the European Network of National Human Rights Institutions called on Parliament to conduct a nonpolitical and objective procedure for the selection of the Commissioner for Human Rights. After all, other law - enforcement organizations as well. The position of Self-Help is as follows. A human rights person should not be a politician; it should be a human rights advocate who has devoted her entire life to the protection of human rights, not political activity, but to the protection of human rights. And it's not a question of sympathy or antipathy to the staff, it's a question of what qualities of a person we choose for this position. That is why we call for a broad discussion among the rights-based organizations and the choice of a lawyer rather than a politician. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-15-m1.u22	Mustafa Nayem is now invited to the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-15-m1.u23	Now I want to talk to those people who, in 2011, 2012, 2013 together with us, stood up for Yuri Lucenka and Julia Timoshenko in prison. I'm going to remind you of April 24, 2012. I was a journalist at the time, and Mrs. Lutkowski was chosen in this room. At that moment, Mr. Yatsenuk and the entire opposition shouted that this was a politically motivated vote. At the time, we shouted that what was revealed for the Human Rights Commissioner was a violation of all political principles and a violation of all human rights. At that time, Mr. Clovis came here to monitor Mr. Kluev's decision. He broke Parliament, and they voted Mrs. Lutkovsky, who was a member of the Party of the Regions. The same is true today. Under all the principles of the United Nations, the Paris Principles Authorized to Human Rights – it must be a person away from all political parties. It's not me who invented it, it's international standards. This is why the Authorized One must be elected by a closed vote. The standards that Mr. Parobia spoke about in relation to the Constitutional Court do not apply to external bodies, this applies to the internal rules of Parliament, which are distributed only to the election of the head of Parliament. Next. As far as the Law of the Authorized One is concerned. I'm sorry, but these two candidates lost their position on June 6th, they don't have to be put to the vote right now. And the last thing I want to say. With all due respect to Mrs. Dennis, I really respect her work. But what we do now is that we have the same political power as the National Police, the Penitentiary Service and the Human Rights Commissioner. This will all be in one political power. I'm warning you again, we were four years ago, six years ago, in this room, the opposition shouted that it was a violation of all rights and norms. Now we're breaking through the knee of the hall just like the Party of Regions did. As soon as she's finished, we know. But we cannot place a person politically dependent on a position that protects the rights of all people, including in opposition and in power. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-15-m1.u24	Please, Vladimir Mikhailovich Litwin invites you to speak.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-15-m1.u25	Dear National Deputies! Because passion is generated in the hall, there's a fear that agreements won't work, that I'll start with a story to defuse the situation. The priest noticed in the church that a fellow worshipper prayed fervently all the time. He came up to him and said, "Why do you care that you're going through this so much?" He says, "I want one: I want to have a steady job, because if I have a permanent job, then my family will be provided." The priest said, "It's a very nice effort, I'll pray for you too. But you tell me who you work for." He said, "The palace." I am convinced that the Human Rights Council of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is an extremely responsible position. And I'm convinced that the Human Rights Commissioner should first be completely non-secret. And I think, by all accounts, our colleague will be supported, and I will vote on one condition that she immediately declares that she is in charge and refuses to participate in political parties, will not warm up her colleagues on political and party agendas and will begin to carry out the duties of the Commissioner for Human Rights, and above all on pension reform. I can read a letter from a woman over eighty years old from Kharkiv. She says to me, "Read it to the people who have made this decision. What is this pension reform when I get a pension of a thousand 500 dollars and I don't have anything to live for? And ask the initiators and those who supported and those who climbed the Cabinet of Ministers how long can I live, how long has God measured?" And there are so many such questions. And I would like to pay particular attention to the abuse of human rights to property. In view of these circumstances, we can make decisions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-15-m1.u26	Dear colleagues, the final speech by MPs and factions. From the faction of the People's Front, the word is given to the head of the faction of Maxim Burbak. Please, Mr. Maxime.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-15-m1.u27	Madam Chairman, I would like to begin immediately by stating that, in accordance with the requirements of article 31 of the Supreme Council Rules 1, there is a conflict of interest in this matter, since I am a colleague of Mrs. Dennis’s by faction. Let's talk about the main thing. The People's Front certainly supports Ludmila Denisov's candidacy as Human Rights Commissioner. And we urge the people's deputies to join this vote, to vote in favour, because I'm sure it's the right choice. Denisov’s proposed nominations correspond most to this position. Ludmila Denisova is an experienced politician and stateswoman, twice a minister of social policy. As the minister of social policy, she understands all the needs of both pensioners and all the needs of those who turn to the Commissioner for Human Rights. And social justice to combat discrimination in all spheres of life, the rights defender is its key competence. And I would like to remind you that Mrs. Ludmila Denisov was most active as the head of the profiling committee in taking part in the adoption of the pension reform council. And she did everything she could to make sure that the pensioners’ interests were above financial considerations. I would like to remind everyone who was in this room in the previous call that Mrs. Ludmila Denisov and I were together in the opposition faction and were not afraid to express our attitude toward the Yanukovic regime. I want to remind you, this is where we were told that this is a person who has to be away from politics and must take care of the interests of the citizens and know about their protection. Ludmila Dennisov was in Crimea, and now she can't go back there. Her family now moved to Kiev, where she lives. And how does she not understand the interests of our citizens who are now in temporarily occupied territories? Here before me was a deputy who, in the 12th year, ran for the runaway president and recorded an interview with him, mocked him. And some of his colleagues went skiing during the tough events in Maidan. Then I can remind you that Mrs. Denisov was Chief of the Yellow Palace. And when they were storms of the palace, she didn't run away! She stood with the people and protected them, not doing everything as Mrs. Lutkowski did, who then closed the office and didn't know anyone, and she didn't see and hide and didn't know how to continue the Yanukovich regime! I want to remind you of all this. Therefore, my dear colleagues, I believe that our candidate, Ms. Ludmila Denisov, is the most appropriate candidate for the People's Front and ready to become a responsible ombudsman for Ukraine. It will, I'm sure, protect the social interests of all vulnerable populations. So once again, I urge you to vote for her. And whoever wants to leave Lutkovsky, please don't vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-15-m1.u28	Dear colleagues, we've run out of speeches from MPs and factions. And now it's 6 minutes for the national deputies of Ukraine for 2 minutes, that's the order. I'm asking you to sign up, please, for two minutes, we're going to have three shows. Dear colleagues, the first word is given to Mustafa Nayem. Today, the computer is on his side, the recording system. Please, Mr. Mustafa.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-15-m1.u29	I'm again addressing my colleagues from the People's Front, BPP, other factions. Please think about what you are doing. The question is not once again that it is a person or representative of a particular faction, the question is that we are choosing a person who will care for the rights of all, including those condemned, including those in prison for seven years. The situation may change, we may find ourselves in another opposition. We now choose a person, not for ourselves, but for years to come. About someone riding a ski somewhere, please tell your colleagues about it somewhere on the street. I stood on the Maidan just like you did, but it doesn't give any of us any of us the right to knee-break the hall and force us to vote for people for whom you wouldn't have voted six years ago when you were in opposition. And once again, the deadline for these candidates, according to the Human Rights Commissioner Act, ended on June 6, last year. There's got to be a new competition, new candidates, and then we have to choose new people. Once again, it may be anyone, but it can't be the person representing the political party. Unfortunately, Mrs. Denisova is part of a particular political party. I don't mind this party. Please select people who have weight. People who are working to protect human rights. Many legal organizations to support. And most of all, we do. This person represents our country. Unfortunately, this is now going to be a politically motivated vote. I'm asking you not to do that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-15-m1.u30	Dear colleagues, I now give you the floor to speak to our colleague, Mr. Baggins. I'd like to have a word with you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-15-m1.u31	Thank you. Grigory Zabotny, Winniechkina, Peter Dust Block. Dear colleagues, I would like to tell you that, working for many years in the Vinni district government and district council, I have had the opportunity to communicate with Ludmila Leontiyevna as head of the Ministry of Social Policy. And I've always found support and I want to confirm that he's a unique person, he knows how to listen and he knows how to hear people. Moreover, I have solved many of the problems that affected war veterans, destitute people. He's a man of great authority, with a lot of work, who knows so much about this job. Moreover, in my previous call to her, I also worked with her and several times the questions raised on the committee that she headed were resolved very quickly, quickly and effectively. And I think that Ludmila Leontievna Denisova is exactly the kind of person who can provide this area of work. She knows how to work with people, she knows how to work with government authorities, she's sure she'll do everything she can to present herself with dignity in this position. So I call upon my colleagues and all the deputies present to support Ludmila Leontievna Denisov. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-15-m1.u32	Thank you for the talk. And now the word from the People's Front is given to Mr. Ivanchuk. Please, Mr. Ivanchuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-15-m1.u33	Dear Madam Chairman and dear friends of the National Deputies! First of all, I claim a conflict of interest under the Supreme Council Rules Act, because I am with Mrs. Dennis in one faction of the People's Front. And now, essentially. Dear friends, if anyone in this room raises his hand and says that Ludmila Denisov is not worthy to be an ombudsman of our country, please. But when you say that the procedure is wrong, that you want someone, whether in secret or not, I repeat, the ombudsmen are choosing the deputies of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. And when someone doesn't want us to change today's Ombudsman and want to hide a secret ballot to vote against, don't worry, press the red button for Ludmila Denisov, who was Commander of Yellow Maidan, and then she didn't represent any political power. She represented the people of Ukraine, she went with them to the barricades, she stood back from the last day to the last. Therefore, honorable friends, needless speculation, a better person with a greater heart will not be found. So I ask everyone to support Ludmila Denisov as an Ombudsman. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-15-m1.u34	So, colleagues, this is Irina Heratchenko's closing statement, and then we're going to the vote. And that's why I'm asking everyone to come into the hall, and I'm asking the people's deputies to take up their jobs. I ask the factions to invite all the deputies to the hall. So Irina Heratchenko has the word. One minute. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-15-m1.u35	I ask two minutes, colleagues, because we are discussing an extremely important subject. And in my opinion, the session room owed a total of today's vocation on such an important subject as human rights. And European integration is primarily human rights. And this position is really not only very responsible but also very difficult. I sincerely want to wish the future ombudsman, first of all, to really be out of politics, second of all, to work very closely with public organizations, and thirdly, to rely on our sessional hall. And I also want to thank Mrs. Valeria Lutkowski very much for the great work that she has done together in our format for the release of hostages in recent years. Believe me, it's a tough job. She made every effort to get to our political prisoners in the Russian Federation. Unfortunately, Russia has not given such permission and has done everything possible to free our hostages from occupied territories. It'll be fair if we tell her, too, thank you for this very hard work.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-15-m1.u36	Thank you. 30 seconds. Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-15-m1.u37	The future ombudsman I want to wish first of all a truly sincere heart, a cold mind, an extracurricularity, to rely on public organizations, to rely on us. My shoulder, my hand will be laid and stretched to help in this difficult work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-15-m1.u38	Thank you. So we finished the discussion. Let's move on to making a decision. And I'm asking everyone to come into the hall, take jobs and get ready for the vote. So I want to remind you that we are voting for the appointment first, and we are voting for the release of the previous one after the oath has been taken. You got it, right? So first, I'm going to put two candidates to a rating vote: Dennis and Mamaliga. And then I'll put the one who won more votes on the vote. So I'm putting Denisova Ludmila Leontievny's candidacy for the post of the Supreme Council of Ukraine for Human Rights. I'm asking everyone to take up their jobs and I'm asking you to support me. Vote. The rating vote. Please be supportive. Dennis, for Dennis' sake, be careful! [[16:51:28]] For 273 I'm betting on the rating vote of Mamaliga Andrija Volodymyrovich. Please take part in the rating vote, please. [[16:51:50]] For 111 So the rating vote showed that Ludmila, Ludmila Leontiyevna, had more support in the hall. And so, in accordance with article 85 of the Constitution of Ukraine, article 208 of the Ukrainian Act on the Supreme Council Rules and the results of the rating vote, I put to the vote the question of the appointment of the Human Rights Council Commissioner, Denisov Ludmila Leontiyevna. Please vote, please support. Let's vote, colleagues. If you'll excuse me, I'd like to vote. Let's vote, colleagues. [[16:52:45.]] For 280 Decision taken. And I'm announcing the appointment of Denisova Ludmila Leontievna to serve as the Human Rights Council of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. I ask the committee, together with the Supreme Council of Ukraine, to make decisions for the outcome of our decision. I would like to point out that I am asking to be given a lift from the People's Commission of the People's Republic of Ukraine, and we will be able to vote on it today after the next question of the agenda. And now we move on to the next question of the agenda. The next question of the agenda is the appointment of the members of the Court of Auditors. An oath after that must be filed by a committee. We have to take a technical break, then there'll be an oath. According to article 85, section 16, of the Constitution of Ukraine, article 20, of the bill "On the Court of Auditors", article 208 of the Ukrainian Act "On the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine" the Supreme Council appoints the members of the Court of Auditors. According to article 17 of the Law of Ukraine on the Court of Auditors, the Court of Auditors consists of nine members of the Court of Auditors. In accordance with the Rules and the Committee's submission, the next order of action is proposed. First. Report by the head of the State Financial Control and Activities Committee of John Ivanovich Krulk, in 5 minutes. Mr. Ivan, five minutes. The other one. From the factions and the groups, and then from the people's deputies, to 9 minutes. Conducting a rating vote using an electronic system in alphabetical order to identify nine candidates with the largest number of votes. And last but not least, making a decision on the list, defining it on the basis of a rating vote. After that, of the nine chosen, I, as Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, will propose to the head of the Court of Auditors. And now I'm inviting you to the report. Is there no denying this order? It's defined by law. And I invite the head of John Ivanovich Krulk's subcommittee to report in five minutes. Please, Mr. Ivan.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-15-m1.u39	Dear Andrey Volodymyrovich! Dear National Deputies! Dear Ukrainians! The question of the appointment of a new branch of the Court of Auditors is extremely important and is long overdue. And it probably doesn't need any extra agitation in this room. On April 4, last year, according to a previous competition, the Supreme Council did not appoint a new composition of the Court of Auditors, unfortunately. And according to part five of article 208.2 of the Supreme Council Rules, a new competition was announced. Accordingly, on May 19, the Budget Committee, last year, announced such a competition with a monthly deadline for submission of documents. The committee received documents from 43 candidates. According to a special examination of 42 candidates for information that impedes the appointment of a member of the Court of Auditors, no information was found. In doing so, one candidate, Black, found discrepancies in the declaration information, which led to a candidate who refused to explain and refused to participate in the re-competition in September. Thus, 42 candidates took part in the follow-up to the re-competition. In accordance with the information provided by the candidates, the composition can be briefly described in this way. Eighty-three percent of the men went out, 17 percent women. 86 percent of them are state officials, including 12 are members of the Court of Auditors, of whom four active members of the Court of Auditors and two of them have worked in the Court of Auditors’ system in the past. Four candidates are certified auditors. Two candidates are national deputies, and one candidate is a member of the local council. 17 candidates or 40 percent have a title, of which four candidates have scientific degrees, and 11 candidates have scientific publications. Five candidates have corporate rights or engage in entrepreneurial activities. The materials for all candidates from June last year are available on the Web site of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and the Committee on Budget Affairs. In addition, immediately after the contest, such materials were distributed in the session hall to all national deputies. For objective assessment and informed decision-making, on October 6, 2017, the committee held interviews with candidates, which included, among other things, testing in accordance with the Supreme Council Rules. According to the re-competition, 12 candidates were found not to meet individual requirements, the criteria for being a member of the Court of Auditors, established by article 19 of the Court of Auditors Act. In particular, these are the candidates: Beluk, Voloschuk, Georgieva, Krush, Movchan, Petrenko, Proenko, Pukor, Radionov, Cipan, Chaika, Čumakova. Also, candidate Petrenko does not meet the requirement for a professional job in the field of State audit, economics, finance or rights for at least five years. His three - and - a - half - year internship was reported to him during the interview. Detailed information on the recompetition is provided in a public and distributed committee decision. At its meeting on 15 November, the Committee generalized information and decided to recommend 23 candidates to the Supreme Council of Ukraine, namely: Borecki, Bogon, Didik, Duboriz, Ivanova, Lepak, Lesjuk, Lukyanczuk, Meisner, Naumova, Unknown, Nevolko, Fire, Pakakan, Pilipenko, Solova, Tolstaw, Ugrin, Christopher, Shulezko, Jaremenko, Jaremczuk and Yasinowski. So we have 23 candidates who are recommended to serve as a member of the House of Auditors from the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on budgetary matters. So the next order of business is now proposed. First of all, I propose, Mr. President of the Supreme Council, that we vote that 19 candidates are recognized as non-vote candidates. After that, 23 candidates will vote and then 9 candidates who have chosen the largest number of votes will be put to the vote as a whole as the composition of the Court of Auditors. Then we vote on the termination of the terms of office of the current members of the Court of Auditors, and the Head of the Supreme Council, when determined, will propose one of the nine candidates for the head of the Court of Auditors. Please support this kind of order of consideration and support this mature question at last. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-15-m1.u40	Thank you. Mr. John, listen to me carefully. I propose such a mechanism of consideration. The whole discussion first. Don't be distracted when I'm talking to you. Mr. John, first we're going to have a discussion, then when there's a concentration in the room, I'm going to put the first vote that we're going to put to the vote just 23 of those supported by the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-15-m1.u41	No, 19 are the ones that didn't pass, and 23 are the ones that score.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-15-m1.u42	Yes! I'll set it up when there's a concentration in the hall, a vote that we're only looking at in the 23rd. Then the 23rd alphabetically, I'm going to put up a rating vote. Then nine of those who took the first nine places, I put the vote in a packet, and then I propose a head.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-15-m1.u43	After that, we are voting for an order to terminate the mandate of the operatives.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-15-m1.u44	Yes! Is that accepted? So we're not voting now so we don't lose the votes, we're voting right before the ratings vote. Roger that. And now we're having discussions from factions and then from MPs. And I'm asking the factions and groups to sign up for this discussion. Please. The word "will of the people" comes from Ponomarov Alexander Sergiyovich. From "The People's Front" is Hungarian Pavlov Yakimović. Please, Paul Yakimovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-15-m1.u45	Praise Jesus Christ! Dear colleagues, I think we've made important human resources decisions today that we've matured and matured, and we're aware of that. And as we welcome colleague Ludmila Denisov of the very important position of the Powered Supreme Council of Ukraine for the protection of human rights, we really want her to become those who will protect the natural rights of the human beings with whom people are born, and these are fundamental human rights that are marked and in the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, which is a great all-inclusive guide for all nations and constitutions. We are now considering an equally important issue, which is important for the country's financial constitution, for the annual state budget, for all the revenue and expenditure programmes of the annual financial constitution, this is the Court of Auditors. I'd like to thank the members of our committee, because we've been through a few cycles of very deep work on candidates, on legislative provisions, and today we're going to make a balanced decision. It is absolutely necessary to fully update the composition of the Court of Auditors. It is absolutely essential that the Court of Auditors, as an independent body, evaluate the country’s budget. Because today we have a unique situation where local budgets within the budget of the whole crane are approaching the state budget. Decentralization has given much impetus to the filling of the income portion of the local budgets. But so far the attention of the Court of Auditors has been focused primarily on the state budget, and that is correct. But now we see that we need to help the local budgets by making effective use of the funds, the funds that we have spent with you in reforms to manage and use these funds, not to put them on deposits to work for the people. So today it's a very, very, very, very important decision. We support the need to update the House of Accounts. We want the new leadership that will be chosen today, success in the work and in the protection of government finances from all kinds of congestion and inefficient use. Let's do this together today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-15-m1.u46	Thank you. Please, from the opposition block faction, Igor Shurma. You'll be out of town? Mr. Scorch gives the floor. Please, Mr. Skork.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-15-m1.u47	Deputy Skorik, faction of the political party "The Opposition Block." Madam Chairman, distinguished national MPs, citizens of Ukraine! The question that will now be considered -- with regard to the renewal of the composition of the Court of Auditors -- I agree with the previous statement, very and very important to our state. Because the Court of Auditors is a tool for monitoring the use of budgetary resources that always has to work effectively in a normal country, and is a tool that is always under the control of opposition in normal European countries when opposition has the ability to control power through an instrument of the Court of Auditors. I think that in the four years that today's government is running, and the number of corruption scandals that you and I have been able to see in the country, it's going to make it work as effectively as possible. Unfortunately, we understand that the management of the Court of Auditors will not be in the hands of the opposition, as it should be in a normal state. The functioning parliament will continue, unfortunately again, the wrong practice of ignoring the right of opposition to control functions in this House. As the opposition was ignored at the beginning of the work, when no committee was given to representatives of the Opposition Block, as we are not represented in the Presidium, unfortunately, the Supreme Council, unfortunately, is the same situation and will happen, we understand that, with the Court of Auditors. Today we've been looking at questions from the National Bank, and in this room there are billions of amounts that have been stolen from commercial banks, large or small, in the '90s that have been destroyed, Privatbank, which has been privatized, and it seems to me that the new composition of the National Bank of Ukraine should be one of the tasks of verifying the work of the previous National Bank of Ukraine. Because today, yes, we've done an important job -- we've retired Mrs. Gotarev, but without investigating her activities, without returning the billions of dollars from these banks, from their owners to the country's budget, we'll never have a normal budget situation. And including what we need to understand is that there is a need for normalization of the public finances as a whole. The role of the Accounting Chamber in a normal state is decisive. Despite the fact that the formation of the composition happens in, I don't think it's a normal way.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-15-m1.u48	15 seconds. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-15-m1.u49	I want to do something useful for the state. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-15-m1.u50	The word is now given to the deputy of the Self-Help faction, Mrs. Ostrich. Please, Mrs. Auntie.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-15-m1.u51	Aunt Ostrikova, Self-Help faction. Dear colleagues, despite the fact that a new bill on the Court of Auditors was passed in 2015, unfortunately, since 2015 we as a Parliament have not used our constitutional powers and have not assigned the personal composition of this body. Instead, the Court of Auditors is the body that is called upon to control the effective authority, because the mandate of this body consists primarily of spending the State budget and, most importantly, using the State's loans to the special fund of the State budget from foreign states, banks and international financial institutions. And I would like to draw your attention to the fact that in developed countries, the Court of Auditors is an independent external supervisor of state finances whose members and heads should have immunity from any changes in the political arena. They should not depend on what political power has won the elections. The Court of Auditors should be the only real threat to a system of government based on corruption, kleptomania, and the conclusion of the Court of Auditors should be a real judgment for corrupters and those who are currently looting government funds. And so today our task is not just to select the name or personal composition of the Court of Auditors, but our task today is to change our attitude and to change the very foundations of the functioning of this body. The government must have shuddered at the fact that the Court of Auditors had reached a huge conclusion after an operation where the Court of Auditors had seen ineffective, purposeless use of state funds. And let's be honest that you and I are not using this organ today. Now, honestly, which one of you read the effective conclusions of the Court of Auditors, followed by criminal conduct, and on what basis are corruptionrs held accountable? This suggests that we are not fully aware of the benefits of these conclusions. And that tells us that we are not fully used by the Accounting Chamber today. Also, when looking at how long it has been formulated, sad to say, disheartening conclusions are asked. I run parallels here from the NABU, I run parallels here with the State Bureau of Investigation. This means only one thing: that the authorities are resisting the creation of independent control organs, or that they are already discrediting the creation or that they are delaying the formation of new ones. That is why we today call not only for the personal composition of the Court of Auditors to be selected but for it to be an effective mechanism for parliamentary control. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-15-m1.u52	The last performance in the block of group and factions. Please, Mrs. Oksana Sold from the Peter Dust Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-15-m1.u53	Dear colleagues, you and I are now discussing the issue of the approval of the members of the Court of Auditors, and then the Head of the Court of Auditors. A question that has been considered by the Committee on Budgets since the 15th year. The competition was announced for the first time since the amendment of the law in the 15th year. You and I failed him once, we spent the second time. The budget committee is now in place, recommending 23 candidates. I thank the members of the budget committee and the working group led by John Krulko for preparing the materials. And I ask you all to vote first for those candidates of the twenty-three you support. Then don’t forget to vote in favour of the nine that you and I will select together. And then vote for the head, the candidate for the head, who will be put to the head of the Supreme Council. We must vote with you today. Because without the composition, the updated composition of the Court of Auditors, all the anti-corruption activities that we're talking about with you, all the anti-corruption bodies that we've created with you can't work with the state budget and the income part of the state budget. We are now voting with you to reduce corruption in all organs of the state. Whether you like the candidates or not, you need to fight corruption or not. This is what Ukraine needs today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-15-m1.u54	Thank you, Mrs. Oksana. Colleagues, we now have a chance to discuss the issue of the new Chamber of Auditors from the Ukrainian National Deputies. I'm asking you to sign up. We're going to have eight minutes, that's four performances of two minutes. Please, colleagues. And in 8 minutes, we're already starting, so let's move on to the definition of this question. I ask you to return quietly to the session room. Please, Dmitri Bilocerkovec. It'll come out of place, please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-15-m1.u55	Dear colleagues! The matter of the Court of Auditors is very important to our country. Sadly, we have not been able to resolve it for a long time. So let's finally solve this issue today, vote for the number of warehouses, and pick our heads. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-15-m1.u56	Next performance from Ostap Ednak, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-15-m1.u57	Dear colleagues, I urge the House to take responsibility for this vote because, in fact, the Court of Auditors as an external public audit and control body is an extremely important mechanism. And an effective mechanism should be parliamentary control of the budget itself. Indeed, we have adopted a new fully-fledged law over two years ago that meets the international standards of external public audit, but unfortunately, we have not succeeded, I think, because of the politicalization, the over-politicization of the process, the selection of the body and its reformation. During the last few years, I, in particular and many of our fellow Members of Parliament, visited many foreign states, in Sweden, especially last year we were in Lithuania. We were familiar with the experience of the analog work of our Court of Auditors. In particular, Germany has been very helpful in drafting the law. I mean, there's good international experience. And I'm sure that when we choose a new composition of the Court of Auditors, foreign countries will help reform it, write new procedures, rules under the new law. But as a parliament, we must first choose the quality and professional composition of the members of the Court of Auditors. Well, actually, a spoonful of tarts in our staff assignment with you today is what I think is, unfortunately, too much. We brought together the Chamber of Auditors and the appointment of the Ombudsman, and unfortunately, we linked these issues and politicized the appointment of the Ombudsman, which we did not have the right to do, especially after the Dignity Revolution, when society deserves an independent non-political body authorized by human rights. So I do hope that the office of the Court of Auditors and the head of the Court of Auditors will not be the subject of political trade, but a more professional and competent person will take up this office and will be able to conduct quality audits of public funds for the next six years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-15-m1.u58	Thank you. Please, Sergey Shahov, give me your word. Melnichuku gives the word. Please. Melnichuku gives the word.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-15-m1.u59	Dear colleagues, Sergey Melniczuk. The Court of Auditors is one of the organs that is really represented to control the executive branch of power. And it's desirable that this is the very structure that is the least of those people who are going to abuse it and cover up corruption. I want to point out that we have to release the old warehouse, which includes Jaremenko Alexander Stepanovich. So the new criminal authority wants to bring this man back, who is the deputy minister of the economy at Azar, who was actually supposed to be illustrated, they want to drag him back into the new warehouse. There is a request not to support this candidacy, not to miss it again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-15-m1.u60	Thank you, Your Honor. And please let me now welcome National Deputy Kishkar, Paul Kishkar.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-15-m1.u61	Paul Kishkar, National Movement of Ukraine. In fact, people outside this Parliament don't really care what their names are in the Court of Auditors, and 99.9 percent of people don't understand the function of this body at all. And that's actually a good thing when people don't know it just so that this body works and does its main task of controlling the use of funds both by government and by local governments and by central executives. And in fact, today it's just a nice report, beautiful statements, beautiful notions of committing crimes that don't really end in criminal conduct that don't end in landings that don't end in court sentences. So as long as this system doesn't work and works directly to control the use of these funds, it doesn't matter to vote for the personnel stock. Dear colleagues, we need to pay due attention to these reports, read them out, pass them on to the relevant law enforcement agencies, and insist on investigating these criminal cases and returning funds, stolen funds, taxpayers, and using them for purposes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-15-m1.u62	Dear colleagues, please finish Mr. Kishkara for 30 seconds. And then another performance.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-15-m1.u63	Thank you, Madam Chairman. In fact, I have just finished reading the report on the work and use of the Ministry of Youth and Sports, where clear amounts have been recorded that have been stolen by the relevant officials. You may view this as an appeal to the appropriate law enforcement authorities of the People’s Deputies of Chiscara to investigate the cases mentioned in the report of the Court of Auditors on the activities of the Minmöděsport. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-15-m1.u64	Thank you, Your Honor. The last performance in this block, and we're moving on to the rating vote, so we're very much asking our colleagues to come back to work. And now the word is given to Oksani, it's given to Oksani for sale. Please, Mrs. Oksana.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-15-m1.u65	Dear colleagues, the very big question that today stands in the relationship between power and the community is the question of trust. There is no confidence in the Court of Auditors today, which has not changed since Midan the Dignity, after the election of the Supreme Council, the President, the local authorities. To date, the Court of Auditors has been working with a total of members of the Court of Auditors. So I'm asking you not to discuss the candidature right now. There's 23 of them, there's someone to choose from. Vote and make decisions, and approve the new composition of the Court of Auditors and the head. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-15-m1.u66	Thank you, dear colleagues. We had a very brief talk with Oksana. Also, if we have the wishes of the Radical Party, the national deputy of Kirichenko, we have time. No, there's no time, that's it. Let's ask the hall to return all our colleagues to their jobs. Mr. Head, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-15-m1.u67	So, colleagues, the discussion is over. And we're moving on to making a decision. And I'm asking all the MPs to come into the hall and prepare for a decision. Let me remind you how the decision-making will take place. First, the vote that Parliament will consider only those who have received committee support, then the rating vote of 23 candidates for membership of the Court of Auditors. After that, the nine candidates who will win the largest number of votes will be put to the vote by a package. After that, as Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, of those nine candidates, one of them will be invited to serve as Head of the Court of Auditors. And only then will we remove the MP's powers, first from the Human Rights Commissioner and then from the newly elected head of the Accounts Chamber. If we go through everything quickly and in time, then we'll still be able to go to Law 4547 -- change to KPC. We're late, we're late, colleagues. Now all you have to do is vote in agreement to get everyone in place, and now there's going to be a stage of actual constant voting, and so go into the hall, take the jobs, and I'll put all the motions to the vote. My first message. I want to read that a statement has been made to the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine by the national deputy of Ukraine Lukyanchuk. "Dear Andrew Volodymyrovich! On March 15, 2018, the Supreme Council of Ukraine scheduled to review the appointment of the members of the Court of Auditors of Ukraine. I inform you of the withdrawal of my candidacy and ask you not to consider it." Thus, of the 23 candidates approved by the Committee, 22 will be considered. Now turn on the microphone to the head of John Krulk's subcommittee to make the first vote. Please, Mr. Ivan.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-15-m1.u68	Dear colleagues! In view of the fact that the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine recommended the appointment of members of the Court of Auditors 23 (minus one, Lukianczuk, who wrote the application for refusal), 22 candidates are recommended by the committee. I propose now, and I name every last name now. We now have to vote on those people who are believed not to have passed the rating vote. Voting is required by the buttons "held" or by non-vote in order to fully implement the Rules of the Supreme Council. So I read: Abasov, Beluk, Belov, Viga, Voloschuk, Georgiyanova, Krush, Movchan, Permjakov, Petrenko, Proenko, Pukor, Radionov, Revük, Savitsky, Sedich, Zippan, Tchaika, Chumakova. This is a list of 19 candidates I named. Therefore, I ask the Head of the Supreme Council to put this matter to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-15-m1.u69	Thank you. So, fellow workers, be alert to the order of things. This is the removal of 19 people who didn't support it. Of course we all do, don't we? So I propose now to support the position of the subcommittee so that those candidates, the members of the Court of Auditors who did not support the committee, are excluded from the list of candidates. Remove 19. Understand? Please support the proposal by the head of the subcommittee to remove 19 candidates from the list of candidates. We vote, it's important and I ask everyone to support, please support, please vote. "For" to vote. See how the Head of the Supreme Council votes, and repeat after him, it will be right. If you'll excuse me, I'd like to vote. Guys, I'll explain again, you don't listen to what I'm saying, and then you yell that you don't understand. We're removing 19 candidates who haven't been supported by the committee, we're taking them out of 19 so we can put on the ratings only the 22 that the committee has supported. Now is it clear whether I should explain it five more times? I see. So, please, back up. So this is the green button we're voting for removal, for removing them from the list. Understand? Do you need any more tips? That's enough. So "for" to eliminate 19 people. So, we're ready, I'm asking you to support John Krulk's proposal to remove from the list of 19 candidates who are candidates. were considered not to have passed the vote, the rating vote. Please vote and please support. I'd like to vote in favour. Please say yes. Yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, If you'll excuse me, we'll vote in favour. [[17:27:49]] For 269 It's been removed. Now we're going to start a rating vote of 22 candidates who were supported on the committee. I'm going to put them in alphabetical order, and you guys, get your head in the game and vote. I'll speak slowly so you can vote. I would like to point out that now the ratings vote, then the nine that have won the largest number of votes, will be put in a package for approval. It's going to be the will of the hall, and what the will of the hall is going to be, and that's the only way I'm going to be able to put it. Understand? Shall we go? I'm starting to read. First. Barecki Vladimir Ivanovich. Whoever supports this candidature, please vote. Vote. [[17:28:49]] For-57 Bogun Victor Pavlovich. Please vote, please support. [[17:29:11]] For 258. Didik Andry Mikolaiovich. Please vote, please support. [[17:29:32]] For 273 Duboriz Vladimir Anatoliyovich. [[17:29:53]] For-13. John’s Irina Mikolayevna Please vote, please support. [[17:30:14]] For 226 Lepak Roman Ivanovich. Please vote, please support. [[17:30:33.]] For-35 Lisuk Taras Vasilovich. Please vote, please support. [[17:30:55]] For-30 Meisner Andriy Vasilovich. So, Meisner Andriy Vasilovich. [[17:31:21]] For 246 I think it's Olenna Alexandrovna. I'm asking the camera to fix the results. On purpose, Alexandra Alexandrovna. [[17:31:45]] For-13. Unknown, Vasil Ivanovich. [[17:32:06]] For 251 Nvolko Vjacheslav Anatoliyovich. [[17:32:28]] For a hundred and The fire of Caesar Grigorovich. Please vote, please support. Vote! Let's vote, colleagues. [[17:32:49]] For 264 Puckan Valeriy Vasilovich. Please vote, please support. Vote. [[B in m in s a l in]] [[17:33:11]] For 345. [[Applause]] Filipenko Viacheslav Pavlovich. Please vote. [[17:33:30.]] For 118 Solovy Mikhailo Mikolaiovich. [[17:33:51]] For-34 Tolstanov Mikhailo Konstantinovich. Please vote. [[17:34:09]] Z-71 Ugrin Ivan Bogdanovich, please. [[17:34:34]] For the 15th. Christopher's Denis Igorovich, please. [[17:34:55]] For-16 Mary Jacob’s Skull [[17:35:13]] For-56 Yaremenko Alexander Stepanovich. [[17:35:33]] For 217 Jaremczuk Igor Mikolaiovich. [[17:35:53]] For 228 Jasinovski Ivan Grigorovich. This is the last vote. Please vote. Please be supportive. [[17:36:13]] For-162 Now, colleagues, I'm asking the camera to give me a list of nine people who won first place in the rating vote. In accordance with the Rules, after the vote, we shall proceed to the final vote. And in accordance with part five of article 208 of the Supreme Council Rules, I will put to the vote a list of the nine candidates who obtained the largest number of votes on the basis of the rating vote. I am very much asking the Supreme Council apparatus, the Secretariat, to verify very carefully and to submit to me nine candidates who have obtained the highest number of votes. After that, I will remind you that I will offer nine candidates who will be elected, if elected, one of the candidates for the head of the Court of Auditors. And I'm asking everyone not to disperse, and the vote will take place literally in one or two minutes. I ask everyone to stay in the workplace while the apparatus prepares a list of nine candidates. Now we're going to move on to the next vote. So, please, Mr. Michael, give me a list. And now I'm going to read the list. I'm sure a lot of the deputies have been fixed. And if the camera has made a mistake, you can fix it on the count. And so I'm starting to read out the nine candidates who won the highest number of votes: Packian - 345, Didik - 273, Fire - 264, Boon - 258, Unknown - 251, Meisner - 246, Jaremczuk - 228, Ivanova - 226 and Jaremenko - Alexander Stepanović - 217. Is that what happened? That's right, that's right. So I am voting for the appointment of the members of the Court of Auditors who have just been named as the winners of the rating vote. Please vote. Please be supportive. Let's vote, colleagues. Please be supportive. Please be supportive. [[17:39:14]] For 263 Let us welcome the members of the Court of Auditors who are assigned to positions of responsibility. [[Applause]] Decision taken. And now, colleagues, under 208 articles of the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and 20 of the Law of Ukraine, the Head of the Court of Auditors is appointed to the Supreme Council of Ukraine for his appointment to the Head. At the request of the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, or mine. In accordance with the legislative requirements, I propose the appointment of the head of the Accounting Chamber of the House of Auditors, Mr Valeri Vasilovich, to vote, please support, the winner of the rating vote. This is fair, and this position is fair. Please vote and support my application to Valery Vasilovich Paccan on the head of the Accounting Chamber. Please vote, please support. Please be supportive. [[17:40:34]] For 309 The Supreme Council of Ukraine decided on the appointment of Valerius Packaan as head of the Ukrainian Court of Auditors. Guys, don't break up! It's an important decision, but now two more decisions. It's depriving the MPs of our newly elected leaders. Valera! All right, there's going to be a vote on deputizing Dennis and the Pucks. Please, one minute, Valérie Paccan. Valérie, one minute. One minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-15-m1.u70	Dear colleagues! Thank you all for your confidence. 345 votes is the level of trust in the new House of Auditors. I want to assure you that this organ will work in a new way. Not as new as some slogans have been. I promise you that the new body will report to you in Parliament. I promise you that all the tests that will be carried out will be reported in this rostrum. I hope for your trust, for your cooperation, and thank you for your trust. And I welcome all the members of the House of Auditors for their election.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-15-m1.u71	Thank you. My colleagues, we still have a lot of voting to do. I'm asking everyone to be seated. Disenfranchisement of the MPs and then disposal of the old organs, so be seated. There's gonna be a few votes. Thus, according to article 81, part two, paragraph 1, of the Constitution, the Ukrainian national deputy, Denisova Ludmila Leontiyevna, wrote an application for her delegation to be appointed to the office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine for human rights. The question does not need to be included in the agenda of the day session. And according to article 81 of the Constitution of Ukraine, I am voting on the proposal to suspend the mandate of the Ukrainian national deputy, Denisov Ludmila Leontiyevna. Please vote, please support. Support me, colleagues, please vote, please support me. For depriving me of my authority. You listen to the Head of the Supreme Council. Please support, we vote in favour. Please support me. It's a technical but important question. [[17:43:08]] For 285 Decision taken. Ludmila Denisov will be able to proceed to the authority of the Commissioner. Welcome! I ask the Rules Committee, together with the Apparatus, to issue a ruling on the consequences of the decision we have taken. Next. According to article 81, part two, paragraph 1, of the Constitution of Ukraine, the national MP Paccan Valérie filed an application for his parliamentary credentials. In accordance with article 81 of the Constitution of Ukraine, I am voting on the proposal to suspend the term of office of the Ukrainian national deputy Pakkan Valerija Vasilovich. Please vote, please support me, colleagues. Let's vote carefully, please support. [[17:44:03]] For 279 Decision taken. And I ask the Rules Committee, together with the Apparatus, to issue a ruling on the consequences of the decision we have taken. Now, colleagues. I welcome you, Mr. Valérie, without a mandate. Colleagues according to part of article 217 of the Ukrainian Act on the Rules of Procedure of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, article 7 of the Ukrainian Law Authorizing the Supreme Council for Human Rights, when it comes to office, make an oath at the plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. In order to make an oath to the rostrum, the Supreme Council of Ukraine of Human Rights, Denisov Ludmila Leontiyevna, is invited. And after that, we'll cease Lutkowski's authority. Please, Denisova Ludmila Leontiyevna is invited to make an oath. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-15-m1.u72	Dear colleagues! I wanted to thank you for the high trust you gave me. You know, for me, it's kind of a win and a new challenge in my life. Because, you know, I was a little girl in the coastal city of Archangel. Then I moved to Ukraine and became four times a national deputy, twice a minister. And now I will defend the rights of all the people of our country wherever they are, under your parliamentary control. Thank you for that. And according to the Ukrainian Act "On the Authorized Supreme Council of Ukraine of Human Rights," the Authorized cannot be a member of any political party. That's why I'm announcing the suspension of the People's Front political party and submitting an application. It's clearly written there. I, Denisova Ludmila Leontiyevna, taking the office of the Authorized Supreme Council of Ukraine for Human Rights, solemnly and conscientiously swear to defend the rights and freedoms of man and citizen, to carry out my duties in good faith, to abide by the Constitution of Ukraine and the laws of Ukraine, to exercise justice and my own conscience. I pledge to act independently, impartially, in the interests of a person and a citizen. Thank you all.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-15-m1.u73	Thank you. Welcome, Mrs. Ludmila. In connection with the making of an oath to the newly elected Supreme Council of Ukraine for Human Rights, we must immediately make a decision to release Lutkovska Valeria Volodymyrna. And according to article 85, part one, paragraph 17, of the Constitution of Ukraine, I am voting on the question of the release of the Lutkov Valeria Volodymyrna from office of the Authorized Supreme Council of Ukraine from human rights. Please vote. I'd like your support, colleagues. Please vote. Careful, every voice. Vote. Careful! Please be supportive. Vote. I'd like your support, colleagues. Please support everyone carefully. [[17:47:54]] For 236 Decision taken. Please make a decision on the outcome of the decision we have made with the Apparatus. And, dear fellows, the final vote is now on personnel matters. With a view to ensuring legal standards, we must immediately decide on the release of the head and other members of the Court of Auditors whose terms of office have expired. Draft Decree No. 4283 on the release of the Head and other members of the Court of Auditors will report to the head of the Committee’s subcommittee on budgetary matters, Ivan Krulko. Please. And I'm voting for the whole draft Decree No. 4283 on the release of the Head and the other members of the Court of Auditors. Please vote, please support. It's an important, technical, but important question. Please support, colleagues, the release of the members of the House of Auditors. If you'll excuse me, I'd like to vote. Vote. Please be supportive. [[17:49:09]] For 248 Decision taken. Decision accepted, colleagues. And I welcome everyone with a powerful parliamentary step. But before us is yet another important question, the impeccable question. So I ask everyone to stay in the workplace. I would like to inform you that the next day's draft of the Act amending certain Ukrainian legislation on the improvement of criminal justice (No. 7547) is in order. I would also like to inform colleagues that during the last few days there has been an intrigue around this draft law, and I think our colleague, Andrew Lozový, has been unjustly accused. I'd like the whole room to take this position fairly. I think it's the job of the hall to find an understanding, not an argument. I think we should drop all charges against Andrey Lozov, and it'll be worth it, both in partnership, and that will ensure that we adopt this decision. Everyone who is here, not for the political pianist, but for making important state decisions, needs to hear me, we have in our speeches to be worthy, and we must jointly support this decision. And we're going to look at it. And I'm asking you to support the proposal to consider it with a reduced procedure. Please vote, please support. Vote. Please support the reduced procedure. Draft Law 7547. Please support the review of the reduced procedure 7547. Please be supportive. Vote. [[17:51:06]] For 204 Decision taken. And I'd like to invite you to the report of the National MP, Ostrikovo Tetjana Georgieva. Please be brief so you don't lose your voice. And I'm announcing a 15-minute extension. Please, Mrs. Tetjana. And I want to report that the Attorney General has come to this bill, and I'm going to give him a word to talk about. Please, Mrs. Tetjana.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-15-m1.u74	Dear colleagues, your opinion is proposed in Bill 7547, which corrects the shortcomings of the changes approved in the Criminal Procedure Code. I would stress that these changes were adopted by factions of the coalition. And they can come into force now and bring about the collapse of the judicial and legal system. I have in my hands the release of a court-law newspaper, where these novels of the Criminal Procedure Code lawyers, investigators, prosecutors and judges call it "ship Armageddon" and a complete collapse, if they become effective today, will lead to a delay in reasonable terms of pretrial investigation and excessive overload of investigators and courts. So the people's self-help deputies from other factions prepared this bill, which corrects the shortcomings of three major positions. As you know, from now on, investigators should be concerned about the granting of a search permit, the granting of a permit to arrest property, and the assigning of forensic expertise to the court, not at the location of their judicial investigation body, but to the court at the district center. This is actually 25 courts in Ukraine. Similarly, from now on, all forensic experts will be appointed not by an order of the investigator or by a lawyer, but by the investigator. Again in those 25 courts. And if we're talking about central law enforcement, it's actually the Shevchenkovsky and the Cave Court. I want to draw your attention to a few things. To date, investigators have received two - week vouchers from the Cave Court. The court of Shevchenkov is the month. Experts at the Kyiv Research Institute of Forensic Research are assigned to January 2019. The next change we propose is, however, to remove from the text of the Criminal Procedural Code a position that makes it possible to charge a report of suspicion. It's in case the court does.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-15-m1.u75	30 seconds to complete.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-15-m1.u76	Because we believe that transferring this stage of the indictment to such an early stage actually means dealing with the matter in fact and contrary to the principles of criminal justice. In connection with the subject, we ask that the bill be approved in the form in which it was submitted by the authors. And the position on the division of approaches to expertise and the terms of the pre-trial investigation, as expressed by the committee, "self-help" does not support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-15-m1.u77	Thank you. From the committee to Anton Heratchenko. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-15-m1.u78	Dear National Deputies! Dear Chief! Dear Ukrainian people! In fact, today at 00:00 a judicial legal collapse begins. Unfortunately, this collapse was caused by the Supreme Council of Ukraine, which can do anything. We have adopted such amendments and changes to procedural codes that unfortunately conflict with common sense. To correct them, a group of authors, including me, with Tetjana Ostrikava, with Olena Sotnik, Mustafa Najem, passed Bill 7547. However, during his work on the committee and consulting the factions, he needed to be processed because without it there would be no votes. Yesterday, on the committee, we had him rehearsed after a report from the task force under my command. And they offered to accept it today to be a consensus among the factions with technical legal rights, essentially what I'm now going to read under the transcript. With regard to the exclusion of amendments to the Ukrainian Law on Forensic Expertise, the title of the law is given in the following wording: "To amend the Criminal Procedure Code for the Improvement of Criminal Justice". Paragraph 2, in paragraph 1 of section I, sub-paragraph 3, should be worded in such an order. Paragraph 3 in article 219, part one and part three, read: “Paragraph 1. The trial must be completed: Within one month of the day of the report to the suspect of a criminal offence, within two months of the day of the report to the suspect of the crime. Item 3. The date on which the decision to stop the criminal conduct before the date on which it was cancelled by the investigating judge or the decision to reinstate criminal conduct, as well as the time frame for the parties to investigate criminal conduct in accordance with article 290 of this Code, shall not be included in the terms provided for in this article." To be completed in part six of the following table of contents: "Paragraph 6. The period of pre-trial investigation of criminal conduct in respect of offences provided for in Chapters VII, XVII and XVIII, as well as in Articles 190 and 191 of the Criminal Code, from the time of the reporting of criminal offences to the sole register of pre-trial investigations to the day of the report of the suspect shall be as follows: (1) Six months in criminal proceedings in criminal matters, 12 months in criminal proceedings in connection with a crime of small or medium gravity, 18 months in criminal proceedings in connection with a serious or particularly serious crime." After.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-15-m1.u79	Please add a minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-15-m1.u80	Five minutes, because it's all important, and unfortunately, we have to correct our mistakes.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-15-m1.u81	Add five minutes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-15-m1.u82	After sub-paragraph 3, add a new paragraph 4 to the following content: "the part of the first article 220 after the words "the conduct is carried out" to be supplemented by the words "an individual's rights or legitimate interests are limited in the course of pre-trial investigation." In this regard, sub-paragraphs 4-13 are considered to be sub-paragraphs 5-14. Subparagraph (b) of Subparagraph 5 should read as follows: “Subparagraphs 7 and 8 of Part Three and Subparagraph 5 of Part Five should read as follows: “things, documents or persons that are intended to be searched, as well as their links to criminal offences committed; justification that access to goods, documents or information that may be contained may not be obtained by the authorities of the investigation in a voluntary manner by way of seeking things, documents, information in accordance with Part Two of Article 93 of this Code, or by other follow-up actions provided for in this Code, and access to persons who are intended to be sought by means of other follow-up actions provided for in this Code. This requirement is extended to cases where a search is carried out in the investigation of crimes provided for in Chapters VII, XVII, XIII of the Special Part, as well as articles 190 and 191 of the Criminal Code of Ukraine." "Paragraph 5. Under the established circumstances, the search is the most appropriate and effective way to locate and remove things, documents that are relevant for pre-trial investigation, and to establish the location of the wanted persons, as well as action, proportional interference in the person's personal family life." Subparagraph "a" of Subparagraph 6 should be worded as follows: "(a) the first part should be laid out in the following wording: "Expertise shall be carried out by an expert at the request of an investigator or a court, if special knowledge is required to determine the circumstances relevant to criminal conduct. An expert on law issues is not allowed. The expertise in the investigation of crimes provided for in Chapters VII, XVII, XIII of the Special Part, as well as in Articles 190 and 191 of the Criminal Code, shall be carried out only by the order of the investigating judge assigned to take care of the criminal conduct party in accordance with article 244 of this Code." At the same time, I make a proposal, paragraph 2 of part one of article 242 in the Committee’s edition. Paragraph 2 of sub-paragraph "a" of sub-paragraph 8 should read: "Review of the investigating judge's concern for the involvement of an expert, the conduct of an expert." Subparagraph 8 shall be completed with the following sub-item: "To complement part of the tenth of this content: "If the determination of circumstances relevant to criminal conduct in relation to crimes provided for in Chapters VII, XVII, XVIII of the Special Part, also in articles 190, 191 of the Criminal Code, the necessary special knowledge, the parties to criminal conduct have the right to address the issue of an expert to the investigating court. The following judge is satisfied with the concern if the person who has addressed the matter has to decide on matters that are essential to criminal conduct in connection with the crimes envisaged in Parts VII, XVII, XVIII of the Special Part, and Articles 190, 191 of the Criminal Code require the involvement of an expert. In this case, the investigating judge shall determine for himself the expert to be involved, or the expert body to be entrusted with the expertise." At the same time, I propose that, in the first part of article 242, paragraph 1, of the Committee on Criminal Procedure, "the parties to criminal proceedings have the right to seek expert advice from the investigating judge" should be replaced by the following: "the defendant's party addresses the matter and conducts an expert opinion before the investigating court." After sub-paragraph 8, add new sub-paragraphs 9.10.11 to the following content: "Paragraph 9. In article 284: Part one: Paragraph 10 of the Ukrainian Law of October 3, 2017, No 2147-VIII, consider paragraph 11th to read: "Paragraph 11. After the person's report of the suspect, the period of pretrial investigation, as defined in article 219 of this Code, ended." In the thirteenth paragraph, the words and figures "defined by article 219 of this Code have ended" are replaced by the words "defined by the sixth part of article 219 of this Code ended." And at the suggestion of the Committee and the Chief Legal Authority, after these words, add the words "or it hasn't been continued," and then by the text. The second part of the fourth paragraph after the digits "10" should be completed with the digits "11" and the Committee and the General Legal Office should delete the changes noted. I'm almost done, my friends, well, unfortunately, we're just correcting the mistakes that have been made. Article 10, articles 294, 295 and 290, first paragraph: "Article 294. General positions for continuation of pre-trial investigation. If, as a result of the complexity of conduct, it is not possible to complete a pretrial investigation into a criminal offence (knowledge) within the time limit set out in article 219, paragraph 1, of the first part of the Code, it may be extended within the time limit set out in article 219, paragraph 1, of that Code by a district, city or other prosecutor. If a pretrial investigation into a crime cannot be completed within the time limit set in part 2, paragraph 2, of article 219, it may be extended within the limits set out in sections 2, 3, 219 of the Code: (1) within three months, the director. "
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-15-m1.u83	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-15-m1.u84	".. within three months, he is the head of the local prosecutor's office; within six months, he is the head of the regional prosecutor's office or his first deputy or deputy; within twelve months, he is the Attorney-General's Attorney-General or his deputy. Three. The period of pretrial investigation of a crime may be extended to three months if it cannot be completed as a result of the complexity of the conduct, up to six months - due to the particular complexity of the conduct, up to twelve months - due to the exceptional complexity of the conduct. Article 295. Order of continuation of the trial period. First. The continuation of the period of pretrial investigation of a criminal offence is followed by the concern of an investigator or prosecutor who supervises compliance with the laws in the course of this pretrial investigation. The other one. In the matter of continuing the period of pretrial investigation, it is noted: 1) First name, last name, after the suspect's father. 2) Appointment, crime number. 3) The essence of the report of a suspect and the legal qualification of a criminal offence with a reference to an article, part of the article of the Ukrainian Criminal Responsibility Act, which suspects a person. 4) Reference to evidence based on suspicion. (5) Procedural actions that take time to complete or complete. 6) Identifying the outcome of these proceedings for this court hearing. 7) The period required to perform or complete the process. 8) Circumstances that prevented this procession from taking place earlier. Third. A copy of the matter is served by an investigator or prosecutor who supervises compliance with the laws in the course of this pretrial investigation, the suspect or his guardian no later than five days before filing a complaint with the prosecutor who is authorized to consider the question of the continuation of the period of pretrial investigation. Suspected, his guardian has the right to file a complaint regarding the continuation of the period of pretrial investigation, to submit a written objection to the investigator or prosecutor who initiates the matter, which is necessarily to be included in the matter and, together with him, to the prosecutor authorized to examine it. The prosecutor, authorized to consider the extension of the period of pretrial investigation, is obliged to consider the matter no later than three days from the date of its receipt, in any case from the date of its receipt, until the expiry of the period of pretrial investigation. The prosecutor's decision to extend the period of pretrial investigation or to refuse such extension shall be taken in the form of a decision." Soon, my friends, well, I say again, we wouldn't make mistakes, either. Article 200. Unfortunately, the Supreme Council voted in favour of these codes. "Article 295 Prime 1. Special features of the procedure for the continuation of the period of pretrial investigation by the investigating judge. First. In cases where it is not possible to complete the pretrial investigation in the period provided for in article 219, part six, the continuation of the period of pretrial investigation is based on the decision of the investigating judge ordered for the proper care of the prosecutor or investigator. The concern regarding the continuation of the pretrial investigation of the suspect's reports is: firstly, the appointment (number) of criminal conduct; secondly, all investigators (investigative) and other procedural actions carried out during criminal conduct; thirdly, the circumstances that prevent other necessary procedural actions from taking place earlier; the time frame necessary for the conduct or completion of the procedural proceedings; and five other information to justify the need for a continuation of the pretrial investigation period. The originals or copies of documents and other material used by the prosecutor, the investigator, should also be added to the issue, as well as an extract from the Single Register of Criminal Investigations, which gives rise to the problem. In doing so, the prosecutor is obliged to indicate in due course the shortest time available for the purpose of pretrial investigation. The following judge, finding that the problem presented without complying with the requirements of this article, returns it to the prosecutor, the investigator for whom he approves. The following judge refuses to be satisfied with the concern about the continuation of the period of judicial investigation and the person’s reports of suspicion in the event of his misdeeds and misdemeanours. The refusal to satisfy the concern about the extension of the period of pretrial investigation is provided by the investigating judge with a reasoned approval. The judge-in-charge's approval of the extension should be extended. the general requirements of the judicial decisions provided for in this Code, as well as the full time frame for the investigation. Six. The ruling of the investigating judge, taken as a result of the examination of the matter of the continuation of the period of judicial investigation, is not admissible. Eleven. In Chapter 24, add articles 296, 297 as follows: "Article 296. Satisfaction with the continuation of the period of pretrial investigation. The prosecutor is satisfied with the issue and continues with the period of pretrial investigation if he is satisfied that an additional period is necessary to obtain evidence that may be used during judicial proceedings or to carry out or complete an expert study, provided that such actions could not be carried out or completed earlier for objective reasons. If the prosecutor is satisfied with the prosecutor’s concerns, he will determine a new period of pretrial investigation. The prosecutor is obliged to determine the shortest time available for the purpose of pretrial investigation. If necessary, the prosecutor may, before the expiry of the extended period, re-apply with concern about the continuation of the period of pretrial investigation as defined in this paragraph, within the time limits set by part two of Article 219 of this Code." I'm almost done, guys. "Article 297. Refusal to Satisfy the Trouble of Continuation of Trial Investigation The prosecutor refuses to satisfy the issue and to extend the period of pretrial investigation in the event of an investigator, a prosecutor who has made a complaint."
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-15-m1.u85	Anton, do you have much to read? Anton?
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-15-m1.u86	One letter, one letter, boys! Friends, I want to say again, believe me, I don't like this procedure very much, I don't like that I have to do this, but we've made hostages of all the law enforcement agencies in our country. That's why I'm asking.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-15-m1.u87	Please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-15-m1.u88	So please, let me finish, let me read. After that, everyone decides. The one who does not want to vote, please do not vote, and let the one who does not vote back the fact that our law enforcement system is going to fail. "Others. In the event of a difference in the length of the period of pretrial investigation, the prosecutor, who oversees compliance with the laws in the course of this pretrial investigation, is obliged to carry out one of the actions envisaged in part two of article 283 of this Code within five days.” In this connection, paragraphs 9 - 14 are considered to be sub-paragraphs 12 - 17. Subparagraph 12 reads: “Part One, paragraph 10, of article 303, in the following wording: “reporting of the investigator, the prosecutor of the suspected criminal conduct in respect of offences provided for in articles 7, 17, 18 of the Special Part, as well as articles 190, 191 of the Criminal Code after the completion of one month of a report by the court of a suspected criminal offence or two months from the date of the report to the person of the suspect, but no later than the closing of the prosecution of criminal conduct or appeal to the court with the indictment - the suspect of his guardian or legal representative.” Subparagraphs 14, 15, 16 delete, paragraph 17 consider paragraph 14. Section I, paragraph 2, on forensics, delete. Section III, paragraph 1, reads as follows: "This law takes effect from the day of publication." At the same time, I offer a transcript of the committee and the Supreme Council's Chief Legal Office, which is correct. Paragraph 1 of section III of the bill should be supplemented by the following paragraph: “The provisions of part 6 of article 219, paragraph 8 of part 3 of article 234, paragraph 2 of part 1 of article 242, part 10 of article 244, article 284 in the application of article 219 and article 295-1, paragraph 10, part 1 of article 303 in the wording of this law do not have a retroactive effect in time and are applied to criminal conduct in which information on criminal offences has been submitted to the Single Register of Investigative Investigations since the date of entry into force of this law”. I'm almost done. All these proposals and corrections have been processed by the working group, agreed with the Attorney General's Office, the Ministry of Internal Affairs, the National Police. The adoption of the law, which I have just read, will provide an opportunity to remedy the shortcomings that have arisen in Ukrainian KPC as a result of the adoption by the Supreme Council of Law No. 2147 on 3 October 2017 and avoid the collapse of the system of pretrial investigation, which will take place on 16 March 2018. I ask you, fellow members of the National Parliament, to support the committee's decision and to adopt the Ukrainian Law (registration number 7547) as a basis and as a whole, taking into account the suggestions and amendments I have made under the transcript. And the committee with the Chief Legal Authority of the Supreme Council will do technical and legal work as necessary. We are now adopting this law to resuscitate Ukraine's legal and judicial system, which will be brought back to chaos and collapse from scratch today. I'd like to support you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-15-m1.u89	Colleagues, I'd like to inform you that we have five minutes before we close down. Perhaps not I, no one could have imagined that the report would last for 15 minutes. And now. Colleagues, be careful that we can make it, because no one could predict it. Now I'm going to give Lucenke my word for two minutes. Then I'm going to move on to making a decision. Then we won't consider it today. Colleagues, let's keep him talking. If. Attention, now two minutes, Lucenka, and then I'll put it to the vote. Two minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-15-m1.u90	Ladies and gentlemen, I have come to this rostrum under the authority of the leaders of all law enforcement agencies. Our position is shared by the fact that several laws have been passed, not only by codes, but also by other laws that have led to the full operationalization of the law - enforcement system. But if we don't make some amendments to the codes today, tomorrow the Ukrainian law enforcement system can "fall into a coma". I would like to explain to you in a simple and accessible way what the problem is. Before that, I would like to point out that the search for someone specifically guilty is blasphemy. I don't think it's possible to repeat the name of a deputy whose rights are debated for so long, but the problem is not at all. The problem with who consulted him is who, at the time of his signature, pushed their interest. Finally, the problem is who voted in favour of these amendments. What has been voted on? So I would like you to stop the grass of Lozov, and the entire Parliament has made a wise decision. In fact, the Codex introduced three innovations. First. In every criminal case, a suspect can be charged from now on. Such practices in the EU are only in one country, in a brotherly but one in Croatia. The other one. These laws also provide that any expertise, including forensic expertise of older men or women with implicit signs, with no even signs of violence, is to be evaluated by a court decision. That's another 150.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-15-m1.u91	Add 1 minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-15-m1.u92	It's another 150,000 lawsuits that still can't miss a decision today. Dear national MPs, I'm not kidding, every second hour of the night, every day in court, prosecutors and lawyers fight each other to get a decision. At the top, another 150,000 appeals, not to all courts, but to central areas. They're going to kill the system. And the last. There are also terms, and I absolutely support this, but the extension of the terms, including especially serious crimes, every two months of the appeal to court. What is the wise offer? Divide the entire array of crimes, which is about a million drives a year, into two parts, two unequal parts: common crimes, murders, robberies, robberies, vans, thefts to keep them old. Crimes against the security of the state.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-15-m1.u93	Please, two minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-15-m1.u94	Crimes against the state, terrorism, financing terrorism, and so on. But to admit that, yes, there are problems in our country of persecuting businessmen and sometimes persecuting officials. For them, for this category of crimes, service and economics, to leave order established by codes, including the amendment of Lozov and other colleagues. This will increase judicial protection for businesses and officials against possible abuses by law enforcement agencies. This will resolve the collapse and allow you to work at least temporarily in such a mode. When our law enforcement agencies become European, objective, open - minded, then perhaps level the situation back. I would now very much ask on behalf of all law enforcement officers to meet, because not only is it impossible to bury older people on time, but it's a question of not being able to protect them at all, literally from tomorrow. Please, I'm addressing all factions, it's about everyone, and finally you're all asking us to help people, I emphasize, people. Let's vote in this case so that we can do the tasks that we have. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-15-m1.u95	Thank you. Colleagues, I will now, using the right of a leader, conduct a two-question rating vote. First. Who supports our adoption of Law 7547 by the committee as a whole and as a basis. And then who's in charge of making the base. It's a rating vote. Who's for us to take as a basis and in general, please vote, rating. The rating vote. Please vote. Who's to say the whole thing. [[18:15:58]] For-152. Who is it that we take as a basis the reduced procedure for preparing for the second reading, please vote, the rating vote. Based on the base. We only have one. We don't have anything else, girls. [[18:16:20]] For-198 So, colleagues, this proposal takes on the majority. When I say law, we have one, we don't have another now. And I am voting on the draft Act amending some Ukrainian legislation on improving criminal justice (7547) on the basis of a reduced procedure for preparing for second reading. Please vote, please support me as a base. Without a thing, the one you're talking about. I'm not going to repeat it 10 times. Based on the base. Please vote, please support. Vote. Please support with a reduced procedure for second reading. [[18:17:08]] For 214 Why? That's impossible. I'll bet again, colleagues. And I'd like you to come back and support this as a basis. I'm asking you to come back and support the foundation. Colleagues! Every voice, please. If there are no votes to return, the law will be rejected. Who's to go back to looking at the basis of Project 7547? Please vote. Please be supportive. Who's to come back? [[6:17:52]] For 219 There are no votes, colleagues. Draft Act amending some Ukrainian legislation to improve criminal justice. Shall I do it again or not? All right, I'll bet you one more time. 7547 return to consideration as a basis. Go back to looking at it as a basis. Please be supportive. Please be supportive. Please be supportive. Please back up once more, last time, third time, last time. If there are no votes, it will be rejected. [[18:18:28]] For 208 No voices. Draft Law 7547 has been rejected. My colleagues, we had a hard but very productive day. I welcome all our new leaders. I wish them a successful and fruitful work for Ukraine, for the Ukrainian State. And at this evening's meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, I declare closed. Tomorrow at 10 a.m., I'm inviting everyone into the conference room to continue our work. Thank you. Good-bye.
