ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-06-m0.u1	Good morning! Please come into the hall and prepare for registration. So, colleagues, if you'd like to conduct your registration, please register. Let's register. Turn on the registration system. [[10:02:46]] 359 national deputies registered. The morning plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Dear colleagues! Ukrainian border guards and environmentalists determine the chemical pollution of air at the border with the occupied Crimea. According to our data, this was due to Russian occupying forces firing chemical agents at titanium and soda factories. I call on international organizations, especially environmentalists and other international partners, to send to the occupied Crimea an untouched international monitoring mission that could provide an objective assessment of the environmental disaster that took place in the north of the occupied Crimea, as well as a real threat to the entire region. If the monitoring commission is not allowed into the occupied Crimea, I believe that we, as the Supreme Council of Ukraine, must recognize that this catastrophe is another fact of a chemical attack by Russian invaders in Crimea, which is also directed against Ukrainian citizens. A Russian aggressor turned our flowering Crimea into a range to test dangerous weapons. I urge all the countries of the world to condemn and punish the terrorist state of Russia for using chemical weapons around the world -- both in Syria and in Britain and in Ukraine. The world must be protected, and evil must be punished. Also, colleagues, I would like to explain the logic of the day’s work today. As I was saying on the Conciliation Council, the first block proposed for consideration is a block of national security and defence. Among the important issues that are on the agenda, it is also proposed today to include in the agenda a bill submitted by the President of Ukraine on amendments to the statutes and corresponding greetings of the Ukrainian Armed Forces, a traditional welcome for Ukraine – "Glory to Ukraine". And I want there to be maximum mobilization in the debate on the National Security and Defence Block, the maximum discipline in the Hall. After the National Security and Defence Block, I propose that we consider 12 ratifications. 12 ratifications, colleagues. And I'm going to address all the national MPs so that we can look at them very quickly and effectively. We have great debts under our international agreements. These ratifications were already in the order of the day. All the national deputies were able to examine them and get to know them. And I hope that we can get through the ratification block quickly and effectively without much discussion. So I call on everyone to work actively and effectively. I hope that our day will be filled with decisions and active work. And before we move on to the first question of the agenda, I want to report that there are two petitions for a break that the factions are willing to replace with statements. The first of those statements from the Opposition Block and Rebirth factions. And I invite you to speak from the two factions of the opposition block of Yuri Boyka. Please, Mr. Yuri.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-06-m0.u2	On Monday there was an unprecedented incident in the country when, on the air of one of the TV channels, the speaker of Parliament, the second official face of the State, allowed for a direct violation of the Nazi Prohibition Act, positively referring to the leader of the Third Reich. In any civilized society after such a statement, the speaker of Parliament should voluntarily resign, because he has no right to violate the laws that Parliament adopts. If Andry Volodymyrovich does not voluntarily surrender his authority, our faction reserves the right to appeal to the parliaments of all countries to clarify this disgraceful case and to directly violate the other official faces of the Ukrainian legislature. In addition, our faction has registered the Order to release Mr. Paris from his office for such a violation of the law. We urge him to consider and make appropriate decisions. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-06-m0.u3	Thank you. I will, with your permission, respond. I'm surprised that people who claim to be educated say such complete absurdity. On the air, I pointed out that the way of the referendum of direct democracy was used by the Nazis for manipulation. And I want to point out that this Nazi practice is actually being used today by Putin as an aggressor, with this practice being carried out by the pseudoferendum both in Crimea and in the Donetsk, Lugansk regions. The Russian aggressor uses Nazi methods, Nazi methods, occupation and aggression against Ukraine. And your representatives and Medvedchuk, who's been aspiring to us for methods, including Hitler, for a referendum in all of Ukraine, today, so the Russian media, and all Putin's "partners" have become so active because they're showing your real face. You are the sequel, Putin and his regime, the Nazi regime, you are the apologists of his ideas. I condemned these methods on the air, called them manipulation of these methods, and said that we should be very careful about doing so. And so, dear fellows, before you go to the highest court, look at the speech, read it, and don't look at Russian propaganda, and don't be the bullies of Russian propaganda in the Ukrainian Parliament. Although I understand that it will be difficult for you to change because Putin is your orientation, you have Russian propaganda and you have a Russian aggressor's orientation. Shame on you! Next statement from the Radical Party and Fatherland faction. And I invite you to speak to Oleg Valeriovich Lazko.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-06-m0.u4	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Today, the biggest problem for Ukrainians is the cost of gas and utility tariffs. People with great fear are waiting for new bills in October, November. Government and government, the President, because he also signed a memorandum with the International Monetary Fund and made a commitment to raise gas prices, they say there is no alternative to rising gas prices. We say it's a lie. The alternative to increasing gas prices is lower gas prices, it's a fair price for gas. Not a cosmic one that is artificially linked to import parity, Ukrainians are told to pay the European gas price. Thus, Ukrainians were forgotten to pay European wages and European pensions in order to be able to pay the European gas price. Instead, the International Monetary Fund requires not to raise wages, not raise pensions, but raise gas prices. Where does a man take 12 to 13,000 dollars to pay for a thousand cubes of gas when the cost of producing Ukrainian gas is one and a half thousand dollars? When the gas produced in Ukraine is enough for consumers. When the government raises prices, Naftogaz raises prices for industry, they actually kill the Ukrainian industry, make it uncompetitive, cut jobs for Ukrainians and force people to go abroad instead of earning money in Ukraine. The government has made decisions that have been artificially cut off from the right to receive subsidies. I know the history in Luhansk, where grandparents have lived together for 80 years, and today their two pensions do not give them the right to receive subsidies. And an 80-year-old couple gets divorced to get a grant from the state. So what does it take to get people to divorce on the slope to pay for that utility? For what? So Kobolev, head of Naftogazu, gets 3 million dollars a month's salary? So they can draw 45 million euros in prizes for decisions that have not actually been implemented? Therefore, the Radical Party team demands a report from the government in parliament on the rise in gas prices. We're calling for a report on Naftogazu's head in Parliament. The resignations of Naftogazu's head for actions that have actually led to the fact that today a three million-million-dollar city of Kiang, where they're sitting without hot water. Children are bathed in cold water because they have become hostages to the disproportionate appetites of the voracious authorities and the Naftogazu leadership. Ukrainian children in cold water bathe for millions of wages. Who should be responsible for this? Those who led to this condition. Therefore, the resignation of Naftogazu's head, a report by the government in parliament on the issue.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-06-m0.u5	Thank you. And I invite you to address Irina Lucenko, First Deputy Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Please, three minutes the same way. Heroceno! Irina Heratchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-06-m0.u6	Dear colleagues, first of all, I would like to express my indignation at the fact that Bill 9026 is not included in the agenda today. This is a technical bill that would unlock the payment of payments to the families of the Kremlin’s political prisoners. I would like to express my indignation that there is still no response from the Ministry of Finance, an expert on this technical bill, which, despite my formal appeal yesterday during the Conciliation Council to consider this bill immediately, it has not become an order of the day-to-day budget committee, and this bill is not in the agenda. You know, when the whole world is collecting signatures under the White House's petition for the release of Oleg Senzov, and we can't help the family, the children of Oleg Senzov get scholarships, that's a shame to all of us! And I'm going to protest this publicly. Well, here's the talk about who's a modern-day New Fuhrer. It is evident that Putin is now creating concentration camps, both in the Russian Federation, where dozens of Ukrainian political prisoners are being held and in occupied areas. And before criticizing the speaker of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, who had rightly diagnosed "gebelsovščina", I would go to Parliament with the following: on the NewsOne channel, which is one of the examples of "gebelsvščina", the national deputy of Balitsky, and, by the way, speaking in the presence of members of the democratic opposition, no one gave him a slap where he called the Dignity Revolution a coup d'état, where he boasted that he was resting in the occupied Crimea and was communicating with people there. I want to go to the Ukrainian Security Service: maybe he was talking to goblins there, too? We need to find out about this person’s contacts, who represents the Ukrainian Parliament, who he was communicating with there. [[B in m in s a l in]] And on the air of this television channel, dedicated to the former member of the Fatherland of Portnow today in command, and in fact, the Kremlin's administration, told of the fact that the annexation of Crimea is just! Righteous! That it was Ukraine that did all this. And I'm stressing that on this television channel where the Newgebbels are speaking, which today legalizes the theft of Ukrainian territory, democratic opposition continues. Maybe let's think about what we're doing to you. And I'm officially asking the Ukrainian Security Service. Please take a look at how the Balicki People’s Deputy communicated with them. I didn't mention anyone except Portnova, Portnova. Come on, let Portnov come to Ukraine and tell me if he was a member of Fatherland.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-06-m0.u7	Thank you. Now. Please, colleagues, here's another statement. Before that, one minute, and then I'll make your statement. Who's gonna be, like, one minute, a line, who's gonna talk? Sergey Sobolev.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-06-m0.u8	Sobolje, Fatherland. Mrs. Irina, I don't know why you mentioned this, but I'll remind you when I worked as Minister of Economics in the government of Yanukovich. Do you all hear that? He worked as a minister of economics in the government of Yanukovich, and Portnov put Timoshenko in prison. And I didn't hear anything else. So when you mention it, remember where your leader was when the whole country fought Janukovic. He was sitting in Azarov's office. I don't know who you've been protecting and why you're starting this hostility right now on the eve of such important votes: the defense of the country, all the other changes -- I don't understand. So I have a big request: When you mention it, ask for your bullet. When the whole country opposed Yanukovic, he served him, sitting in his government of Yanukovich - Azarov. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-06-m0.u9	If you call President Dusty my patron, who's your patron, Putin?
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-06-m0.u10	Last speech before the bill. It's from two factions of the application, it's given. Yegor Sobolev. And, colleagues, and we stop the political debate, we move on to the laws. Final address, please, Yegor Sobolev, 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-06-m0.u11	We want to draw the attention of our colleagues to the area of the Constitution under Parliament, and today it's full of people. This is a good and very important moment when people come from all over Ukraine to their parliament to ask for the decisions that people have been promised. Remember how many of us went to the polls to create a new state after Eromaydan. And one of the ideas that was discussed in Euromaida is to go to the new election rules, when a person will vote both for the party, and the party will be responsible for that vote, and for a particular candidate from this party that a person wants to see as a deputy. And this MP will also be personally responsible for this vote. This Act on Open Party Lists, as scientists call it, is ready to vote. Many amendments allow us to discuss and make the wisest decisions in the hall. And we ask that this vote be voted as soon as possible. Remember, when preparing for the approval of the Anticorruption Court Act, I said that without the approval of this law, we would not leave Parliament with a clear conscience. I am confident that those who vote in favour of the Open Party List Act will be able to step out of Parliament with pride. Let's make this decision, let's show the people who have gathered today in the square of the Constitution and are looking at our decisions from all over the country that we are really representing them, and that we are ready to give the country the rules of elections that will help people to conduct their representatives to the Supreme Council of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-06-m0.u12	So let's move on to the issues of order of the day, to the bloc of national security and defense. And the first law is the bill amending certain laws of Ukraine to increase the social protection of military personnel (registration number 6268-1). It's a second reading. Justice isn't much. And that's why, I hope, we can effectively go through this discussion and make a decision. And I invite you to report to the National Security and Defence Committee of John Winnick. Please, Mr. Ivan.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-06-m0.u13	Good morning, dear colleagues. Well, actually, on the next day, I thought that the Opposition Block had opened this unnecessary discussion solely in order to break the immediate review of the National Security Bills, particularly the First. And the first is an extremely necessary social project in the second reading. It refers to the payment of one - time financial assistance to members of the family of military personnel who died within a year of their release from military service. Indeed, there was a situation in which a military officer was injured, disabled, or simply ill during military service, and the military medical commission was sending him to the reserve. This trauma does not lead to loss of employability immediately during the commission, but it does happen that these injuries sustained during the course of the service can lead to the death of a citizen, a man serving in the military. That's why, at the suggestion of colleagues from the committee and factions of Parliament, such as the Fatherland, we have registered an appropriate project. He went through his first reading. Now the second one. A total of 27 suggestions were made. 10, 4 are counted in editorial terms, 3 is partially taken into account, and 10 more are rejected. So over the course of a year, a person will receive the same compensation if, God forbid, he loses his job or dies as a result of injuries sustained during his ministry. It's no big deal. Let's vote. If there is a wish, let's go after the amendments, although I would suggest that we lose time, vote in the second reading and in general with technical law in the committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-06-m0.u14	Thank you. So, colleagues, let's move on to the right. I'm going to read the ones that are rejected and I'm going to call the numbers. The right-wing authors are kindly asked to participate carefully in the discussion. 2nd. Don't insist. Third. Don't insist. 6th. Don't insist. 5th, Shepherd. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-06-m0.u15	Taras Shepherd, Self Help Union, Ternopil. Dear colleagues, when we adopted the bill in the first reading, there was actually a discussion, because there were several alternative bills in the part of the term during which this military officer might be disabled or die as a result of injuries, injuries that he received during combat. And actually this discussion was whether it was three months or a year or not. And the practice of today shows that so many of the guys who got injured in the 14th-15th year, they're still wandering around hospitals, in hospitals, and they're now getting confirmation of their disability. Regrettably, some of them die on account of those fragments, those injuries that were not able to be recovered or removed from the bodies. So we think that the limit within a year is not justified, it needs to be removed. I therefore insist on taking into account the amendments in general.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-06-m0.u16	Please, Mr. Ivan.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-06-m0.u17	In fact, we had three alternative projects, one for six months, one for a year, and the other for two years. Today, on the committee, we have decided to implement this mechanism, which is not currently available, setting a deadline of one year. After examining it, we can easily increase these terms to two, three, or the term needed for today from the new fiscal year. So for the time being, let's just propose to the committee's editor, and let's stop at that for now. And then we'll look at the results. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-06-m0.u18	Thank you. The 5th revision is taken into account in an editorial way. But Taras insists that it be taken fully into account. So I'm voting for a proposal that the 5th Amendment of the Shepherd should be taken fully into account. Whoever supports this proposal, please vote. [[10:25:33]] For 114 Thank you. The decision is not taken. 6th. Don't insist. 7th. Don't insist. 10th. Semenha, please, 10 revisions.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-06-m0.u19	Semenha Roman, "The Self-Help Union" faction. Honorary colleagues, the draft law, sadly, limits the term within which the family of a former military officer can receive one - time financial assistance. Therefore, I propose that this right should not be limited by any time to the possibility of members of the family receiving one-time service in the event of his death, after being released from military service, if there is certainly a causal link between the death of such a released person and the injury, the disability, the disease he received in carrying out the military service. The decision to appoint or refuse such assistance should be made no later than 30 days. Today, however, there is an order of 45 days. Obviously, 30 days greatly simplifies the procedure. I also suggest that if the decision on payment or refusal has not been made by authorized authorities on the last day of the deadline, I propose that the principle of silent consent be established. So the payment decision will be considered automatically. Please be supportive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-06-m0.u20	Please, Mr. Ivan.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-06-m0.u21	Well, actually, for the same reasons that I've already commented, we've taken this into account in part. In fact, some things about terms, they became part of this project. With regard to the date of the tragic death, we have, in fact, stopped at the deadline of one year. And this is going to be a big step forward compared to the order that exists today. Because it refers exclusively to people who are directly engaged in military service, and only in cases where death occurred immediately during the passage, not at any time as a result of trauma, injury, disability, injury during the passage and after a person's commission into civilian life. We considered it editorially. So please follow the committee's instructions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-06-m0.u22	Thank you. 10 revisions are edited. The authors insist that it be taken fully into account. Whoever supports this proposal, please vote. [[10:27:56]] For 135 The decision is not taken. 14th. 13 amendments. Semenha, turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-06-m0.u23	Semenha Roman, "The Self-Help Union" faction. Dear colleagues, the law is accepted in part, but it doesn't take into account two important proposals, so I'm focusing on two aspects. The draft law limits the time limit for families of former military personnel to receive one year’s cash assistance, both from Ukrainian citizens and former foreign military personnel. The amendment therefore proposes that such restrictions be lifted for families of foreign military personnel. The other one. Also, for this category of military personnel, there should be an improved order for decisions to be made regarding the appointment and payment of one - time financial assistance. To extend this to former foreign military personnel and stateless persons the same guarantees that were offered in the previous right that I reported to former Ukrainian military personnel. Please be supportive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-06-m0.u24	Thank you. This is part of the committee's agenda. The authors insist that it be taken fully into account. Whoever supports this proposal, please vote. [[10:29:17]] For 124 The decision is not taken. Next up, 15th. Don't insist. 16th. Don't insist. 18th. Don't insist. 22nd. Don't insist. Colleagues, we've actually finished the law review. 26th is the final amendment that will be discussed. After that, we move on to the vote. So in two minutes, we're going to move on to making a decision. And I'm asking everyone to invite the factions to the hall and heads of factions, and the secretariat of the Supreme Council, I'm asking you to invite the deputies to the hall. In two minutes, we'll move on to making a decision. Please, Semenha. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-06-m0.u25	Semenha Roman, "The Self-Help Union" faction. Dear colleagues, the readjustment is taken into account, but not entirely. I'm paying attention there to the part where I'm going to entrust the government within three months to ensure the adoption of an alternative medical (military-medical) expertise in the event of a citizen's disagreement with the findings of a state medical expertise. The adoption of such an order is already provided in article 73 of the Basic Health Law. Alternative medical expertise is carried out by professionals with appropriate profile and qualifications. Therefore, citizens choose their own expertise and expertise. Unfortunately, the bill does not provide for similar provisions. So I would suggest that you enter them and take fully into account number 26, which will regulate this aspect. Please be supportive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-06-m0.u26	Thank you. The 26th Amendment Committee counted in part. Please, Mr. John, briefly comment.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-06-m0.u27	Well, actually, there are enough questions in the committee about government activities in the area of national security and defence and, in particular, the 19th-year budget project, where we can see that there is not enough at least 20 billion dollars to raise the military's money. In fact, we may already be in the Final and Transitional Positions of the draft laws that we are adopting here to talk about the concrete actions of the government. But I still hope that the government of Groisman will be able to deal with at least national security and defence. So so far we've taken these proposals into account in part. But in the future, maybe we need to be more systematic about this problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-06-m0.u28	Do you insist on voting? So who, in order for the 26 amendments to be taken fully into account, counted it in part, please vote. [[10:31:59]] For 128 The decision is not taken. The discussion is concluded and we can move on to making a decision. So, colleagues, I'm asking everyone to take up jobs. Please come into the hall and prepare for the vote. Colleagues in beds, take up jobs. And I am voting on the draft Act amending some of Ukraine's laws to increase the social protection of military personnel (number 6268-1) on second reading and in general. Please vote and please support. Vote. [[10:33:15]] For 261 The law is passed. The next law on the security and defence bloc is the draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine to ensure equal rights and opportunities for women and men during military service in the Ukrainian Armed Forces and other military formations (No. 6109). I remind you, this law is also in the second reading and so are few rights, so please remain in the hall. And I invite the Secretary of the National Security and Defence Committee, Mr. Ivan Yuliyovich, to report. Please, Mr. Ivan.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-06-m0.u29	Thank you for voting on the previous project. We also have a project on gender equality between men and women in the Ukrainian Armed Forces. In general, the idea of the bill is that we do not divide individuals into men and women, and in fact all individuals, genders, enjoy the same rights and obligations as they pass through. This commitment by Ukraine, the practice of the European Union, Israel, the United States, we introduce it. Certainly, with respect to Ukraine’s laws to protect motherhood. At the same time, with great respect for our Ukrainian women, who, along with their husbands, protect our Fatherland. There are 19 rights, 4 counted completely, 8 partially, 4 edited, 3 rejected. This is a simpler project than the previous one, so I propose to vote in a committee with technical legal rights on second reading and in general. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-06-m0.u30	Thank you. So let's go to the right. I ask the authors to prepare themselves. So I'm going to call the adjustments that are rejected. 1st. Don't insist. On the 2nd, please, Suslova.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-06-m0.u31	Dear colleagues, at present 25,000 Ukrainians are serving in the army, of which 10,000 are members of the fighting. However, many people still have prejudice over the attitude of women in the military. Unfortunately, our legislation promotes this because it creates unequal conditions of service for women and men and thus forms a kind of glass ceiling. Therefore, to date, the highest rank a female army officer has been able to serve is the rank of a colonel, and we only dream of women generals. The bill took into account the opinion of the Ministry of Defence of Ukraine, each member of the Committee on Security and Defence. I'm asking you to support him in committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-06-m0.u32	Please, Mr. Ivan.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-06-m0.u33	In fact, the Ukrainian army lacks women generals, they will appear, I hope, and this will probably be the right thing to do. Thank you for your support. Thank you to the authors for the ideology of this project. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-06-m0.u34	Do you insist on voting? No, it's not. So, colleagues, next, rejected, 12th. Don't insist. 13th. Don't insist. So we're done discussing all the rights and we can move on to the decision-making process. The number? Another line? We've just taken a two-way. Please, Oksana Bilozer, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-06-m0.u35	I'm sorry, but I want to pay attention to what I'm doing. Because my paper indicated the characteristics of a woman's physiology. If we're talking about equal rights and opportunities, we should also talk about two different offices. Now, there's one office in the army for military personnel today, but if we're approaching NATO standards today, and this bill is very positive on this path, we have to consider women's physiology to create women's offices. That's what I'm doing. Because the general phrase "protection of motherhood and childhood," forgive me, it does not provide or require the Ministry of Defence system to create cabinets for women. Today, there are four mobile military hospitals in no military hospital, no women's office. That's not fair. And we need to think with you about women and their health, not just about their equal rights.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-06-m0.u36	Do you insist on voting? Do you insist on voting? Yes. So, colleagues, the 2 rights were taken into account by the committee in part. Mrs. Oksana Bilozer insists that it be taken fully into account. Whoever supports this proposal, please vote. [[10:38:33]] For-140. The decision is not taken. And we can move on to the adoption of the whole law. So, colleagues, I'd like you all to come into the hall and prepare for the decision. Please take up your jobs. And I am voting on a bill amending some of Ukraine's laws on ensuring equal rights and opportunities for women and men during military service in the Ukrainian Armed Forces and other military formations (No. 6109). The committee proposes to accept, on second reading and in general, technical and legal rights. Please vote, please support. Vote, colleagues, support, vote. [[10:39:47]] For 247 The law is passed. Congratulations to all the authors, women! I know how long you've been waiting for this law to be passed. Now, colleagues, I would like to remind you that it is proposed that we include the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Armed Forces (No. 9036) statutes, which provides for a change of welcome to the Ukrainian Armed Forces for the "Glory of Ukraine" and also for the "Lord" in the Ukrainian Armed Forces. And I ask now, colleagues, for the inclusion in the agenda of the session, and so that we can move immediately to this law. All right, everybody, get ready. I'm sure this vote will also be symbolic in this room. And I'm voting on the proposal to put the agenda into the agenda of the session and move to the draft Act amending the statutes of the Armed Forces of Ukraine (No. 9036). Please vote, please support. We are voting for the inclusion in the agenda of the day session for decision-making now. [[10:41:17]] For the 250. The decision is made, and we can move on to the law. Colleagues, I would like to point out that the committee is only proposing to accept it as a basis, and since we have a very busy agenda, I will propose a reduced procedure, but I promise to give my word to all factions during the discussion. I'm voting on a proposal -- a review of draft Law 9036 under a reduced procedure. Please vote, please support. [[10:42:04]] For 211 Decision taken. And I invite you to the report of the first Deputy Minister of Defense of Russia, Ivan Stepanovich. Please, Ivan Stepanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-06-m0.u37	Honourable Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Honourable National Deputies of Ukraine. The draft Act amending the statutes of the Ukrainian Armed Forces is designed to improve Ukrainian legislation on the conduct of military service, to ensure the promotion of the prestige and image of the Ukrainian Armed Forces in society, to organize relations between military personnel and to introduce new traditions of the Ukrainian military. Under the draft law, the President of Ukraine is proposed to amend the statutes of the Ukrainian Armed Forces, in particular the Statute of Internal Service, the Statute of the Garrison and Watchman Service, the Charter of Engineering, to consolidate a new welcome to "The Glory of Ukraine" – "The Hero of Fame", and to organize a ritual of raising the State Flag of Ukraine. In addition, the bill proposes that the word "community" should be replaced by the words "community (sir)" when referring to military personnel. The procedure was carried out during the military parade until the Independence Day of Ukraine on August 24 of this year. I would like to point out that the new welcome issue was discussed in the military teams and received unquestionably the support of military and anti-terrorist personnel. The adoption of the law will not require amendments to other laws. Please be supportive. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-06-m0.u38	Thank you. The co - report is invited by John Winnick, Secretary of the National Security and Defence Committee. Please, Mr. Ivan.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-06-m0.u39	Dear colleagues, it is very difficult to overestimate the value of this project. Because the destruction of Soviet traditions, the introduction of Ukrainian traditions in the Armed Forces of Ukraine during the greeting, during the patriotic emotional training of young people, during the service, when the flag is raised, the flag of blue and yellow Ukraine, is an extremely important step. And it is very good that Supreme Commander Peter Poroshenko, President of Ukraine, introduced this bill. We see unity in the hall, it's obvious, it's natural, because this greeting has long been used by military personnel, volunteers of all military formations. In fact, the project is to amend the Ukrainian Armed Forces Statute Act, which, by the way, extends its activities to other military formations, including the National Guard, and the Ukrainian Security Service, and special transportation services, special communications. In fact, the National Police are governed by separate government decrees, which, in fact, use and oblige the police to apply the statute of conduct of military service in individual cases, and this has led to some discussion on the committee, and it is to second reading that we propose that the National Police compare the same to the status of those who are directly governed by the law on military service, although it is not military service, but the protection of law. But such an honorary greeting as "Glory to Ukraine" and "Heroam of Fame" will be similarly anchored at the level of law by the National Police. I propose from the committee, by the decision of the committee to vote this bill on the basis of a reduced procedure for processing for the second reading, to entrust the committee with its work and for the next plenary week so that we can go out and vote on it as a whole. It's very important. We see Moscow's reaction, it's obviously saying that we're on the right track. Ruining Soviet traditions, introducing Ukrainians is what we need.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-06-m0.u40	Thank you. So let's do the recording: two in, two in, two in. From Peter Poshenko's Block, Antonishtak Andri Fedorovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-06-m0.u41	"Glory to Ukraine" -- that's how volunteers greeted each other in April 2014. "Glory to Ukraine" is the first slogan that sounded during the liberation of every one of our settlements. I don't agree with the reporter that this is how we destroy the old Soviet myths. We are restoring historical justice, so the bill, which will probably be the law, has been delayed for at least four years. But thank God that we're voting now, and that's what's waiting for tens and tens of thousands of military personnel on the forerunner: "Glory to Ukraine" is "The Hero of Fame."
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-06-m0.u42	From the People's Front, Berez Yuri Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-06-m0.u43	Dear Ukrainian people! Dear Ukrainian soldiers who are now listening to us. I would like to add just now under the transcript, Mr. Head, that we should still vote for this law as a basis and as a whole, including the proposal that we include the police. The police also used this slogan. Anything else, well, talk about how many soldiers died with that slogan on their mouths, what that slogan means to our enemies. You can see the hell out of the Kremlin when that slogan sounds. And you can see how that password works on all the invaders. That's why I'd like to go to the hall right now. We need unity in the adoption of this law. This decree should have long worked in the statutes of the Armed Forces and in all the military departments. I would like to stress, my suggestion: to add the National Police and vote for the law on the basis and in general. Thank you. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-06-m0.u44	Heroic glory! Mr. Jury, the committee is right to extend as much greetings as possible to all units of our forces and security forces. Ten days is not a great time. We vote in favour of a reduced procedure, we work on the committee. The Supreme Council will make its contribution and the members of the committee and will extend this welcome to all the power vested in Ukraine. I think there's logic here, and we need to support the position of the committee. I think it's the right thing to do. Igor Lucenko from Fatherland, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-06-m0.u45	Dear colleagues, Fatherland, surely supports the introduction of all our powerful structures of this greeting. This is the tradition of our struggle, which has already become the living fabric of our ideology, and they already exist. So what's going on right now is certainly not more than a formalization of the existing state. Instead, the honourable present, the honourable chairman, I see no reason for us to vote on this law in two stages. Today you can read an appropriate regulation regarding the National Guard, the police, vote for it, and formalize what is de facto, I repeat, has long existed. Instead, I would like to express my regret that only in the fourth year are the hands of the Ukrainianization of the army. Personally, four years ago, I was making appropriate statements about greetings, not just about greetings, but about others. For example, the address must be "friend." It's a tradition of the Ukrainian rebel army and so on and so forth. Instead, in this piece of legislation, we're missing out on this tremendous amount of opportunity to Ukrainianize our army at an accelerated rate. So, of course, we're going to go back and introduce all of our other positive historical traditions into the army. But now, of course, we're going to start with something. And once again, I think that this bill needs to be voted on as a whole. Thank you for your attention. And the glory of Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-06-m0.u46	From Self-Help, Kiral Sergey Ivanovich. He's handing over the Shepherd. Please, Mr. Taras Shepherd.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-06-m0.u47	Taras Shepherd, Self Help Union. Soldier of the Ukrainian Armed Forces. You know, for me, it's actually when in the Supreme Council, we talked about "Glory to Ukraine," and I think, like most Ukrainians, who probably had this greeting from birth, from the upbringing of their parents, the phrase of the leader of the Ukrainian nation Stephen Bandera is, "And there will come a time when one will say, "Glory to Ukraine!'and millions will cry out, "Glory hero!".. And this is, indeed, the great day when we can make this justice of the Ukraine’s eternal struggle for its independence, finally, legalized. So the Self-Help faction clearly supports this proposal from the Ministry of Defense. And it's strange to us, why has the Ministry of Internal Affairs been delaying its proposal for its departments so far? So we suggest that we don't really put this issue aside, today by voice, to extend the operation of this law to the Ministry of Internal Affairs. Also, to entrust the Cabinet of Ministers to submit their documents to this bill and to vote on it as a whole. And today, I think we have enough votes in the room to support this bill. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-06-m0.u48	Thank you. From the Radical Party of Igor Mosiychuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-06-m0.u49	Igor Mosiyczuk, Oleg Lachka Radical Party This decision was to be adopted 27 years ago on Ukraine’s State Independence Day. If such decisions were adopted at that time, perhaps in the 14th year we would have had completely different Armed Forces that would have made a worthy resistance and stopped Russian aggression even on the border of Ukraine. "Glory to Ukraine" is the legacy of the Ukrainian army from the military formations of Ukrainian retinal archers, soldiers of the U.N. Army of the legendary U.P.A. Army, which is the real touch of millions of dead, living and unborn Ukrainians who have fought and fought for the Ukrainian self-congregation state. But powerful Armed Forces are not just traditions and not only slogans are made, powerful Armed Forces are possible when Ukraine is strong. And Ukraine's strong will be when we start working on the restoration of Ukrainian factories, factories, the restoration of Ukrainian industry, agriculture, when there will be chaos and anarchy, irresponsibility in Ukraine. As the leader of our faction, Oleg Lazko, says, only a strong country can defeat an enemy in war, only a strong country can stop an aggressor. Glory to Ukraine! And death to the enemies!
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-06-m0.u50	So, from "The Will of the People" Fishchinsky, please. Then from the non-fractional Illenko and Kishkar. And that's where we end the discussion. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-06-m0.u51	Eugene Ribczynski, "The will of the people." King Alexander of Moscow once said that Russia has no friends other than the army and the fleet. They really don't have any friends, and they never will. That's true. But I would like Ukraine, in which, in fact, there were many friends in the world and beyond the ocean, there was an army that we were all afraid of. What we're voting today, we were supposed to vote back in 14 years, and that would be the right thing to do. And today, I think it's an act of electoral campaign. But whatever the case, this is a very important event in the history of Ukraine. "Glory to Ukraine" – "Heroam of Fame" – is what all Ukrainian patriots have dreamed of, not only since UN-OPA, but since the Lithuanian era, after Moscow has plundered our country, too. They all dreamed of it, and today we can accept it in a legislative way. And I would even ask the opposition very much today to look forward, to look at Ukraine, to Ukraine's future, which will not only be flourishing, but very powerful with the most powerful army. Glory to Ukraine! Heroic glory!
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-06-m0.u52	One minute, Andrew Illenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-06-m0.u53	Andrew Illenko, The All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. Dear Ukrainians, this is indeed an extremely important historic decision that Parliament is to adopt today. But of course, all such decisions would like to be approved in a timely and complete manner. I would just like to remind you that on the first day of Parliament's work this call, the Freedoms registered Bill 1079 in the Supreme Council, which concerns this issue, as far back as November 14th in order to restore historical justice, in order for our army to have an absolute patriotic Ukrainian spirit, it is still there, but to be established at the official level. And this is, indeed, not just a departure from the Soviets imposed on us, pseudo-traditions, this is a return to the true Ukrainian historical traditions that have always united Ukrainians and now help us to resist the ancient enemy of Moscow. So we have to vote and we have to vote for all the right decisions that Liberty has been proposing for a long time.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-06-m0.u54	Paul Kishkar, please, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-06-m0.u55	Paul Kishkar, National Movement of Ukraine, Officer of the Armed Forces. In fact, this welcome has to be extended to the people's deputies so that they can still be more Ukrainian and engage in Ukrainian politics. And we certainly need to support this bill. And I support Igor Lucenka's introduction into this bill of homage to "friend" instead of "sir." I think we'll get back to that. The only thing that can arise before the inclusion of the Ministry of Internal Affairs is some legal disagreement between the bills. Because it is this bill that refers to the Armed Forces and military formations that are not the Ministry of Internal Affairs. So I would like to support the way this bill was prepared. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-06-m0.u56	Thank you. Now he's a representative of the President. Irina Lucenko, turn on the microphone. And, colleagues, please come into the hall, in two minutes we'll move on to making a decision. Please, Mrs. Irina, two minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-06-m0.u57	Dear colleagues, this initiative by the President of Ukraine, Peter Alexiyovich Prashenko, is extremely important to our state. In fact, this slogan strengthens the civilisational choice of the Ukrainian people for sovereignty, independence and the struggle for this independence and for this sovereignty of the Ukrainian people. This slogan was also used between 1918 and 21, during the Ukrainian Revolution. This slogan was used both in Maidan and in the revolutions of the participants on the granite, the Orange Revolution, the Dignity Revolution, it's a slogan that's stained with the blood of our hero fighters. Therefore, it is vital that we introduce it today and support this bill. In addition, I would like to report that on an updated form of the Ukrainian Football Federation, which has been presented several times. A few days ago, there was a new sign that said "Glory to Ukraine." It is vital that we approach this issue together. I would like to conclude with the words of our famous Cobzar Shevchenk: "Our thought, our song will not die, it will not die. Where are the people, our glory, the glory of Ukraine!".. Please support the President's initiative and support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-06-m0.u58	Thank you. Please take up all the jobs, one minute, and a representative of the committee on our discussion of first and second reading. One minute. And in a minute, we're moving on to making a decision. Please, Mr. Ivan.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-06-m0.u59	Colleagues, we need to consult here, because understanding and supporting the idea of including the National Police's "Glory to Ukraine" – "Heroam of Fame" as mandatory. I want to remind everyone that the issue of the National Police as a law enforcement agency is regulated by a separate special law on the National Police. So we have four options, as I think. If we want to vote in general now, we need to leave this project as it is, because it changes the statutes of the Ukrainian Armed Forces as military formations. I mean, the Civil Service Statute, the Garrison Service Statute and the Internal Service Statute. These statutes have a rather mediocre, not a direct attitude toward serving in the National Police. Because this is not military formation. Military formation of the Ministry of Internal Affairs, the National Guard, has an appropriate distribution of these statutes, and this welcome will be required for the National Guard. I mean, if in general, without the National Police, if you want to include the National Police, there are three options again that I'm asking you to discuss with. Or okay.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-06-m0.u60	Thank you. Mr. Ivan, colleagues, give it to me. You, first of all, as the committee was supposed to give a clear position, it is expressed. Colleagues, I don't see any problem that in 10 days we're going to accept it as a whole, none. It's going to be a time when our experts, our best experts, will be able to work out how we can make changes for other forces. I have no doubt that in 10 days, just like on Thursday, we will gather and receive it in total under 300 votes. Let's give it a chance. [[B in m in s a l in]] Please, Mr. Ivan. Attention!
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-06-m0.u61	Colleagues, therefore, I propose to take as a basis a reduced procedure for reprocessing to second reading. And I'm also asking in the Ordinance on the adoption of the bill in the first reading to include the commission of the committee to implement the corresponding greeting, a corresponding response to the Ukrainian National Police Act, which regulates these things. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-06-m0.u62	Thank you. So let's move on to decision-making, colleagues. I ask everyone to prepare for the vote. So, colleagues, I'm convinced that this is one of those laws that make history, and I'm well understood by all those who remember the fight of the U.N.R., the U.P.A., our fight of the '90s -- the orange field, the Dignity Revolution. Let's start this way, vote for the basis. And this is a really big historic decision for the Ukrainian army, the Ukrainian state and the Ukrainian Parliament. So I put to the vote the draft Law amending the statutes of the Ukrainian Armed Forces (No. 9036) with proposals that were made by the representative of the committee, John Winnick, under the transcript. Number 9036 on the base. Let's vote together and see who's in the room, who's supporting the Ukrainian state, the Ukrainian army, the Ukrainian history. Vote! We're backing up, fellows! Vote! [[11:04:59]] For 283 Decision taken. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-06-m0.u63	Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-06-m0.u64	Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-06-m0.u65	Welcome to the hall! Now, colleagues, a reduced procedure of consideration for second reading. I'm asking you to get ready. I propose that draft Law 9036 be considered in short periods of submission of proposals and amendments to second reading. Please vote and please support. We vote in favour of the shortened procedure for preparing for second reading. Please vote, please support, vote. We vote yes. [[11:05:57]] For 263 Decision taken, colleagues. And it's very typical of who voted against this bill. Please show by factions. The factions. Peter Poshenko's Block – 110, People's Front – 66, Opposition Block – 0, Self-help – 17, Radical Party – 19, Father's Party – 16, Will of the People – 4, Rebirth Party – 5, non-fractional – 26. This is the orientation of the Ukrainian forces who serve Moscow and serve the occupying party. Congratulations, fellows! Let us move on to the next question of the order of the day. The next question is also a cluster of security issues; it is a draft law amending certain laws of Ukraine regarding the reform of the system of environmental and radiological control at checkpoints (No. 7302). And, colleagues, in view of our full daily routine, please support the consideration of the reduced procedure. Please vote and please support. [[11:07:20]] For-182 Decision taken. And I invite you to the report of Deputy Finance Minister Verlanov Sergey Alexiyovich. Please, Mr. Sergei.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-06-m0.u66	Honourable Andrija Volodymyrovich, distinguished national MPs, was repeatedly stressed by the government about the need to optimize the activities of the authorities and services that perform control functions at the checkpoints across the state border of Ukraine. The bill proposes to reduce control bodies at the border by transferring environmental control functions at the border crossing points across the state border of the DFS, radiological control functions – the State Border Service. The adoption of the bill is a step towards removing existing barriers at the legislative level to the implementation of the "one customs window" by reducing the time spent in control procedures, simplifying them without weakening the security component, which will have a positive impact on the state's international image. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-06-m0.u67	Thank you, Mr. Verlanov. You can go back to your workplace. And John Winnick, secretary of the Committee on Safety and Defence, is invited to the report. Please, Mr. Ivan.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-06-m0.u68	The Cabinet of Ministers, by implementing the policy of simplifying customs border procedures in Ukraine in order of liberalisation, which we have approved and agreed on with regard to our direction of integration into the European Union, in order to implement the "one window" suggests simplifying the procedure for environmental, radiological controls at the points of entry that are now being implemented and controlled by the Border Service, and instructing them to conduct appropriate controls in these directions. The bill is simple, the committee supports it, proposes to vote on the basis. Let's pass it on to the second reading together with you. If there's no comment, we'll support it as a whole. Please vote in the first reading on the basis and instruct the committee to work on the second reading by a reduced procedure if there is political will. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-06-m0.u69	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I ask you to sign up for this bill. I'm asking you to sign up. I'm asking you to sign up now. There's something going on with the "Race" system, colleagues. I'm asking the Supreme Council apparatus to pay attention to the Council system. Colleagues, we need to reboot the system now. Thank you very much. That's why we have a break. And I want to take this opportunity to make a little announcement, but it's very important. In the vote for Bill 6036 of the President of Ukraine, the draft Act amending the statutes of the Ukrainian Armed Forces did not work on our colleague Boris Kozir's card. He's also for "Glory of Ukraine" and that's why we have one more vote. Thank you. Dear colleagues, there is now a recording of the faction statement to discuss the bill. Please sign up. We are discussing Bill 7302 of the Act amending certain laws of Ukraine regarding the reform of the system of environmental and radiological control at checkpoints. Dear colleagues, I'm asking you, we may have a "Council" malfunction, only a colleague of "Peter Dustenka's" Mr. Rybak. I'll give him my word now, and then all the other factions who want to speak will just give you a signal. Okay? Please, Mr. Ivan Rybak. Your word. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-06-m0.u70	Ivan Ribak, 202 constituency, Cherniewec district. Dear colleagues, it is worth noting that the proposed amendments to article 202 of the Ukrainian Law on Environmental Protection do not comply with the relevant provisions of the Ukrainian Law on Amendments to the Customs Code of Ukraine and certain other laws of Ukraine concerning the introduction of the single window mechanism and the optimization of the implementation of the control procedures for the movement of goods across the customs border of Ukraine, as proposed by the President of Ukraine after he has exercised his veto. The other one. I would like to point out that this bill was not discussed at the meeting of the Environmental Policy Committee and the consequences of the Chernobyl disaster. Without much discussion of the bill, without agreeing on appropriate procedures for radiological and environmental control at the border crossings of Ukraine, we do not know what the consequences will be. What's he going to do? Are there any suitable specialists in the Ministry? Are there adequate specialists who can conduct appropriate laboratory studies, appropriate radiological tests at the border crossing points of the Ukrainian Border Service? Who will do this? From what date will such changes be made accordingly? So there's a proposal to support this bill on the basis of a second reading to rework it to make it a really solid and quality document. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-06-m0.u71	Thank you for your performance. Dear colleagues, Mrs. Ostrikak's "self-help" is asking for your word. And please give the other factions who haven't been able to sign up, who's going to speak, who's going to join the discussion. Please, Mrs. Ostrikak.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-06-m0.u72	Good afternoon, dear colleagues. Aunt Ostrikova, Self-help. Indeed, the bill has been drafted by the government to reduce the number of control authorities at the state border at the point of entry. And it's about environmental, radiological control. But I want to remind all of you that the issues and amendments to the Ukrainian Law on the State Border Service and the Environmental Environmental Protection Act on Environmental and Radiological Control have already been resolved, and all of this is set out in Bill 7010, which introduces a "one window" of customs, a single state portal "one window" for international trade. And this Bill 7010, in addition to the Customs Code, amends 36 other laws of Ukraine, particularly those mentioned here, which clean up ecologically from the checkpoints and rely on the border service, which is consistent with the border service, where even the necessary equipment is on balance. Therefore, only if this equipment works will it be possible for the public authorities, the environmental authorities, and the environmental authorities to be called upon to carry out the necessary control procedures. That is why the law is necessary, but it is no longer operational. I suggest we just support him on the basis. Today, you and I are to unlock the bill on "one window" on Customs 7,010, taking into account the President's proposals. And let the President actually sign the bill so that it becomes effective as soon as possible. Because many entrepreneurs are waiting for you and me to remove unnecessary, unnecessary controllers from the process of customs processing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-06-m0.u73	Thank you. I'm going to the People's Front. I'm going to the Fatherland. Please, Alexei Rybchin, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-06-m0.u74	Alexy Rybchin, "Fatherland" faction, Donetsk. On the one hand, it is a pleasure to share the second day with you about environmental issues and environmental protection, because this is an urgent and important issue for the country. We see the indignation of the people of Mariupol with the throws that are now. We can see the disaster in Kamyansk, as well as the residents who are outraged by what they are. However, I am concerned that important bills, various important bills are thematic, this topical bill is an environmental bill or customs policy, and that is why it goes to the Security Committee. And a lot of the bills are passed by the Security Committee, maybe there are more friendly deputies there, with all due respect for the professional work of the committee. However, I think that such bills should be considered by the professional committees, not by committees that have a general character for security. Yet, there are many disagreements in this document. I'm reading the conclusions. Unagreed proposed changes to existing legislation. The proposed changes contain incomprehensible wording. And at the committee meeting, the Director of the Department of Customs Policy of the Ministry of Finance pointed out that radiological control was thus technically impossible because it was not possible to measure the gamma radiation dose from a controlled object and compare it to a natural radiation background. Moreover, the bill concludes that the GNEU should be considered systematically with Bill 7303, since they are linked. Thus, a large number of disagreements do not allow a positive decision to be taken to support the bill. And there is a requirement for the government to work more carefully and more professionally.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-06-m0.u75	Thank you. Colleagues, there's still a desire for the People's Front, the Opposition Block to join the discussion? No, it's not. Dear colleagues, I ask you to return to the session room, because there will be a vote for Bill 7302 in a minute. I give the floor to the representative of the National Security and Defence Committee, Secretary of this committee to John Vinnick. And I ask the Supreme Council apparatus to urge the Ukrainian national deputies from the towers to return to the session hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-06-m0.u76	First of all, I would like to thank the Fatherland representatives for their high appreciation for the activities of the members of the Committee on Security and Defence. In fact, this bill is something that is unusual to our committee. At the same time, he was assigned to our committee because he is making changes primarily to the Ukrainian Foreign Service Act, which is a professional law for the Committee on Safety and Defence in accordance with the Ukrainian Law on Committees of the Supreme Council in the area of legislative activities. As for the proposals, we really do agree, and we have stressed that only on the basis do we offer to accept them. We understand that there is now Bill 7010 in the President's Office after taking into account the President's proposals. We understand that the question of "one window" is already being addressed properly in this project. And we certainly understand that if 7010 becomes effective in the legal way, we're going to propose to the second reading, maybe we're going to film this project. For the time being, let's vote for it, send it to the committee and take into account.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-06-m0.u77	Please give me one more minute to finish, please. And I ask my colleagues to return to the session room, because we see that there are a lot of colleagues in the towers right now.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-06-m0.u78	So I propose that I now vote it as a basis. To assign a committee to deal with the fate of Bill 7010, which I hope we will see and understand in the very next few days. Well, and finally, given the comments made by fellow deputies, taking into account the conclusion of the scientific and expert management in order to clean up any disagreements, if they exist, we'll analyze it all. And if your fellow MPs want to join in the law of law enforcement, the Ukrainian Act of Rules of the Supreme Council, join us. So for the time being, let us work on the basis and with the commission of the committee on second reading, taking into account all the comments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-06-m0.u79	Thank you. Dear colleagues, please return to the session room. And in 30 seconds, there will be a vote for an extremely relevant bill amending some of Ukraine's laws on reforming the environmental and radiological control system at the checkpoints. Given that the situation at the checkpoints clearly requires a more serious system of environmental assessment, I would ask that all factions here take a consolidated position. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-06-m0.u80	Okay. So, colleagues, the discussion is over. Let's move on to making a decision. I ask everyone to come into the hall, take up jobs and prepare for the vote. Colleagues, heads of factions, look who's gone. Please take your jobs, get out of bed. We're voting, aren't we? So I'm voting on a bill amending some of Ukraine's laws on reforming the system of environmental and radiological control at the crossing points (No.7302) on the basis of a committee proposal. Please vote, please support. Colleagues, we vote. Please be supportive. [[11:22:35]] For 186 What's the matter? Show the factions, please. Peter Poshenko's Block – 85, People's Front – 54, Opposition Block – 0, Self-help – 12, Radical Party – 11, Father's Party – 8, Will of the People – 1, Rebirth Party – 1, non-fractional – 14. Colleagues, I will now make an offer to return. I'm asking everyone to come to the hall. I'll make an offer to go back to the law. In fact, almost all factions support. So I'm going to ask you to take up jobs. So I'm going to make the first offer to come back, colleagues. Please come into the hall. I want to point out that some people have abstained because there is no conclusion of the environmental committee. I will give the commission to draw a conclusion from the Ecological Committee for the second reading. To ensure that those who rightly insist on an environmental conclusion can be confident that their position will be taken into account in the second reading. You're in, right? So the first vote is to go back. I'm asking for jobs and I'm voting a motion to go back to the draft Act amending some of Ukraine's laws on reforming the environmental and radiological control system at checkpoints. The first is the return. Please vote and please support. Fellows, return to the hall. Vote for the return. [[11:26:16]] For 206 The next proposal envisaged by the Rules is to send to the Committee for Re-reading, so that it is both a safe and an environmental committee to be considered by two committees. Let us unite around this proposal, this will be fair. So, colleagues, I'm voting on the proposal that draft Law 7302 be sent to the Committee to prepare for a re-first reading to be considered by the Committee and Security, and by the Committee on the Environment, so that both committees can conclude from this bill. And, let us, fellow Members, unite around this proposal, ask everyone to support it and vote. 7302 send to the committee for re-reading. Please vote, please support. Vote. [[11:27:28]] For 209 And the final offer is to get the subject back to the right of the legislative initiative for further work. And I'm voting on the proposal that Bill 7302 should return the subject to the right of the legislative initiative. If you'll excuse me, I'd like to vote. Please vote. [[11:28:05]] For 208 And this proposal doesn't take the majority either, so Bill 7302 is rejected. Now I want to read that there's been a statement from two factions for the break, and from the Peter Prashenko Block and the People's Front. And here is Arthur Gerasimov, the head of the Peter Dustenka faction. Please, Mr. Arthur, three minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-06-m0.u81	Dear Andrew Volodymyrovich, distinguished colleagues! The faction of the Party "Block of Peter Prashenko" demands an immediate apology from the head of the "Fatherland" faction of July Volodymyrovna Timoshenko to Irina Herashchenko for the personal dirty and slanderous statements he has allowed himself to make as the deputy head of the "Fatherland" faction Sergey Sobolev. I want to remind you that Irina Heratchenko was or was not the most active and consistent fighter at a time when Mr. Portnow was doing everything he could to throw Julia Timoshenko behind bars when the Yanukovich regime threw Yuri Lucenka behind bars. And when Mrs. Timoshenko was already in prison, where Yanukovich put her with the hands of today's head of NewsOne Portnova, Irina Herashchenko fought tirelessly and consistently for her release. Mr. Soboljevo, who has allowed himself a humiliating and lying accusation against Irina Heratchenko and the President of Ukraine, should remember that Timoshenko planted Portnov himself, who was then fully in charge of Ukraine's judicial system, and before that he was a lawyer of the political power of Fatherland. Today, instead of remembering who fought for the will of Timoshenko, Lucenka, other political prisoners of the Yanukovic regime, the members of the “Fatherland ” are rolling through the mud at every turn and running on a television channel led by Portnow and finally turned into the Kremlin. Boycotting NewsOne called on Oleg S. Natal and the families of other political prisoners. Irina, who is doing everything she can to free the hostages, supported this call. When the whole Parliament fought for the release of the first number of the Fatherland Hope of Savichenko, we also supported her family. And that's why today, from Fatherland, it doesn't matter to the urge of the families of political prisoners to boycott NewsOne. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-06-m0.u82	Thank you. We move on to the next issue of agenda: this is the draft Act amending the Criminal Code of Ukraine on responsibility for illegal crossing of the state border (Nos. 7017 and 7017-1). Colleagues, I'll make the same request. So let's look at the simplified procedure so that we can do that. We've moved on to the next law. Okay. Sergey, please repeat, one minute. Sergey Sobolev. Colleagues, take up jobs so that we can now vote in full. I'm asking everyone to take up their jobs, and there's going to be a vote. Please, Sergey Sobolev.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-06-m0.u83	Sobolje, Fatherland. You know, when people come out here, some of whom are actively working with the Yanukovich regime, and they start talking about who, as the war is, is about to have (the shame, the shame of such people) taken by the BP faction into their ranks. And I don't think you can tell who did it, or how much did it do to make democracy exist in this country and to bring Yanukovich's regime down. You will not find anyone who does not know that Peter Alexiovich was a member of the government of Yanukovich. You won't find anyone who doesn't know in this state that two members of his family were members of the Fatherland faction. But we do not view it as unacceptable. So when those who served the Yanukovic regime did their best to be in that country.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-06-m0.u84	Ten seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-06-m0.u85	has established the dictatorship of Yanukovic, has no moral, no other right to make such statements. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-06-m0.u86	So, colleagues, I'm asking you to support the proposal to consider the next bill of Law 7017 and 7017-1 under a reduced procedure. Please vote and support the reduced procedure, please. I remind you, we have a ratification block, and it's very important that we can go through them quickly and efficiently today. [[11:33:10]] For 118 I'll put it to the vote again, colleagues. We didn't make it, I see. Please take up jobs. We agreed at a committee meeting yesterday that we would be able to deal quickly and effectively with the ratification issues. Then there's the question of the only window on which they insisted. Let's now go through this law with a reduced procedure and move on to ratification. I ask everyone to support this proposal. So please support the consideration of Bill 7017's draft procedure. Please vote, please support. Vote, please. [[11:34:00]] For-146 Four votes. I'll do it again, third time. Please take up jobs. When voting, you have to be in the workplace and vote. I'm explaining the logic of today: we were going to go through a quick ratification block, where we have a huge debt. Then, I remind you, there will be a question of "one window," which has been highlighted by many factions during the Conciliation Council. I'm asking everyone to take a responsible vote now, take their jobs, and I'm asking you to support me, colleagues. So once again, I'm going to propose to draft Law 7017 that we consider a reduced procedure. And I'd like everyone's support, colleagues. Every voice has weight, and I ask you to support everyone. Voting, supporting. We're voting for a cut. Please be supportive. [[11:35:04]] For 169 Decision taken. And I invite you to the report of the Ukrainian National Deputy Lucenko Irina Stepanovna, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-06-m0.u87	Dear colleagues, the protection of Ukraine’s sovereignty and territorial integrity is one of the most important functions of the Ukrainian State. This question is particularly relevant today, in the context of the so - called hybrid war. Cases of illegal crossing of the state border by the aggressor state, including those of specialised structures or diversified groups, have become isolated. In doing so, Ukrainian legislation does not allow such individuals to be brought to criminal liability but only to administrative responsibility. That is, the current legal regulation of the matter is wrong and does not respond to the threats that exist today. This is the solution and this Bill No.7017, which proposes to introduce criminal responsibility for the illegal crossing of the state border. As far as the bill is concerned, its most important feature, which positively distinguishes it from other alternative bills, is to establish signs that will qualify it as a crime. With this administrative responsibility, we propose to preserve and leave because we are unable to plant those who have accidentally strayed or crossed the border from Belarus to Ukraine without seeing the distinction there. I would like to point out that, according to the outcome of the committee's discussion, and the discussion was very tumultuous, very active, and at the suggestion of the Scientific and Experimental Administration, we will work out this bill and introduce a sign to the second reading, which will be used in the adjacent article of the Criminal Code, which deals with the issue of violation of the order of entry into the temporarily occupied territory. Criminal offences are considered to be illegal crossings of the state border, which are designed to harm the interests of the State. Let us establish criminal responsibility for crossing the border for persons who are banned from entering the territory.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-06-m0.u88	Please, 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-06-m0.u89	And also for those who represent the forces of the aggressor state. In addition, article 216 of the Criminal Code, which establishes the link between the criminal offence and the Ukrainian Security Service, will be considered and amended. Dear colleagues, taking into account the relevance and urgency of criminalizing such activities and the social significance of the matter, please and take into account.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-06-m0.u90	Please, 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-06-m0.u91	That this bill will be finalized, I have read to you the points that will be further developed and included in the second reading, I ask you to support Bill 7017 on a basis and jointly, along with other developments, other proposals to lead it to a logical conclusion to the second reading. Please be supportive. And thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-06-m0.u92	Thank you. Weselova Natalija Vasilovna, Ukrainian national deputy, is invited to the report. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-06-m0.u93	Good afternoon, honourable chairman, distinguished national MPs. Your attention is given to the draft Act amending the Criminal Code on the Responsibility for the Illegal Crossing of the State Border (No. 7017-1), which is an alternative to Bill 7017. My alternative bill, unlike the project just presented by Irina Lucenko, I propose not only the imposition of criminal responsibility for the violation and illegal crossing of the Ukrainian state border by the representatives of the aggressor State, but also the reduced penalties imposed on Ukrainian citizens for violating the order of entry into and exit from Ukraine temporarily occupied territory. Today, legislation provides for different kinds of responsibilities for the illegal crossover of the country’s national border. Yes, for the illegal crossing of the administrative border with Crimea, criminal and administrative responsibility, and for the illegal crossing of the border, administrative responsibility alone. The penalty for the illegal crossing of the administrative border with Crimea is provided in article 332-1 of the Criminal Code of Ukraine and is punishable by deprivation of liberty for up to 3 years for any person. I believe that the punishment for violating the order of entry into and exit from Ukraine is too harsh for Ukrainian citizens who live in occupied territory and who are forced to use steam connections with the Russian Federation. This also applies to residents of the occupied area in the Luhansk region who cannot cross the line of collisions through CAT and sometimes use crossings across the Ukrainian-Russian border. So people are afraid of what.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-06-m0.u94	30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-06-m0.u95	People fear criminal responsibility and are generally afraid to leave for a controlled territory. This prevents Ukraine from wagering a hybrid war. Because people have the greatest confidence in the information they receive firsthand from their relatives and acquaintances who visit Ukraine’s controlled territory. So I'm asking you to support my bill or redraft it for a second reading and take into account the positions that are in my bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-06-m0.u96	Thank you. The co - report invites the head of the Committee on Law Enforcement, Kožemjakin Andrija Anatoliyovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-06-m0.u97	Dear Head, dear colleagues! Your point is to consider the draft laws of Ukraine amending the Criminal Code on the responsibility for the illegal crossing of State border Nos. 7017 and 7017-1. This law proposes to establish criminal responsibility for crossing the state border by supplementing the Criminal Code with a new article 331, and also by an alternative bill by redrafting article 332-1 of the Criminal Code. After reviewing the bill, the committee made a statement to him. There's a lot of attention to them. First. Ukraine's response procedure to cross the border by persons whose presence in our country poses a threat to its national interests is sufficiently regulated by the Sanctions Act. The other one. Without amending article 216 of the Criminal Procedure Code, criminal conduct in relation to crimes provided for in article 331 of the Criminal Code will be investigated by the investigating authorities of the National Police. However, such authorizations should be given to security investigators. Third. It is unclear what should be understood by the term "aggressor state's interests" and by who and how it should be determined. Four. The proposed changes to article 332-1 in the alternative project are legally unfounded, as citizens of other States not recognised by the aggressor State, as well as non-citizens for similar violations committed with a view to harming the interests of the State, will not be brought to criminal liability. Thus, the committee decided to recommend to the Supreme Council that both bills be returned to the subject of the right of legislative initiative for further development. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-06-m0.u98	Thank you. Please record: two in, two in. Please, from the People's Front, Anton Heratchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-06-m0.u99	Dear Head! Dear colleagues! Dear Ukrainian people! Today a person is any citizen of the Russian Federation's aggressor state, any other person. countries, if they illegally cross the state border for various purposes -- either terrorist activity, or intelligence, or for other purposes -- it will only attract administrative responsibility, it's a small fine. It's an outrage, it shouldn't be. Ukraine’s borders must be inviolable. To this end, the People's Front faction, along with other colleagues, is proposing to adopt the Irina Lucenko and Arthur Gerasimov drafts on the first reading today. We believe that in Ukraine there should be protection of the border not only by the weapons of our border guards and the Armed Forces but also by the law. We propose that this law should lead to criminal responsibility. If anyone wants to cross our border illegally, please come and sit in our prison or please cross the border legally. So I propose today, in my first reading, to support this law to the deputies of all factions, including non-fractional ones. This is important for the protection of state borders and our security.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-06-m0.u100	Thank you. From Semenach's Self-Help, Roman Sergiyovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-06-m0.u101	Semenha Roman, "The Self-Help Union" faction. Dear colleagues, dear Mr. Head, surely the legislative initiative is very important. During the fifth year of war and still as an illegal crossing of the Ukrainian border, this is considered to be an administrative offence and, according to the current legislation, it is punishable by an arrest of up to 15 days or a fine of 200 untaxed minimums. Of course, this is not true today of today and of the need to protect the state border. Consider, according to the State Department in the past year, our border guards have detected nearly 100,000 violations, detained 880 people, and these are those who have actually been apprehended. In the last year, the border guards were prevented from transferring 917 weapons, 20,000 ammunition units, and much more. By 2004, the legislation contained other rules that included 331 articles of the Criminal Code criminal responsibility, but then the situation was liberalized. Of course, the state must respond. However, both bills suggest replacing sentences for imprisonment with sentences ranging from 3 to 8 years, but they will be applied in two ways. By the first sign of citizenship, the aggressor states, and the second sign, are for the establishment of actions that would harm the Ukrainian State in the interests of the aggressor country. And here's the question, colleagues, why are we talking about the citizens of Russia or the people who did it for the state of Russia? We do not know that the problem with the illegal crossing of Ukraine is much greater. Today, Ukraine, let's talk about it frankly, is being used as a transitory base for illegal immigration, especially in the countries of the European Union. Today, our legislation actually provokes illegals to commit such crimes because they do not accept administrative fines today. That's why we're convinced, the Self-Help United faction, that this has to apply to everyone. And if we're talking about strategic cooperation with the European Union today, we also have to consider today that Ukraine should stop being a trans-shipment base for illegal, actual illegal entry into European Union countries. That's why.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-06-m0.u102	Please, 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-06-m0.u103	So I want to support the conclusion of the profiling committee, in this way both legislative initiatives that propose to solve this problem are unfortunately not being resolved. Therefore, I suggest that the authors be returned to work on another way of solving the current problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-06-m0.u104	Thank you. From the Radical Party of Linko, please,
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-06-m0.u105	Dmitri Linko, Radical Party. Four years ago, the first person to meet an enemy was our heroic border guards, the cost of their lives, and the cost of their health, which protected the border. We need to draw conclusions from those historical events and give all the tools and capabilities to our protectors of our borders to protect the border. Any provocations, attempts to cross the border, rallying, we remember when the war started when the rally was at the border. All these violations must be severely punished. Not administrative punishment, but prison. We remember as in postwar times. Since 2014, provocations, beatings, and breaking the border have taken place on western borders. Any trespassing on our border is a crime against the Ukrainian state. So, with all due respect to our border guards, to our defenders, we will support such initiatives, criminalize violations of our border, any attempts to exclude the possibility of accidental violations, because we know the examples when we accidentally violated the border, crossed the border with smugglers, then we got diversors, terrorists, terrorists, terrorist attacks here, and we didn't have any responsibility for it. Therefore, we propose to vote in the first reading. Work out, remove any exceptions, any possibilities of crossing the border, and allow our border guards to protect our country, protect our border. Because the border is not just a symbol; it is integrity and it is a guarantee of our sovereignty. We must restore all our territories and establish borders that are legitimate in Ukraine. And anyone who helps or crosses the border of Ukraine is setting up provocations at our border points, should be in prison instead of paying fines and telling them that they happened to cross the border over mushrooms.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-06-m0.u106	Thank you. Colleagues, we're about to make a closing statement. That's why I'm inviting all the people's deputies to the hall. Please invite everyone and the heads of factions to the Hall. From "The Fatherland" Sobolev Sergey Vladislavovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-06-m0.u107	Sobolje, Fatherland. Dear colleagues, I would like us to look very carefully at the text that is proposed. In our view, the key flaw in this text is the absolute disregard that 402 kilometers of the border with the Russian Federation is controlled by the Russian Federation and the occupying armies and their mercenaries in the territory of Donetsk, Lugansk. What happens if a person who, for the purpose of terrorist or any activity, crosses an uncontrolled section within 402 kilometers and continues to peacefully cross the line of separation through the points of the gap? Does the same responsibility apply to these individuals, namely, criminal responsibility for the illegal crossing of the border? No, it's not. Why is this done? Why did this law not take this into account? That's why we have two possibilities: either now to take into account the amendments proposed by the profile committee, or when this law is being finalized, to clearly determine the responsibility of the aggressor State to cross the line of separation for the same activity. Part two. By no means can these powers be transferred from the Ukrainian Security Service. It is the Ukrainian Security Service that has a full range of information about such individuals. And our view that the settlement of this issue should still be in the first reading, for in the second reading, we will not be able to go back to that question. If these amendments are to be taken into account, we will have to work on a second reading bill in this way. But these adjustments will have to be accounted for now, under.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-06-m0.u108	Thank you. So, colleagues, if you'd like to take your seats, please prepare for the vote. One minute, Levchenk, as they come in. Please, everyone, take your jobs!
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-06-m0.u109	Lewchenko, Freedom, 223 District, Kiev City. It took a long time to establish criminal responsibility for the illegal crossing of the Ukrainian border, and this had to be done as a minimum in the spring of 2014. And of course, this bill, despite all its shortcomings, needs to be voted on at least in the first reading and then worked on the second reading. But criminal responsibility for the illegal crossing of Ukraine must be for all, absolutely for all! So when it's stipulated in this bill that only for the aggressor state citizens or in the interests of the aggressor state, you let our corrupt courts so then all of these violators get away with it completely, because it's such a judgment of interest, right? That is why this – criminal responsibility must be absolutely for all violators of the state border of Ukraine. It's a perfectly normal world practice developed countries, there's nothing dragonish here. So I hope that by the time we read the second reading, we will. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-06-m0.u110	Thank you, colleagues. So I remind you, it's just a base. We'll be able to apply for the second reading. But if there is insistence that the voices be in the hall, Mrs. Irina will now read that we have already made some of the rights in the first reading. And I'm asking you to take all the seats. Please, Mrs. Irina, one minute, briefly.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-06-m0.u111	Dear colleagues, what our representatives from the Fatherland faction said, I've already read some of it, but I'm going to repeat it and add the last phrase that we just agreed with our colleagues. Following consultations with the Scientific and Expert Office and the comments read by the head of the committee, Andry Kožemjakin, will be submitted to my bill, a sign will be established which is already used in the adjacent article of the Criminal Code, which regulates the issue of violation of the order of entry into the temporarily occupied territory. Next, criminal offences will be considered to be an illegal crossing of the state border, which is designed to harm the interests of the State. Next, criminal responsibility will be established for crossing the border for persons who are banned from entering the territory of Ukraine, as well as for persons who are members of the aggressor State's forces. In addition, article 216 of the Ukrainian Criminal Procedure Code will be amended and a follow-up will be established.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-06-m0.u112	30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-06-m0.u113	the criminal offence referred to by the Ukrainian Security Service, which deals with these matters, but it will be directly indicated here and so. In addition, we take into account the proposal made by Fatherland representatives that crime will also be criminalized when an illegal line of delimitation is crossed, except for the Ukrainian border and the line of delimitation, too.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-06-m0.u114	Thank you. So let's move on to making a decision. I'm going to lay the groundwork with the proposals that Irina Lucenko made. I am voting on the draft Act amending the Criminal Code of Ukraine on the responsibility for the illegal crossing of the state border. First, number 7017, with proposals by Irina Lucenko under the transcript, based on colleagues, on a basis. Let's unite, support, vote 7017 as a basis. Vote, please. [[11:56:38]] For 241 Decision taken. My colleagues, now I have an address for you. We still have a number of ratifications, but two of them have security ratifications, security ratifications that have been on the order of the day many times. I'm asking you very much, let's take them quickly without discussion, just with the speech of the committee head. The first ratification is the draft Law on the Ratification of the General Agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of the Republic of Poland on Co-operation in Defence (0145). Colleagues, shall we? So I propose a draft Law on the Ratification of the General Agreement (0145) to be adopted as a basis and as a whole. Please vote, please support ratification. The committee's been waiting a long time. Please vote, please support. We are voting for the ratification of the defense and security agreement. [[11:57:43]] For 230 Decision taken. Next is the draft Law on Ratification of the Agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of Romania on Cooperation in Military Transport (0153). Please support, please vote, colleagues, on the basis and as a whole. Vote, military ratification with Romania. Please vote, please support, vote. It's in the order of the day's ratification safe. Yes. [[11:58:21]] For 225 One voice. They weren't. Once again, the draft Law on the Ratification of the Agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of Romania (0153) as a basis and as a whole. Careful, colleagues, we're voting. If you'll excuse me, I'd like to vote. Vote, please. Please support, vote, vote carefully. [[11:58:52]] For 247 Decision taken. Colleagues, can we go to the next ratifications? The next ratification is the draft Law on Ratification of the Agreement between the Government of Ukraine and the Government of the Republic of Turkey on Mutual Promotion and Protection of Investments (0183). Vote, colleagues? Vote. Please vote, please support 0183. Vote. International agreement, ratification, please support, vote. Please be supportive. On the basis and in general, yes, of course. [[11:59:40]] For 244 Colleagues, next draft of the Law on the Ratification of the Agreement between Ukraine and the Portuguese Republic on Economic Cooperation (0187). Please vote. Please be supportive. Vote. Please be supportive. Please be supportive. [[12:00:13]] For 228 Colleagues, pay attention! I'm on my break, I want to emphasize. These ratifications were in order tens of times a day. For six months we talked about them in that room, we just couldn't get them in, colleagues. This is going to be the same story. We talk again Wednesday, and there are no votes. Once again, our huge losses will be international in commitments. They were discussed. I'll put the next one, colleagues. Let's vote next. This is a draft law on the ratification of the Trade Agreement between the Government of Ukraine and the Government of the Kingdom of Thailand (0170). The rating vote. Please vote. Ratings. [[12:01:12]] For 212 It was a rating vote. So, colleagues, it's time for a break under the Rules. We were able to work very effectively until 12 o’clock. I'm sure we'll work as well after the break from 12 to 12:30. Now I'm going to call off till 12:30, and at 12:30, I'm going to invite everyone into the hall to continue our work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-06-m0.u115	Dear colleagues, the time for recess is over. Everyone please come into the hall to continue our work. Please invite everyone into the hall. So, dear colleagues, I would like to remind you that we were able to pass through the National Security and Defence Block by noon, including the ratifications that relate to security and defence issues, particularly the security agreement with Poland and Romania. We have a number of ratifications left. The committee's asking them to set up later. This allows us to move on to the next cluster of issues, to reconsider with the proposals of the President of Ukraine. The following are in the order of the day: this is the Act of Ukraine on Amendments to the Customs Code of Ukraine and certain other laws of Ukraine concerning the introduction of the single window mechanism and the optimization of control procedures for the movement of goods across the customs border of Ukraine, with proposals by the President of Ukraine (No. 7010). I remind you that this bill has been urged by factions, most of the factions on the Conciliation Council, it provides for a special procedure: a report by the President's Representative, answers to questions, a report by the Main Committee, then answers questions. If necessary, I'll give you my word to discuss the factions. And then we move on to making a decision. So we don't vote. We're starting his consideration. And I'm announcing a review of the Ukrainian Law 7010. And I invite you to the report of the President of the Supreme Council, Lucenko Irina Stepanovna. Please, Mrs. Irina.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-06-m0.u116	Dear Mr. Head, dear colleagues! On July 5, 18, the Supreme Council of Ukraine passed the Ukrainian Law on Amendments to the Customs Code of Ukraine and certain other laws of Ukraine on the introduction of the single window mechanism and on the optimization of control procedures in the movement of goods across the customs border of Ukraine (registration No. 7010). The President of Ukraine considers the law to be extremely important and supports the need to implement the single window mechanism and to optimize control procedures when moving goods across the customs border of Ukraine. At the same time, it cannot be signed in view of the following. Among other things, the law that came to be signed provides for the introduction and compensation of 30 percent of the value of special wagons for the transport of grain by agricultural producers who purchased it. However, it should be noted that the proposed state support does not meet the basic principles of Ukraine’s budgetary system, which foresees the need to allocate budgetary resources according to the objective needs of agricultural producers, does not ensure the social and economic objectives of state support for agricultural producers, and therefore is an unreasonable use of budgetary resources. In doing so, it should be noted that most agricultural producers make up agriculture, which is 75 percent of the total number of agricultural enterprises. Plant production is 11.2 percent. Thus, the production volume of plant production is not objectively requiring the purchase of special wagons for the transport of grain by most farmers in Ukraine. At the same time, the cost of such wagons, the costs needed for their maintenance and operation, and the volume of production and production of their own production are significant, so only large agricultural enterprises will be able to claim such State support. Thus, State support for partial compensation to agricultural producers for the cost of purchasing special wagons for the transport of grain would be unfair for most agricultural producers and the rule of law would not be in line with the rule of law on social justice and equality of regulations. In view of the above, the President of Ukraine proposes in chapter III of the Ukrainian Law "To amend the Customs Code of Ukraine and some other laws of Ukraine concerning the introduction of the single window mechanism and the optimization of control procedures when moving goods across the customs border of Ukraine" paragraphs 21 and 25 to exclude. Please support the proposals made by the President of Ukraine. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-06-m0.u117	Thank you. Please prepare for the interview. And I'd like you to record it. Please. Three minutes. From the Samomenich faction, he's handing over to Ostrich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-06-m0.u118	Good afternoon, dear fellows! Of course, the question of establishing a single window, the only national portal for. With regard to "one window" for international customs trade, it is very important. And it's certainly what thousands of entrepreneurs are waiting for us to remove from the checkers that are there today, which are redundant, which are excessive. There's enough customs and a border guard. And I thank the President of Ukraine very much for not asking him any questions about the text of the bill. It's about the proposals made by the president. I have a question for Irina Stepanovna. Do you think it might be appropriate to consider these issues in a complex with a budget process and with a view to taking a general approach to the distribution of the budget grant for support of the agricultural and industrial complex? Because today we see that the government distributes billions of dollars by hand, and we don't see who today are the recipients of programs that are particularly relevant.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-06-m0.u119	Please add 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-06-m0.u120	for those programmes that are relevant, such as support for the provision of compensation from the budget for the construction of animal complexes. Who built these complexes today and received this support? As well as those who acquire technology. Is this money coming from a real little farmer? Does a small and medium - size farmer today acquire this technique? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-06-m0.u121	Thank you for asking. As we're looking at the President's veto, we're actually on your committee, we've isolated six problems with the people's deputies that exist around this issue. First. This transparency of the distribution of compensation is provided by the Budget Code for small, medium and large farms engaged in agriculture. Next. There are some cases where there is a problem of security and the general deficit of such wagons. Third. It is imperative that we preserve and support the Krukovsky Wagon Repair Plant and another Ukrainian car manufacturing plant in order to save jobs and increase the number of jobs. In addition, we need to be able to see both the people’s deputies and the agricultural producers, the transparency of the distribution of such support, and the compensation of 15-20 percent, as provided in the Budget Code. It is imperative to hold a joint meeting with the government.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-06-m0.u122	Please, 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-06-m0.u123	With the government, with the participation of the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Agrarian Politics, in order for them to report, as well as the railways, in order for them to report on all these issues, in order for them to tell whom such compensation was directed, for what extent, under what circumstances. The manual, which is now from the Cabinet of Ministers, says that this compensation is from 10 to 12 percent of agricultural producers.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-06-m0.u124	30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-06-m0.u125	But at the same time, last night, the railway gives free cars, grains, which are completely shown right now in this table. It says there's no such deficit at some point. So it's extremely important to hold a joint meeting, we've already spoken yesterday, with the participation of the Agrarian Policy Committee, tax, financial issues to clarify this transparency and these issues together with the Cabinet of Ministers.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-06-m0.u126	Thank you. And the final question is Yatzenko Anton.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-06-m0.u127	Andrew Volodymyrovich, I have questions not so much for the speaker, but for the entire session room. A very important question, very important. Look, there's no room, there's no people. What are we looking at? It just doesn't matter what the bill is, because there are 100 people in the room. This is about, you see, there's a lot of personal voting talk going on, and there's a lot of people pinging on different electronic cards that have to be introduced. But look, there are no people in the room. And that's very bad. And now, I'm sure that this bill has to be either transposed or, I don't know, maybe let's get our colleagues, maybe someone in the cafeteria, someone else. It's just that Parliament shouldn't work if it's not half-empty, it's two-thirds of an empty hall. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-06-m0.u128	Thank you. I'll show you one secret way. Look to the left and right, how many members of your group you belong to. Pick up the phone and tell your colleagues by the faction that after the discussion is over in 10 minutes, I'm sure your entire group will be in place and voting. Thank you. Thank you. Question time is complete. I invite the head of the Committee on Tax and Customs Policy of South Korea, Nina Petrovna, to report. And I remind her that there will also be questions about who failed to ask, and she will be able to sign up and ask Nina Petrovni a question. I would like to point out that the procedure is special: two reports and questions, and then a vote. So in a matter of minutes or so, we're going to go to the vote, and I'm asking all the heads of factions, groups to invite MPs into the room, in 10 minutes, there's going to be a vote. Please, Nina Petrovna. You have five minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-06-m0.u129	Dear Mr. Head! Dear colleagues! I would like to remind you that the purpose of this law is to create legislative grounds for the introduction of the single window principle during the customs sanitary, veterinary, phytosanitary, radiological and other forms of state control of goods moving across the customs border of Ukraine. So important is this law that we are aware of here in the hall and all entrepreneurs today, actually after its consideration, we will legitimize those procedures that have already been put in place by our government at the level of sub-legal acts. And let's move on to the simplification and liberalisation of customs procedures. So I'm asking everyone to meet me in the hall right now. Well, actually, it's one of those business decisions that we've promised them. In preparing the draft law for second reading, inter alia, proposals were taken into account to amend article 1 of the Ukrainian Act on Promoting the Development of Domestic Machinebuilding for the Agrarian Complex. You heard from the rapporteur, the President's representative in the Supreme Council, that the President had reason to veto two pieces of legislation. And we did yesterday. And while we were looking at the President's veto at the committee meeting, we agreed that there would be such a general meeting with the representatives of the Supreme Council, with the people's deputies, with our colleagues and with the Ministry of Finance to understand how we can resolve the problem that really arose in Ukraine with grains. We absolutely hope that we will find a solution, reflect it in our budget proposals, and find ways to resolve the matter. Therefore, given that the points in question really had nothing to do with the changes in the Customs Code, the committee's decision was to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine to support the President of Ukraine's proposals for this law and to adopt this law in general, taking into account them. All the numbers on the use and the need to actually upgrade the wagon park were given to you by previous speakers, so I'm not going to repeat them. But in fact, the problem remains, and we have to solve it with the next steps that we take through Parliament. So with regard to the President's veto, once again, I ask you to support the President's proposals for this law and to enact this law in general, including them. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-06-m0.u130	Thank you. Leave it, Nina Petrovna, on the rostrum. Now let me ask you a question. And I'm asking everyone who wants to ask a question to the reporter to record and log in. Please. Salovi Yuri Igorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-06-m0.u131	Please pass the word "Solda Oksani."
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-06-m0.u132	Please, Mrs. Oksana Prodan.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-06-m0.u133	Dear colleagues, you and I have already voted on this bill, and we have supported it. Because, in fact, he's been doing those things on customs that he promised to do since 2005. In 2005, we were promised, 10th, 15th, we now have the opportunity to do so on the first. And I'm asking everyone to gather now, those who are not, and those who may now be looking at us on the screens in the basement of the room, come and go into the hall, because, in fact, for the moment, this bill will confirm our decision with you, this is the first time. Yes, that amendment, which was dedicated, gave her new opportunities, but without it, the bill was right. It's one of those little projects that will really give you a sense of a positive change in customs to those people who do customs on both imports and exports. Thank you very much and please vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-06-m0.u134	Thank you. Velikaine, Belkova. Belkova, right? Okay. Please, Markevich. Self-help passes the word for the question to Aunt Ostrich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-06-m0.u135	Dear colleagues, this bill is very important, so I'm now asking all colleagues who may be in the towers to come to the Supreme Council Hall. I'm often asked, after this bill, will there be no more press on customs declarations? And they really won't, because the whole process of customs and permits, including environmentalists, radiologists, vets, phytosanitarys, will be done in electronic form. One will see very clearly who has made a decision and signed it with their only digital signature. A very clear timing has been set for all the government authorities that they should be in. I have a question for the committee head. Please refer to the list of international conventions and instruments that we ratify or that we implement by this bill, so that colleagues understand its importance even from the point of view of our international obligations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-06-m0.u136	Please, Nina Petrovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-06-m0.u137	Dear Mrs. Tetjana Georgievna, we have actually worked with you on this bill, because it is the introduction of a single window that requires a lot of international legislation. And it's not just for that, but it's more than anything to really move customs out of the place. By the way, all the requirements that exist under the Association Agreement between Ukraine and the EU and other principles of the European Union are implemented here. And you also know very deeply this law. The only thing I want to say is that, you know, we haven't been able to establish certain requirements for the work of the customs officers themselves yet. You remember how many times we have returned to this subject, perhaps not only the peer control authorities to carry out this order as proposed in this law but also.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-06-m0.u138	Please add a minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-06-m0.u139	And given that there are a lot of issues around the customs office right now, I would still ask all the deputies to work on their proposals for the regulations of the customs officers themselves in the course of customs procedures. Because the terms that we give them for customs declarations remain too swollen. There's no clarity and there's no understanding, but we're limiting the customs work in any case for 4 or 5 hours, or we're giving them a lift to work on customs clearance. And that's what we didn't do in this law. That's why. And all the other requirements, of course, which are the requirements of the United Nations Economic Commission for Europe and the Association Agreement between Ukraine and the European Union, and other customs prototypes, we have all taken into account and go solely in line with the standards of the European Union.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-06-m0.u140	Thank you. So the time for questions is up. Colleagues, I would like to emphasise that there will be a vote now. And I'm asking all factions now to invite deputies to the hall, please from the cabinet's bed to return to the hall, to prepare for the vote. I'm asking the Secretary of the Supreme Council to invite all the deputies into the hall and everyone to take up their jobs. There was a long and troubled work on the amendments, but the committee was able to find a full understanding of the President’s proposals for legislation. And now I'm going to remind you, I'm going to put the vote first, it's to accept in general, taking into account all of the President's proposals. Since then, the law has entered into force, and from now on, we will be able to establish a compromise as a law. So I'm asking everyone to take up jobs. Please come into the hall, prepare for the vote. I was asked by the factions to conduct a prior rating vote to find out who's gone. Let's do it, shall we? So, colleagues, I run the ratings just to see who's not there. I'm betting on a rating vote for Ukrainian Law 7010, it's just a rating vote to get a sense of who's not in the hall. Please vote. Please be supportive. Ukrainian Law 7010, rating vote. Please vote. Please be supportive. Vote. [[12:59:00]] For 246 So there is no fear at all, and I put to the vote the Ukrainian Law on Amendments to the Customs Code of Ukraine and some other laws of Ukraine on the introduction of the single window mechanism and on the optimization of control procedures when moving goods across the customs border of Ukraine with proposals by the President (No.7010). And I'm putting to the vote a proposal for a committee to accept in general, taking into account all the proposals made by the President of Ukraine. Please vote. And I'm asking you to back me up. Let's vote, colleagues, be careful. Let's do it. Please be supportive. [[12:59:54]] For 259. The law is passed. Let's move on to the next law of this block, the President's proposal box. This is the Ukrainian Act on Amendments to certain Ukrainian legislative acts on the conservation of Ukrainian forests and the prevention of the illegal export of unprocessed timber products, with proposals by the President of Ukraine (No.5495). I remind you, like the previous one, it's a separate procedure: speeches and questions. And I invite you to the report of the President of Ukraine on the Supreme Council of Lucenko Irina Stepanovna. Please, Mrs. Irina.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-06-m0.u141	Dear Mr. Head! Dear colleagues! The Ukrainian Supreme Council adopted on 3 July 2018 the Act on Amendments to certain Ukrainian legislative acts on the Conservation of Ukrainian Forests and the Prevention of the Illegal Export of Unprocessed Timber (No. 5495) cannot be signed by the President of Ukraine on the basis of such legislation. This law, among other things, is provisionally prohibited from being exported outside the customs territory of Ukraine by fuelwood for 8 years from the date of entry into force of the Act. While sharing the need for measures to preserve and rehabilitate Ukrainian forests and the need to prevent the illegal export of unprocessed timber, it should be noted that the imposition of such a ban does not meet a number of Ukraine’s international obligations. In accordance with Article 11 of the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade 1994, no prohibitions or restrictions should be imposed by the parties on imports of any goods originating in the territory of the other party or on export or export sales of any goods intended to be exported to the territory of the other party. Nor is the ban in question in line with Ukraine’s obligations under the Association Agreement with the European Union. Yes, in accordance with article 35 of the said Agreement, no party shall impose or maintain any prohibitions or restrictions on imports of any other Party's goods or exports or sales for export of any other Party's territory, except in the cases provided for in this Agreement and the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade. Taking into account what has been said, a temporary ban imposed by law on exports outside the customs territory of Ukraine in the mode of exporting fuelwood cannot be maintained. In view of the above, the Head of State proposes section III, paragraph 2, of the law that came upon the signature to exclude by establishing protective measures for the conservation of Ukrainian forests that would be in line with Ukraine’s international obligations. Please support the proposals made by the President of Ukraine. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-06-m0.u142	Thank you to the Honourable President-in-Office of Ukraine in the Supreme Council. And according to the Rules, when we consider laws that came from the President's veto, we have a chance to ask Mrs. Irina a few questions right now. I'm asking you to sign up for a question. Please, Mr. Linko, your question. No, there has to be an answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-06-m0.u143	Please pass the word to Oleg Laszko.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-06-m0.u144	Please, two minutes, question.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-06-m0.u145	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. We don't have any questions. Since the procedure does not provide for factions, I want to use these two minutes of our faction's time to explain to the Ukrainians what kind of bill we're currently looking at. Before the parliamentary holidays, I thank all the deputies who voted in favour of the law that criminalizes the smuggling of forests. Including, in order for wood not to be exported to the forest round, we put in a norm, two main norms: criminal responsibility for the smuggling of wood and banning the export of wood. Because the statistics of the European Union show that an unprocessed roundwood is coming from Ukraine, and the Ukrainian customs show that wood is being exported from Ukraine. I mean, wood is smuggled into an unprocessed roundwood. I don't think anyone in this room or in Ukraine has to tell us what the Ukrainian forest is and how in our forest, which is being removed from Ukraine for cash, they're creating jobs abroad, they're bringing ready products to Ukraine for which we're paying space money. I've been to Novograd Wallinsky recently to an enterprise that makes furniture, the best furniture, nothing worse than Italy. But as a result of the smuggling of the forest, a timber and furniture industry was virtually destroyed in Ukraine. Our moratorium on banning the export of forests has enabled us to start restoring this. And what did the President do? He made a very important commitment to allow smugglers to plant in prison and not to be smuggled under trees of unprocessed forest. And the President says that's what the European Union wants. I have a simple question. Why do we have agreements that deprive Ukrainians of jobs and wages? Why do we need a president who's covering up smugglers and promising laws that will allow us to preserve the Ukrainian forest? It's rhetorical questions, it's not for the President's representative, it's for the Ukrainians to go to the elections to know who to vote for. It's not exactly smugglers, it's not smugglers.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-06-m0.u146	Please respond to Mrs. Irina. Two minutes. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-06-m0.u147	Dear Ukrainians, I urge you not to vote for smugglers who export the Ukrainian forest. That is what the President of Ukraine, Peter Poroshenko, is doing, promising only the only standard of five offered by our distinguished Radical Party of Proposals. I'll read about the honourable Ukrainians who offered and supported the proposals, including the Peter Poroshenko Block of the acting President of Ukraine, who also struggles with the smuggling of forests. What did we support in the hall? "To set limits on the internal consumption of timber needed at 25 million cubic metres per year." The president welcomes and supports such a decision. "No export outside the customs territory of Ukraine in the customs mode of export of fuelwood." The president does not say eight years, because we have a commitment after a period of time. "To establish criminal responsibility for the movement across the customs border of Ukraine beyond customs control or to hide from customs control of timbers or sawmills of valuable and rare value." The president supports and says that it is necessary to vote for this. "For increasing administrative and criminal responsibility for illegal logging." The president of Ukraine, Peter Poroshenko, with two hands, supports these innovations offered by our distinguished party, the Radical Party of Oleg Laska. But at the same time, asking for the exception of these eight years, the only one of the five measures proposed by the President of Ukraine, Peter Dustenk, is that he says, "Create additional measures, send protection measures." Ladies and gentlemen, the President of Ukraine insists that there is a bill of 7229-d, 8238, 8239, 8240, 8241, 46, 0749, 1748, 48.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-06-m0.u148	30 seconds to complete. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-06-m0.u149	These are all the laws of our distinguished national deputies and mine, including those for the restoration, preservation and expansion of Ukraine's Forest Fund. Therefore, with great respect for the Radical Party, the president of Ukraine, Peter Poshenko, is struggling with the smuggling of forests, but he asks that if we made international commitments, we exclude only one, a, from five points.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-06-m0.u150	Thank you. Thank you, dear Mrs. Irina, for explaining. Thank you very much for clarifying the positions on the President’s veto. And now I'm inviting you to the co-report of the Committee on Industrial Policy and Entrepreneurship, Victor Halasyuk. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-06-m0.u151	The distinguished Ukrainian people, the distinguished colleagues of the national MPs, the Committee on Industrial Policy and Entrepreneurship considered the President's veto of the Ukrainian Forest Conservation Act and the prevention of the illegal export of unprocessed timber. The three basic standards that you and I have passed in this law for the initiatives of the Radical Party team and the members of the Committee on Industrial Policy and Entrepreneurship. The first rule is criminalizing the smuggling of roundwood forests, introducing a severe criminal responsibility for this crime. In order to send to prison up to 10-12 years of age those involved in this disgraceful cause, to turn Ukraine into a raw colony and to turn Ukrainians into beggars. The second money is the restriction on the internal consumption of roundwood, which will guarantee that the moratorium on roundwood exports will be maintained in all European and all other international courts. So this is the protection of the basic moratorium that you and I have adopted for 10 years in the Ukrainian Parliament. And the third is a very important standard for banning the export of wood from Ukraine. So this is the norm, it's dedicated to the President of Ukraine. And this is the President's veto, it's playing hand in hand to smugglers who illegally export Ukrainian forest round-the-clock wood. It is at the hands of importers of the illegal Ukrainian forest in Europe, and it destroys Ukraine's small business, entrepreneurship, industry, jobs, makes Ukrainians poorer and transforms Ukraine into a raw colony. You know the great positive effects of the moratorium on roundwood exports. Only last year, when the moratorium is in operation for the first time in the country, plus 4 billion dollars of export earnings from the sale of finished products, not raw materials. It's an additional export revenue, it's not a raw export. Plus half a billion dollars comes into the government budget. And these are salaries, pensions, medicine, education, the army. And that's not all. Investments in the woodworking sector have more than doubled. It's an additional billion, not billions of IMF loans that have to be returned with interest, but healthy investment funds. In Ukraine, dozens of new productions have been built all over Ukraine. These funds in Ukraine have created thousands of new jobs that Ukrainians today need as air. In order not to go abroad, avoid becoming ensnared by forced laborers, destroying their families. An extensive, international study conducted by the English company Earthsight showed that timber exports are the largest smuggling channel for roundwood from Ukraine and that it is the Ukrainian forest that is being used by illegal large European corporations. They create added value, they pay taxes on their budgets, they hire Ukrainians who in Ukraine lose their jobs because of this wrong, wrong, completely pointless economic policy that is being pursued in Ukraine today by the government. So, of course, the first priority is to save the moratorium on the exports of roundwood, which is what we achieve by this law despite the President's veto. Certainly a cruel criminalization of roundwood smuggling. And we're going to be looking for ways to choose this norm for banning the export of wood. We have to cover up these filthy smuggling channels. This is about the magnitude of the smuggling of 500,000 tons per year. These are 14,000 Ukrainian forest wagons that have illegally left the country, along with the welfare of Ukrainians, Ukrainian jobs, budgeting, military financing, education, defence. And then they go to collect IMF loans with their hand out. So despite the President's veto of banning the export of wood, the Committee on Industrial Policy and Entrepreneurship decided that we cannot lose this impeccable law, particularly the law on the criminalization of roundwood smuggling, on the preservation of a moratorium on the export of roundwood. So the committee has decided to agree with the President's proposals to rule out the ban on the export of fuelwood, but we will do everything we can to implement this rule in a different way: review state standards, implement a full-scale review through parliamentary control of all wagons that go with wood, prevent the export of Ukrainian forests and the well-being of Ukrainians abroad.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-06-m0.u152	30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-06-m0.u153	Ukraine must process its own raw materials, create prosperity, create jobs for Ukrainians, and avoid international obligations. I am officially telling you that a moratorium on roundwood exports and a ban on exports of wood is in line with the country's international obligations both for the EU and for the World Trade Organisation, which is in line with the exceptions allowed. So take care of the people of Ukraine and national interests, not the interests of smugglers.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-06-m0.u154	Thank you. So, colleagues, now is the time for questions, but three minutes after questions are asked, we're going to make a decision. So I ask everyone to come to the hall, please prepare for the vote. Let me remind you that after this law we will continue to consider ratifications, and I count on everyone in this room very much that we will be able to go through all ratifications after this law. So please record the question to the reporter. Shepherd Taras Timothyovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-06-m0.u155	I have two questions. Because the Self-Help faction, when this bill was voted on, supported your initiative, and we really think that our task today is to save these forests for us, and for our children as a whole, for Ukraine, who are now being cut off from the west to the east of Ukraine and exported, in fact, as wood is being exported, really, commercial wood, and there are very many people making money on it, but not the state of Ukraine and not Ukraine. But I have a question for you. Because when we talked about the moratorium on the Queda itself, 4401. And then I'm not going to count the numbers, you know this Quad. It's not just wood that comes to this KWED, but that's where the counts of the granules, the briquettes, that's what the product that's already produced in Ukraine is very often made of waste, and that's exported for the currency that Ukraine needs today. Don't you think it's appropriate if we, in fact, already have the results of the processing, where Ukrainians get the added value in the middle of Ukraine, we remove, actually, the granules, the briquettes as well.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-06-m0.u156	Thank you. Please, Mr. Victor.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-06-m0.u157	Dear Mr. Taras, thank you for asking. I would like to remind you that when this law was passed in the Parliamentary Hall, Mr. Sergei Kiral, Mr. Boris Kozir, was passed, by which we reduced the ban to fuelwood, or pallets, or briquettes, they were not subject to this export moratorium in the law that we voted with you in Parliament. So I am absolutely convinced that we have to unite all the healthy political, Ukrainian political forces in Parliament and find a way to stop this shameful smuggling of wood-breeding forests from Ukraine, through strict criminal responsibility, through the review of state standards and the implementation of this ban on the export of wood. I'm sure we should go back to this issue in a separate bill. But today we have to preserve those two thirds of the powerful norms that are in today's law -- criminalizing smuggling and protecting the basic moratorium on forest exports. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-06-m0.u158	Thank you. Romanova Anna Anatoliyevna
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-06-m0.u159	I give the word to Sergey Kiral.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-06-m0.u160	Dear Head of the Committee, I support my colleague, Taras Shepherd, as well as the efforts of all of us as fellow MPs directly. aimed at finally bringing about a system in our field of forestry. And that's why I have a question that I asked the last time I discussed this bill. When will we finally come to terms with the forestry institutions when we finally have a normal reform in the country? The last week, I was able to stay in the city of Rahov in the Zakarpatsk region and meet with the foresters. The situation is truly catastrophic: they are not able to conduct basic sanitation today. This leads to floods that have recently been in Rahab and to terrible other environmental disasters. You have, we have on the committee a bill on the forest market, on the rules of the game to be set. When can we move on to institutional reform?
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-06-m0.u161	Dear Sergey Ivanovich, thank you for your question. It's a very good idea to raise the issue, because really a moratorium on the export of roundwood is protecting the country's economic borders and providing raw materials to domestic producers. But it is vital that we put a system order in the forest sector, for corruption is flourishing there today. Today, carpenters are making a huge deal that they can't buy the necessary amount of wood in the woodsheds, regardless of the nature of the moratorium on the exports of roundwood. I mean, what are they doing in the woodsheds? They create artificial forest deficits and they say, "Look, even the moratorium doesn't help you. Let's go back to the old rules of the game." No, no, not again. We will establish a transparent roundwood market in Ukraine. In open competitions, on open competition principles, taking into account the volume of production and the volume of payments to the budget that investors make. To ensure that the real manufacturer is 100 percent secured with raw materials and that the wood is treated in a transparent way from wood to the finished product. We will do so together with you in the near future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-06-m0.u162	Thank you. Question time's up, colleagues. Exhausted? Okay, here's the final question. I ask you, after a minute of voting, colleagues, all to come into the hall, invite you into the hall, see, heads of factions, because some deputies came out literally during the discussion. I ask you to invite everyone into the hall, prepare for the vote. Final question, Borislav Bereza, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-06-m0.u163	Thank you, Mr. Head. Mr. Halasyuk, I really support you in punishing you for smuggling the forest. But, you know, it's not just punishment, it's punishment for illegal logging, because now the Carpathians are not the only ones who are being cut out. If you don't know, Kiev Forest has been reduced by 6 percent this year. Six percent a year! They're cutting off someone, the head of the Kiev Forest, under his command. Recently, the British investigated and found that the scheme involved law enforcement officials, prosecutors, local administrations — all of whom were involved. So not only do we start to fight smuggling, but we start to fight against those who cover it up, because without the involvement of the authorities, there can be no smuggling or illegal logging. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-06-m0.u164	Dear Mr. Borislave, indeed, 14,000 wagons of roundwood is not a needle in a haystack. And it's not the forest that my grandparents cut out some tree to burn down their building. This is a systematic desecration of nature, of the economy, of the social sphere of the state of Ukraine. That is why we approach this issue in a complex way and with the dragon's increasing responsibility for the smuggling of forests and illegal logging in general. But it is extremely important to stop that super-scale forest smuggling channel, where not only are the forest queens interested, not only the Ukrainian smugglers, but, unfortunately, the large European corporations that want Ukrainian raw materials that want Ukrainians to work and create value added in their factories. And our mission with you and the mission of the Ukrainian Parliament is to create jobs and conditions in Ukraine for processing factories to come to us and we don't need loans from the International Monetary Fund. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-06-m0.u165	Thank you. So let's move on to making a decision. Please take your jobs, from the government's bed, the guest's room, back to the hall. And I put to the vote the Ukrainian Act on Amendments to certain Ukrainian legislative acts on the conservation of Ukrainian forests and the prevention of the illegal export of unprocessed timber products, with proposals by the President of Ukraine (from 21.07.2018 No. 5495). At the suggestion of the committee, we vote on the adoption as a whole, taking into account all the President's proposals. Please vote. Please be supportive. Vote. Please be supportive. Vote. [[13:24:43]] For 246 Decision taken. The law is passed. Colleagues, so we, as agreed, continue to consider ratifications after the break. And I'm very convincingly asking you to stay put, this is an international agreement, you're all in international delegations. Our ambassadors and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs are making tremendous efforts to prepare these ratifications. So next, the draft Law on the Ratification of the Trade Agreement between the Government of Ukraine and the Government of the Kingdom of Thailand (No. 0170). Please support the consideration of the reduced procedure. Please vote. And I'm asking you to back me up. Vote. Please support the reduced procedure. [[13:25:38]] For-189 Decision taken. I invite you to report to Deputy Minister Titarchuk Mikhail Ivanovich. I'll be with you in a minute. Maybe even better from the place. One minute. [[B in m in s a l in]] One minute, I said. Please. Out of the way. Tell me what you need to support. Turn on the microphone from the spot.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-06-m0.u166	Ladies and gentlemen, I ask you to support us, because this is the fourth time we've submitted this ratification.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-06-m0.u167	We've discussed them a long time ago, colleagues, we need to make decisions. I am voting on the draft Act ratifying the Trade Agreement between the Government of Ukraine and the Government of the Kingdom of Thailand (No. 0170). Please vote. Please be supportive. Vote, please. Vote. [[13:26:39]] For 219 We didn't make it, I see. We're going to vote for the return, colleagues. I'm asking everyone to take up jobs. Colleagues, let's disciplinedly take jobs, go into the hall and vote during the ratifications. So I'm voting on the proposal to go back to ratification 0170. Please vote, please support the return. Please vote, please support. Vote. [[13:27:21]] For 239. We're back. I bet on the vote ratifying the Trade Agreement 0170 as a basis and as a whole. Please vote, please support. Vote, please. Each voice matters, vote carefully. [[13:27:47]] For 241 The law is passed. Next draft of the Law on the Ratification of the Agreement between Ukraine and the Swiss Confederation on the Readmission of Persons (0192). Please support the consideration of the reduced procedure. Please be supportive. [[13:28:16]] For 205 Decision taken. I invite the head of the State Migration Service, Sokoluk Maksim Yuriovich. Please give me one minute. Welcome, by the way, to Maxim Juryovich's birthday, his birthday is today. Congratulations, Maxim Yuriovich! [[Applause]] Please, just for a little while.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-06-m0.u168	Dear Lord Chairman, the distinguished national deputies! The purpose of the Ukrainian law is to ratify it, signed on June 7, 17 in Kiev, the Agreement between Ukraine and the Swiss Confederation on the readmission of persons. The adoption of the law will allow Ukraine to complete the internal procedures required to enter into the agreement. This will ensure Ukraine's compliance with its obligations to European society and to the world community to implement effective national policies in the field of readmission of persons, allowing it to minimize the negative effects caused by illegal migration This covenant was made at the same time.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-06-m0.u169	I'd like to make a brief request. Call for back-up.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-06-m0.u170	The project is in agreement with all the central authorities concerned and does not require additional costs. Thank you. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-06-m0.u171	Thank you. He too stood several times for Wednesday’s discussion. We've discussed it. Let's move on to making a decision. And I am voting on the draft Law on the Ratification of the Agreement between Ukraine and the Swiss Confederation on the Readmission of Persons (No. 0192) on the basis and overall of the Committee's proposal. Colleagues, be very careful! Please take up jobs. Please vote. Please support 0192 as a whole. Vote! Please be supportive. We will support Ukraine’s international commitments, colleagues. [[13:30:25]] For 237 Decision taken. The next one is actually identical. This is a draft law on the ratification of the Agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers and the Government of Moldova on the readmission of persons. I ask you to support the consideration of the reduced procedure. Please. [[13:30:55]] For 209 Decision taken. Welcome to Sokoluk Maksim Yuriovich's report. Please, Maxime Yuriovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-06-m0.u172	There's a ratification signed on October 6, 17th. Implementation does not require additional costs. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-06-m0.u173	Thank you. And I am voting on the draft Law on the Ratification of the Agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of the Republic of Moldova on the readmission of persons. Please support me, colleagues, carefully every voice. Please vote on the basis as a whole. Vote. [[13:31:39]] For 227 Decision taken. Thank you. Once again, welcome to your birthday and successful decisions. Next is the draft Law on the Ratification of the Agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of the Federal Republic of Germany on the Employment of Members of Families of Fellow Workers of Diplomatic Representations and Consular Institutions (No. 0191). I ask you to support the consideration of the reduced procedure. Please support me. [[13:32:24]] For 196 Decision taken. And I invite you to report to Deputy Foreign Minister Xerkal Olena Volodymyrovna. Please. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-06-m0.u174	Ladies and gentlemen, I ask you to support these agreements. These agreements relate to the employment of our diplomats abroad and members of our diplomatic families abroad. And I'm asking you to back me up.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-06-m0.u175	Thank you. Let's back up, colleagues, ours. Ministry of Foreign Affairs. And I put to the vote the draft Law on the Ratification of the Agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of the Federal Republic of Germany on the labour activities of members of families of members of diplomatic representatives and consular institutions (0191) as a basis and as a whole. Colleagues, let's back it up. I ask everyone to vote carefully. please take part in the vote. Please be supportive. Vote. Colleagues, every voice matters. Please vote. [[13:33:42]] For 216 We didn't make it, colleagues. It's inconsiderate. I ask the factions to invite everyone into the hall. During the vote, literally a few deputies do not vote. I'm asking you to show the factions. "Peter Poroshenko's Block" – 95, "The People's Front" – 59, "The Opposition Block" – 0, "The Self-Help" – 16, "The Radical Party" – 14, "The Father's Party" – 9, "The Will of the People" – 0, "The Rebirth Party" – 3, "the non-fractional, non-fractional, please 20 – non-fractional. Colleagues, please enter the hall, this is a responsible vote. Sometimes we talk for hours and we can't make a decision. We have this opportunity to fulfill, international commitments. Please participate in the vote. First vote, go back to draft Law 0191 on the ratification of the agreement. Please vote and please support. And carefully, every voice. Please support the return. Please vote. Vote. [[13:34:51]] For the 220. Six votes. I'll do it again. Please come to the hall. Do not leave the hall or take up jobs. Six votes are not enough to make a decision. Please look who's not here and invite me to the hall. So, colleagues, first vote of return. I am voting on the proposal to return to the draft Law on the Ratification of the Agreement (0191). And I ask you to vote carefully, to be in the workplace. We were short six votes. Please be supportive. Go back to the draft law. Please vote, please support. Vote. Please be supportive. Every voice, careful. [[13:36:02]] For 225 One voice. Dombrowski's here. Colleagues, one voice. Please, colleagues, vote during the vote, do not go to the hall. Please, Mr. Dombrowski. In place, right? We therefore vote in favour of returning to draft Law 0191. And I emphasize, every voice has a weight. I'm asking everyone to support the return. Please vote, please support. Vote. Please support and carefully participate in the vote. Vote. Vote, please. [[13:36:50]] For 231 We're back. And now I'm putting Law 0191 on the ground and in general. Please vote, please support. Carefully, every vote, please vote and please support. Vote, please. [[13:37:14]] For 231 Decision taken. Next is the draft Law on the Ratification of the Agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Federal Council of Switzerland on the conduct of paid activities by persons accompanying co-workers of diplomatic representation (No. 0182). Please support the consideration of the reduced procedure, please. [[13:37:50]] For a hundred and Decision taken. I invite you to report to Deputy Foreign Minister Zerkel Olen Volodymyrovna. Please, Mrs. Olena.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-06-m0.u176	Dear National Deputies! Please support this agreement, it also applies to the employment of our diplomats' families abroad.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-06-m0.u177	Colleagues, there were a few demands for discussion, and I'm going to discuss it once so that people can express their positions. After the next one. It's identical, the next one will be discussed, colleagues. I ask you to support this, next, I promise you, discussion. Anyone who wants to step out of the factions will be able to discuss it. It's just, colleagues, it's a very simple thing, five more ratifications. If we don't accept them today, it could take months again. Vote, colleagues, please. I am voting on the draft Law on the Ratification of the Agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Federal Council of Switzerland (No. 0182) on the basis and overall of the Committee's proposal. I ask everyone to take up their jobs and vote. Please support 0182. Everyone please take part in the vote. Vote. Please be supportive. Vote. [[13:39:16]] For 218. Eight votes, missed. I'll be back. Look who's gone and invite us to the hall. I'm asking you to invite all the national deputies into the hall. I ask the heads of factions to see who is not here, to look in the towers and invite them to the hall. Colleagues. So I'm going to put it first for the return, and I'm going to ask everyone to maximize their mobility. I would like to point out that the next one is for discussion. Now I ask everyone to participate in the vote and to support it. So I propose to return to the ratification of the Agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers and the Federal Council of Switzerland (0182) and to vote in favour. Colleagues, every voice. Please back up responsibly and in a coordinated manner. Please vote, vote. Please be supportive. [[13:40:27]] For 219 Six votes. Seven votes. Colleagues, please don't go out now, go back to work and invite MPs, see who's not around, invite MPs into the hall. I'm begging you, colleagues. As long as the people's deputies come into the hall. Colleagues, one minute to get the national deputies into the hall. Let no one go out, and one minute to enter the hall. Please, Boris Ivanovich, one minute. And please invite everyone to the hall. Boris Ivanovich. Don't go out there, fellows! On the contrary, come into the hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-06-m0.u178	Dear colleagues, distinguished national MPs! I want to explain what this is all about. This bill, like the previous one and the next, refers to the same subject: it refers to a couple of diplomats who have gone abroad beyond their will and who have been deprived of their constitutional right to work. This bill and the ratification of this document give the right to a couple who are not employed in diplomatic service to work in the country of residence. So I ask for your support and understanding in dealing with this problem.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-06-m0.u179	Colleagues, it's a question beyond politics, it's a question of supporting our diplomatic front and our diplomats. So, colleagues, please take up jobs. I'm going to make an offer to go back, and then I'm going to put in a bill. I ask you to prepare and take everyone to the vote. Colleagues, first sentence: return to draft Law 0182, ratification of the Agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers and the Federal Council of Switzerland. Please vote and please support. Careful, every voice. We're voting for the return. If you'll excuse me, I'd like to vote. Vote. Vote, colleagues, every voice. [[13:42:34]] For 228 We're back. Now, please, everyone in place, 0182 as a basis and we're voting in general. Please be supportive. Vote. Careful, every vote, we vote. [[13:42:57]] For 223 Andrew Shipko couldn't vote. Please, my friends, please don't move away from your ballot cards, please. Mr. Andrew was unable to vote. I'm going to return again and then the law itself. And vote during the vote. First. Please return to 0182. Please vote, colleagues, carefully, each vote. Please vote, vote, vote. Mr. Andrey Shipko, we vote, we vote. [[13:43:42]] For 226 We're back. Now, colleagues, let's support it. These are diplomatic services, let's support it, colleagues. So the draft Law 0182 is based on and in general. Support me, colleagues, please. It's a common thing, it's not someone's quest. Please support, 0182 as a whole. Vote, support, colleagues, support. Thank you. Please vote. Thank you. [[13:44:25]] For 223 What are you doing, good people? What are you doing? Colleagues, please, why do this? Please, colleagues, I'll put you back on the line. Everyone in the room, no one's coming out. It's not working, it's going to work, please vote. I'm asking you to show the factions. Colleagues, according to factions: "Block of Petra Poshenko" – 105, "National Front" – 63, "Block of Opposition" – 2, "Help" – 16, Radical Party – 14, "Fatherhood" – 9, "Will of the People" – 0, "Party of Rebirth" – 0. Why, my friends? Our diplomats who work there are delegated by the state on that front. This does not depend on authority, but on each one of us. Please take your jobs, I'll put you back. Please prepare for the vote and take part in the vote. So take up jobs. I propose to return to draft Law 0182 and ask each of the deputies to vote. If you'll excuse me, I'd like to vote. Vote, please. Vote. [[13:46:02]] For 226 We're back. Now, colleagues, focus. Please take your seats. So I'm voting on draft Law 0182, and, guys, I'm asking you to support me. Please be supportive. We're backing it up. Every voice. Please, we vote very carefully and very consistently. Please be supportive. Vote. We're backing it up. Please support, colleagues, we vote. Vote. [[13:46:45.]] For 231 The law is passed. Next 0176, draft Law on the Ratification of the Agreement between Ukraine and the Portuguese Republic (0176). Please support the consideration of the reduced procedure, please. [[13:47:16]] For-198 Decision taken. I invite you to report to Deputy Foreign Minister Xerkal Olena Volodymyrovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-06-m0.u180	I ask you very much to support this agreement. It also applies to members of the families of our diplomats. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-06-m0.u181	Thank you. Colleagues, I promised those who demanded a word. 1 minute is Kaplin, 1 minute is Tarasjuk, and we vote. One minute at a time. Please, Boris Ivanovich is 1 minute, and Kaplin is 1 minute. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-06-m0.u182	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I have already expressed my position and explanation. This is about restoring the constitutional right of a couple of diplomats who are forced abroad to secure the right to work. That is why I call on the people's deputies to make it possible for a non-working marriage abroad, a diplomat, to be able to work. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-06-m0.u183	Thank you. Colleagues, there'll be a vote in a minute. Please invite everyone into the hall. According to factions, the heads of factions, through the secretaries, invite the deputies to the hall. Please, Caplin, one minute. And let's go to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-06-m0.u184	I would like to call on all the national MPs to support the relevant bills. They're important. I think today is a social-democracy celebration, because Portugal is a socialist country, and Switzerland is 25 percent of the Social-Democratic Party in Parliament, and the other states for which we have created legal preconditions for cooperation today, in different ways, are, well, at least my brothers, my partners. I think the next parliament of Ukraine will be just as social-democratic. And these are fine geopolitical foundations for the real ideological integration of our country. Well, of course, I would like to emphasize and, well, pray that wages and pensions in Ukraine are the same as in socialist Portugal, as in socialist Spain, Switzerland and other social-democratic left-wing pro-European states. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-06-m0.u185	So let's move on to making a decision. And please take your jobs. You see, sometimes three votes are missing. We've got to go back. Please take over all those in the hall. We're moving on to making a decision. And I am voting on the draft Law on the Ratification of the Agreement between Ukraine and the Portuguese Republic on the implementation of paid activities by family members who are held by diplomatic and technical staff of diplomatic representatives and consular institutions (No. 0176) at the proposal of the Committee on the basis and in general. Colleagues, please support. Please vote. Vote. Every voice matters. Vote. Please be supportive. Careful! Vote. [[13:50:30.]] For 230 Decision taken. Next is a draft law on the ratification of the European Council Convention on Access to Official Documents. Please support the consideration of the reduced procedure. Please vote. Please be supportive. [[13:50:58]] For-200 Decision taken. And I invite you to report to Deputy Justice Minister Petuhov Sergey Igorovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-06-m0.u186	Good afternoon, distinguished national MPs! The European Council Convention on Access to Official Documents is the only document in this area adopted by the Council of Europe. To date, it has been ratified by nine nations and requires a tenth ratification to take effect by this convention. It can be a Ukrainian ratification. In Ukraine, the Public Information Act was adopted as early as 2011. And we had already implemented all European standards of access to official documents. And so in this case, unlike other situations, we don't need an implementing law. This convention is an example of where Ukraine is ahead of all of Europe, where we can be proud of the openness of our public authorities. And that will significantly strengthen our position in Paris. We can say that Ukraine is a leading country. So please support the ratification.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-06-m0.u187	So, colleagues, extremely important ratification, colleagues. And I'm asking you to invite everyone into the hall right now. This is really an incredibly important Euro-integration ratification. Please come into the hall, I'm asking everyone to come in, get ready. Jacenka, one minute. And one minute to maximize. Please invite everyone into the hall. Jacenka, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-06-m0.u188	Dear colleagues, Andrew Volodymyrovich! It's 13:52, and we still have a lot of bills. Well, the convention, it's all clear, let's vote without discussion and everything will be fine. Well, it's true.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-06-m0.u189	We voted that way until you asked for it. But I'm asking you to support me, please support me. These are our international commitments. So, colleagues, I'm asking everyone to take up jobs. We're moving on to making a decision. Colleagues, well, during the vote, take up jobs. And, Mr. Andrey, I've asked you once again to support the ratification and the state of Ukraine, the state of Ukraine to support it. So I put to the vote the draft Law on the Ratification of the European Council Convention on Access to Official Documents (No. 0195) proposed by the Committee as a basis and as a whole. Please vote and please support everyone, colleagues. We're in concert. Please be supportive. Vote. Mr. Victor, we have a vote. [[13:54:06]] For 214 We didn't make it. I, colleagues, invite everyone into the hall. Literally. Everyone, come into the hall, colleagues. One minute, Baby. After a minute of voting. Factions, look who's gone. Please, Oleg Easy, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-06-m0.u190	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that of the 45 members of the Council of Europe, this convention, which we are invited to ratify, has not been signed by 30 countries. So only 15 of the 45 countries in the Council of Europe signed it. The question is, Why didn't all the other 30 countries sign? The answer is simple: because this convention actually gives them the right to get information about any natural person to their own judgment. Too much talk about getting information. So 30 of the 45 countries in the Council of Europe did not sign it. We consider the ratification of this convention to be hasty, and it is necessary to study it further and then make a balanced decision so that the rights of individuals are not violated so that civil rights are not violated.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-06-m0.u191	Colleagues, in order for us to get our bearings right, now Olena Sotnik will explain. I'm the only one I'm asking to use that time to invite everyone into the hall. And don't leave the hall. Don't leave, colleagues. One minute. Please, Olena Sotnik. She'll explain, Mr. Oleg.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-06-m0.u192	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. I want to explain. This is a convention of the Council of Europe. Indeed, it has been ratified by nine member countries today. In all other member countries it is at the ratification stage, just as it is at the end of the ratification phase. There are no warnings on public and personal data, and they are protected in every country by special laws just as they are protected in Ukraine. I want to stress more, if Ukraine ratifies this convention by the tenth, it will enter into force and it will take effect, it will be the historic role of Ukraine just so that a progressive convention, one of the most progressive, will be recognized by the UN as progressive in order for it to enter into force, and finally Ukraine will show its regional leadership in international law. So I urge all my colleagues to support this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-06-m0.u193	So, colleagues, we are now the head of the Committee on European Integration and we are voting. Look who's gone. You've seen, there are 12 votes missing. Why don't you come to the hall? One minute, Jonah and we vote. Please turn on the microphone, Jonah. Head of the Committee on European Integration.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-06-m0.u194	Dear colleagues, as I continue to speak to my colleague, I would like to say that, indeed, this convention guarantees every right of access to the official documents that are at the disposal of the public authorities. This is extremely important because it will strengthen the legal framework for the protection of human rights in Ukraine. Today, we will truly be a leader in Europe and will show other countries that have not ratified to protect human rights. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-06-m0.u195	Thank you. So let's move on to decision-making, colleagues. And I'm going to be the first to come back. I'm asking everyone to mobilize. Don't leave the hall, colleagues. Do not leave the hall when Euro-integration laws are coming. Please prepare for the vote. And I'm voting on the proposal to go back to draft Law 0195. Please vote and please support. Vote. Please be supportive. Vote. [[13:58:01]] For 196 Colleagues, I'd like to make the following suggestion to the committee for further work. Do you support the committee for work? So, colleagues, so that we don't lose ratification, I'm asking everyone, please, back up to the committee for the first time again. And please all take part in the vote. This is our authority of our parliament and our state. I ask everyone to support draft Law 0195 on the committee for the re-reading of the first reading. Please support us, colleagues, so we don't lose ratification. Vote. Please be supportive. Let's do it again. [[13:58:59]] For 193 Colleagues, I think it's a good offer, Oleg, to return to the committee. Colleagues, friends, no, we're gonna finish the discussion, we're gonna be forever. If there's a speech, will you vote? No, it's not. Colleagues, look, we can't question her right now. It's a question of the whole country and our foreign relationship. It's a simple question. It's a complete, neutral form for a committee to work on. We can't take her down. It's a simple form for a committee to work on. If we were to reject it, it would be a bad sign. Colleagues, I ask you to mobilize and vote. So I'm voting on the proposal that we send draft Law 0195 to the committee for further work. I ask everyone to support, to show governmental thinking and respect for the diplomatic corps and the state. Please support the committee for the first time again. Please vote. Every voice. Please be supportive. Vote. Please be supportive. [[14:00:18]] For 201 Colleagues, I think the situation is unacceptable. I'm sure we need to discuss this, find understanding and make a decision. What's more, there's a second hour, and that's why I'm taking the decision to lunch. During the afternoon, I ask for detailed consultations, and we will continue to work on this draft law at 4:00. And we'll make the decision after lunch. Now, according to the Rules, I'm going to call it a 16-hour break. The morning plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is closed.
