ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-21-m0.u1	Good morning! Colleagues, please come into the hall and prepare for registration. So, colleagues, please come into the hall. Are you ready for your registration? Please sign up for the meeting, please sign up. [[10:04:24]] There are 348 national deputies registered. The morning plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Colleagues, today is the birthday of Vladimir Georgievovich Gusak. [[Applause]] Ostala Volodymyrovich Ednak. Welcome, Mr. Ostap! [[Applause]] Natalia Vasilovna Novak. [[Applause]] Welcome, my friends! Happy birthday! And, dear friends, I want to welcome all of us today to the Day of Dignity and Freedom. Five years ago, the Dignity Revolution began. This was the response of the Ukrainian people to the attempt of the then pro-Russian regime of Yanukovic to return Ukraine to colonial dependence on Russia. I remember that evening on November 21st in Midan, and many of those here that evening were in Midan and, although there seemed to be no chance, we knew that we should not allow Ukraine to return to the Russian colony. We started this way then, and it's been five years. And, colleagues, I'm sure Majdan is continuing our work here today at the Supreme Council of Ukraine. And every time we strengthen the Armed Forces of Ukraine, when we make decisions about Ukraine's foreign policy choice in NATO and in the EU, when we make decisions on decommunization, we continue the Maydan case, and we continue the Midan case. Our barricades are just being transferred from the Institute and Gruszewski v Shirokina, to the Lugansk Station, and now our boys are protecting Ukraine every day and protecting the whole free world, as we protected Maidan five years ago. The low cliff and eternal glory of the fallen Heroes of the Celestial 100 and Ukrainian soldiers who laid down their lives for Ukraine’s independence with the Russian aggressor. May their sacrificial and boundless love for their people and for their Father’s will be our primary life’s commandment! Greetings, colleagues, to the feast, to the anniversary of Maidan, to the Day of Divinity! [[Applause]] Also, colleagues, I want to welcome today all Ukrainian paratroopers with a professional world -- the Day of the Armoured Forces of Ukraine. It is symbolic that this festival is celebrated on November 21st on the day of the memory of the heavenly patron of the Ukrainian paratroopers, St. Michael, the leader of the heavenly army. The Ukrainian Armed Forces were among the first to take the lead in protecting the Ukrainian state from the Russian aggressor. Our hero soldiers carried out extremely complex combat operations on frontal and rearward. In the history of Ukraine, there will be forever the legendary fighting operations of the Ukrainian Descent: the 14th raid, the heroic battles of Donetsk, Lugansk and Kramitar Airports. Dear soldiers, I wish you good health, success, victory, and God’s intercession, and your families peace and well - being. Let the bullets get away from you. Glory to Ukraine! Heroic glory! Welcome to the paratroopers. [[Applause]] And, colleagues, I remind you that on Wednesday we have 30 minutes of performances by Ukrainian national deputies. Not from factions, but from the national deputies of Ukraine. And so I ask everyone who intends to participate in the discussion to record. Please, colleagues. Colleagues, while the recording goes. I have a lot of applications coming to me, and I want to let you know that the applications are filed with the secretariat, they register, and then they come to me and I read them. I expect registered applications to be made. As soon as they're registered, I'm going to announce them right now, and I'm going to read from the rostrum of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. And let's move on to the performances. Kirilenko John gives the floor to Sergius Eutushka. Please, Mr. Sergei.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-21-m0.u2	Sergeyyyeutushka, Equinox, Fatherland. Indeed, the honourable colleagues may be in a very festive mood today, but I would like to honor the moment of silence, Mr. Head, but still those boys and girls who have put their lives in dignity, so that our future generations and our children have the opportunity to live in a free, democratic, legal, prosperous country.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-21-m0.u3	I declare a moment of silence.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-21-m0.u4	Hail the Heroes of the Heavenly Hundreds! Dear colleagues! Today, indeed, is an unusual day. We remember that our country is in the first place, unfortunately, because of the corruption of our country’s most important social studies and groups. And can it be that, when the head of the district administration of the Plains region of Mr. Mullarenko, according to NAMC, is in the trinity of those violators of anti-corruption legislation, is actually a corrupter, I'm about to prove why I'm saying this, in fact, in these positions? Of course not. I'm addressing President Dusty now. Please tell me, as long as you do not realize that it is the kind of leaders who are on these lists today that are leading our country into a chasm? On November 9th, there was a court, in which Mr. Mularenko was to be recognized by someone who had committed corruption in the filing of NAMK. But let's look at what happened. And that's what happened. Very much in solidarity with the prosecutor’s office, with the prosecutor’s representative who is satisfied with the judge’s decision to move the case, the case goes beyond the deadlines that no longer allow a certain administrative decision to be passed and that Mr. Mullarenko is a corrupter. Here, the honourable national MPs, just when we have the answer that these are all butaphoric reforms that have taken place in this room after your vote and your sanctification, have led those corrupters to avoid punishment today, because it's very easy not to consider, not to investigate why such an offence has been committed. It's very easy today to go beyond the limits of legislation and not admit to court. Therefore, the court takes and closes the case in connection with lost time. I am asking my colleagues to see the Attorney-General of Ukraine to give a legal assessment of such procedural actions by the Prosecutor in the Plains region. I call on all members of the Anti-Corruption Committee to ask the NAMC representatives at their meeting each year, and why the NAMC representatives have brought this case to a standstill, to avoid corruption. And I'll remind you, the court didn't admit it.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-21-m0.u5	30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-21-m0.u6	The court did not declare Mr. Mullarenko innocent until the court closed the case under the circumstances that led to the loss of sentences. And so I ask you to consider this question and give us the answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-21-m0.u7	Firemark gives the floor to Maxim Burbak, the head of the People's Front faction. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-21-m0.u8	Dear Ukrainians! Dear colleagues! First of all, I'd like to welcome you to the fifth anniversary of the Dignity Revolution, today's festival. Five years ago, the whole of Ukraine went out on the field to fight the bloody dictatorship. Then there were severe trials, and all of us together, the People's Front team, managed to keep the country from defolt. I want to remind you that in February 14, when the government of Arsenius Yatzenyuk began to carry out its duties, there were 108 thousand dollars in the single treasury account, maybe someone forgot. We've all recovered the Armed Forces of Ukraine together. We've all created a new police force together, a new army. We've all taken the gas out of our necks of Russia. We've all done everything together here to get Ukraine to sign and to get a carload of EU countries, and now each of our citizens is traveling across Europe. And we are all now opposed to the hybrid aggression of Russia, the aggressor country. And here you and I made a decision and for the first time recognized Russia as an aggressor. And there is a hybrid war against us. And I want to congratulate everyone today on Ukraine's next victory in opposition to Russia. At the General Assembly of Interpol today, held in Dubai, a decision was taken and the new leader of the General Assembly was not a Russian spy, a former representative of Russia's Ministry of Foreign Affairs, and Interpol's elected leadership today is a representative of South Korea. Since Monday on the Conciliation Council, I have reported on the clear principle of the position of Minister of Internal Affairs of Habakkuk that we will not allow the Russians to take the lead in Interpol. We will not allow a repetition of the fact that in the 1930s the Third Reich began to govern Interpol, this important organization. We're not going to let members of the aggressor country run these organizations. And I thank all the countries, all the countries that have supported the principled position of Ukraine, the principle of the position of Minister of Interior Arsen Awakov, and we have not allowed the leader of Interpol to become a representative of the aggressor country today. So our main task next year is not to allow a rematch of pro-Cremian, pro-Russian forces, not to allow disunity in society, we have to do everything for it. Which was why people went to Midan -- to build a single, independent, European country -- Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-21-m0.u9	Thank you. Matthew’s Sergey gives the word for Paul’s speech. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-21-m0.u10	Constantine Pavlov, "The Opposition Block", the city of Krivi Rig. Dear people of Ukraine! Dear colleagues! This year we have witnessed a crisis in the management of state-owned enterprises and in the governance system of the state as a whole. In Ukraine, despite all the normative terms and colds, no state heat plant was launched on time, none. As a result, hundreds of thousands of city dwellers throughout the country have been held hostage, and the city has not been excluded. And Krivi Rig, where the Civore Heat Plant, which is neither de jure nor de facto subordinated to the city, and is run by the State Property Fund, started only after the emergency intervention of the city, otherwise there would be a technological catastrophe, if it were greater than Alcevsk. Think about it. In order to include heat in a state-owned enterprise, there were courts, emergency meetings of the City Commission on Technological and Environmental Safety and Emergency Situations, my colleague, Andrey Galchenk, was involved in the negotiations with NAK Naftogaz and so on. In doing so, I would like to emphasize that the city's thermal utility has been given gas limits and has begun its work in a calm and planned manner. Your attention is focused on the fact that in two years, five executives have changed and none of them have been in line with the city’s management. Moreover, the director of the company was not even present at the meetings of the city headquarters for preparation for the winter, thus ignoring the city’s authority. What responsibility can city heads have in this situation? And from the holding fund, we've only heard statements that he's not in charge of the process, he's not in charge of the funds, and he can't solve anything. Gentlemen of the government, let's finally figure out who can and will be responsible for this mess. Because it's a nonsensus: the Naftogaz talks were attended by the Nardepa, the city authorities, even by the residents of the city, and no one came from the Holding Foundation and its subordinate enterprise at all. I am deeply convinced that this crisis is systemic throughout the country. We saw it back in the 16th, then in the 17th. As a whole, the leadership of the city of the Horn of Creature has been approached 20 times by Kabmin, the Supreme Council, the Ministry of Profiles to obtain acceptance into the municipal property of the city's Crevice Heat Centre. As early as the 16th year, the vice-deputies of the Crevice City Council accepted calls to the Cabinet for exclusions from the list of enterprises subject to privatization. In November of 17th, a session of the Crevice City Council was also decided to give consent for free admission of the Heat Central into the city's municipal property, but no positive decisions from the Kabmin were seen or awaited. Moreover, in fact, more than half of the current debt, which today has a state-owned thermal power company in front of NAC Naftogaz Ukraine, amounts to more than 200 million dollars in debt to the state budget. Of these, 77 million are subsidies, nearly 62 million are undercompensation for differences in tariffs. So in fact, the state has to go to a state-owned enterprise for another state-owned enterprise. The situation was turned into a dead end, and more than 300 thousand carnivores were kept warm. Humans should not be held hostage to divisions between enterprises. We, the MPs from the Horn of the Curve, believe that the holding fund, as the owner of the Crevice Central, should act as the guarantor of its debt repayment. Take care of yourself.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-21-m0.u11	30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-21-m0.u12	must be the guarantor of her debt. Taking responsibility and handing it over to the city, but not in the state to which it is being proved today as a result of ineffective management. Now the Bloody Horn wants to pay off not as much business as the debt on it. We demand the transfer of thermal power objects, but on fair terms. People should no longer be held hostage to national exile and freeze to death in their homes. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-21-m0.u13	Thank you. Misik gives the talk to Pisarenko. Turn on the microphone. From the rostrum, please, Pisarenko Valerius.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-21-m0.u14	Thank you. Dear Andrew Volodymyrovich, distinguished colleagues! Last week, I worked in my district in Kharkiv. And most of the people who come to their deputies today are really asking one question. What will happen to the tariffs this winter? How will the situation develop next year? For the time being, all discussions remain dry — 23 percent, 40 percent, 60 percent. Most politicians are convinced that this is the last time and that there will be no rise. But the question is, if you look at sociological research, one or two percent of the population remains who trust Parliament, the Cabinet of Ministers, the President. And unfortunately, today we do not have stability, nor can we convince people how to plan their lives and not leave this country. Yesterday, Georgestat showed that right now, this year, we Ukrainians have become less than 170,000 and by the end of the year we will be less than 220. This is without migrants leaving the country because they do not understand how to live here. And unfortunately, today, aside from empty talk shows, on television, politicians cannot give exact figures and give people a perspective on how to plan their lives. That's why we've introduced the 9283 draft, which we're proposing to take a real step towards setting some limits to gas tariffs and utility tariffs. We propose to have a parliamentary session next week together in this session hall and to invite everyone who is responsible in this country for the price of gas, the price of tariffs. We propose to invite the heads of the respective commissions, the head of the National Bank, the head of Naftogazu, the Cabinet of Ministers in full stock, the mayors of cities, and to talk about how we can solve this problem today. Because as long as we don't give clear directions, how prices will change, and how people plan their spending, and whether we live in this country, we'll lose a lot more of our citizens. Therefore, we suggest that we vote on this decision and work in the people’s room next week. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-21-m0.u15	Thank you. I'd like to invite you to the floor of the People's Deputies.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-21-m0.u16	AndriyShipko, Dnipropetrovština, 35th constituency, Nikopol city, Pokrov city, Nicopolsk district Dear national MPs, dear voters! First of all, I would like to welcome everyone to the Day of God's Archister Michael, all the Heavenly Powers of the Unblemished! Today, every human angel’s day, good, health, peace, harmony in society, and God’s blessing. I would like to point out that for the first time in 27 years of our country’s independence, a massive process of building and repairing roads has begun. Despite the difficult economic situation, you and I have passed the necessary laws in this room and the government has moved this issue away. But I want to point out today that there is such a P72 Dnipro-Nicopol road. It's more like I'd say it's not the road, it's the direction with a bunch of pits and patches. It connects Nicopol, Marganez, Pochrov, Nicopolsky, and Tomakowsk region, continuing on to Kakhovka and Herson. This road is really the way of life. It connects 350,000 residents with the district center. People have to go to hospitals in the area after four hours, even to get a consult from an endocrinologist or an infectionist, I'm not talking about treatment anymore. So we set up a CT in Nicopola, a mammogram, so that people don't follow the diagnostics into the area. The district authorities and I are working to improve access to medical care, build new infirmaryes, and continue the process of building a children’s hospital. But three cities and two areas need to travel to the district center. I am grateful to the government that the construction process has begun, the first funds already allocated, the tender procedures conducted, have been blocked, even passed through the Antimonopoly Committee. We did everything: there's a tender, there's a resource, there's a performer, there's work going, there's technology working. People see that the changes started, it's important now not to stop this process, I would say not to freeze it. On Thursday at our Hall, the government wants to introduce a state budget. And we insist that it prescribes 357 million dollars for the capital repair of R72 Dnipro-Nicopol. I turn to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, to the Minister of Finance, to the leadership of Ukraine, to put these costs into the state budget, and to resolve the very painful questions of the 350,000 inhabitants, my countrymen. Please consider my statement to the Prime Minister of Ukraine. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-21-m0.u17	Thank you. I invite you to the speech of the national deputy, Oleg Láška, and he is also given the word of the national deputy, Galaszuk, six minutes in a row. And then there's the People's Deputy Lapin.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-21-m0.u18	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Today, five years from the beginning of the Dignity Revolution. Millions of Ukrainians throughout the country went to the fields to get rid of the authority that had robbed her, which had drawn her to Mordor, who had put her own interests ahead of the people. People went for dignity, for Ukraine, and what did they get in exchange for it? In exchange, they were humiliated. Depreciation of poverty, begging, raw economy, low wages, pensions, high prices for medicine, gas, food. The Ukrainian authority that came after Maidan, which today is the majority in Parliament. The president, the government, they have, as before, taken decisions before the next assembly, and today the Ukrainian authorities are doing everything they can to obtain credit. They raise gas prices for loans, they take the budget for loans. They want to sell the land for credit, they don't have the interests of the people, because the decisions for the people have to be completely different. The president of Ukraine is going, he's going, he's going, he's going, he's going, he's going around the world, he's going, he's going, give the money, give the money. And they're taking it from the Ukrainian economy, they're giving billions to foreign companies, to our competitors. Last week, the Deputy Prime Minister of Cuba in China presented a contract of half a billion dollars to supply turbines for the construction of the GES. A turbine from China. We have our own unique Turboat company, where thousands of people work. Instead of giving us half a billion dollars in a Turbot order, we're ordering the Chinese to supply us with turbines. A billion euros -- in this room they ratified a deal to buy French helicopters. Our team didn't vote for it because Ukraine has its own unique Motor City company, which produces the best engines and the best helicopters. And the Ukrainian authorities, instead of placing a billion euros in jobs at the Motor City, on adjacent enterprises, they're handing this order to our French competitors, forcing Ukrainians to go abroad, to make money in Poland, in Portugal, in all the worlds. And then they're driving around the world and they're fooling their heads that there's no money in Ukraine. And every Ukrainian is told that we have to raise gas prices because we will not live without a loan from the International Monetary Fund. Of course, with this economic policy run by the authorities, we're not going to live at all, because how can you live if instead of investing in jobs for Ukrainians, in economic recovery, in increasing wages for Ukrainians, you're giving these billions of contracts to our foreign competitors? I'm going to change this policy! Dignity is worth living for. The dignity that the Ukrainians fought for five years ago and continue to fight today, protecting the country, it's decent wages, it's worthy pensions for veterans and pensioners, it's a strong economy to be money for an army, for defense, for social policy, for increasing the welfare of every Ukrainian. Dignity is when people have the opportunity to make money in their country, not to go camping abroad. After the presidential election, the first thing I'm going to do is we're going to review the budget that the government wants to go through right now to take the International Monetary Fund's next loans -- we're going to radically increase the salaries of teachers, doctors, social workers, because those countries that invest in education, in health care, those countries are successful. Those nations that trade raw materials and cheap labor have no future. The policy of today's government is one: new loans and tax hikes. We're going to cut loans, we're not going to take credit and we're going to cut taxes. These contracts are billions of dollars with the Chinese, with the French who took the money from the Turboatom workers, with the Motor City employees, with the employees of other companies, I'm going to break these contracts, I'm going to bring these billions of dollars, the euro and the money to Ukraine to work in jobs for Ukrainians, to restore the Ukrainian economy, and so that Ukraine doesn't trade raw materials. When the authorities lie to us that we don't have money, and we have to trade land and raise gas prices, because otherwise they won't give us credit, I'll give you an example yesterday of how our team fought smuggling in the port of renaissance. Millions of tons of forest smuggling are being exported from Ukraine, and five billion dollars is being smuggled into the pockets of the corrupting authorities. We're going to cover these smuggling holes and oasis and this money is going to go into the pay-up budget, to raise pensions. Our requirement for the government, the budget they're going to review tomorrow, is to cancel the government's decision to raise gas prices and radically increase wages and recalculate pensions. Gas prices rise by 25 percent from 1 November, and wages rise from 1 January to 15 percent, i.e. price increases, product inflation, and medicine are ahead of wages and pensions. That's what our key requirement is to raise wages, recalculate pensions, lower gas prices, fair gas prices and just subsidies to every Ukrainian family that needs it. On the fifth anniversary of the Dignity Revolution, I want to tell the Ukrainians: we will change the economic policy of the state, we will make the whole world respect us, we will restore the economy, we will raise the well-being of every Ukrainian family, we will destroy the backs of the oligarchy and corruption in Ukraine -- that will be the real dignity that people have been fighting for.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-21-m0.u19	Thank you. And the last speech, please, is by the People's Deputy Lapin.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-21-m0.u20	Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-21-m0.u21	Dear colleagues, five years ago, it was also announced in this room that the multi vectority of our nation's development is changing direction and heading towards Russia. Five years ago, the students went out to express their position and to call on the then authorities to point out that Ukrainians wanted to take off the post - Soviet yoke and wanted to take off the yoke of friendship with Russia, which was not friendly, but were merely a banishment of Ukraine into slavery. After that, the dictator will give the command to severely remove the free spirit of the Ukrainians. And the people will rise. And this will be the beginning of the revolution, the Dignity Revolution. For some, I emphasize, the Dignity Revolutions, not the "State coup," as dictated by your Kremlin dungeons. This will be the beginning of what continues today. We will first be strangled with tanks, shot by the City of the Russian Federation to prevent us from resisting this independence and these ideals that were given to all of you and initiated by these young people who went out to Midan five years ago. And you know, after that, there'll be elections to the Supreme Council after that. There will be elections, there will be a coalition formed, there will be the first government to take responsibility and start reforms, this is the government of Yatsenuk. Then there will be betrayal, then there will be political forces that will decide to follow the path of populism, and some will take a constructive position on criticism of power, and we respect that too. We must respect this, for if there is no criticism, there will be no constructive, then perhaps someone will relax and we cannot relax today. This first government has endured. held the state. The government of Groysman continues these reforms that have been initiated. We see the results of police reform, we see the results, and we remember the violence that came up in this room when we were reforming. Introduced pension reform. We see the results of decentralization. Yeah, of course, it's not all right, we're falling, we're getting up, we're going to move on, and everyone's holding a punch on their flank, everybody's doing what they can where they are and the means we have. And we're holding a blow here in the hall. And our guys, the Armed Forces, they're holding on to the front. And so, as we finish today's performance, I want to thank and welcome our paratroopers, who are also holding the punch, and have been holding the punch since the first few days. And we have people here. Our brothers, who are representatives of this.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-21-m0.u22	Please finish 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-21-m0.u23	And I want to point out that it's because of our command spirit that we're going to hold this blow and we're not going to let a rematch in the 19th. We all have to think about one thing: ratings -- nothing, Ukraine -- above all. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-21-m0.u24	Thank you. And we still have time for one performance. Please welcome to the speech of the People's Deputy Ungurian.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-21-m0.u25	Praise be to Jesus Christ. Dear Ukrainians, dear colleagues, we do mention today the very important events that have begun on. First to the European Square by students and then to our great, great Dignity Revolution. But what do we have today? We have very serious challenges for the country today. On the one hand, we have externally undiscovered armed aggression. On the other hand, on the other hand, we have a huge amount of internal difficulties and problems. Today, my colleague Valérie was talking about the latest data from the Ukrainian State on the catastrophic decline of the Ukrainian nation, the catastrophic decline of the people of Ukraine. This year, this trend has increased considerably. As a result, only 9 months of Ukrainians have dropped by more than 170,000, and these are only natural processes where mortality is much greater than birth. This means that the family crisis, the family crisis, the spiritual, moral, family values crisis, is reaching an climax. Almost every week we see these scary videos on YouTube that show like young girls, young girls, how teenagers bully each other, just kill each other on animals, and film it on phones, put it online. We see the terrible consequences of still Soviet atheistic science that legalized abortion and the destruction of unborn children, actually committing crime. We see that we are being imposed on us today by totally unnatural, totally anti - Ukrainian, absolutely destructive things. It's been a long summer so-called gay parade, so let's have a transgender parade, which on these weekends has just forced a lot of people to come out against it. It is totally insane for us Ukrainians and not only Ukrainians, but especially children in the textbooks to insist that you're not a girl, you're not a boy, you're who you want to be, you can choose yourself and change it for the rest of your life. What's this nonsense?Oh, my God! So I urge all of us to unite around the Ukrainian nation. I call.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-21-m0.u26	Please, 30 seconds, finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-21-m0.u27	I call on both the President and the government and the National Security Council and us, as parliament, to hold special hearings on the sharp reduction of the Ukrainian nation and on this problem, which is added to the exit, the labour migration that washes out hundreds, thousands, millions more people. So let's think about the number. Every day, for natural reasons alone, mortality outweighs the birth rate of minus 577 people.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-21-m0.u28	Thank you, colleagues. The speaking time is over. But we still have statements from two factions for a break that they're willing to replace by a tribune. So, from two factions, "Peter Poshenko Block" and "The People's Front" to "Artushenko Igor." Please, three minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-21-m0.u29	Good afternoon! On behalf of the faction of Peter Dustenka, I sincerely wish to welcome all the Ukrainians with today's festival, with the Day of Dignity and Freedom! Indeed, 5 years ago Ukrainian youths, Ukrainian students put a clear, clear requirement on this authority: to sign an Association Agreement with the EU. And in doing so, they took the first step towards starting the Dignity Revolution and global transformations in the country. It is worth noting that this requirement was met more than a year ago and the EU association became effective. Moreover, despite military aggression, despite the difficult economic situation, the Ukrainians gained a visa-free regime. Today, more than a million Ukrainians have taken advantage of it, and to 120 countries in the world, Ukrainian passports are free. But at the same time, we have, as we had, the imperial entanglement of the Kremlin, which I certainly do not want to let Ukraine into a free, civilized European world. Significantly, five years ago the Ukrainian army was virtually destroyed. In all, only 6.5,000 Ukrainian soldiers could defend the country. Of course, this acquisition came from the previous state men, but over the years, we've all jointly restored the defence, we've restored the Ukrainian army: at the moment, it's 225,000 Ukrainian patriots, Ukrainian fighters with new security, with new technology. Over the years, unprecedented reforms have been carried out, no matter what anyone says or says that nothing is done. Let's mention that legislative changes in anti-corruption policies, created by new anti-corruption bodies, are forming a higher anti-corruption court. According to international experts, this has saved 165 billion dollars at present. An unprecedented reform of decentralization. All the years independently of all the governments, all the Supreme Councils, all the Presidents said they would transfer authority to the places, but only in this power did this happen. At the moment, there are 8 million Ukrainians living in the OTG, and 51 percent of the budget is the local budget. Another indicator is the Doing BusinessUkraine rating: 13th year – 137th place, currently 71th place in the world. Energy independence. The last step at this point is that we know exactly that Ukraine will finally get an independent Ukrainian food church and lose the Moscow spiritual yoke over Ukraine. Amendments to the Constitution initiated by the President concerning the movement enshrined in the Constitution to NATO and the EU. And I'm sure we'll do it.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-21-m0.u30	30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-21-m0.u31	Mikola the Wave writer and publicist said, "Get away from Moscow! Get away from the yoke, colonialism, the Russian Empire, and forward to the free European world!".. And we definitely have to not change this Ukrainian way. Thank you. With a feast of you! Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-21-m0.u32	Heroic glory! So, colleagues, let's move on to the agenda. And the first is the bill amending some Ukrainian legislation on the registration of citizens living in a temporarily occupied territory (number 8400). Anyone who supports the consideration of the reduced procedure, please vote. [[10:45:56]] For-65 The set-up hall is working seriously. We're going in full procedure. And I invite you to the report of the Ukrainian National Deputy Gopco Anna Mikolayevna. Please, Mrs. Hanna.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-21-m0.u33	Good afternoon, dear fellows! Let me first mention the day that is so important to each of us today is the day of the beginning of the Dignity and Freedom Revolution. Five years ago, we all went out to Midan to prevent Ukraine from becoming a Russian colony again, preventing our European future, trampling on our rights and dignity. I think five years ago we just came out protesting for Ukraine to become really independent. We protested to protect our dignity and to show that we are a nation of responsible citizens. We also went out to say that we are going home to Europe, not under Russian influence. And we have also protested that because of our actions, we are willing to say that we are ready for serious changes, for transformation in government, and we are ready to make these serious changes every day. Do not compromise your conscience with the oligarchs and with the various representatives of the corrupt clans. And only future generations will fully appreciate the changes that are taking place as a result of the Dignity Revolution. The revolution gave birth to real Ukrainian independence and made us a conscious nation. By the community of active citizens willing to be responsible for their own destiny, to build and defend their country. And it is important for us to make these changes irreversible so that people will consciously resist the forces of populism and rematch. Because life in a free country is the responsibility of every citizen for the future, the responsibility of every parliamentarian regardless of whether he is in power or whether he is in opposition. Of course, changes in Ukraine would have been much faster and deeper if it had not been for Russian aggression. Moscow’s goal is not just to occupy our territory. It is important for the enemy not to let Ukraine become a driver of successful change, a European country with the rule of law, a developed economy and an increasing standard of living. And since the early days of Maidan, we've been spending a lot of human resources and material resources to target them against the aggressor. Colleagues, we must keep in mind that we have no choice but to defend ourselves in the east and to perform internal transformations. Despite this opposition, which we often see, especially in the session hall, when the various representatives of the oligarchs who successfully disguise themselves and dress the rhetoric of Midan and talk about what they want to change, but do not vote for important laws. Colleagues, today we must also remember the millions of our fellow countrymen who have been in occupations cut off from Ukraine. Crimeans of the fifth year live under the conditions of total control by the occupying authorities and widespread Moscow propaganda. The goal of the invaders is to make irreversible changes in people’s minds, to lose hope of a return to Ukraine. Under these circumstances, you and I, the Ukrainian State, are also obliged to do our utmost to support our fellow citizens who are now in occupation and who are waiting for the Father’s help. That's why Russia, we see, forcefully, like fortifications, recorded all the criminals into Russian citizenship. But this action, like the entire occupation of Crimea, is neither recognized by Ukraine nor by the world community. For us, the criminals were, are, and will be fellow citizens, whom we protect and need to help. To my conviction, our policy on Crimea should be built in three key directions. The first is the strengthening of national and international sanctions against Russia, including very clear actions against the Russian state, individuals, businesses, shipowners, airlines, which are to be held accountable for any actions in support of occupation and violation of our sovereignty. We must do our utmost to free our political prisoners (Olega Sencova, Vladimir Balucha, and many others) and in general to protect human rights and combat mass repression. Secondly, we need to prepare today for the return of Crimea, whichever way this seems impossible today, and not only to the defence and security sense. We have to study the situation perfectly on the peninsula and create transitional organs in the free territory with the involvement of migrant criminals. Of course, we have to cancel the transition organs. Cancel the free economic zone in Crimea. We're going to adopt the Cooperation Act, the amendments to the Civil Code. At a time when our efforts and the situation in Russia and the world will allow us to return Crimea, we must have a plan ready and ready institutions to do so immediately. We also need to make the most of the possibilities for criminals living in occupation to encourage their ties with mainland Ukraine. It's also communication through television, radio, the Internet, remote education, a simplified order of admission of Crimean children to Ukrainian heights, reception of refugees, in situations like the recent environmental disaster in Armenian. Colleagues, Bill 8400, which I am introducing today, we have jointly submitted with our colleagues Mr. Arthur, Mrs. Oksana Jurinec, Mr. Kishkar Pavlov, is one of a number of projects developed jointly with the President of Ukraine's Representation in the Autonomous Republic of Crimea and aimed at simplifying the receipt of administrative services by criminals. Why is this bill so important? Because the proper procedure for such registration requires the previous 30 days to make a personal application to young people. Thus, a couple from the occupied territory are to arrive twice at a controlled territory, the second on the designated day of registration. This makes it necessary for young people to have a double cross between CERs, a double contact with occupying military personnel. Taking into account the negative attitude of the occupying power towards legalization by Ukrainian citizens living in occupied areas of their own civilian state, this significantly complicates such registration, which poses additional risks to young people. Similar rules in current legislation allowing for the registration of a marriage are available only in the case of the bride’s pregnancy, the child’s birth, and the immediate threat to the life of the bride or groom. In other undeclared circumstances, the head of the council may permit the registration of a marriage before the expiry of that term, or may not allow some corrupt risk. The bill was also drafted by the National Deputies, along with a number of dotted drafts of laws, proposals made by the President's Representation in the ARC, which helps criminals daily to obtain services and realize their rights in all areas of the Ukraine's controlled territory. Colleagues, I would like to urge you to support this bill, because it concerns people who live in occupation, they want to marry by registering marriage under Ukrainian laws, in the Ukrainian civil registration authorities. Article 32 of the Ukrainian Family Code and article 14 of the Law on State Registration of Civil Status Acts provide that the registration of a marriage shall take place after the completion of one month from the date of the submission of the application for State registration. As I said before, it creates problems for Ukrainians who want to get married, because these people have to come first, for example, to Hersonian, apply, come back to mainland Ukraine in a month to get married. Therefore, in our bill, we propose to amend article 32 of the Ukrainian Family Code and article 14 of the Act on the State Registration of Civil Status Acts, by supplementing them with the following provisions: “The State Registration of Marriage for Citizens residing in the Interimly Occupied Territory of Ukraine, as determined by the Supreme Council of Ukraine, shall be carried out at their request on the day of filing an application for marriage registration.” To avoid any abuse, it's a situation where both people who register marriage live in occupied territory. In general, it is a long time before marriage can be registered immediately for all Ukrainians, and it is supported by Minust. But criminals cannot wait for us to make changes to the Family Code or other laws. So I ask you to adopt this small but important bill as a basis and as a whole, as the committee recommended, for which he is particularly grateful. In addition, I ask the Parliament's leadership to submit to Parliament as soon as possible, and my fellow MPs to approve other bills aimed at forgiving the provision of criminal services in mainland Ukraine, this is Project 8390 on amendments to the Civil Procedure Code so that the death of a Ukrainian citizen in Crimea can be registered by any Ukrainian court; another is the draft Act 8391 on the dissemination of free legal assistance to citizens living in occupied areas and protecting rights violated by Russian aggression. So I'm asking you today to support this important bill, how important it is for citizens who now live in occupied territories to be able to marry for one day, and in this way the state of Ukraine will support them. I think it's very important. And we will continue to make efforts with the international public to promote the occupation of Crimea; to fight and continue to restore the territorial integrity and sovereignty of Ukraine; to win Ukraine in Donbassa; and to enable Ukraine to carry out its historic mission in the 21st century by proposing an era for Europe, so that those values that we went out with you to protect and pay an extremely high price could be continued by our daily work, since the Dignity Revolution and our duty remain before us to continue to create a strong state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-21-m0.u34	Thank you, Mrs. Anna. Colleagues, I'm asking you to sign up for a question to Mrs. Gopko. Please, National Deputy Galchenko, your question.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-21-m0.u35	Please pass the word to Deputy Dolzhenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-21-m0.u36	Thank you. Dear Chairman! Dear colleagues! The Opposition Block faction will support the draft bill because our main general political position is to make life as simple as possible for internally displaced persons. This is the kind of population that, unfortunately, is now one of the least protected states because of the inaction of a valid coalition and power. The question is: Do you consider the content of this bill to be sufficient for marriage? Because we have a lot of questions about participating in this category of people in political life, they are actually limited, they have no opportunity to participate in political life. But perhaps we need to consider the issue of the cancellation of pension verifications, since this also limits their ability to receive pensions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-21-m0.u37	Thank you. Dear colleagues! As I mentioned in my statement, today we are considering this important bill on simplification, on the possibility for Ukrainian citizens from occupied territories to register marriage for one day. I also noted that there is a set of measures that are important to ensure that the State of Ukraine shows its real support to those citizens who are now forced to be under occupation. These are other bills, like: 8390 – on amendments to the Civil Procedure Code so that the death of a Ukrainian citizen in Crimea can be registered by any Ukrainian court. It's helping students learn, entering different higher education institutions, it's spreading free legal aid to citizens who live in occupied areas -- Bill 8391. I support that position that should be a sessional one. Or south in order for us and the Committee on the Protection of Citizens' Rights to consider what else can be done and to simplify procedures at the legislative level. As I have already pointed out, it is important to repeal the Free Economic Zone Act.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-21-m0.u38	Thank you. Please have a question from the national deputy Sverka.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-21-m0.u39	Please give the floor to a colleague of John Dmitrovich Sporish.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-21-m0.u40	Please, Mr. Sporish, your question.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-21-m0.u41	Ivan Sporish, Peter Dusty Block, Winnitzkin, 15th constituency. I think I would like first of all to thank Hanni MikolayevniGopko for the actual bill. It's a bill that's really good. First of all, we thank her that she still recognizes the country as an aggressor and helps in the territory of the aggressor country to register marriage in our control area, in our territory. So we thank you very much for the bill. But I would like to ask you this question: were you asked to register a marriage in an uncontrollable territory, or was it just that you created this bill, knowing these problems that are in that territory? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-21-m0.u42	Please, your answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-21-m0.u43	Thank you, Your Honor. As I said before, this bill, like others, was discussed with the President's Representation in the Autonomous Republic of Crimea and Sevastopol, in particular, together with them, we worked out not only this bill, but also another whole package to simplify the lives of citizens in occupied territories, because requests and appeals from them, well, exceed the number of possibilities. And I think that's an example of respect for our citizens: the possibility of simplification, the avoidance of corruption risks, and they don't have to cross the CER twice, the danger of occupying power. Colleagues, we all have the experience of getting married or not yet, but we understand how important it is for people to prepare for this process, not to. And they have a choice -- to do it in the state of Ukraine, why don't we just go ahead and make a change to the Family Code? So I think that today, on the Day of the Dignity Revolution, we should also help all those in occupation to protect their right to marry for one day, to simplify this bureaucratic one. and obstacles.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-21-m0.u44	Thank you, Mrs. Anna. Please return to your workplace. And the word for the report is given to the head of the subcommittee on family, youth policy, sports, and tourism, John Sporish. Please, Mr. Sporish.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-21-m0.u45	Ivan Sporish, Peter Dusty Block, 15th District, Winnitzkin. I haven't asked HanniGopco yet, and again, I want to thank and encourage all the national MPs to come to the hall, because this is really such a necessary bill, which was written by Mrs. Hanna Gopko, as well as really involved in it by the national MPs, is Paul Kishkar, and Oxana Jurinec, and Igor Artushenko. And we are very grateful that we are considering this bill today. First of all, once again, I want to remind you of what Mrs. HannaGopco has told us quite nicely, that this allows today to significantly simplify the registration of marriages for citizens who live in the temporarily occupied territory of Ukraine. The committee discussed the draft Law amending certain Ukrainian legislation on the registration of citizens living in a temporarily occupied territory (registration number 8400), submitted by the national deputies of Hanno Gopko and a group of national deputies. And really the purpose of the bill is to create favourable conditions for Ukrainian citizens living in a temporarily occupied territory to marry in a controlled Ukraine territory. To this end, it is proposed to amend article 32 of the Ukrainian Family Code and part four of article 14 of the Ukrainian Act on State Registration of Civil Status Acts, according to which citizens living in a temporarily occupied territory of Ukraine have the right to register marriage in a controlled territory on the day of filing a marriage registration application. The chief scientific and expert administration of the Supreme Council's apparatus agreed with the need to grant citizens who live in the temporarily occupied territory of Ukraine the right to a short term for the registration of marriage made some remarks to the bill. Well, first of all, GNEU believes that the relevant provisions should be incorporated into Ukraine's special law on the protection of citizens' rights and freedoms and the legal regime in Ukraine's temporarily occupied territory. During the discussion of the bill, members of the committee supported the bill because its approval would greatly facilitate the registration of marriage for citizens living in the temporarily occupied territory of Ukraine. The committee approved the decision to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine the results of the first reading of the draft bill as a basis and as a whole. Please support our citizens who live in the territory occupied by the aggressor country and approve this bill. Of course, I would like all the national MPs to come into the hall right now and support this bill. He's not political, he's a good bill that really makes it possible to register marriage and think for those people who are now married, young. The young couples who live in that area today are temporarily occupied, it is ours, we should think for the young people. So I ask very much that we all come together and vote in favour of this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-21-m0.u46	Thank you, Your Honor. I ask you to enroll in a question to the honourable Mr. John Sporish, who is co-rapporteur with the bill to amend the Ukrainian legislation on the registration of marriage for citizens in the occupied territory. Please, Mrs. Gopko, your question. You're handing over the wedding?
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-21-m0.u47	I'll give it to you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-21-m0.u48	Yes, please, Natalie Wesselov. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-21-m0.u49	Thank you very much for this necessary initiative, thank you for supporting the committee. Because there is actually a very big problem both with the registration of marriage and with the registration of the birth and death of those citizens who live in occupied areas. These questions too need to be addressed. I am the co-author of several drafts, and I hope that they will appear in the agenda, so of course I support this bill, and I hope that the Supreme Council will support other legislative initiatives that relate to the registration of civil status acts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-21-m0.u50	Please. It was not a question, but a trailer, but Mr. John also wants to answer. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-21-m0.u51	Indeed, as you said, it is fair that the bill is very necessary. But at the same time, I just want to report that all of our members of the committee voted unanimously not just on the basis but on the whole. Since it is not necessary to drag, not to delay time, it is necessary to help those young couples in the temporarily occupied territory. So I think that's fair enough and thank you. And for the speech and for the question, because we have to do everything we can to make the temporarily occupied territory feel our respect for them today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-21-m0.u52	Please, Mr. Krivenko, your question. Please, Mr. Victor.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-21-m0.u53	Thank you. Victor Krivenko, National Movement of Ukraine. My colleague at the Pavlov Kishkar Movement is a co-author, and we will certainly support this bill. Mr. John, I respect you, and yesterday there was a disgraceful case where it was because of the BP faction's position that the Law on the Rename of My Home Region of Dnipropetrovski na Sichéslavsk was not passed. Especially on the eve of the year’s anniversary of the Holocaust is a disgraceful fact. And I have a question for you. I have information that, as if for tomorrow, a provocation with the name "Dniprovsk region" is being prepared. Both requests and questions. The question is: Is it true? And the request inside the faction to do the work and to rejuvenate it so that in no way would they do it, because it would be an even more disgrace. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-21-m0.u54	Thank you for asking. I think it doesn't have any relation to the bill, but I'll say that I supported your bill yesterday and I haven't heard it, I think there may be different thoughts in our faction, but I think we're going to unite around your question, around your really registering and properly shaping our Dnipropetrov region, and the faction will make a fair decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-21-m0.u55	Please, a question from the German National Deputy, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-21-m0.u56	"The Opposition Platform for Life" at the Opposition Block, Germany. I'd like to ask you, dear colleague. You can't see because this bill doesn't comply with the definition of Parliament's occupation of territory, particularly Donetsk and parts of the Luhansk region. And how does that relate to the notion of "uncontrollable Ukraine", "occupied" and "act of the law of Ukraine"? Maybe we should take a different approach, do you think? I heard that the committee was discussing issues, including social protection and pensioners, and all that. Do you think that if such a law exists, it is essential? I am grateful that he has been prepared and sent to the meeting. But I'm interested in that.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-21-m0.u57	Finish up. Oh, you've already asked. Please respond, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-21-m0.u58	Thank you for your question. And I think so. Well, and I thank you for the fact that the Opposition Block understands, and Life understands that this bill is still necessary. And I think we're all going to vote for him together. But I think we should really think for everyone. This whole territory is occupied, it's temporarily occupied. We have to think for all the young couples, for all the young people who are both there and here. Not only should we think for those in controlled territory today. Because both Crimea and Donetsk and Lugansk are all ours and they are all alone. The only one is our Ukraine. And we have to think for everyone. So I very much ask that we unite, all of us come into the hall and vote in favour of the bill. I see he has support in all factions.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-21-m0.u59	Thank you, Sir Ivan. You can go back to your workplace. Colleagues, I'm asking you to sign up for a bill from MP factions and groups. Please, Mrs. Romanova, give me your word. Taras Shepherd. Please turn on the microphone for Taras Shepherd.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-21-m0.u60	Taras Shepherd, Self Help Union, Ternopil. Dear colleagues, it is obvious that we all need to care for our citizens who identify themselves with Ukraine, but unfortunately, they are now under the occupation of Russia in Donetskina, Luhanskina, and Crimea. Obviously, we need to create all the conditions for them to gain education, obtain various social services, work, live. But unfortunately, we can't do that today in the territories occupied by Donetsk and Lugansk regions and Crimea, we can do that today in Kiev, Ternopolis, Lviv, Kharkiv. And that's why we need to create conditions so that people can come here, see the support of the state, and not go back, and not compromise with the occupation power that is there today. If we start to create some preferences for our citizens in this area today, and especially if we have a precedent today in the form of this bill, when we write these preferences into the body of the law, not in certain "Transitional positions" that will work until this area is released, but when we write it in the body, and actually this rule should work all the time. So this is how we say that this occupation is actually legalized today and we recognize that we're not liberating this territory, and it's going to continue to exist under occupied status. But that's not even what we're talking about today. What we're talking about today is that for people who want to register a marriage, there's a big danger of a cross-section and they're exposed to it. creating certain dangers to your life and health. But let's look at statistics from the border that today can call the number plus-minus 40,000 intersections of the line of division, the lines of the front that take place on average in the day. So these citizens, they come to a territory controlled by the Ukrainian authorities to get pensions, they come to buy products in stores. Today they are taken by buses to businesses operating in our controlled territory and thus feel no danger. And register a marriage. Which is probably happening, maybe once a year, maybe twice. Sorry, not in a year, in life. Perhaps two times in life. We need to create a separate preference for such citizens. So I think it's very necessary to be neat and not play games so that we don't get to the Transnistria scenario, where, in fact, the Transnistria wasn't dependent on the country from which it was removed, and the country began to become dependent on the occupied part. So there is a request not to support the bill, but to direct all of our efforts to liberate the territory and all of the Ukrainians were in the same conditions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-21-m0.u61	Thank you. And please, Mr. Macola, present the position of the Peter Dusty Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-21-m0.u62	Good afternoon! 190 constituency, Hmelnicka District, Roman Macola. You know, I'm convinced that we should legislatively simplify the length of the provision of most administrative and registration services to all the inhabitants of our country. With regard to a specific project, I propose to support acceptance as a basis for future development. Yes, this bill does not provide for registration, there, for marriage on the day of those families where only the bridegroom or the bride resides in a temporarily occupied territory. But this is the first step and we really have to show that we are one country. And I urge everyone to support him. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-21-m0.u63	Thank you, Sir Roman. And please, the people's deputy of Matvienkov. Please. He's taking the floor to his colleague, Mr. Dolzhenkov, who represents the position of the Opposition Block. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-21-m0.u64	Thank you. Dear presiding officers! Dear colleagues! Dear citizens of Ukraine! This bill is very simple, despite the fact that the Supreme Council of Ukraine has failed, the Supreme Council coalition, to vote in favour of the short procedure, but rather important for those citizens who should feel the care and support of the state authorities, for those citizens who are in, I emphasize, the uncontrolled territory in the Donetsk and Lugansk regions. There was much talk about the need for preference. It's not a preference. They are the same citizens of Ukraine, and they are subject to the Constitution of Ukraine, which provides for a whole set of guarantees to be given. You don't have to talk about it here, it's kind of a preference that we give these citizens. But it's a tammiser that you're actually giving up and pinging on it. I specifically asked the report about whether you considered the complex laid down in this bill to be satisfactory and sufficient. And that is, of course, that little thing that we can offer. We, the Opposition Block faction, insist that we consider our drafts aimed at abolishing pension verification. This humiliating procedure, which was introduced by a valid government in 2016, has left almost 500,000 pensioners, Ukrainian citizens, without a pension. We insist, the Opposition Block faction, that there be real funding in the government budget for lending, repayment of interest on loans for persons with internally displaced status. Because I'm repeating and I'm stressing that this is one of the few types of population that is socially vulnerable right now. Here you're talking about giving preference. First of all, I hope very much that you will find voices in this room at all. And I insist that if you remove these humiliating phrases "occupied territory," we will also support this bill. We are now on the verge that this bill will be put into agreement with your political ambitions. And you're talking about liberation. Get in the gun and get out of here. He's sitting here demagogating the need to adopt this bill. We're talking about the fact that it's not about political slogans, it's about the real support of the population that feels like a civil kind. And we have to clean that up at any cost. We're going to vote on this bill, but if you don't clear the occupied territories, there will be no support for us. And I hope that now we will see if we can find support for this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-21-m0.u65	Please give the next speech from the representative of the "Will of the People" Group, Sergey Shahova. Colleagues, from a group of factions, are there any who didn't sign up, from a group of factions, just for discussion, please give a signal.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-21-m0.u66	Sergeyshakhov, the political power of Our End. Dear colleagues, this is a very important bill for those people who are on the verge of a breakthrough today. Today, I too am a migrant. Why are we considered secondary? Why is it that we are reminded only when there are problems at all at the turn of the continental Lugansk region and people are dying under the sun today, in the cold, dying right at those crossings? When we met with Kurt Volker by a group of deputies, Kurt Walker said we should transfer pensions to that area in envelopes wrapped in yellow and blue tape. Why are we not talking today about the fact that the movers cannot vote? Dear colleagues, "Our Land" requires that we immediately put to the vote bills that have long been registered and passed many committees. So that the movers can vote and vote for the person who can bring order to our country. So that they can take care of their children’s future. It is a good thing that marriages were taken care of today. A new marriage — novelism, a new family, a new life. Our job is to take care of the pensioners who have built our state and are not receiving pensions today for almost two years. Plums working in mines, in metallurgical enterprises, in chemical enterprises, in today’s world, also receive no subsidies, no pensions, no benefits. Today, immigrants are treated in all state institutions, and I want to say again how secondary they are. You can't get a job today because it's from Lugansk or Donetsk. Today, people do not have a place to take their children to kindergarten and school. Where is today’s residence for displaced persons? Where are the transfer credits? Once again, I urge the entire room, every member of each faction and also independent deputies to unite and submit all draft regulations and bills relating to assistance to displaced persons, pensioners, people who need our help today, to put them to the vote. Sergeyshakhov, the political power of Our End.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-21-m0.u67	Dear colleagues, I am now addressing MP groups and factions, have they all spoken to the bill? Thank you. I'm asking you to sign up for the Ukrainian National Deputies. We're going to have nine minutes for these performances. Please, People's Deputy Wesselova, give me your word.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-21-m0.u68	Please pass the word OxaniJurinec.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-21-m0.u69	OxanaJurinac, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-21-m0.u70	OxanaJurinec, 117 constituency, city of Lviv. I thank the drafter of the bill for allowing this bill to become a real law to help those people who today identify themselves as Ukrainians who want and want to marry, to make marriages, to make a family, because it is from the success of the family to the success of the country that we will come. And when we want to talk about the nation today, about the state, especially on such a special day today for all of Ukraine, we have to understand that the processes that started five years ago are not reversed. For us today, what is very important is that we today can report to the NATO Parliamentary Assembly and talk about occupied areas, where unfortunately what would not have been done is done that would not have been accepted by a democratic society. We've been at this session for three days, and Mrs. Irina Heratschenko, and Mrs. IrinaFrez on our committees, we've been talking about what's going on in the East today, and we've been talking about these occupied territories that are happening to them. Today, we have to give people who want to create a family that wants to give birth to Ukrainians in the Ukraine that speaks and advocates its culture, its language, its traditions, and the opportunity to form a family. It is vital that we realize how much we will then have to defend on an international level all the legal rights of those people so that they will have an absolute opportunity in this one day, without crossing the border twice, to create their family. We are now going back a little differently to the Ukrainians and to the state, because we are showing that everyone is important to us. These are the postulates, the basic ideas behind democracy -- there's a man at the center. This is all the more so today, for it is a family, a family that is designed to do good in the state and to give birth to children. It's important to us. It is the young Ukrainians who will be later, and I think that a number of the bills that we are adopting in this Parliament will produce the result once a generation grows up in this new format, on these new possibilities. Today we have to talk about these painful pages every time, now history, for four years, when new heroes are being created. East and west today are understandable, because they are different people from different regions who stand for one right and they are our Ukrainians, our heroes. We today have a lot to say about these moments, which we have to accept in Parliament in a very historic and very timely manner. We don't know exactly how this is going to happen in the future, but it's very important that we adopt laws in parallel and do these things that our nation needs to do. To realize that there are no different Ukrainians, and they are all alone in our country, even representing different regions and having the characteristics of a regional one, belonging, having more rivers or mountains there, they are still Ukrainians. We have to talk about that today this bill is special.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-21-m0.u71	15 seconds to complete.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-21-m0.u72	Please support this bill, and it does not disunite but unites all Ukrainians.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-21-m0.u73	Thank you to the honourable co-author of the bill, Mrs. Jurassic. And welcome to the floor of your distinguished colleague, Mr. Savk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-21-m0.u74	Thank you, Madam Chairman! First of all, I want to thank the author of this bill. This is a law that allows us all to be united in one way or another. Therefore, despite the fact that the fifth year of war with the Moscow horde is currently under way, we must remember our Ukrainian citizens. And there should be no boundaries that cannot unite each other in the future of our lives. Family is our future. Family is an organism, it's an environment where the future of our nation is being built, so we have to take care of it and look forward to it. Therefore, the authors of this law are deeply grateful again. That's why I'd like to invite all of you, my noble fellows, to the hall and vote in favour of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-21-m0.u75	Thank you, Mr. Sauka. And please welcome Ostap Ednak, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-21-m0.u76	Dear fellow national MPs! It's very good that we're looking at this bill today, because what we're looking at in the occupied territories, and what we're dealing with with our citizens, who are actually in the hostages of Russia in the occupied territories, is that Ukraine should show that we care about our population, about our citizens. And in no way do we create in public rhetoric or in the position or political position of certain political powers, God forbid, the rhetoric of disunity, division, and so forth. Because it's the worst thing a politician can do, and it's irresponsible politics. So I call on all the MPs to support this bill. I believe that such bills should be considered in a high order in Parliament, even though Parliament and working groups are preparing complex legislative changes, even though they will help today, and tomorrow we should be able to improve the registration situation, including marriages. I think that Ukraine, of course, we want European standards, including the provision of administrative services. But Ukraine can do this better in Europe. We have to show that for our Ukrainian citizens we work best in the world and above any standards that work in the developed countries of the world. So even for the second reading, I would suggest that proposals for the registration of marriages in advance could be submitted and registered online, and just come to RACS to the young couple and already so that everything would be ready, and not stand in queues, and so on. To show that Ukraine is moving by electronic administration and better providing administrative services. Therefore, honourable fellow national MPs, all factions of Parliament, especially democratic forces. I urge you to support this bill. This will be a very clear signal to our citizens in all parts of Ukraine that Ukraine is indeed moving in the right direction, that Ukraine respects the dignity of a person, especially on Dignity Day, on Freedom Day. So I ask everyone to support this legislative initiative. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-21-m0.u77	Thank you. The word is given to Mr. Chubarov's honorary colleague. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-21-m0.u78	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues, I would like to point out this: every gesture, every gesture, a good gesture from here, from the mainland of Ukraine, is given to people who live in the temporarily occupied Crimea, and they see it as a very important gesture. And it is clear that such gestures find deep feelings in these people. I don't want to talk about the substance of the bill, there's been a lot of talk here. We have to vote in favour of these changes, and thus reaffirm to the people living in the temporarily occupied Crimea that they are citizens of Ukraine, Ukraine is looking after its citizens, and the time that is. For which the occupation of Crimea is approaching, it is not as long as you would like in the Kremlin. So I ask all the factions, all the MPs, to support this bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-21-m0.u79	Thank you. And I invite you to the words of First Deputy Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, National Deputy Irina Heratchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-21-m0.u80	Thank you, dear colleague. Me. And I welcome the fact that the closer to the presidential and parliamentary elections, the more serious the debate between the political teams is about the return of territories. What are we fighting for? For the return of territories or for the return of people, for the minds of men? Obviously, we have to fight for both territory and for the people who remain there. And bet primarily on young people. And it's very true that the House of Commons today has challenged the possibility of studying in Ukrainian universities for Aboriginals from occupied territories, asked for the opportunity to get a birth certificate, and so today we are discussing the possibility of simplifying getting a marriage certificate. At that time, I strongly reject any speculation in this room as to the fact that Ukraine seems to be in breach of its pension obligations to those pensioners who remain in occupied territories. The Parliament adopted absolutely fair laws today's call on the status of temporarily occupied territories, where we laid down for the first year, despite those emotions, debates and checkers that flew here, including international practice and terminology, the effective control that Russia is currently exercising over these areas corresponds to the international terminology and according to the Geneva Conventions and the Third Protocol, the occupying country itself is responsible for the humanitarian, social and, above all, security situation created in the occupied territories. And you know, your honorary colleagues, including from the block that he was speaking here, you, when you're in your territory, go to the CER, meet with the people from the occupied territories who come here for pensions, so Ukraine is counting them. Moreover, they all confess, many who receive the same two thousand-year payments from Russia, which has taken over these territories, and, by the way, according to Ukrainian legislation, we have a double payment of pensions prohibited. It is very important that the State of Ukraine fulfils its obligations to pensioners, counts pensions, but we also have to be honest and tell the truth that while the territories are occupied, there is no Pension Fund, there are no Ukrainian state banks, and it is impossible to get a letter to an Ukrainian or an incarceration vehicle, to pay pensions. It's Putin's responsibility that our Ukrainian pensioners don't get a pension there. We hope that Russia will pay for this, including in international courts and in a human rights court. She said she violated Ukrainian rights. But the right thing for all colleagues is that the Ukrainian Ministry of Social Policy has to work out a more humane procedure for the verification of Ukrainian pensioners who come from occupied areas to receive pensions, because the humiliations that often need to be passed by Ukrainian pensioners to prove that they are, they are unacceptable.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-21-m0.u81	30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-21-m0.u82	And here we have to take a common position, which, in fact, all Ukrainians who have earned a pension have the full right to get one. Hence, they are certified here and are required to receive a pension. But the fact that there are now in occupied areas that they don't even give us pension records and the incomprehensible mortality of the population can't be when it's not clear what they're trying to put money out of the Ukrainian budget. And the last. I want to.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-21-m0.u83	So, colleagues, the discussion is over. We can move on to making a decision. Mrs. Irina says they've all spoken. So, colleagues, now the closing word of HanniGopco, and in two minutes we're going to vote. I'm asking all the national deputies to come into the hall. If you would like the heads of factions to inform the people's deputies that in two minutes we are moving on to the decision-making process. I'm sure the question will unite the entire room, and we can support it. So the closing word. AnnaGopko. And I'd like everyone to come into the hall. Please, Mrs. Hanna.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-21-m0.u84	Good afternoon, dear colleagues. Today, on the day of the beginning of the Dignity Revolution, it is continuing to fight for the restoration of territorial integrity and sovereignty, the Dignity Revolution is continuing in the fact that we are with you to exercise dignity and responsibility for those people in the temporarily occupied territories of Crimea, Donbas. And so, colleagues, today, when we give a gift to those citizens of Ukraine who will come and in one day rather than the month, it will not be necessary to cross the IEDC twice, to face the danger of occupying power when they are able to marry, to create their own family, and thus to feel the support of the State of Ukraine. I agree that there is much more to be done, and we have spoken before. In my speech, I said that it would take a separate, perhaps a day with the Human Rights Committee to pass all the bills and consider them in order for the State of Ukraine to demonstrate its support for real legislative initiatives. I also mentioned the importance of repealing the Free Economic Zone Act, and I call upon all present now, and I call upon the Opposition Block in particular, which at first said it would support and now asks for amendments to the bill, I suggest you now vote and support this bill in the first reading, and then between the first and second readings to make your proposals. Because, colleagues, not evil, on the one hand, you say we support, and then before the vote, you talk about some proposal for change. So I want everyone today, independent of the authorities, the opposition, the various opposition, to help those Ukrainian citizens who want to marry in Ukraine, to simplify the conditions of registration, as well as to avoid corruption risks, when very often civil registration registers require additional documents or something. So I call on you now to support you in the first reading, and then we will be discussing it in the profile committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-21-m0.u85	Thank you. So I would like to stress the proposal to support only on the basis. Those who have risks, who have some warnings, will be able to bring them between the first and the second readings. So I'm asking everyone to take up jobs, and we're moving on to making decisions. Colleagues, look at the factions' heads, on the towers. Not everyone is still in the workplace, please take a look and invite them to the hall. Take up jobs. So let's move on to the decision-making process and ask everyone to vote responsibly. And I am voting on a bill amending some Ukrainian legislation on the registration of citizens living in a temporarily occupied territory (No 8400) on the basis of a committee proposal. Colleagues, please vote for everyone and I ask you to vote for the basis. Boys from the beds, we vote. If you'll excuse me, I'd like to vote. Vote. [[11:39:42]] For a hundred and I'll be back. I see, colleagues, not all voted. If there's any warning, why don't you give them a call? Maybe we can get them straight into the first reading? I'm asking you, colleagues, to come into the hall now. I'll be back in a minute. Let me show you through the factions. Please come into the hall. "Block of Peter Poshenko" – 83, "National Front" – 53, "Resistance Block" – 5, "self-help" – 8, "Radical Party" – 2, "Fathership" – 9, "will of the people" – 4, "Resurrection" – 4, "non-fractional" – 24. Colleagues, Lawmakers, Hanna, ask what warnings are there? Maybe we can bring something in. Please ask. So, colleagues, don't leave the hall. Please, Valérie. Yeah, so I'll put it back. Colleagues, I am voting on the proposal to return to the draft Act amending some Ukrainian legislation on the registration of citizens living in a temporarily occupied territory (8,400). Let's, colleagues, support our people who are hostages in the occupied territory, let's vote for the return. Please vote. Please support, vote, vote. [[11:41:26]] For 185 Even less. There's no unity in the room. Colleagues, next. It's a committee to work on. Let's support the committee for work, colleagues, so we don't lose the bill. This is going to be a bad signal. That is why it will be a united decision. Colleagues, I'm asking everyone who has a warning, who has a objection, to vote together and in a group so that we can send the draft Law 8400 to the committee to prepare for the re-reading. So I'm voting on the next proposal that the draft Law 8400 be sent to the committee to prepare for the re-reading of the first reading. Please vote, please support me, colleagues. Let us give a good sign and unite around this proposal. Vote. Please be supportive. Vote. Please be supportive. [[11:42:30.]] For 197 And the final offer, colleagues, is to correct, reverse the subject's right of legislative initiative to work. And I am voting on the final proposal provided by the Rules for the draft Law 8400 to return the subject to the right of legislative initiative for further work. Colleagues, please vote. This is a compromise position, let's support it. Please vote. Please be supportive. Vote. [[11:43:11]] For 190 190. There is no common position. Therefore, Law 8,400 is rejected. He didn't get the votes, he didn't get the votes. Colleagues, I'm going to propose. Attention! Don't leave the hall! I propose that we conduct a rating vote on ratification issues so we can see if we have enough votes in the room to do that. And I am voting on the draft Act ratifying the Protocol between the Government of Ukraine and the Government of the Republic of Turkey amending the Agreement between the Government of Ukraine and the Government of the Republic of Turkey on the avoidance of double taxation and the prevention of tax evasion on income and property taxes (0199). Colleagues, I stress, are the ratings. Please vote, please support ratification. Vote! It's a rating vote. Please be supportive. [[11:44:20]] For-160. We see that there is a risk of ratification. I will not jeopardize our international agreements. And that's why we're taking this block off today. My colleagues, I'd like to inform you that there's now a table in the hall for the draft Criminal Offences Act. But now we have another parliamentary duty, colleagues, to review the decisions of the Supreme Council of Ukraine of November 08, 2018 on the adoption of the second reading and the whole draft of the Ukrainian Act on Amendments to the Tax Code on Excise Taxation of Light Vehicles. I want to remind you that after our decision was made, there were two draft denial orders. Yesterday's regulatory committee concluded on them and accordingly I can put them to a vote at any time. And I think the moment has come. And I would now like to announce the transition to the consideration of two draft regulations. One author is Derivyanko and Caplin. And the second author is Derivyanko and Kaplin. And we will put each and every one of them to a vote when we arrive. And now I'm announcing the transition to Project 8487-P and 8487-P1. This is the first decision, we're going to be able to look at it by 12:30, we're going to consider the second decree, and then we're going to go to the draft Criminal Offences Act. That's the logic of what we do, and I'm warning you and the reporters, so that you can get a sense of where we're going and see how we're looking at these projects. And I now invite you to the report of the Ukrainian National Deputy Dreviánka Yuri Bogdanović, and I remind you that consideration of these draft decrees takes place under a reduced procedure under the Rules, by law. Please, Mr. Yuri, I invite you to the report.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-21-m0.u86	Dear Mr. Head! Dear people's deputies, dear Ukrainians! Yuri Derevyanko, "The Movement of New Forces". During the last session of the Supreme Council, we passed Bill 8487 and Law 8488. These are two laws that have been passed regarding the clearing of cars. My fellow Members, I would like to have your attention for a moment, because this is a very important question, not just about people who use cars on European numbers, but about all the car drivers who should get, as a result of the adoption of these laws, acceptable normal taxes in order to clear up cars. Instead, things turned out the other way around. We passed bills that on the one hand are thieving and on the other hand are punitive. Bill 8488 foresees that the new car that we're going to be sweeping, all Ukrainian citizens, the tax burden on sweeping this car will be between 35 percent and 40 percent in total. It's both VAT, and customs, and excise, and military assembly, and the pension fund are all together. Instead, cars that are 5, 7, 10, 12 years old and over have a tax burden of 70, 100, 150, and 200, and 300 percent. Dear colleagues, when we talked to you about having to set limits on not being old cars, I suggest that we not just consider what the buttoning of this bill has approved. So now it's important to cancel so that we can go back to the second reading and then, in the second reading, we can clear the limit for the 15-year-old ratio, and after 15 years, we can get it in so that there are no old cars on the road. This will mean that all Ukrainians will be in equal conditions with regard to the burden on the purchase of cars, the tax burden, and will not matter if the car costs $100,000, or 50, or 2, or 3, or 5. And this load can be acceptable to 40 percent so that most Ukrainians can take advantage of this law and sweep the car. So I ask you to support this decision, to revoke this vote, to return to the second reading, and to adopt a bill that the Ukrainians really need. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-21-m0.u87	Thank you. There's no Sergei Caplin in the hall, is there? Therefore, I invite you to the report of the First Vice-President of the Committee on Rules and Organization of Work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Phinehas Pavel Vasilovich. Mr. Paul, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-21-m0.u88	Dear Head, dear fellow national MPs! The Committee considered the application of the People's Derevyanca People's Deputy to the Head of the Supreme Council for the elimination of violations of the requirements of the Code of Amendments to the Ukrainian Tax Code (Registration 8487) and the draft Order on the Cancellation of the Decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine of 8 November 2018 on the Adoption of the Second Reading and the whole of the draft Act on the Amendment of the Tax Code of Ukraine on Taxation of Light Vehicles (Registration 8487). Registration number of this Order 8487-P. According to part eight of article 48 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules, we have reached a conclusion that one argument to overturn the decision to adopt the whole draft law, according to the author of the draft, is the unpersonal vote of the Ukrainian National Deputies. At the same time, the Committee has repeatedly pointed out that the issue of establishing such a non-personal vote by a national MP should be violated and exhausted directly during the consideration of drafts in the Supreme Council Hall. The procedure for this consideration is provided for in article 47 of the Rules, not after the completion of the consideration of the matter, and more so after the adjournment of the relevant plenary session. The procedure for revoking the Supreme Council’s decision is defined in article 48 of the Supreme Council’s Rules of Procedure. And it provides for the appointment of a national deputy to the chairman of the plenary meeting with a corresponding application and a written statement to the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine with the simultaneous introduction of a draft relevant decision. The Derevyanco National MP made a written statement to the Head of the Supreme Council, registered Decree No. 8487-P, and we propose that the Supreme Council decide whether to adopt or reject the draft decree by voting. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-21-m0.u89	Thank you very much, colleagues. Please record: two in, two in. Please. I invite you to speak with Ivan Ivanovich. Please, Mr. Ivan. From the rostrum, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-21-m0.u90	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Gentlemen of Ukraine, honourable deputies! Today, the entire Ukrainian people celebrate the most important day – the Day of Dignity and Freedom, and today the most powerful members of the army celebrate their professional festival – the Day of the Rain Storm Army. Regardless of this, there are these questions today that should not shake our state inside in order for us to try to do the impossible in order for each of us to understand one thing that should be for the people, everything should be for those who are actually fulfilling their duties and referring to their state, to us, to the citizens of Ukraine. Therefore, we know very well that since 2014, Ukrainian citizens have done their utmost to provide the Armed Forces of Ukraine with everything they need. But for the time being, we need to know that the law is the same for all and no one has the right to violate it. If the law is passed, it means the law, someone likes it, someone doesn't, it's the law of the people of Ukraine. In time, we should, if necessary, make adjustments, but it should be over time, but no one should take the strength and force what goes wrong in behalf of our country. Therefore, we, the noble national deputies of Ukraine, must understand one thing and adopt these laws that are necessary for the people of Ukraine. And to take care of the people of Ukraine, and to take care of our country.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-21-m0.u91	Please, 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-21-m0.u92	So I urge everyone to adopt these laws by the name of the heart, but I remind them that the law is one for all. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-21-m0.u93	From Peter Prashenko's Block to the word "Jugan Nina Petrovna," please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-21-m0.u94	Dear colleagues! As for the decisions registered, first of all, I want to say that the reasons for the registration are quite different, just as the author of the decree announced from the rostrum. That's the first one. Using such a tool, our esteemed colleagues only delay the legalization of cars. People who fully agree with accepted standards and who for 550 euros paid to the Pension Fund will be happy to do all the sweeping procedures. And all these days I worked with people on the street, and all the appeals to the committee explained, explained. We are now working on a special clearing order for those who really have difficulties with the documents that are in their hands. We also work with our neighbouring states to simplify procedures for obtaining documents from such citizens and to avoid paying fines in those countries whose laws have already been violated. So in fact, it seems to me that even the funds that we will be able to save through joint work will be directed directly into the state budget of Ukraine and even more loyally to the Ukrainian Pension Fund. So I urge everyone to make every effort right now and to assist the people in preparing the documents for sweeping. And please, definitely do not support this decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-21-m0.u95	Thank you. Are there still factions, groups that would like to speak? Please, Shahov.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-21-m0.u96	Sergeyshakhov, the political power of Our End. Dear colleagues, I certainly agree with what the law must do. But that law, which cuts three skins out of people who wanted to pay and want to pay 150 billion dollars to the state, came to the Supreme Council and said that we were ready, just give it a chance. And the national MPs in this room have supported this law, but they have been deceived because they haven't been amended by the Wooden Bill – all the way through the ages. Can you please tell me how many Post-Radians raiders will be on our roads? Is it normal for Kamaz to throw completely black garbage out of his pipes and pollute the environment? Wouldn't it be better to drive a Ford or a Renault or a BMW on our drugs? He'll be driving fast on our sick people's normal cars, and they can't even get to the hospital on those cars today. Please tell your colleagues, I call upon each of you, "Our Land" calls upon each of you to support the 8487-P draft and to support today 2 million 700,000 people who are already travelling to our country who want to pay taxes to our country and fill the budget. And the main thing is to make sure that the government doesn't rob this money and allow it to develop normally in our country with a Ukrainian motorcade. Thank you, Sergiyshakhov. The political power of Our End.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-21-m0.u97	It's from the Fatherland faction, Alexander Kugel. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-21-m0.u98	Dear colleagues! There's no surprise that this is a question that we're considering right now, because our Supreme Council is going to go into history as one that takes a decision without implementing the Basic Principles Act of State Regulatory Policy. What is it? I remind you every time. This is when the state committed itself, and this is done in every country of the world when there is a parity between the state, the business, and the consumer. You and I took the first step when we threw a large number of Ukrainians into the abyss by enacting the Law on Amendments to the Legislative Acts on Credit Restoration, where in violation of the Constitution they made it possible to reverse the laws of action. And now thank you to the MPs who support the amendment of this law. The president did not listen to the MPs who wrote him not to sign the law. But you've just done the same thing. I support that we voted in the first reading because we made the amendments, and personally me and Derevyanka, we worked with the representatives of the Euro Auto Force, and we agreed with them on what action to do. Why can't you take another step than money? Because it's only easier to raise money. Or you might say, go through a mandatory check-in, see if you can't go out with the bare tires that you're accusing yourself of having to sign up for two months and take the automobile you're talking about. Every time you say they're responsible for all the accidents, not the Jeeps who don't care about all the rules, because they're going back to the Supreme Council number. And that's why we're going to support this decision, and we have to go back. Don't ignore people.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-21-m0.u99	30 seconds, please. So, colleagues, I want to say, I'm going to continue the meetings until the question is concluded, and all the speeches have already been announced, the discussion is concluded, and we're moving on to a decision. So I'm voting on the draft Decree repealing the decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine of 8 November 2018 on the adoption of a second reading and the whole draft Act amending the Tax Code of Ukraine on the taxation of excise duties on light means of transport. First of all, 8487-P, who supports, please vote. [[12:02:02]] For-57 The decision is not taken. And now draft Decree 8487-P1 on the annulment of the decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, who supports it, please vote. [[12:02:31]] For-56 The decision is not taken. So, colleagues, the next is regulation 8488. Both will be considered after a break. Now, according to the Rules, I'm going to call it a 30-minute break. And I ask everyone at 12:35 to arrive in the hall to continue our work. And I want to remind you that after those orders, we're going to be looking at draft Law 7279-d on criminal offences. And so I'm asking both the committee and the authors to prepare themselves for the review after the break.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-21-m0.u100	So, colleagues, break time is over. I see there are two co-reporters in the room for the next decision. The committee is, and all the rapporteurs are, and so we can move on to the next draft of the Order repealing the decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine of 8 November 2018 on the adoption of the second reading and the whole of the draft Law on Amendments to the Customs Code of Ukraine and certain legislative acts of Ukraine on the introduction of means of transport into the customs territory of Ukraine (8488-P and 8488-P1). Let us go to his consideration, and I invite you to the report of the Ukrainian national deputy, Drevjanka Yuri Bogdanović. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-21-m0.u101	Honorable Chairman and Honorable Fellows! Dear Ukrainians! Yuri Derevyanko, "The Movement of New Forces". This is the second bill 8488, which has also been passed on by buttoning, and that's why it's a violation of the Rules, so that's why we're calling it off. And I want to tell you, dear colleagues, when we were looking at the first decision, the first bill, the committee head said it was acceptable for all taxes, normal, and everyone's willing to pay them. This is the second bill that will be punished. It is he who will punish those who cannot pay these large taxes, which do not make up 40 percent (35-40 for new cars), but 70, 100, 150, 200, 300 percent for used cars. Out of 100 percent of the citizens, I think that 10, 15, 20, maybe people, maybe percent of the people, will blur their cars, and 80 percent of the car drivers won't be able to do that, because their cars are 10, 12, 13 years old, and at these rates, it's impossible to do that. So, this law, the second one that I now propose to cancel before we settle this issue, we will take these cars from them for the benefit of the state. They're either going to pay crazy fines, or just these cars are going to be confiscated, because it's a punishable hard law. Dear colleagues, I think these are complex two laws that need to be considered exclusively comprehensively, and it's a shame that you didn't hear people say that you didn't want to let them use cars, paying 40 percent of the budget that you're making them burn these cars or burn them or destroy them or you just want to confiscate them. I believe that this punitive law must also be repealed, its vote restored to the consideration of the whole of this problem, not to hide from people, but to finally and normally resolve it. Therefore, I would like to support the lifting of this ruling and to consider this issue, and to resolve this problem in Ukraine as a whole. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-21-m0.u102	Thank you. The report invites Ukrainian national deputy Kaplin Sergey Mikolayovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-21-m0.u103	Dear compatriots, the boys on the street, have been trying to protect their constitutional right to free movement for a few days. There's 100 people in the power room. It is clear that these changes will not now be voted on, just like many other very important social bills, initiatives to protect ordinary people on pensions, wages and so on. I motivated my decision to fail to comply with the Rules. In general, our country has gone to legal nihilism, the oppression of banditry, terrorism and real, you know, this kind of fascism. Today, imagine that at night there was an attempt to change the register of Poltava's city head, to bring Mama back. You know how? It turns out that a registrar from one of the districts of Kharkiv County lost a key drive-in, and then some damn flash drive found it, and suddenly he wanted to change the city's head to Poltava. And he went somewhere, and he changed. Can you imagine? After all, in one hand a hot dog is in a car accident, and in the other one a flash drive, it changes city heads all over the country. I've just met with a diplomatic mission from the American Embassy and investors, they say, they're laughing at us already, "You'll never have order in the country, never have investment. You can also take and change the American ambassador, and some forgetful alcoholic will find some kind of flash drive." And in fact, you and I understand very well that it was the special operation of one of the law enforcement ministers who was trying to put his man there. And all night from the United Arab Emirates, he called and threatened the head of the district administration, the city's leadership, the law enforcement, and he said, "Wait, I'll be on the blue helicopter right now and we'll set it up. And we put Mama back, and he'll help us steal." There won't be anything in this country until we've chased the cockroaches away. And I support the boys on the street. I call on the last to stand, to cover all roads, to not let MPs go, not to let ministers go, to get their way.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-21-m0.u104	I invite you to report to the First Vice-Chairman of the Committee on Rules and Organization of Work of the Supreme Council of Pinzenic Pavel Vasilovich. Please, Mr. Paul.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-21-m0.u105	Dear colleagues! With regard to the annulment of the decision of the Supreme Council of 8 November on the adoption of the second reading and the draft Law amending the Customs Code and certain legislative acts of Ukraine, two decrees have been made: one for the authorship of the People's Derevyanka (Registration 8488-P) and the other for the authorship of the People's Deputy Caplin (Registration 8488-P1). The argument made in the explanatory note to the decision of the People’s Deputy Deputies refers to a nonpersonal vote. We have repeatedly stressed that the resolution of matters relating to non-personal voting, as defined in the 47th article of the Rules, is no longer raised after the consideration has been concluded, especially since the end of the relevant plenary session. The argument given in the explanatory note to the decision for the authorship of the national deputy Caplin is excellent. The main argument for revoking the decision of the Supreme Council, the author notes that the comparative table of the bill for second reading was published on the official site of the Supreme Council one day before the draft itself, not in 10 days. The Committee drew attention to the fact that, in accordance with part three of article 48 of the Rules, in the event of a violation of the Rules of Procedure when considering and voting on a draft law, a decree, another act of the Supreme Council, a national deputy or other subject of the law of the legislative initiative, may contact the chairman of the plenary meeting with an application for a violation of the Rules when considering and voting. At the same time, the committee noted that the deadlines for the submission of material to the bill provided for in article 117 of the Rules referred to by the national deputy Caplin refer to the preliminary preparation of the bill and are not part of the procedure for consideration and voting, which could theoretically be the basis for the application of article 48 of the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Please take this into account when determining your position on these decisions, and please determine how to vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-21-m0.u106	Thank you. Please record: two in, two in. Please. From Peter Poshenko's Block, Palamarczuk Mikola Petrovich is handing over Caplin. The faction's position to report, right? All right, from the Peter Dust Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-21-m0.u107	I wanted to talk to those guys who were on the street right now who couldn't make it. I understand you very clearly. You're understood by most in the Ukrainian Parliament, but party bosses, faction leaders, faction owners in the Supreme Council of Ukraine don't want to take away money from the Ministry of Internal Affairs right now, from the Public Prosecutor's Office, from the Supreme Council, from the government to keep Parliament alive and give you money to feel like people for the first time in your life -- you have a car -- so that you can make money so you can feed your family. Because we're far from thinking that you want to buy these cars just to show off. I am absolutely convinced that every ordinary Ukrainian has the legal right to feel human. I remember my Chernobyl father, who stood in line for 20 years to get a car, that green miserable Moscow guy, never got one. And when he went to the Savings and took a loan -- a bag of these coupons -- and when our family was destined to give their grandkids and grandchildren away, I asked him, "Daddy, what's the risk?" He replied: “I want to feel human. Behind the Supreme Council of Ukraine, around the Supreme Council of Ukraine, hundreds of our boys, who may be going to war tomorrow, hundreds of them, many of them, saved the world from the Chernobyl disaster. The state gave them nothing in 27 years. They're on their own. The same situation with children in war, the same situation with black people, with Afghans, with our pensioners, with ordinary workers, with peasants. The Supreme Council of Ukraine has forgotten that there is life outside Parliament outside this room. We need to get our faces back to these people. We need to support them, give them the opportunity to feel human, not human, life, not existence.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-21-m0.u108	From the People's Front to the word Igor Lapin. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-21-m0.u109	Good day again, dear fellows. I, uh, you know, frankly, I'm also in favour of everyone. For all the people, for all the citizens of Ukraine it was, as they say, a good thing, and that they have many opportunities. But I know a hundred percent that there's a law at first, and then there's an act, and you can't make the law out of what's already done, you can't make the laws out of someone who's broken something, because we're going to live through it and legalize it. And now I'm talking to those lobbyists, in this case, I call them lobbyists, the interests of what's called "eurobes." Ladies and gentlemen, please talk to your boys who are standing there, and let them remove their "contacts" pages, and they've created a bunch of VContacts groups in those sites that we banned in this Supreme Council for the sake of national security, and we've said that this is a disgraceful phenomenon, and you're creating groups through which you're campaigning and influencing some processes in the state. Do the Laws! There was a call to Parliament, there was a decision by the MPO, there was an order from the President, we're not allowed to have these sites, and you're creating groups and "movers" today on all routes. Once again, I emphasize that the law is one for all, first there's a legislative settlement, and then there's going in, and there's going to be a blur. If you were to fight for all Ukrainians, if you were to defend the lobbyist interests of the groups that are currently behind bribes, 300 euros in customs would go to Ukraine and fail to fulfill their obligations without going abroad, it would be the people who are talking about patriotism today, and you are now saying that they might go to war. Yeah, maybe they'll go to war, there'll be guys from Nazgardia, there'll be guys from the police, they might go to war. And those who advocate their skin interests in social networks, Vkontakte, I'm sorry, I can't support that. That's why I'm "for" the laws of Ukraine for everyone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-21-m0.u110	Thank you. From "The Fatherland" Ivan Krulko.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-21-m0.u111	Ivan Krulko, "The Fatherland" faction. Why was it that there was a problem in bringing cars to Ukraine at a foreign registration, as they are now called "eurobills". It has arisen because for years there has been a number of people's claims that there can't be a situation in the country where the cost of clearing a car costs more than the cost of the car itself purchased abroad is a situation that is totally unfair. And it's because for years the situation of the system of things in this matter has purposed to create normal conditions for a person who wants to buy a car to have such opportunities to do so. So people found other ways to drive in Ukraine on safer cars. At the same time, hundreds of thousands of foreign - registered cars appeared on Ukrainian roads. Does that appeal to other drivers on Ukrainian registration? No, I don't. Unfortunately, cars with foreign registration bear no responsibility when they are in an accident. So Parliament's task is to legalize and resolve this issue so that everyone who owns such cars will register them in Ukraine and have a full range of responsibilities, and have the same rights as other Ukrainian citizens who have their own cars on Ukrainian registration. I believe that we, as a parliament, should also allow for the development of electric cars and continue to cancel VAT if a person has an electric car. It'll be a state decision and it'll be the right one. Nor do we need to crash Ukraine with 15-20-year-old cars that are already metallurgy abroad. But I would like to say one thing and turn to those people who are standing and blocking roads in Ukraine right now. My friends, as a parliament, we will resolve your question and the Fatherland will vote to create you with all the favorable conditions. Well, when you cover the road, you don't.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-21-m0.u112	30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-21-m0.u113	You don't allow an ambulance to pass; you don't allow a person to go to a maternity home to give birth; a patient who has to go to a hospital; people who go to the market to sell their own food grown in the garden; and make a penny. It's not where you block or block. Block "Roschen" if you want to solve this issue. Well, don't block the Ukrainian roads for citizens to travel in their needs. This is my request to you. Don't configure.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-21-m0.u114	Thank you. I've already added time and the same for everyone and so on. Fair enough. No, it was two minutes. Please, Shahov of the will of the people. All right, colleagues, I'll give Ednak, Burbak, I'll give you a minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-21-m0.u115	Sergeyshakhov, the political power of Our End. Dear colleagues, today we can decide this matter and put it to a vote a lot, but the hall is empty, look. On Wednesday, these two draft decrees were put in place to resolve the issues of 5 million people. These questions were raised by Yuri Derevyanko, Sergey Kaplin, and I was involved in the development, Shahov. But it's not the last name that determines who's going to vote, it's who's going to vote. Once again, there's a war going on in the state today. People have asked for the full budget of our nation, giving 150 billion dollars. The oligarchs decided to sever three of the people's skins at the expense of the people who ride on the euronomers, not on the Euronomers, but on the Euronomers. If we're going to Europe, let's go to Europe. Let's feed, we'll feed the miners who have been sitting in the mine for 32 years now. Kaplin was in the mine, six days sitting there, watching this story. With this money you can fully develop and modernize the coal industry. Please tell me how long they're going to be harassing people in our country. And what you're saying, blocking or blocking the road today, I don't agree with roadblocks, but they can solve this. It's the same thing in Sverodonetski. People came out, the whole D.C. gathered for a session, the Opoblok didn't show up for the session, they're afraid of people. Today, Andriy Volodymyrovich, I ask you to set up two draft decrees, but on Thursday, to vote for them, for the parliamentary corps in Severodonetsk and even the mayor, and he made a statement, through the committees, it all went through. Please, let us live a normal life. Sergeyshakhov, the political power of Our End.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-21-m0.u116	Replica one minute MaximBurbak, then Ostap Ednak and we move on to making a decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-21-m0.u117	Dear colleagues, we've just seen some vivid examples of political populism, one tells of 300 percent of what it's like to be a myth, the other tells of Sieverodonetsky, and the third is a political clown at work in Lvivcín. Now let's talk about the point of this. We passed a bill that was responsible for breaking customs rules. And I want to remind you what the responsibility should be when a border guard in Zakarpatt was injured on a car on a Europly this Sunday and a person died? What will be the responsibility when yesterday there were clashes between the state and the police, with the boys who returned from the front and now work for the National Police? What responsibility should there be for violating existing legislation? Is it just a state of political ignorance and demagog? Excuse me, we have to build a state of law and that will be the People's Front. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-21-m0.u118	Ostapednak, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-21-m0.u119	Dear Ukrainians, I just want to remind you that five years ago, the Dignity Revolution began with the phrase "Living by law, not understanding." And actually, we want to rebuild the rule of law, and over the last five years, we've been building it. And the fact that the absolute majority of Ukrainian citizens pay taxes, officially imports, buys cars is a certain feature of a responsible citizen. What some tens of thousands of Ukrainian citizens have decided in recent years to pay bribes to customs, to pay a broker, a barrier that corrupts a tax collector, is normal, and to pay taxes to the state honestly and legalize their car is abnormal, and that's called "crime taxes," sorry, that's not an example of a responsible citizen. The Supreme Council made a balanced and balanced decision. Because besides cheap cars, there are Ukrainians who want to breathe clean air. So let us, colleagues, be responsible, if we have already made such a decision, we will be consistent in its effect. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-21-m0.u120	Thank you. So, colleagues, self-help didn't have a word yet, and I'm giving you the opportunity to speak, and then we're going to the vote in two minutes. Please, Ostrikova Tetjana, from Self-Help, two minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-21-m0.u121	Good afternoon, dear fellows! Dear Ukrainians! If, of course, there was no personal vote on the bill. Self-help has always insisted that we vote exclusively for ourselves. In that case, we call for a vote in favour of this bill, and we are confident that there will be just as many votes for it. But unfortunately, somehow the author of this decision did not give the facts who voted for whom, so it seems a little questionable. Now, about the car. In fact, Auto Euro Force representatives and other owners of foreign registration cars came to us two years ago when they came to the Committee on Tax and Customs Policy and said they had two obstacles to their customs clearance. First of all, it's a legislative ban on importing cars into Ukraine that don't meet Euro-5. And secondly, these are too high excise duties. The first requirement was taken into account in the consideration of the bill and the requirements for banning imports into Ukraine of older means of transport were now repealed. Hence, there is nothing that prevents them from choosing a genuine customs regime, from covering up customs imports under transit and temporary importation regimes. Now we're looking at a regulation that cancels the changes to the Customs Code, and that's the changes that cover the gaps that allow transport to be placed in fake customs regimes today. In fact, it's imports that cover transit and temporary imports. We, as a state, have to see to it that these means of transport go through normal blurry, become Ukrainian numbers, so that the state controls who today controls these sources of increased danger, so that when the accident occurs, they don't just drop the keys and run away or leave the scene, but that the state knows who they belong to and who controls this vehicle. That's why these bills don't exist.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-21-m0.u122	Please, 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-21-m0.u123	These bills are not "manna heavenly", that's the first step. But this is the first step towards reducing excise duties entirely for all and for every Ukrainian citizen who will import vehicles for their own use, and who already have these means of transport in transit and temporary imports. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-21-m0.u124	Thank you. So, colleagues, let's move on to making a decision. And I'm voting on a draft decree repealing the decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine of 8 November 18th on the adoption of a second reading and in the whole of the draft Act on Amendments to the Customs Code of Ukraine and certain legislative acts of Ukraine on the import of vehicles into the customs territory of Ukraine." First, I put 8488-P. Anyone who supports it, please vote. [[13:04:53]] For-39 39 for the ruling is rejected. Now I'm putting in draft regulation 8488-P1 Who supports, please vote. [[13:05:20]] For-33 33. The decree is rejected. So, colleagues, we rejected the decrees and 8487, 8488. This enables us to send the President for signature without delay. And today they will be sent to the President of Ukraine for signature. Both laws. And, colleagues, we are now moving on to the next issue of the agenda -- the draft Act amending some Ukrainian legislation to simplify the pre-trial investigation of specific categories of criminal offences. A bill that was prepared for a very long time, both at the committee level and at the level of the lawyers of the Ukrainian Parliament, in order to achieve a balanced final solution. The bill has 235 rights, we have the opportunity today to start its consideration so that tomorrow we can go to the vote and today we can look at the amendments. And I invite you to report to the head of the Committee on the Law Enforcement of the Protective Activities of Kožemjakin Andrija Anatoliyovich. Where's the committee head? The committee's question. Palamarczuk's gonna report it, right? I would like to invite a representative of the Committee on the Legislative Provision of Palamarchuk for a report. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-21-m0.u125	Dear Lord Chairman, dear colleagues! For your consideration, a comparative table is proposed for the draft Ukrainian Act amending some Ukrainian legislation to simplify the prior investigation of individual categories of criminal offences (registration number 7279-d), prepared by the committee for second reading. This is a fundamental bill that applies to the entire system of criminal justice that makes fundamental changes to basic concepts and approaches to criminal responsibility. The committee received 188 proposals and amendments from the National Deputies and 47 proposals from the Committee, which were made with a view to clarifying the individual provisions of the bill on the basis of comments by the General Legal Administration and the Directorate-General for Human Rights and the Rule of Law of the Council of Europe. The Committee's work, proposals and amendments (a total of 235), as well as the proposals of interested authorities and scientists, took into account the Committee's consideration, including, in part, 94 proposals, the rejection of 141 proposals. The reasons and reasons for the rejection of the proposals of the national deputies are given in a comparative table. Thus, on November 7, 2018, at its meeting, the Committee decided to approve a comparative table in a new draft to amend the adopted table of 19.09.2018 and recommend that the Supreme Council of Ukraine adopt a bill under registration number 7279-d on second reading and, as a whole, as a law. I want to mark the following separately under the stenogram. First. Amendment to the 104 committee is considered to be partially counted, namely, words. In part one of the words "State Crime Enforcement Authorities" should be deleted, not included in the text of the bill. The other one. Section III, paragraph 1, of the bill reads as follows: "This law takes effect as of January 1, 2020." Please make up your mind. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-21-m0.u126	Thank you for presenting the committee's position in preparation for the second reading. We're moving on to the amendments. And the first, not accepted by the committee, is the 3rd National Deputy of Semimenach. Don't insist. Then we move on. Sixth, Semenha. Seventh, Semenha. 8th, Semenha. Ostrikova, 15th. Partially counted. Don't you insist, Mrs. Ostrov? [[B in m in s a l in]] Partly. Okay. Let's move on. We're moving on to the repairs, colleagues. And there are plenty of amendments to the people's deputy, Yatzenka, that he doesn't insist on either. Please, 37 amendments, People's Chamberlain, please, 37th Amendment, 37th Amendment, I'm sorry, I was misheard, People's Chamberlain, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-21-m0.u127	Semenha Roman, Self-Help Unit. Dear colleagues, with the right, we propose to increase criminal responsibility for the theft of telecommunications equipment. Only in the 17th year did the perpetrators make 344 million dollars in damages by stealing cables and other equipment. And most of all today, Kyiv, Poltavska, Kharkiv, Dnipropetrovska, and Zaporezka are suffering from such robbery. If they're thieves. If it is a few hundred dollars of light money for thieves, it is a real threat for Ukrainians, since today’s disconnection of telephone connections, the Internet can cause serious problems in the work of military units, emergency services, other critical infrastructures for at least a few minutes. Today, such thefts are like thefts of personal property. However, in fact, the consequences of stealing telecommunications equipment can be tens of times more dangerous to the population, so responsibility for such a crime must be appropriate. Please be supportive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-21-m0.u128	Thank you. Dear Mr. Mikola, will you comment on why the committee rejected 37 amendments? Mr. Mikola! The comment will be yours? Will your comment be or not?
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-21-m0.u129	I can't hear anything. A comment?
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-21-m0.u130	Yeah, you don't. I'm not saying anything. Will the committee comment on the 37 amendments?
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-21-m0.u131	Please. The proposed changes do not refer to the subject matter of regulation of the bill. In addition, in accordance with article 116 of the Rules of Procedure, proposals and amendments to the draft bill, which is being prepared for second reading, may only be submitted to the text of the bill (articles, parts, paragraphs, sentences), which has been adopted by the Supreme Council as a basis. So that was the reason why the amendment was rejected.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-21-m0.u132	Thank you for clarifying the committee’s position as to why the 37 amendments were rejected. Colleagues, I'm asking you to identify yourself. I'd like to make a statement. [[13:12:59]] For-47 The amendment is not accepted. The next 47 amendments. So is Semenach's national deputy. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-21-m0.u133	Don't insist. 52 revisions. People's deputy to Semimenach. Borislav Bereza. 53 revisions. Don't insist. 58 revisions. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-21-m0.u134	Semenha Roman, Self-Help Unit. Dear colleagues, the bill is called upon to increase the penalties for driving in a state of alcohol, drugs, or other drunkenness. The draft law proposes to supplement the Criminal Code of Ukraine with an essentially new article, which provides for responsibility for driving unscrupulously. With our permission, we offer to increase the responsibility of those who have already been sentenced for violating the rules of road traffic in a state of drunkenness. In this case, it is proposed to apply the only form of punishment — the deprivation of liberty for a term of three to five years. Please be supportive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-21-m0.u135	3 Please comment to the committee - 58 amendment why you rejected it.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-21-m0.u136	In view of the rejection of Amendment No. 32, such a proposal is also considered to be inappropriate, since part two of article 286, paragraph 1, of the CPC, of the Criminal Code, provides for a repetition of the bill, so the committee rejected the amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-21-m0.u137	Dear colleagues, I'm asking you to make 58 adjustments. The committee rejected it, and the author insists that the room be supported. I'd like to make a statement. [[13:15:05]] For-49 The correction is being rejected. Next amendment 76, National Deputy Anton Gerashchenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-21-m0.u138	Honorary national deputies, honourable colleagues, during the adoption of legislation for us in the State Enforcement Service, we have supplemented the legislation by allowing them to conduct investigations, but this was not sufficiently specified, and so I proposed in the Criminal Offences Act that we clarify this in section 3, paragraph 3, of the bill to complete with a paragraph of the content: "In paragraph 8, the State Criminal Enforcement Service of Ukraine" should be replaced by the words "the Ministry of Justice of Ukraine and its territorial bodies." In relation to these paragraphs, the third to sixth consider paragraphs four to seven. This is based on the proposal to amend the Criminal Procedural Code of Ukraine, in particular articles 3, 38, 24, 216, 232, 246, 575, with a view to bringing them into conformity with the Constitution of Ukraine, in accordance with the decision of the Constitutional Court. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-21-m0.u139	Please explain 76 amendments to the committee, Mr. Mikolo.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-21-m0.u140	The committee rejected this amendment essentially because this amendment does not refer to the substance of the bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-21-m0.u141	Colleagues, please proceed with the 76th amendment, please. [[13:16:59]] For-49 The correction is being rejected. I ask you to return to the 67th Amendment. She was part of the committee. At the same time, the national deputy of Semimenach, who is the author of the amendment, insists on the full version of the amendment. Please turn on the microphone, Mr. Semenesi.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-21-m0.u142	Dear colleagues! This is part of the change in the sanctions for violation of the right of a person to a defence made by an investigator. But the following is not included. This amendment proposes to include in the list of non-indicators or lawyers on the site of the search. This rule now applies only to persons who have the status of suspect or accused. If searches are carried out in a home or in an office of third parties who do not have the status of a suspect or accused, the investigator has the right to refuse to allow a lawyer to the place of search and will not be punished for this. So, unfortunately, this opens the line for manipulation by investigators who are doing searches today. And a lawyer can charge all the evidence he has been removed only in a court of law. So by right, we propose to bring Ukrainian legislation closer to European standards, where counsel should be allowed at any time to search any premises. Thank you. Please support the whole amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-21-m0.u143	Thank you. And please comment to the committee representative. 67 revisions are partially taken into account, Mr. Mikolo, she is.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-21-m0.u144	The committee partially considered this amendment as part of the change in sanctions, as proposed by the bill. Within the framework of the bill on the principles of the distribution of criminal offences and criminal offences and crimes. So now this readjustment sounds like this: in paragraph 223. The other one. In the first part of article 374, the words "from three hundred to five hundred" are replaced by the words "from one thousand to four thousand."
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-21-m0.u145	Colleagues, I'm asking you to identify yourself for 67 amendments. The committee took it partially into account, but the author of Semenah asks us to support this amendment with you. I'd like to make up my mind. [[13:19:17]] For-59 The correction is being rejected. Next amendment 79, National Deputy Anton Gerashchenko. Please, colleague.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-21-m0.u146	Dear colleagues, this bill also concerns the settlement of the possibility of investigating the authorities of the Ukrainian State Criminal Enforcement Service. Paragraph 4 is proposed in the following wording: to add a new paragraph 8-1 to the following sentence: "in paragraph 5 (Head of the Learning Body), replace the words "National Criminal Enforcement Service of Ukraine" with the words "Ministry of Justice of Ukraine and its territorial bodies". The rationale for this is that the introduction of these amendments into the Code will create a hierarchically independent system of territorial education bodies of the Ministry of Justice, which will ensure the proper implementation of criminal procedural law requirements, and will create the necessary conditions for the creation of a hierarchical system of knowledge bodies for the effective conduct of unbiased activities by detecting unlawful interference with the functioning of Ukraine's penitentiary system established by law. Thank you for your attention, dear colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-21-m0.u147	Thank you. Dear Mr. Mikolo, your comment on the 79th amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-21-m0.u148	This amendment is rejected by the committee on the grounds that it does not refer to the substance of the bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-21-m0.u149	Please identify 79 amendments, colleagues. [[13:20:58]] For-51 The correction is being rejected. The next amendment is the same as the people's MP Anton Geraszczenko, 82nd. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-21-m0.u150	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, it is proposed that paragraphs 6 and 7 of this content be added: "In paragraph 17 the words 'State Criminal Enforcement Service' should be replaced by the words 'Department of the Ministry of Justice of Ukraine and its territorial bodies'. The reason for this is this. The proposal is based on the need to ensure the legal basis for the activity and to define the procedural status of employees of the law enforcement body and to determine the procedural status of employees of the pretrial investigation bodies of the Ministry of Justice of Ukraine. According to the position regarding the bodies of the judicial investigation of the Ministry of Justice of Ukraine, the authorities of the judicial investigation are: first, the Chief Investigation Authority; second, the territorial authorities, the following departments and departments under the main territorial administrations of the Ministry of Justice of Ukraine in the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, the areas, the cities of Kiev and Sevastopol. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-21-m0.u151	Please comment to the committee on 82 amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-21-m0.u152	The committee considered the amendment carefully, examined all the grounds and came to the conclusion that the amendment did not refer to the substance of the bill. Thus, the committee rejected this amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-21-m0.u153	Thank you. I'm asking you to make 82 adjustments, colleagues. [[13:22:53]] For-47 The correction is being rejected. Next amendment to Anton Heratchenka, 84th. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-21-m0.u154	Ladies and gentlemen, it is proposed that the new paragraph 17-1 of the bill should be supplemented by the following: "In paragraph 17 with the symbol '1' of the bill, replace the words 'State Criminal Enforcement Service' with the words 'Department of the Ministry of Justice and its territorial bodies'. In relation to these paragraphs 6, 7, consider paragraphs 8 and 9. The reason for this is this. The introduction of this bill is based on the need to ensure the legal basis of the activity and to determine the procedural status of the head of the Ukrainian Ministry of Justice’s knowledge bodies, who have the necessary access to penitentiary facilities, who are familiar with functions, subcultures in places of deprivation of liberty, and special areas of expertise in the field of activities of places of deprivation of liberty. Professionally, in the shortest period of time, start and implement a set of procedural measures and actions aimed at determining the occurrence of a crime. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-21-m0.u155	I'd like to make an appointment for 84 amendments, colleagues. [[13:24:19]] For-50 The correction is being rejected. The next is 91 amendments, the People's Deputy Heratchenka. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-21-m0.u156	Yes, just a minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-21-m0.u157	91st.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-21-m0.u158	91st, thank you. Thus, honourable national deputies, this bill also refers to the activity of the investigating authorities in the enforcement agencies. I do not agree with the fact that I was not supported on the committee, but I count heavily on support in the hall. This refers to the question that the Ministry of Justice and the institution of punishment should be able to deal properly with matters relating to the investigation of crimes committed in the area of the penitentiary administration. I propose paragraphs 10 and 17 of sub-paragraph 2 as follows: (g) "The Ministry of Justice and its territorial authorities." I'm counting on your support, colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-21-m0.u159	Thank you. I'd like to make a statement, colleagues. I remind you that the committee rejected this amendment. [[13:25:43]] For-52 The correction is being rejected. Colleagues, at the request of the National Deputy, Elena Stotnik, I now give her my word, and she wants to make a 94th amendment. This is an amendment to the committee that was accepted by the committee, but Mrs. Sotnik requires that it be put on the stand. Yours? Now. No, I'm told she's accounted for. It's counted. Mrs. Olena. No, it's fully accounted for. I'm just afraid we're going to put her to the vote right now. Please, Mrs. Stotnik, this is her amendment, she's considered by the committee. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-21-m0.u160	It's just that I have a printed table and a table printed on the Supreme Council website, so I'm in charge of it. According to this table 94, my correction is partially taken into account. So I'm asking the committee or to clarify this position. This amendment refers directly to what is to be removed from part three of the possibility of removing funds and tools of direct criminal misconduct, as well as the possibility of removing explanations from a person. So here the principle story, before in the table, was that it was partially accounted for, so there was no elimination of these two moments. So I'd like the committee to comment, if it's fully accounted for, I'm completely satisfied with that. If not, then I want to make a full amendment to the confirmation.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-21-m0.u161	Thank you. My table with which we work, 94 amendments, the Legislative Security Committee, reads: "Subparagraph "d" of part 3 of article 38 (as drafted) delete." Please comment, Mr. Mikoli.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-21-m0.u162	This is taken into account, received, partially, and it reads, "Subparagraph "d" of part three of article 38 (as drafted) delete." Everything else is accounted for.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-21-m0.u163	Mrs. Helena, is that an explanation satisfying you? I can't see you. Satisfying? Let's keep counting. Please. So we're gonna put her on the stand, and we're gonna tear her down. Mrs. Olena said she was a beast, and then I'll be back. As we move on. A hundred repairs. Semenha, please. 100th. 101st, Semenha.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-21-m0.u164	Mrs. Irina!
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-21-m0.u165	Now, we're moving on. 107th Semenha. 108th, Semenha. 102nd is the Palamarchua amendment. Isn't that right, Mrs. Sotnik? No, you have another table. You can have a copy of the tables. Now, we're moving on for now. Mrs. Stotnik, if you have any questions, I will come back to you. Semenha, 116th. Please, the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-21-m0.u166	Semenha Roman, Self-Help Unit. Dear colleagues, with the right, I propose that we exclude from the draft law an inappropriate rule on temporary disposal of property. Such a rule already exists; its duplication can lead to a conflict of laws. This is part of the first 169 articles of the Criminal Procedure Code, which is proposed to be supplemented by a completely unnecessary rule on the return of temporary property. Temporaryly removed, without the rule, property is returned to the person if the arrest of property is lifted by the investigating judge during the pretrial investigation, during judicial proceedings. The court always makes a mandatory decision on the matter at the same time as the court’s ruling is concluded. In fact, it removes the legal conflict and the duplication of norms. I'd like you to support my colleague. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-21-m0.u167	Thank you. And I'd like to make a statement on 116 amendments. The committee rejected it, the author insists on a full vote. [[13:30:39]] For-53 The correction is being rejected. Next amendment 122, People's Deputy Anton Geraszczenko. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-21-m0.u168	Thank you. Dear colleagues! I would like to add paragraph 10 to paragraph 5 of this sentence: "Part Two after the words "Ministry of Interior of Ukraine" to be supplemented by the words "Ministry of Justice of Ukraine." This is the basis. By order of the Ministry of Justice dated 04.07.2017 No2166/5, the Regulations on Pretrial Investigation Authorities of the Ukrainian State Criminal Enforcement Service, according to which the authorities of the pretrial investigation of the Ukrainian State Criminal Enforcement Service are the investigators of the Department of Justice of Ukraine; and the investigators of the inter-regional departments for the execution of criminal penalties and probation of the Ministry of Justice. The introduction of proposals to this article will provide a procedural basis for the investigation apparatus of the Ministry and its territorial departments to be able to initiate a trial investigation into crimes committed in institutions and in the area of criminal enforcement. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-21-m0.u169	Thank you. I'd like to make a statement on 122 amendments. Do you have a comment? Please excuse me, stop, stop, stop, colleagues, I'm wrong, please, Mr. Palamarczuk, a word for comment.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-21-m0.u170	The committee rejected the bill in fact because it did not refer to the substance of the bill, so it was rejected.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-21-m0.u171	I'd like to make up my mind. Thank you for explaining and sorry I didn't notice your comment right away. [[13:32:34]] For-49 49 for the amendment. Overruled. The next amendment, 124, of the Stonik People's Deputy, was partly taken into account by the Committee, Mrs. Sotnik insists on the word, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-21-m0.u172	Thank you, Madam Chairman! Captain Olena, Self-Help faction. I just want to explain to people what happened. The table that was on the Supreme Council's website yesterday, and according to the Rules, we're supposed to get the table two days before the review, and it's printed by me. In fact, it does not match the chart that appeared today on the Supreme Council’s website after 11 p.m. This means, at the very least, that the committee violated all the procedures and the egg of the national MP had no opportunity to read the full text of the table. So I'm asking for amendment 94 to be confirmed, and I'm asking my 124th vote, because I think it's a gross violation of human rights to introduce into the Criminal Procedural Code the possibility of removing an explanation of the incomprehensible, unguaranteed, in terms of the protection of human rights and the procedural rights of the new institution, and also the removal. And also another move, it's an immediate removal.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-21-m0.u173	I see. I realized that Mrs. Helena had just given us an explanation of her amendment to 124. I'm asking you to make up your mind because she was accepted. Please comment to the committee. It's 124th. Then there's the 94th. 124th was partially counted. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-21-m0.u174	An amendment has been counted in part. In the deletion part, paragraph 4 on the deletion of tools and means of committing a criminal offence, which is a given time, allows for legal detention in accordance with article 168 of the Criminal Procedure Code. Taking away explanations in knowledge is an element that achieves the process economy and the speed of the investigation. Today’s work of investigators is also related to the removal of explanations for the introduction of information into the Single State Register, which is only oriented. In such a case, investigators simply have to copy such explanations into the interrogation protocol, which takes up a lot of time and is irrational. Thus, the amendment is partially taken into account.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-21-m0.u175	I see. Please identify 124 amendments. [[13:35:40]] For-55 The correction is being rejected. The next amendment is 94. Mrs. Sotnik insists that she be put in for confirmation. And the committee was counted, and the committee asked me to take it into account. I'd like to make a statement. [[13:36:07]] For-43 The correction is being rejected. I would like to emphasize that this is the amendment that was taken into account by the committee, which was the approval of the 94th. Now it's the 125th Amendment, Semenha. Don't insist. Heroshenko, 127 revisions. Anton Gerashchenko, please microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-21-m0.u176	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, it is proposed that sub-paragraph 11 should be added to paragraph 3 of this sentence: “In part six, the words ‘State Criminal Enforcement Services’ should be replaced by the words ‘Department of the Ministry of Justice of Ukraine and its territorial bodies’. Justification. This proposal is based on the need to ensure the implementation of Constitutional Court Decision No. 3/r/2018 of 24.04.2018, which is recognised as an unconstitutional part of article 216 of the Criminal Code and is obliged by the Supreme Council of Ukraine to provide the regulatory regulation set out in article 216 of the Criminal Code in accordance with the Constitution and this decision of the Constitutional Court. Taking these proposals into account will ensure the functioning of pretrial investigation bodies within the Ministry of Justice of Ukraine with respect for the principle of hierarchical independence and institutional autonomy to effectively investigate violations of the constitutional rights of citizens to life and respect for the dignity of persons in places of non-freedom.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-21-m0.u177	Thank you. Is the comment going to be a committee or are we just defining? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-21-m0.u178	The comment will be very brief. The amendment was rejected because it does not refer to the substance of the bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-21-m0.u179	Thank you for your clarification. Please identify 127 amendments. [[13:38:02]] For-47 The correction is being rejected. Next amendment 132, Captain. I can't see you. Please, Captain's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-21-m0.u180	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Captain Olena, Self-Help faction. I'm moving on. Here, by the way, at the beginning of the review, the reporter was informed that they were included in this. in these changes to the Criminal Procedure Code, in particular the Council of Europe. So, I would like to point out that the key observations of the Council of Europe have not been taken into account and, including the fact that knowledge as a new institution actually introduced by this bill does not in any way contain, again, guarantees neither procedural nor human rights guarantees, particularly because it takes place prior to the registration of criminal offences in the Single Register of Criminal Offences. This means that the explanation taken means that the evidence collected can actually be used against the person being accused in the future in a very short time period, and it will have a very limited circle of procedural rights. Thus, such a format is definitely unacceptable in terms of the protection of human rights. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-21-m0.u181	Thank you. Will there be a comment from the committee? No, it's not. It will be. Please, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-21-m0.u182	The committee rejected the amendment in view of the fact that such an editorial does not take into account the possibility of changing the procedure for judicial investigation and confession to court. And now it's like, "If during the pretrial investigation it is established that a person has committed a criminal offence in the absence of a criminal offence in the acts of his crime, the prosecutor agrees with the prosecutor sends the materials of criminal conduct to the head of the knowledge body, taking account of the undersecution."
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-21-m0.u183	Please identify yourself on this amendment. [[13:40:12]] For-52 The correction is being rejected. That's 132 revisions. Next up, 134th is just as popular. I'm sorry, this. Next, 134th, the People's Deputy of Semimenah. Don't insist. Captain, 135th. Please, Mrs. Sotnik's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-21-m0.u184	Thank you. Olena Sotnik, Self-Help faction. The 135th amendment in this article proposes that paragraph 4 be deleted altogether. What is the basis for this amendment, and what does this article apply in general? It refers to, well, the almost fantastic timelines that the authors offer us regarding the conduct of knowledge, the definition of suspects, the definition of guilt. I would certainly like to welcome the fact that law enforcement authorities will be conducting research in 72 hours, for example, on certain criminal offenses, and that doesn't stop them from doing anything if we put a higher limit on, for example, 20 days, 30 days. Nothing prevents them from doing so in three days. But if you'll excuse me, at this point, putting 72 hours of boundary time, that means limiting people's rights. So I strongly insist on a return, a return to those terms that are now established in the Criminal Procedure Code, are realistic.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-21-m0.u185	Thank you for explaining your correction. And please identify 135 amendments, colleagues. [[13:41:56]] For-50 The correction is being rejected. The next 138 amendments. I'm sorry, 139th. Semenha. [[B in m in s a l in]] 136th? Did I miss it? I'm not right in that case. 136th is the Palamarchua amendment. 136th is the amendment of Palamarchuca, and here is your amendment of 139th, Semimenach and Ostrikov, which refers to paragraph 2 and sub-paragraph 17 third. 142th? Let's see. 141st, Captain. And 142 is yours, yes. So then we move on to 141 amendments to Captain, and then you. Please, Captain.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-21-m0.u186	I insist. Thank you. Oleg Sotnik, Self-Help faction. 141 The amendment concerns my proposed article 219 of the Criminal Procedure Code. Again, we go back to the question of the reality of the terms. Why do I insist that they set a longer period? Because in fact, we create preconditions when law enforcement officials are forced, including human rights violations, to complete the knowledge in the terms that we set up today, which means that a person will either not get acquainted or not be invited, or that he will be kicked out of it by those explanations that, by the way, have no clear status under the Criminal Procedural Code. This is all going to lead to the fact that instead of the law enforcement working quietly, doing their job right, they're going to be kicking the show out of the suspects again in the late '60s. So it's definitely unacceptable. Please support my amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-21-m0.u187	Please be determined by this amendment, Your Honor. Let me remind you, this is 141 revisions. [[13:44:10]] For-54 Please, the amendment is being rejected. Next 142th, Semenha. Don't you insist? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-21-m0.u188	Semenha Roman, Self-Help Unit. Dear colleagues, the bill also applies to approaching the actual deadlines for the completion of criminal conduct upon the announcement of suspicion. According to the project, criminal conduct is expected to be completed within 48 hours after the suspicion has been declared, but the practice shows that such sentences are unrealistic, especially if we consider what forms of action will be criminal offenses. So I propose that this amendment increase this term from 48 hours to 10 days from the time of the report of the suspicion. This is a real term during which criminal conduct should end at the time of the report of suspicion. Please support, since 48 hours is not a realistic term that can lead to the abuse that my colleague, Helen Sotnik, has just mentioned. Thank you. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-21-m0.u189	Please identify yourself for Amendment 142, please. [[13:45:19]] For-42 The correction is being rejected. Next up, Captain, 143rd. I mean Semenha, 143rd. Don't insist. Captain, 145th.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-21-m0.u190	It's not counted, 145th. It refers to part two of article 219 of the Ukrainian KPC, the word "article."
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-21-m0.u191	Huh? Yeah, okay. Next, Semenha, 146th. Don't insist. Are you insisting? Please, Semensi microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-21-m0.u192	Semenha Roman, Self-Help Unit. Dear colleagues, with the right to remove laziness in legislation, which allows prosecutors to continue their term of knowledge several times. The bill provides that the period of study may be extended to 1 month. How many times can such a term be continued, unfortunately, is not prescribed in the draft law. And this can cause abuse, which will continue over and over again, and will last for a really indefinite term. Therefore, the amendment removes this uncertainty and suggests that the possibility of continuing the course of learning be anticipated only once. Thank you. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-21-m0.u193	I'm asking you to make a decision on 146 amendments. [[13:46:43]] For-44 The correction is being rejected. Next amendment to 151th Semenha. Please, the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-21-m0.u194	Dear colleagues! It also proposes to close the loophole for perpetrators who may avoid being punished for negligence by individual law enforcement officials. That is, I propose that we cancel the new ground for closing the case proposed by the bill. This is the possibility of closing criminal proceedings if the perpetrator of a criminal offence is not established, and the statute of limitations has been reversed. This arrangement is intended to relate to the commission of a particularly serious crime, for which he may be punished in the form of eternal imprisonment. We see this as a direct opportunity for those who are guilty of serious crimes to avoid punishment if the law enforcement agencies, because of their own negligence, attribute it to a category of less serious crime. Please be supportive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-21-m0.u195	I'm asking you to make a decision on 151 amendments. [[13:47:55]] For-44 The correction is being rejected. The next 160 amendments to the Semenichi People's Deputy. The factions next show the correction. 160 revisions. Are you insisting, Semenah? 160th, don't insist. I'm moving in on the amendments. I'll see you. Now, Your Honor, Mrs. Helena. 164th Semenha. 162 revisions. Okay, 162 people's deputies' amendment. Now, Mrs. Olena, I'll find it in the table. 162nd is the amendment of the Stonik People's Deputy, it was partially taken into account. Please, Mrs. Sotnik's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-21-m0.u196	Thank you. Captain Olena, Self-Help faction. I want to point out that, in fact, the amendment was partially taken into account, but it wasn't taken into account essentially and completely. And the main points that were reflected in it were very fundamental to me, because they were related to the guarantee of article 6 of the European Convention on Human Rights, which afforded the possibility of a fair trial, that all the evidence that would be obtained both during the inquiry and during the investigation, they would be obtained with full respect for the procedural rights of the suspect. And in this case, because there are a lot of different procedural actions, such as medical examination, the conclusion of a specialist, the presentation of technical devices, the removal of explanations and other entirely new institutions, they are being implemented before the EDR, and thus human rights, the procedural rights of human beings are not being protected. This violates article 6 of the Convention accordingly.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-21-m0.u197	I see. I'm asking you to define 162 amendments. The author insists that we vote with you in her paper. [[13:50:07]] For-45 The correction is being rejected. Next, 164th Semenha. Don't insist. Then the Captain, 167th. Please, the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-21-m0.u198	Thank you for the opportunity. The 167 amendments apply once again to the possibility of in any way correcting the project and bringing it into line with our key human rights commitment as defined in the convention. And accordingly, what is currently being proposed in the article is the detention of the person who is being set up here, and the order of detention of the person, it actually leads us to consider this even in the European Court of Human Rights as not just illegal, but as the application of torture to a person, because there is no guarantee of a fair trial and the possibility of the prosecution of such detention. What is more, it is not clear why criminal offenses offer this kind of order and order. So I insist that we meet our obligations and ensure, first of all, human rights, not convenience.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-21-m0.u199	I see. I'm asking you to make 167 adjustments. [[13:51:43]] For-48 The correction is being rejected. The next 170 right. Semenha, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-21-m0.u200	Semenha Roman, Self-Help Unit. Dear colleagues, the state of affairs of today's Criminal Procedure Code stipulates that if a person is not served with a suspect report within 24 hours of being detained, such a person is subject to release. The amendment suggests that we provide the same standard for committing criminal misconduct, while the bill proposes to keep a person in prison for up to 72 hours. What makes sense is completely incomprehensible. Why is it 24 hours for a crime to be held and 72 hours for a criminal offense that is easier than a crime to predict? Please comment on this, because, well, this insurrection is just allogeneic and at least it looks discriminatory. Please support the amendment and comment on the chairman.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-21-m0.u201	Thank you. I'm asking you, sir. Mr. Palamarchuk to comment on why the committee rejected 170 amendments, it refers to detention terms.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-21-m0.u202	Justification. In some cases, 24 hours may not be enough to collect, test, and evaluate evidence.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-21-m0.u203	I'd like to make a statement. 170 revisions. 170th. [[13:53:17]] For-44 The correction is being rejected. Next up, 172nd, Captain. Are you insisting, Captain? Please, the microphone. I just can't see you from here.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-21-m0.u204	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Captain Olena, Self-Help faction. 172. An amendment that relates to the possibility of temporary removal of items and documents. We actually have a new institution that's not provided for by the Criminal Procedure Code, and I don't think we need to introduce it, because the Criminal Procedure Code provides for the temporary removal of things and documents, which is the established procedure. And introducing any additional possibilities of removing any item without procedural guarantees is nothing more than narrowing the procedural rights of the person and the parties in this knowledge or investigation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-21-m0.u205	Thank you. Please make up your mind. Is there a comment? Please, Mr. Mikola, your comment on 172 amendments.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-21-m0.u206	I find this inappropriate, this clarification, since articles 167 and 169 of the Code provide for this.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-21-m0.u207	Thank you for your clarification. Thank you very much. And I'd like to make a number of 172 adjustments. [[13:54:58]] For-39 The correction is being rejected. Next up, so is Olena Sotnik, 177. Are you insisting? Now. Please, the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-21-m0.u208	Thank you, Madam Chairman. 177. Well, it actually applies, my comment is about the whole 298th prim article. 4, because it defines the specifics of the suspect report. And there's a very interesting part that predicts that, in fact, a person is informed about the results of medical examination and the findings of a specialist, given their presence, at the time of delivery of the suspicion. And if she disagrees, she can, in principle, appeal to these conclusions. The only problem is that you have already been served with a suspect who, including one, may refer to these findings of a specialist. And even though you're going to sue them, and suspicion is actually served, it's nothing else like, again, narrowing down human procedural rights. And I think this could lead to a breach and a balance at the moment of learning. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-21-m0.u209	Thank you. I'm asking you to identify yourself for Amendment 177. [[13:56:34]] For-46 The correction is being rejected. Next up, so is Olena Sotnik, 179th. Don't you insist?
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-21-m0.u210	I insist.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-21-m0.u211	Please, the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-21-m0.u212	Thank you for the opportunity. Again, Olena Sotnik, Self-Help faction. To what further do I want to point out in this article? We're in a situation where people, citizens, understand. So what happens is that, in fact, when we're doing a study that's going to be very similar to how we're going to do a trial. The researcher will gather some evidence, generalize it, then form suspicion. And at this point, the researcher can, for example, determine what the signs of criminal activity are. And hand over all these documents, the evidence, directly to the investigator to investigate this as criminal conduct. What does this mean for people? That in violation, in a very short time frame, in violation of your procedural rights, with their narrowness, evidence will actually be collected that will then be used against you in the investigation of the crime, not.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-21-m0.u213	Please identify 179 amendments. I'm going to continue this session for literally five minutes so that we can go through more rights today and vote tomorrow morning on the bill. [[13:58:09]] For-37 The correction is being rejected. Next. Mrs. Sotnik, likewise, amendment 184. Are you insisting?
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-21-m0.u214	Yes, I insist. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-21-m0.u215	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-21-m0.u216	Captain Olena, Self-Help faction. This amendment proposes the deletion of part two in article 298. What's the problem with this part? It's that again, as my colleague Semenach pointed out, and I've already said that it's not an adequate delay period, that it's a term of up to five days, that any term there is more than six hours. If we look at the practice of the European Court of Human Rights, this is nothing more than a violation of article 6 of the convention, article 5, sorry, of the convention. This means that in fact we are introducing inadequate detention periods for allegedly criminal offences that are easier because of their social danger than criminal crimes. Without any guarantee, it's an accusation, without any possibility for a person to defend his rights in court, he's actually stalling and it's time to kick the show out of her, make her confess guilt and so on and so forth. I think it's unacceptable.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-21-m0.u217	Your explanation is understandable. I'd like to make a determination for 184 amendments, colleagues. And I remind you that once we've made all the amendments with you, Mr. Palamarczuk's representative will have the final word to generalize and summarize the discussions, including the amendments. [[13:59:46]] For-42 The correction is being rejected. Next, too, is Olena Sotnik 187. Do you insist, Mrs. Helena?
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-21-m0.u218	Yes, I insist.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-21-m0.u219	Please, the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-21-m0.u220	Thank you. Olena Sotnik, Self-Help faction. Here again is an interesting article that envisions a seemingly innocent story that a person is obliged to appear at the first call, but not every person in fact, more precisely, if he does not do so, the possibility of a person being detained is anticipated. So it's going to be subject to a precautionary measure of arrest, including arrest. But, excuse me, there can be no formulation that for a criminal offense that will be applied to it. In fact, it seems that once a person has failed to appear, according to a criminal offense that contains a very low level of social danger, I reiterate. And you're actually forcing her, in fact, investigators and prosecutors to file her arrest. It's useless. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-21-m0.u221	Please be determined by amendment 18. 192nd, we had this, didn't we, Mrs. Olena? 187th, please identify yourself. 187 revisions. [[14:01:18]] For-43 43-yes. The correction is being rejected. Colleagues, two more amendments, Mrs. Captain, we'll listen and we'll interrupt our discussion of the amendments and we'll continue it tomorrow. Please, Mrs. Helena, 192 revisions are yours and then.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-21-m0.u222	Thank you. Captain Olena, Self-Help faction. 192 amendment, it refers to article 300 of the Criminal Procedure Code, which makes it sound, just listen to: "Follow-up (search) actions, silent investigation (search) actions and other actions during pre-trial investigation of criminal offences." I realize it's not that bad here, but in the Criminal Procedural Code all have to be very clear. "Other actions" is an absolute disqualification, which again is unacceptable, so I insist that this phrase should be deleted and no "other actions" that are clearly not provided for in the article can be a language. Because this will lead to the abuse of law enforcement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-21-m0.u223	I'd like to make a statement for 192 amendments. [[2:02:39]] For-41 41-yes. The correction is being rejected. Ms. Helena, 197, 199 please give us two minutes, you'll present these amendments, we'll vote, we'll be more faithful. And let's do a dot in the discussion of the amendments, tomorrow we'll start with 202 -- that's the same thing as Mrs. Sotnik's. Two minutes, Mrs. Sotnik, 197 and 199.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-21-m0.u224	Thank you. I'm going to try to divide because these amendments apply to different articles. The article, more specifically, Amendment 197 refers again to Article 300 of the Criminal Procedure Code. And I suggest in the first part, that we take away "and also take away explanations to determine the circumstances of committing criminal misconduct." If you'll excuse me, any explanation has to be taken from a person solely in the form of an interrogation. And this has to take place in a specific procedural form defined by the Criminal Procedure Code, so that these selected explanations can be taken away by law enforcement, including under pressure. Now you're holding a person for 72 years and you're starting to take away an explanation from him. We understand what this can do for people -- actually by forcing them to confess. So there can be no explanation. There has to be a clear guarantee for the person who provides these explanations only as part of the interrogation, it's all fixed and used accordingly. What's more, I'm going to remind you that it's actually a fixation. the evidence under the current Criminal Procedure Code is the removal of explanations only in court, and only on that basis can it be used as evidence against a person. What we are now introducing is a very dangerous norm that will lead to human rights violations. And it's very fast. Article 301 of the Criminal Procedure Code speaks of the characteristics of the completion of the study. And here the key is what I've already talked about, the key point that actually, at the conclusion of the study, law enforcement can, and the researcher can decide that it was actually a non-criminal offense, which was a criminal crime, and pass on all the collected materials to this spear before criminal conduct. And there is no way that a person can charge this, nor can he say that there is evidence.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-21-m0.u225	I see. Colleagues, I'd like to make a 197 appointment first. Please. [[14:05:29]] For-37 37 is rejected for the amendment. 199 amendments, please. [[14:05:47]] For-38 Correction. Now, by factions. Correction not accepted. And please, in factions, self-help is 12. The greatest support, the greatest potential in Self-Help for this amendment. Dear colleagues, we are here today to discuss a comparative table in the draft Law on Amendments to Certain Ukrainian Legislative Acts on Simplification of the Trial Investigation of Certain Categories of Criminal Offences (Registration No. 7279). Tomorrow we will continue to follow the table of amendments to this bill, and we have literally 10-15 amendments left. I very much ask all colleagues to attend the meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on time tomorrow, because we have a full plenary day. Colleagues, I remind you that today is the work of deputies on committees. It's a key work, really, where it goes, first of all, to discuss and improve drafts. Please be responsible for visiting committees. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is closed. And tomorrow we'll continue our work at 10 a.m. Thank you. With the 202 correction, we'll begin tomorrow.
