ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-11-m0.u1	Good morning! Everyone, please come into the hall, get ready for registration. Are you ready for your registration? Please take up jobs. So I'd like the National Deputies to register. I'd like you to sign up. [[10:04:29]] 335 national deputies registered. The morning plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Today is the birthday of the National Deputy of Ukraine, Anatoliyovna Donec. Welcome to Mrs. Tetian's birthday. [[Applause]] And what I want to remind you is that on Wednesday we have speeches by the national MPs, not by factions, but by national MPs, 30 minutes. And so I ask everyone who intends to participate in the discussion to prepare for the recording. And I'd like you to record a statement from the National Deputies. Moses Igor Volodymyrovich is invited to the floor.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-11-m0.u2	Igor Musiyczuk, Oleg Lachka Radical Party. Peace, order, prosperity – these three words must become the cornerstones of the reconstruction, the restoration of Ukraine's future power. The return of peace to Ukrainian lands, the restoration of territorial integrity, is a priority for the Radical Party of Oleg Láska. Placing iron discipline, order in the country, ending chaos, bardac, anarchy is what our leader Oleg Lazko stood on. Is it possible without a return to peace and order of welfare for Ukrainian citizens in the country? No, it's impossible. The new economic policy proposed by Oleg Láska's Radical Party is primarily a resurgence of the Ukrainian industry. And I would like to take this opportunity to welcome from this high rostrum the festival of Ukrainian metallurgy, those who are the steel ridge of the Ukrainian economy and the Ukrainian state. The restoration of agriculture is possible only on the grounds that Ukrainian land owners may be Ukrainian. And our faction insists that the Constitution of Ukraine should be black and white, that farming is an agrarian system on Ukrainian land and that the owner of Ukrainian land can be exclusively Ukrainian. Rebirth of farming in the country, return of the cow to every Ukrainian farmyard. It's not funny how some people laugh, but it's a concept that will save the Ukrainian village that will give jobs to Ukrainian peasants. That is why our faction insists on immediate approval in the second reading of the Law on the Prohibition of the Use of Palm Oil in the Food Industry, on subsidies for each cow in each Ukrainian court, on the price of milk fixed to be set by the Cabinet. For let us not assume that milk is cheaper than normal water. And most of all. We have to realize that Ukraine is strong.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-11-m0.u3	Please let me finish for 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-11-m0.u4	That strong Ukraine is impossible without a strong leader, without a strong president. That is why our faction advocates the abolition of the Prime Minister's office and the establishment of order in the country, peace, order, prosperity.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-11-m0.u5	Thank you. I invite you to the speech of the People's Chamberlain.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-11-m0.u6	MikolaLushnyak, 166th District, Ternopolishka, Impact Group, Peter Poshenko Block. Madam Chairman, fellow national MPs, yesterday we were disgracefully sent to work on the Committee on Sugar and Sugar beet deregulation. I want to clarify for those national deputies who did not support this law. What did we do yesterday? We had a shameful norm for the minimum price of sugar, a norm that kept the industry from working in free economic conditions equal to all, as it did throughout the world. What does this mean? For example. Ukraine produced 2 million tons of sugar in 2017-2018 for consumption of 1 million. The average market price was less than 10 dollars. The fixed price of this law, which is in force today, is 10,650 per tonne. So there's a price difference of about 10 percent. What do entrepreneurs, farmers do? They're forced to trade in sugar, and they're selling it, this piece, for cash. In numbers: today, Ukraine sells sugar in cash, which goes, in its pocket to entrepreneurs who are not taxed at $2 billion. Of the 2 billion dollars, that's the minimum number, the state doesn't get a penny. What are we talking about today? What kind of economy? What kind of processing? So yesterday we went 10 steps back. Let's move on. The scandalous amendment that was said to be lobbyist about the fact that the equipment was being taken off duty. So, please tell me, are we stimulating the processing? Are we building our economy with this norm? Yeah, we're building. But someone did it for me. Lobby. Who today is the Supreme Council? The lobby of our neighbors, which doesn't allow us to modernize our sugar industry so that we can become a full competitor in the European market, in the Asian market. The equipment provided for today by our factories does not allow us to do so. Today we're exporting to countries that, our quality, we're exporting to. In order to modernize the industry, we need to invest tens, hundreds of millions of dollars today in order to become competitive and to be able to place our sugar in the European Union, in the United States, in other countries. Dear Madam Chairman! I want to speak to the Head of the Supreme Council. To use the proceduread hoc tomorrow, this is article 50 of the Ukrainian Rules of Procedure, paragraph 2.3. In order for us to vote on this law tomorrow and to enable us to develop our Ukrainian economy. And please, the Ukrainian Parliament should be the lobbyist of the Ukrainian people, the Ukrainian economy and the state of that.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-11-m0.u7	Please let me finish for 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-11-m0.u8	Which we are representatives of here today, in the Supreme Council. Thank you for your attention. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-11-m0.u9	Thank you. I'd like to invite you to the floor of the People's Deputy Batenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-11-m0.u10	Taras Batenko, Ukrainian Patriot Union - UKROP. Dear National Deputies! Respectable Ukrainian Society! More than a month ago, the national deputies of the Ukrainian Union of Patriots-UKROP directed, sent a parliamentary request to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, to the government of Ukraine with proposals on the first and prospective actions on the security situation and the opposition to the aggression of the Russian Federation on the Azov Sea and in the Kerchny Strait. The note we received from the government refers to the task of handling the matter, and that is all. Instead, UKROP proposes a concrete and serious plan of action of an international, military and political nature with eleven points and a mechanism for its consideration at the meeting of the Ukrainian Military Office, which, according to our suggestions, would be appropriate to call immediately. In these weeks Russia’s armed aggression on the Azov Sea has continued to develop in the same direction, the presumptuous and presumptuous actions of the Russian Coast Guard against the blockade of the Ukrainian Asian ports have not only been halted but also expanded. From May 17 to July 10, ships and boaters of the coast guard of the Russian Federation’s FSB stopped and inspected 63 times on the Azov Sea and the Kerchen Strait of merchant ships heading to or from Mariupol and Berdjansk, the number of vessels detained was 46. In the last two weeks, there has been a new trend. The length of the delay of such vessels not only at sea but while waiting for permission to pass through the Kerchen Strait, either from the Black Sea to the Azov Sea, or vice versa. The bottom line, the honorable friends who formally allow the services of the hostile aggressor country to do so in the Azov Sea, should be lifted immediately. It is unacceptable and even shameful for our nation that almost all detentions take place at a distance of not more than 6-15 miles from the Ukrainian coast. The president and the government of Ukraine are attacking the same rakes as they did in 2014 during the tragic events of the first period of the Russian Federation. The society that raises the question of the threat in the Azov Sea does not get the right answers to the questions, and at the same time, when this aggression is actually occurring in the Azov Sea, Mr. Igor Nasalik, the fifth year of the war, in an official letter to Mr. Igor Nasalik, the first deputy director of Rosatom, Kiril Komarov, not only refers to the possibility of restoring the nuclear fuel cogeneration of Ukraine and Russia, but suggests that we talk about this topic in Brussels. This is the tip of cynicism and spit in the face of every Ukrainian. We demand and demand to stop any relationship with the invader, and Minister Nasalek would resign under such circumstances. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-11-m0.u11	Thank you. I'd like to invite you to the floor of the People's Deputy Gusak. Please, he's passing the word to Deputy Villukul, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-11-m0.u12	Dear people of Ukraine! Salary debt is close to record in decades; it has increased by almost 10 percent since the beginning of the year and is already 560 million dollars 2 billion. People don't even get paid for hard work. And you can't feed the authorities about winning their children. So already 8 million people have gone abroad to work. The largest amount of non-payment of wages in industry is almost 80 percent, which is over 2 billion dollars. And this is the direct result of the illiterate deindustrialization policy and, in fact, the destruction of the industry, which has been on schedule for the fifth year. I'm looking at the consequences and the so - called reform, and actually the social health experiment. This year alone, debt from medical wages and social assistance increased by more than 60 percent. Do they want us to raise our tariffs yet? But people who don't get paid can't pay the tariffs that now exist. The colossal debt of wages is one of the reasons why people don't pay for utilities is that they're already in debt for over 40 billion. This is correspondingly causing an increase by one and a half times over this half-year of pay owed to the Heatcommunergo employees. Experts are making massive layoffs and are also going abroad. We're facing a real threat to the collapse of the heating season, because no one is going to set up the system and then repair it. The government has lost touch with reality, has written off several Naftogazu officials over a billion dollars -- 1 billion 200 -- that's more than the wages of miners, that's 1.1 billion dollars. In order to pay off the debt to miners, you are required to adopt Bill 8362. But the coalition is blocking it, and they won't do it. The only opportunity not only to pay off debt, but to provide people with decent wages is to support industry, to open new production, to engage in investment, and to review international contracts so that our producers can increase sales volumes to external markets. And you can do that, you just have to know how to work and want to work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-11-m0.u13	Thank you. I invite you to the floor of the People's Deputy of the Prince.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-11-m0.u14	Dear colleagues. Yesterday, my former journalists asked me all day in Parliament's towers about whether or not they'd shut down journalists' access here? Apparently, no one is going to shut down journalists. But how shortsighted our civil society is, and journalists, and we politicians, when on secondary issues we don't notice the essence of what's going on in the state. I have become an active member of the Parliamentary Committee of the Association of Ukraine-EU, co-chair of the Ukrainian-Polish Group, and I can see for myself how actively and effectively European countries are developing unique parts of nature, preserving the culture of how active European countries are working at the Alpine Convention, at the Carpathian Convention signed by Ukraine. And indeed, 15 years ago, Ukraine signed the Carpathian Convention together with other countries of the European Union, and this is one of the small directions that, unlike the Visegrad Four or the Trimor countries, we are united with this European Union. When we watch high mountain Carpathian regions develop our neighbours, we're just jealous of how roads are being built, how social infrastructure is being developed, tourism, how business is growing in the difficult regions of these countries, how cross-border cooperation is being managed, and we're comparing it with our situation, when really medical people, technical school workers can't get paid when transitions with European countries are not being built, when in fact there is education in high-level areas, we see how uncoordinated politics between our different ministries. And this is not just about the mountainous and high-rise regions of Ivano-Frankivsky, Cherniewsky, Lvivsky or Zakarpathian regions that I care about, working with the Carpathian project with the European countries. This applies to virtually all regions of Ukraine. We have embarked on a very effective and proper administrative reform by allowing voluntary community creation, but we will never succeed if we fail to carry out this reform in a timely manner throughout the country and respond to every village or every settlement in the way it exists in the future, in which community, in what way to be able, rather than uniting two poor villages, waiting for a single tribute from Kiev and without getting anything in return, because there will be a void in the future. We are extremely lacking in coordination between the ministries of education, health care, and regional policy, which should be a locomotive in all reforms, taking into account the characteristics of regional development. Today our daily bill on mountain and highlands is in order. As I can see, there aren't very many people in the room, maybe we won't be looking at this bill today. But we continue to work actively with the government, with the Ministry of Regional Policy, to make life in these regions, which unfortunately now gets worse than in Soviet times and other times, other occupations, but still better than in many other regions of Ukraine. I urge you not to look at the surface of some of the things that we're trying to pry in front of the cameras, but to think about how.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-11-m0.u15	Please let me finish for 30 seconds. Are you finished? Thank you. And I'd like to invite you to the floor of the People's Deputies.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-11-m0.u16	AndriyShipko, Dnipropetrovština, 35th constituency, Nikopol city, Pokrov city, Nicopolsk district Dear national MPs, dear voters! This week, the whole country will be celebrating the Day of Metallurgy and Mining. It's a celebration of strong people, brave people, people who hold our country's economy with their hard work, give it stability and faith in the future. And you and I have no right not to notice the difficulties of domestic industry. The branch that gives our country enormous revenue to the budget is 33 percent of the country's currency is given to mining and metallurgical enterprises. What about the state? Instead of supporting it, it increases tariffs for, for, for, for, for, for, for, for, for, for, for, for, for, for, for, for, for, for, for, for, for, for, for, for, for, for, for, for, for, for, for, for, for, In the last four years, tariffs have increased. Today, due to the high price of gas and low profitability, one of the largest chemical industries in the DniproAzota industry has been shut down. Our Rebirth MP group is calling on the Prime Minister to intervene immediately and restore the business. If we don't make real changes today, if we don't create conditions, the economy will not grow. What we see with you confirms one thing: there is no economic policy in the country, there is no industry support, and there is an advantage to import. The Rebirth Group has consistently supported the Ukrainian industry. As early as March, we introduced Bill 8145 to the Council for manufacturers. We need to rebuild, restore the work of the Ministry of Industrial Policy, develop a strategy for the development of mining, chemical, aerospace, engineering, because we can't reform the country without having a clear plan and a final goal. Otherwise, businesses will not develop, wages will not grow, and we will lose the capital of the country -- our people, the professionals who are going abroad today. Soon, no one will be working in Ukraine. We address the Head of the Supreme Council. Yesterday was an agrarian day, we all supported the agrarian issue together, supported the agrarians, supported quality and healthy produce for the Ukrainians. And we demand that there be industrial days in Parliament where we will consider legislation to support producers in Ukraine. And today, I call again to you, dear fellows, let us applaud the miners, the metallurgy, greet them with a professional holiday, wish them health, thank them for such hard and hard work. You have a low bow, well-respected metallurgists and miners, and a great honor from all over the country.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-11-m0.u17	Thank you. I invite you to speak to the people’s representative of Solovia.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-11-m0.u18	Yuri Solovay, 89 constituency, Gutzulščina, and Pocust. Dear colleagues, I have always spoken from this rostrum and will say that there are no irrelevant laws under consideration by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. But to my profound conviction, we need to be clear about priorities, and today, as for me, the priorities that we are considering do not match the question of Ukrainian society. Because today the demand of Ukrainian society is primarily about serious structural global and systemic economic reforms, which unfortunately we have not been able to carry out in the last four years. As deputy head of the Committee on Economic Policy and taking into account the experience of our immediate neighbours, such as Poland, Hungary or Georgia, I want to say that not so many economic reforms have been undertaken by these countries to make a very serious development. First of all, they were decentralization reforms, they were total privatization, it was the introduction of the land market, it was tax reform, and it was pension reform. The five reforms that were carried out in a timely and successful manner in our immediate neighbors allowed them to step up in their economic development. What do we have to do with these reforms in Ukraine today? Half of these five reforms have been implemented only by decentralization of power. As far as privatization is concerned, as with three and a half thousand enterprises, the moratorium on privatization remains. As far as tax reform is concerned, Ukraine’s Tax Act has not yet been considered in Parliament’s walls. As far as land reform is concerned. Unfortunately, the issue of the land market has never been resolved in the last four years in the parliament walls. As far as insurance is concerned. We have not even come close to resolving this issue in the walls of Parliament. The only reform that can be resolved in the near future is the pension reform, which is the introduction of a cumulative pension system, which I want to remind you that we have implemented since 1 January 2019. That is why I am addressing the leadership of the Supreme Council, the national deputies of Ukraine. Tomorrow, I hope that Bill 6677, which regulates the implementation of the mandatory accrual pension system, will stand in the order of the day. This is one of the key, global and systemic reforms that has allowed all developed countries to move forward not only in their pensions but also in their economic development. And I hope that tomorrow the Supreme Council of Ukraine will also be able to take this step and adopt Bill 6677, at least on the first reading, on the basis of the introduction of a mandatory accrual pension.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-11-m0.u19	Thank you. Welcome to the speech of the People's MP Skorik.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-11-m0.u20	Dear Madam Chairman, distinguished colleagues, respected citizens of Ukraine! Yesterday, I learned from the media that it turns out that our country this year refused to participate in the European Childhood Competition. The arguments for this were that the National Social Radio Company of Ukraine did not have enough funds to finance this competition. Ukraine has not paid an annual contribution to the European Language Union, has not allocated funds for the sampling tour, nor has it allocated any funds to the event. I believe that in this way the state in the person of its leaders has struck a powerful blow against the future of our talented children, has struck a powerful blow against the international image of Ukraine, in the European future of Ukraine. When from the rostrums, from different rostrums, the government, the president tells us that we have a country of economic growth that has solved a lot of problems, what exactly is going to be the cost of funding the authorities if there is no funding for this competition? Ukraine has been participating in this competition since 2006. In 2012, my landlady, Nadia Petrik, from Odessa, won this contest. For example, when the leaders of Naftogazu Ukraine receive a billion 200 prize, it is not clear why and, on the other hand, Parliament does not bring to its consideration Bill 8362, which provides for the payment of wages to miners, is also a powerful example of how the authorities refer to their citizens. You know, we've been scared for the last week by the fact that it's like the President is going to dissolve Parliament that scares us with the next election. So what I want to ask is what will the President do, and what will his faction tell its electorate? How will they report on their activities in the last four years? Who do they work for? I call on Parliament's leadership, the leadership of the state, those MPs who have any understanding of how the state should work, to come back face to face with people, and to start financing exactly the problems that people need, not your demands, in order to build their own pockets. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-11-m0.u21	Thank you. I invite you to the floor of the Romanov People's Deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-11-m0.u22	Dear colleagues, actually next week most of us are going to take a vacation, and I wanted to draw attention to whether the authorities have provided rest for their own Ukrainian citizens. The thing is, according to the latest research, about 80 percent of us Ukrainians don't even have the financial capacity to go somewhere for a vacation. Of those who stayed this year, most wanted to rest in Ukraine, they were patriots, and they wanted to develop the tourism industry of their own state. But the point is that today it is impossible to get tickets to popular tourist destinations, and the authorities have not provided such an opportunity, and Ukraine has lost millions of dollars because it is not developing its own tourism industry. If Ukrainians want to travel by road, they do not have the option. First of all, not every Ukrainian family has a car, and second of all, not every Ukrainian family with a car does not have the money to repair the Ukrainian roads. And another part of the Ukrainians who thought it was much easier to get to Turkey, Tunisia, to rest in Egypt, faced absolute chaos and collapse. You know, during May rest, during the rest of the Constitution Day, and even now, thousands of Ukrainians have remained at the airports of Turkey, Tunisia, Albania, Georgia. Why? Because they've become victims of rogue tour operators, they've become victims of unreliable airlines. But if you ask if this situation is new, no, it's not new. Literally last year, the same fraud scheme had already been dumped by some tourist operators, and when I asked the regulator -- the Ministry of Economics -- whether these rogue tour operators were dislicensed -- they weren't, they weren't, they weren't, they weren't, they weren't. And this pattern was repeated this year, only on a larger scale. If anyone is hurt, it's a thousand Ukrainians, one third of them are children. They stayed at airports without food, without basic information, when they could still fly out. So the state didn't protect its citizens. And now, if we talk about these ships that are being transported by Ukrainians for rest, they're being called "cowers" in the people. And the journalists found out what the average age was. 30 years is the average age of these airliners. And you know where you bought them, these chartered airlines? They were bought in Somalia, in Eritrea, in Nigeria, in Ethiopia, and now they're transporting our citizens, I repeat, one third of them are children.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-11-m0.u23	30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-11-m0.u24	So I urge Parliament to put the bill 8317 into order tomorrow, which will protect our citizens, our children and foreign tourists from unscrupulous tourism. And we cannot rest until we protect the rest of our citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-11-m0.u25	Thank you. And the closing statement is Illenko Andrey. He's giving the speech to Michael Golovkov. Please, Mr. Michael.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-11-m0.u26	Mikhail Golovko, "The All-Ukrainian Freedom Union." Respectful voters, respected Ukrainians, this state, the socio-economic state of our country, which today practically shows the looting of our nation, the looting of our state, that 60 percent of Ukrainians outside the poverty line are frightening everyone. The fact that Ukrainians do not see the prospect and the future, especially the young people who are leaving our country in a mass way, is that our government's policies are anti-State and anti-national. Unfortunately, Ukraine loses its competitive advantage primarily because of our energy weakness, because we have an unprotected energy supply that has led us to have energy resources that are unwarrantedly high, unwarranted, and price-sharp compared to our neighbors. Let us take the example. Poland, Romania, Hungary: The cost of gas is about $200 for their economy. There's 160 in Belarus. In the United States, 150 at all. We already have it sold for the population at 310. And they want $430 out of the fall -- that's 11,000 dollars for a thousand cubes. It is indeed a catastrophe, it is a genocide, it is a transformation of Ukraine into a raw commodity, it is the destruction of our entire industry and the closure of all factories. All neighbors build factories, and there they go, unfortunately, to earn money. It seems that this is a special genocide aimed at clearing Ukraine from the Ukrainians and finally selling all strategic enterprises and Ukrainian land. "Freedom" strongly condemns such actions. And we've proposed, and we've registered a number of laws, including for the gas of our own production to be sold to a self-sustaining population of $60 today. But they can't hear us. They can't hear us because they don't want to adopt an anti-oligarchy package of laws that would stimulate an economy that would take the economy out of the shadows and remove the effects of oligarchs on our nation. Instead, we see the cost of natural gas being reduced. Crushing is in debt, and today NAC Naftogaz has not given him 42 billion dollars. What I'm saying is, instead, NAC Naftogazu's leadership has allocated nearly one and a half billion dollars of space bonuses, 46 million dollars. Not even a dollar has been returned according to Stockholm Court rulings, not a cent has yet been returned, and prizes have been awarded, armed Cadillacs and so on. Of course it's robbery, it's criminals who willfully destroy our state, our economy. So the only way to get the Ukrainians back to Ukraine and bring the order here is for the nationalists to come to power. You see, in the neighborhood, in every country, nationalists in power: Poland, Hungary, Romania, Turkey, Erdogan. And there's national politics, there's protection of their own manufacturer, there's cheap loans to create a medium-sized business, there's national interests. Unfortunately, we don't have nationalists in power, we don't have a barrier and an oligarch who just thinks of robbing the Ukrainian state and the Ukrainian people. So Freedom calls for today's only salvation to come to power.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-11-m0.u27	30 seconds to complete. Okay, thanks. Please, 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-11-m0.u28	So today the way out and salvation for the Ukrainian state is to come to power by nationalists, there must be a nationalist government, a nationalist parliament and a nationalist president. Then we believe that we can adopt this anti-oligarchy package of laws, recover the looted funds from the offshore and really raise our economy. Thank you. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-11-m0.u29	First Deputy Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Irina Heratchenko, is invited to attend.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-11-m0.u30	Thank you, Mr. Head. Dear colleagues, I would like to draw your attention to one very interesting experience that our colleagues from the Opposition Block have already discussed on the Conciliation Council. Indeed, last week Ukraine was visited by the Minister of Interior of Colombia, Mr. Cristo, who first stressed the difference and complete difference between the Colombian internal conflict, the internal civil war, and the external aggression perpetrated by the Russian Federation against the sovereign Ukraine. But at the same time, dear colleagues, we're really in a mine platform, and then some of our faction colleagues are familiar with the incredibly interesting experience of transitional justice that was introduced in Colombia. And I think it's very important for us today to also study Croatia's experience and other countries as to how right after the demilitarization of today's Russian Federation of Donbass to have an inclusive dialogue with the Ukrainians who are there, and what responsibility should be borne by those fighters who are now under the control of the Feesbesbeniks and the Russian Federation to help Russia carry out the war against Ukraine. So, the Colombian experience of transitional justice is interesting in a few moments. First. The amnesty was attended by those who first admitted guilt, and this is the key moment of any new amnesty: to confess their guilt. Second, important moment. These people, who fall under amnesty, should not simply lay down their weapons but be assured that they would never again take up arms in their lives. And the third, very interesting aspect that I think would be useful, and we can take on your weapons, which is the mandatory payback for the victims, which is all the guerrillas they pay to the victims. And in Colombia, a single register of victims was created, which is very important, that those who have confessed to the crime, who have guaranteed this more non-arms, will get, according to transitional justice, from 5 to 8 years of actual punishment and special social work, and not just remain unpunished, instead of 20 to 30 years of those who committed serious crimes or have not confessed to their guilt. And that's why I think that in this informal mine platform that's been working for two years, thanks to the initiative, including the Head of the Supreme Council, under my coordination in Parliament, it's a great playground for us, all factions, to sit down and think about proposals for possible transitional justice. Because there really has to be an awareness on Donbasa for our citizens: what we consider to be the Ukrainians and victims of Russia of all those who today are victims of these circumstances. But those fighters, those.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-11-m0.u31	30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-11-m0.u32	But those fighters and separatists who were similarly involved in crime need to know that we are working on the areas under which responsibility will be required. But we're going to take into account the best experience that exists in the world today. That's the last of it. I would like to inform you once again, colleagues, that there is still no answer from the Russian Federation regarding the initiative of Ukraine, our willingness to hand over 36 Russians in order to do so. who committed crimes in Ukraine, in order to free Russia.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-11-m0.u33	Thank you. So, colleagues, the speeches by the national MPs are finished. I also want to report that there is a delegation of a parliamentary group of friendships of the Islamic Republic of Iran-Ukraine in Ukraine. Guests are now in a diplomatic bed. Let us welcome them, wish them a fruitful stay in Ukraine. [[Applause]] Welcome! And, colleagues, let's move on to the agenda. Let me remind you, as we agreed on the Conciliation Council, we have the first question of the appointment decree in the 18th year of the Supreme Council of Ukraine for the most talented young scientists (No.8418). First. I ask you to vote in favour of a summary ruling. Please. [[10:44:27]] Z-71 The decision is not taken. Let's look at it as a whole. And I invite you to report to the First Vice-Chairman of the Committee on Science and Education of Sperm Alexander Volodymyrovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-11-m0.u34	Dear Andrey Volodymyrovich, distinguished colleagues of the National Deputies! Since we have a full procedure, the time is right, there's a chance to speak, I want to go first to the young Ukrainians who can see today: and how many of the national MPs are in pain for our young people in general, it hurts not to go abroad, it hurts for her to have a future here. Every political power today has brought here national deputies, and we will see how this vote goes. That's 30 scholarships of two thousand dollars, that's funny what we're talking about right now. But this is a messaging of at least someone who is the name scholarships of the Supreme Council of Ukraine that we should vote with you in order for our young people, the most talented young people, to receive them. Now, I'm taking advantage or I'm going to say, look what kind of mess we're giving you. You and I have been decentralized. What do we see now? The city of Dnipro, here's the address. Seven schools in Dniepra were not given a regional order. So tell me, please, the economy says we don't have enough work hands. We're seeing migration processes when Poland, Slovakia, other countries are analyzing our young people, and we're carrying out reforms with you that allow the local authorities of Dnipra to close down seven vocational and technical schools. Is that work for other countries? Dear colleagues, there will be a vote today. So if we don't get 226 votes, that's what we're going to do to support these weak local government decisions, which says, "Why do we need these young people? Let him get out of this country." Then the question is, what are we working for? What reforms are we doing with you when this happens? Andrew Volodymyrovich, I'd like to address you. Well, of course, Irina Volodymyrna, I'm addressing you. I mean, I don't want to criticize anyone, but look, the problems of the future are always being considered either on Friday or Wednesday. Why? Because you and I put first -- power, power distribution, money, gas, oil and everything. And what happens next -- the question is, why are you doing this? We still have -- I'm talking to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine -- there's not a single person in the Cabinet of Ministers who's responsible for the development of human capital. Please tell me, we are responsible for everything: education, science, social issues, economic issues, and who in power is responsible for the balanced development of human capital in our country? Dear colleagues, this question is very important, it's a key question, because why really have 450 national deputies per country in which every year a million-and-a-half million people leave this country? Dear colleagues, I ask you to concentrate. Let's vote, that's two questions: 8418 and 8419. The first question is the name scholarships of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. That's 30 scholarships for 2,000 dollars. And we have to show young people that national MPs go to meetings, go to their jobs, vote, and think about what happens to our country in five, and 10, and 15 years. If we don't do this, we're going to have a two, and this two is both our responsibility and our political responsibility and our responsibility for the future. Dear colleagues, we vote in favour of 8418, we vote in favour of the future of our country. And the glory of Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-11-m0.u35	Thank you. Please remain on the rostrum, Your Honor. I'm asking my colleagues to sign up for a question to the reporter. Please, John Sporish, your question.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-11-m0.u36	Ivan Sporish, Peter Dusty Block, 15th District, Winnitzkin. Of course, this bill has, indeed, been in the order of the day of our session. And unfortunately, we are really stuck to these chairs today, and we are afraid that our young people will not change us. That's how I feel. So I think we should all unanimously support this decision. Because, well, it would seem, all the important questions are all important. But I think today all young people in Ukraine will look us in the eye. I think we should all support the bill. Because, just, really, as we said, 30, 30 people per 2,000 is really a drop in the sea. But if we have a conscience today, let's all come, let's vote. Let's vote for the end of the day to remove the issue of youth today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-11-m0.u37	Please, your answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-11-m0.u38	Thank you for your support.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-11-m0.u39	Yes, next question, Ivan Grigorovich Kirilenko. Please, Mr. Ivan.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-11-m0.u40	Dear Irina Volodymyrna, I have both the request and the offer to you personally. You know how painful it is to watch and listen. July on the calendar is a scholarship for 2017. The Cabinet of Ministers has been paying off their scholarships since January 1st, the President's are paying off, and the Supreme Council's scholarships today, look at 120 deputies in the Chamber. Irina Volodymyrna, put it to a rating vote and let's stop the discussion. We will fail today a determination that will make it a shame to look into the eyes of not only the young — a shame to look into the mirror. What are we doing?Oh, my God! Friends, absolutely right head of the committee who said it was. Well, that's the future. We've lived to the future that the scholarship proposal is less than the Supreme Council's scholarship. Friends, young people fleeing from Ukraine, responds with their feet! Guys, let's stop this madness. Irina Volodymyrna, put the ratings vote to tomorrow, please! July. I'm ashamed.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-11-m0.u41	Thank you. I had a line. I'll give you an answer. And then I'll give Mr. Singer's word. Dear colleagues, I am the optimist that now the MPs will break through the blocked Gruszewski -- and we will vote positively on our very important decision. And I agree that we have to accept it. It will be accepted. Thank you for your input. Please, Mr. Spivakowski, give me your word.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-11-m0.u42	Dear colleagues, I would like to remind you that the Committee of the Supreme Council, our Committee on Science and Education, unanimously voted in favour of this decision. What's more, it's going to be like an offer: we have to raise these name scholarships. Two thousand -- that doesn't match today's situation. So let's vote here, and we'll make appropriate proposals for at least an increase to 10,000 dollars in nominal scholarships. Well, the person who receives foreign grants gets 500 euros, so he goes there, we give. Well, as far as it goes, it's 60-65 euros. That's why we should be with you, we, the Supreme Council of Ukraine, have a parliamentary form of government, and we should make sure that our scholarships correspond to today's state of affairs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-11-m0.u43	Thank you. And please have a question from the national deputy Eutushka.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-11-m0.u44	Sergeyevtushka, the "Fatherland" faction. First of all, I want to support my colleague by the faction of Ivan Grigorovovich Kirilenko and still ask you, Irina Volodymyryn, to put the ratings on the vote itself, because the huge risk that we are now going to be able to roll down and not vote on the decision, and it is very important. Alexander Volodymyrovich, you have a question, too. I'll say we support the Fatherland faction, your proposals to increase scholarships for gifted young people. But I want to ask you this. Are you having discussions with the Youth Policy Committee about how not only in science, there, education improves the financial situation of our children, but also, as in rural villages, rural areas, in united communities, allowing children to develop because we see closed clubs, we see a number of other problems? Perhaps you should hold a meeting together. Please give me an answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-11-m0.u45	Thank you for asking. In my speech, I said the following thing. Look, we have young people, which is the future and the overall balanced development of human capital, no one in general is strategically engaged. We do education, science, youth policy, sports, and so on. There Mr. Reva deals with social issues. Minfin is still involved in economics and so forth. We need to understand that either this function of human capital development needs to be given to the Committee on Science and Education, and accordingly, the Cabinet should have a Vice Prime Minister, who is specifically responsible. And then we can ask the question: How can 70 percent of the young graduates leave the Ukraine? Today, no one is responsible for the development of Ukraine. So that's what's happening right now, so nobody's interested. In fact, let's look at our hall -- and we understand how our national MPs refer to young people, to our future, because Wednesday is not a priority day.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-11-m0.u46	Thank you, Your Honor. The questions to you have come to an end. I'm asking you to go back to work. Dear colleagues, we don't have a co-conspirator, because this is the ruling of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. And I'm asking you to sign up for her faction discussion right now. Please. Please, RuslanDemczak, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-11-m0.u47	Dear colleagues, indeed, it is a very necessary decision, I fear that there will be no votes. But I'd also like to say here under the transcript. We passed Bill 6027-d on amending some of the Ukrainian legislative acts on the restoration of credit and where we increased the resources of the Court of Auditors. I'd like to read it under the transcript. This bill is to be supplemented by chapter III, paragraph 1, "The Final Positions" with the words: "Except for chapter I, paragraph 10, which is in effect from the day following the date of publication of this law." Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-11-m0.u48	Thank you for the position expressed at the Peter Dusty Block. And please, Mr. Yemeni, National Deputy Leonid Yemen will take the position of the People's Front.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-11-m0.u49	Thank you. Dear colleagues, in my personal full support for this bill, I would like to give the floor to the faction of Taras Kremen.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-11-m0.u50	Thank you, colleagues, for your flexibility. Although the faction’s position can be expressed today and more thoroughly. Please. Oh, Taras the Kremlin, Lord, I've been distracted. Excuse me, Mr. Taras. I'm sorry, Your Honor, your word.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-11-m0.u51	Dear colleagues! Taras Kremen, People's Front. You know, it's kind of a strange circumstance: as soon as we're considering bills to support talented young people, young scientists, or discussing education reform, it's either Wednesday or Friday. And unfortunately, we find the reason why, if someone didn't block the street, someone went somewhere. It seems to me that in those days and this year, when we are extremely interested in quality educational reforms, we should take as much of the day work as possible to our Parliament and to the order of the day of our Ukrainian state. We have no right not to notice everything that is happening not only in Ukraine with our young people but from the consequences of our basic inactivity in education policy. So I hope that, as long as we look at this draft decision fully, our colleagues will come back, and we will be able to give our young people a concrete answer to how interested we are in change. From me, I'm going to say that there's an external independent evaluation going on today for the undergraduate. This is an unprecedented step in recent years to update the educational management system. And I hope that these and many other important steps, and this is about increasing the scholarship fund, and this is also about increasing the salaries of academic and pedagogical workers in the higher education system, it's about finding sources to finance vocational education institutions, it's a professional advantage of education and that kind of thing, we can actually modernize our Ukraine. Thank you. The faction will vote in favour.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-11-m0.u52	Thank you for the position expressed by the People's Front faction. And please, Anna Romanova, who represents the position of the Self-Help faction. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-11-m0.u53	Friends, the Self-Help Association has always supported and supported all the bills, all the initiatives that support talented young people. I just want to remind you that recently, the Ukrainian ValentineFreck has won a gold medal at the world's largest young inventors' competition in New York. What can the State give such talented children? We've put so much importance on Wednesday, you might say, a sign of the state's respect for such talented children. And I'm very afraid, I'm worried that there won't even be enough voices. Besides, here we are discussing these invention scholarships for inventors who are wanted in all of Google's offices, other powerful giant companies. How much is this bonus? This bonus is 2,000 dollars a month. So now, as a state, we're talking to these inventors on Wednesday, when there are no votes, about 2,000 dollars a month. I think something's going to change in the country when we talk about having such talented children in the state provide apartments, at least. And secondly, if we talk about this not on Wednesday, but at least on Thursday, when there are voices. "The self-help union requires a fundamental transformation of the government's policies towards a talented young generation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-11-m0.u54	Thank you, Mrs. Anna. And we invite you to John Grigorovitch Kirilenko, who represents the position of the Fatherland faction on the decision under discussion. Please, Your Honor, Mr. Kirilenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-11-m0.u55	Dear Irina Volodymyrna! Dear colleagues! Seven years ago, I witnessed documentary footage when one of the leaders of the then neighboring state, and now the aggressor states, visited the United States and flew, not to Washington, but to Silicon Valley. His speech is shown, and he begins to speak up with encouragement, and the translators are likewise eager to translate. There's a laugh in the hall. He continues to speak, not paying attention, in the laughing room. When they found out what the hall was laughing at, and the many thousands of halls were completely filled with boys and girls of Slavonic origin who knew the language well. Where am I leading? A few days later, I read in our media that 25,000 young scientists left Ukraine in the previous year. Friends, one of the presidents of the United States of America recently said, "We finance science not because we're rich, but because we finance science." Friends, the rest of the principle is a state that goes nowhere. The financing of Ukrainian science is equal to the financing of the European Union’s Central University. We're passing the Science and Technology Act a few years ago, and with tears in our eyes, we're applauding, really, the reformist law that defines Ukraine as a country that's putting scientific and technological progress at the forefront. The next day, a budget is put into the hall, and then Finance Minister Jaresko does not leave a stone on the stone from our law. The Jaresco case lives and wins. Unfortunately, today in this room and we're acting like this, not just other branches of power, but our branch of authority, starting with the decision, was put on the day that we now have 120 deputies in the hall. Friends, let's not point your finger at someone's fault, whether it's Chiares or someone else's. We're all together. Irina Volodymyrna, I ask you once again, if we in disgracefully fail a decree where 2,000 dollars, July, we will then return to the ruling under the Rules, to the great regret of September months, and the year is over, what do they think of us as they look at us? I'm asking you, let's put the vote to tomorrow, we'll talk today, and tomorrow we'll vote, because from shame, children are nowhere to be seen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-11-m0.u56	Thank you. Unfortunately, there is no such regulatory norm -- the postponement of voting to another day, so I fully agree with you about the rudeness of walking the work of the members of the Supreme Council. And I call upon all factions, factions, faction leaders, to turn to the parties, to the factions, to come to the workplace. Please, Andrew Lozov, present the position of the Radical Party, factions, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-11-m0.u57	Andrey Lozovy, Radical Party of Lazka. Of course, our team supports this draft decision, but, less than that, it's a drop in the sea from what we have to do. Do you know what kind of scholarship a student has now? A child came from the village, or she came, wants to learn -- and she has to live for a scholarship of 1 thousand 100 dollars, or 1 thousand 300, raised if she learns well. Why don't the student live for that money? He can't. And he's going to Poland to earn money, instead of learning with talent, and then pick up and develop his country. Did the state give him his first job? No, it's not. What future does this student have? Going to the market, going to work again. And our team, the Iron, Oleg Lalashka, insists on this -- this is one of the priorities of the state -- giving young Ukrainians the right to learn, to guarantee them a job, to pay them a decent salary, to give them confidence in tomorrow, not the way it is today. There was Alexander Volodymyrovich when he reported, and most of his colleagues mentioned a problem that might not be sufficient physically in the hall and would be a disgrace. Of course, it's shameful. But please tell me, isn't Wednesday the problem? Maybe the problem is people don't go to work. A teacher who won't go to a lecture today or a seminar, he'll get some sanctions, he might not get a salary. A student who doesn't come for a couple or an exam, maybe it's not like he doesn't get a scholarship, he can fly out. It turns out that the parliamentary majority is worse than the teacher and worse than the student, unlike our team that goes to work on Wednesday and Friday and every day serves the Ukrainian people. And now for the moment. How do our nation view a student, a young man in general? We have a beautiful youth wing of the Radical Party, which Igor Bielov heads, where thousands of students all over the country. These young people are defending the interests of Ukrainians, fighting total corruption of "The Stork" and conducting peaceful, stressed, peaceful actions. What does today’s authority, the present system of things, do? He's bringing criminal cases against these young people, which we learned yesterday. It's a disgrace, and don't be miserable until it's quiet. Protecting a student, protecting education, protecting Ukrainian youth means protecting Ukraine. The glory of the nation!
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-11-m0.u58	Thank you for the position presented. I want to go to the Opposition Block, to the MPs, are they still willing to join the debate? Please, a national MP. Excuse me? And from the deputies we're going to be talking about right now, and we're going to be talking about factions and groups, and I'm going to make it clear that there's no statement that anyone has just been able to log in. Please present the position of the Rebirth Group. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-11-m0.u59	Dear National Deputies! Dear Ukrainians! What are we talking about? We've all heard performances here in this rostrum. We all support this decision. It's not a bill, it's a decree, we just have to take and vote. Madam Chairman, Irina, put to the vote. Because, unfortunately, there are very few people in the room, and that's the work that we can do and that's said by every national MP, every faction, that's really, really the right thing to do: support our young people. And not only do we support this decision, we support all the decisions that are going to support and develop our young people, so that the country develops, so that the scholarships are, in fact, not the 2,000 bracelets that we've assigned, but 10,000, as you said, we support that, too. But I don't see voices in the hall, and, really, sadness. I get sad in my soul. I want to support young people and I want this question, well, it's a small question, you can bring it out on Thursday, and we'll have it resolved in five minutes, as well as the next questions that are coming today. Put it to a vote, and we'll see what support there is in this room today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-11-m0.u60	Thank you. Dear colleagues, now is the time to discuss the decision that we are about to make with the Ukrainian National Deputies. I'm asking you to sign up. We're going to have 15 minutes, and, uh, all those who want to join the debate, I'm asking you to sign up. Please, National Deputy Lensky is invited to speak. It's an order. Please pass the word to Mrs. Zarzko. I'd like to have a word with you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-11-m0.u61	ValeriaZarenko, Oleg Lachka Radical Party. Good afternoon, citizens of Ukraine! Good afternoon, dear fellows! I'm very pleased that today there's a bill that's as important as helping students to get a scholarship because students are our future. As Otto von Bismarck once said, those who do not build schools will build prisons. Sadly, we are in the same position now, for not everyone understands the importance of this step. We don't understand that our young people are going abroad, that we don't see our own future as a country as a state. This question is overwhelming. The faction of the Radical Party of Oleg Láška supports all the bills that apply to young people, support for students, support for education, and this bill will not be an exception. We want people to understand that they can see their future in this country. And these are students, these are people of the most productive age who can rebuild the economy of their own country, who can become very useful to the country, citizens who can get quality education that can work for the benefit of our state, make it stronger, rebuild its economy and industry by rebuilding science. And we, as national deputies, have to support them in this, give talented young people the opportunity to learn, not think they'll eat when they're students, or go for a higher scholarship, where they give it. Clearly, European values are the support of young people, it's the support of education, it's the support of our future. And the Radical Party faction unanimously supports this bill, as well as all the bills that will enable Ukraine to become stronger, to become richer, to allow every Ukrainian to feel decent in his own country, to have a decent job, to earn a decent salary, to see his children's future in his own country. We're here to make all of this happen in the shortest time that it's all happening today. As for our colleagues, who unfortunately didn't come to the session room today, I want to say that it's very, very important to be honest and accountable to our constituents, as the members of the Radical Party do. We are always present at meetings, and we are always ready to vote and support all the bills for the benefit of our country and for our young people. This is what we will do today. I call upon all factions to join and vote in favour of this bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-11-m0.u62	Thank you, colleagues. And we invite you to the words of the national deputy Vladislav Dove. Please, Mr. Vladislav. Please, it's Vladislav Dove's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-11-m0.u63	Thank you, Your Honor. Vladislav Dove, 197th constituency, Cherkashina. You know, I'm ashamed of myself more than I've ever been in my life today, because when there's lobbying in the session room, political stuff, the question of some sort of assignment, there's people's deputies coming into this session room for the first time and for the last time. And now we're looking at the very right thing: scholarships for gifted young people, scholarships for the Supreme Council, but there aren't enough people in the session room to make a positive decision, namely, 226 votes. But the other thing that's happening right now is the further destruction of the institutional Supreme Council as a state institution, because right now we're looking at this bill in full procedure, although, in large account, it doesn't need a full procedure at all. And this is exactly the case where we have to deal with this issue under a reduced procedure, as required by the Ukrainian Act on Rules of Procedure of the Supreme Council. But it's a shame that we're considering some very important issues under a reduced procedure, where there's a lot of articles in the bill, just so that there's really no opportunity to speak. And now there's the possibility that we can speak to everyone completely, to everyone who wants, even though this question doesn't need any discussion at all, it's consolidating. And this is where they have to give up the entire constitutional composition of the Supreme Council on these issues. That's why, Your Honor Chairman, I'm asking you not to put that question to rest. We have July of the month, this is the issue of scholarships for gifted young people for 2017. Unfortunately, we cannot address this issue and continue to postpone voting on any other day. The only possible way for you, Madam Chairman, under the Rules of Procedure Act, is to close the session in the morning, and we will move to work on committees, on committees. Because, unfortunately, there will be no positive vote at all today. Today is going to be a complete procedure for all the bills, because there are no 150 votes for it, because that's a procedural question. And tomorrow we will vote first, as required by the Supreme Council Rules. Let's not be ashamed of ourselves. Let's not destroy the institutional government body of the Supreme Council in the first place. Let's show that we're an institutional organ, not, sorry, this shame throughout the country to show that we're looking at this issue in full procedure. Although we should have looked at it a long time ago and considered the issue of scholarships in 2018, not 2017. Thank you, Madam Chairman. I'm asking you to close the morning session and vote on this matter tomorrow morning.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-11-m0.u64	Thank you. The Rules do not allow the head of the Baruchs to close the meetings. And that's the first one. The other one. The Ukrainian electorate is never in his life. [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear colleagues! Those in the hall, please, let us not compete with you in our vocal cords, who will speak louder. But I agree with all the speakers that there has to be some respect for my job. And I encourage colleagues who may now be watching "The Council" or listening on the radio to come back to work. Because it is unacceptable to appeal to students to vote now, during election races, but at the same time not to come to work to support Parliament's decision to grant scholarships. Please, from the non-fractional National Deputy Shevchenko gives the floor to his colleague to the distinguished Mrs. Konstankevich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-11-m0.u65	Irina Konstankevich, 23th constituency, non-factional. Madam Chairman, distinguished national MPs! I am in solidarity with those who express their emotions with feelings of resentment, shame. I'd like to say that we're all now in the theater of absurdity. And we are actors of this theater of absurdity. We're talking about obvious things. We're discussing scholarships for a few dozen of the most talented students. We're discussing scholarships for the most talented scientists. This is clear and obvious to all of us. But the attitude of both the deputies and the attitude of all of us as to how this is happening is evidenced by the fact that we have advocated both questions and education and science. And I want to point out that, in fact, this propaganda has been observed lately not only to students, to scientists, to higher education, because in this row, we want to remember the size of our teachers' salaries as well. Is a salary of 5,000 to 7,000 worth of pay to a professor at the University of Ukraine? There is also a marginalization of higher education and science in Ukraine as a whole. So what are we waiting for in the near future? A debilitated society, illiteracy, and many other negative processes await us in the next 5 or 10 years. So, Madam Chairman, I'm addressing you as well: take the responsible decision and close this job, because it's not a job, it's a theater of absurdity. And when I talk about what the solution is, I want to point out that the Ukrainian Patriot Union Party has registered more than a dozen educational bills, and none of them have been in the Hall. These are bills that apply: both scholarships, and salaries to teachers, and to professors, and to professors, and to professional higher education, but they're all in the domes of the Supreme Council. So you have to decide something, not simulate work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-11-m0.u66	Please make the next statement. National MP Ivan Sporish. Please, Mr. Ivan.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-11-m0.u67	Ivan Sporish, 15th District, Winnitzkin, Peter Dusty Block. Ladies and gentlemen of the national council, your honor's presiding officer! Of course, we already have an example when we, along with you, collapsed the Supreme Council decree, where we were to reward 10 prospective young people. Young people in Ukraine, it's a matter of developing parliamentaryism and local self-government. And we're two months ago, and we haven't given up the opportunity to have these 10 young children get a total bonus for these 8,000. I count that, in fact, there are very few people in the hall today. But as the head of the family’s subcommittee, the youth policy, and the child, it will be very common for us to fail again today. Yes, we understand very well that everyone is now writing that we're in traffic because we can't make it through Europlums. Let's leave the cars and walk here for 10 to 15 minutes and vote in favour. And today, it's all over again for these 30 young scientists who have to get 2,000 of all these scholarships. And if we take it down today, it's going to be very lunchy. So, I think we should get together today, not take the decision, but vote anyway. I think there's going to be votes today, there's going to be votes today, there's going to be national MPs coming in today, and we're going to show the face that we're going through, we're going to be dealing with young people, and we want these scholarships given to young people. Because we're not just talking about, we're talking about scientists, we're talking about young people, we're saying that the issues that our committee was considering, the decision, it's every session of the district council of each area defined this youth, it's every session of these 10 young people who deserve this scholarship or the help of 8,000 bracelets. But. Along with that, we see that we have not voted and that this issue has been put to rest. So I ask very much that we gather around this decision and vote in favour. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-11-m0.u68	Thank you for your position. I invite Yuri Solovia. Please, my dear colleague.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-11-m0.u69	Yuri Solovay, 89 constituency, Gutzulščina, and Pocust. Dear colleagues! Respectable Ukrainian Society! We often hear from this rostrum that the largest capital of Ukraine is either Ukrainian black or Ukrainian forest or Ukrainian coal. But. Or any other useful fossils. But to my profound belief, the largest and most valuable Ukrainian capital is Ukrainian people, Ukrainian youth and Ukrainian intelligence. You know, a lot of people say that it's bad when Ukrainian kids go abroad to study at the best universities in the world. And I don't see anything wrong with that. I see the bad in another. Sadly, these Ukrainian children who have received a better world education do not work for the Ukrainian State. I see a bad practice that, unfortunately, has been going on for the last four years: that Ukrainians don't work in the Ukrainian government, that the biggest Ukrainian enterprises today are, well, for example, Naftogaz Ukraine: most foreigners today make up the oversight board. Crohnaftu today -- I'm talking about strategic enterprises -- is led by a foreigner, a foreigner leads a foreigner, an expert commission to create an anti-corruption court leads. Most make up foreigners. These are the signals that the Ukrainian authorities are giving today to the better Ukrainian children who are getting education in the best universities in the world. So if we want to talk about what needs to be done for the development of our state, for the development of our education, we need to do everything we can to get the best Ukrainian graduates from around the world, in the public sector, in the state government, in the state-owned enterprises, to stop the practice of involving foreigners once and for all. This will be the best signal for Ukrainian children to learn and gain and work for the Ukrainian State. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-11-m0.u70	Thank you. And please welcome to the floor the national deputy John Rybak. They'll come out of the place. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-11-m0.u71	202 constituency, Kitzmanski, Viżenski, Putilski, Stóžinetski district of Cherniewec region. I have deliberately named all four parts of my constituency because today we are considering supporting talented young, talented children. In my constituency, more than 180 schools, schools that are in urgent need of support today. As part of the development of a new Ukrainian school, they don't have a material and technical base, and today there's no proper support for a learning process that will start on September 1. Moreover, there is no possibility of reaching these schools after the last flood of last week. In the Chernobyl area, some 300 million dollars were damaged by natural disasters. And here I'm talking more to the government about supporting the Chernobyl area and restoring the post-disaster situation. Regarding the decision that we are considering, I want to say the following. In the hall. I have two suggestions. The first is to propose and demand more from those national MPs who are not in the room, today's wage is to give to children, talented children, and not to return to that question. Because just an hour of work, when we're looking at this draft decree, costs the state a lot more than the 60,000 dollars we're talking about right now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-11-m0.u72	Thank you for the offer. Dear colleagues, the Opposition Block complains that I didn't speak very loudly, and they haven't heard us call them to participate in the faction discussion. Please, three minutes. And then we'll make decisions. Please, Mr. Alexander.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-11-m0.u73	Thank you. Thank you, ma'am. First of all, I wanted to address young Ukrainian citizens, all young people, who are, indeed, the future of our country. And I am saddened to see how a day for the Supreme Council of Ukraine is being considered on Wednesday, unproductive, to say the least. There are a lot of complaints from coalition factions that the lack of education support, the lack of funding, is financed by the residual principle. By the way, that's what all the factions that once signed the treaty on the creation of a European country have been talking about. But I have one question. Would you be able to resolve these questions? These issues are not essential to support young people; they are a point decision, not even of a systemic nature, when considering more important financial instruments, such as when considering the State Budget Bill. So the presidential factions are saying, let's give the deputy's salary to these people. We don't mind that. Where's your coalition? Why aren't they making decisions today? I understand that the more important question for you about the formation of the Central Electoral Commission is, which you will be considering tomorrow, I understand, a more important question for you than the holding of elections in order to join the Supreme Council. Let's not lie to each other, you don't have anything to do with young people. If it were up to you, you'd put the bills on Tuesday at least, or Thursday, or at least voted on them, it's only 2,000 dollars per month for each person. Instead of solving your financial problems in the districts when voting on the State Budget Act, you would easily include the issues mentioned. Why cheat on each other? That is why, of course, this bill needs to be supported. I'm more confident than that because there's no coalition that says that the coalition is, we can't find the votes for the project, the support is that there's been a repeated violation of the Rules. So I'll probably advise the chairman of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, if he doesn't get the votes, not to close the session, this morning's session, but to move, first of all, the bill to four, and hopefully we'll vote on it, these two orders. But I would like to point out that we need to go in a complex way before solving the issue of education. When the coalition voted in favour of the U.K. State Budget Act, why didn't they say that we were dropping out of vocational education? This is not an avant-garde of scientific thinking, but even so, the people mentioned are deprived of the last opportunity to gain a profession. Therefore, these issues need to be addressed under Ukraine's law, the review of Ukraine's State Budget Act, and we need to review the educational reform that we are currently considering. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-11-m0.u74	Thank you. Please, Mr. Singerowski is invited to the closing statement. Dear colleagues, we very much ask to return to the session hall, because in three minutes there will be a vote in favour of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's decision on scholarships to talented young people. Please, Mr. Singerkowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-11-m0.u75	Dear colleagues! I think everyone knows what a lacmus paper is. And everybody knows the three colors that they give, you know what they define. So what I'm saying is, and I want to introduce the concept of the lamus moment of time that's happening for the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Some of my colleagues are leaving the room now, they're showing the color he's going to get when people vote for them. I'm reminding you that if it's acid, it's going to be red. Red for those national deputies who today have not found time to come to this hall and vote for the young people of Ukraine. I want to remind you. I want to remind everyone, I understand it's a personal responsibility today, it's not a political issue. I want to remind you, let's not play the political card, this is the question of the attitude of every national MP to. I want to remind you again. Come on, we're not interrupting you. It is the political question of each national MP and his responsibility for how he votes. And it's going to get the color that you want to get. I want, honourable colleagues, taking advantage of opportunities, honourable colleagues, let's change our attitude towards our future, because there will be no young people -- there will be no future Ukraine. That's why I'm calling on you, Andry Volodymyrovich, to publish the results of this vote today on this issue in the Voice of Ukraine, so that our voters will know which of the national deputies will find time for the future, for the young, and who thinks Wednesday is a non-working day and not come to vote. Dear colleagues, I urge all of you to make a decision today, it is very important. And once again, I'm going to the Environment once again: vote and you show that you're also ready to vote for this decision. Thank you all. To young Ukraine, to the future!
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-11-m0.u76	Thank you. So, colleagues, the discussion is over. I'm asking everyone to come to the hall. I ask the factions to invite all the deputies to the hall. The faction secretariat, too. The Secretary of the Supreme Council, please invite the deputies to the Hall. I'll give you a line. In a minute, there'll be a vote. Everyone, please come into the hall. Please, Igorshurma, one minute, line.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-11-m0.u77	I'd like to put you back in history a little bit. Would you please say the following: a low level of scholarship that allows you to live, five years ago? No, it's not. It came about now. Let us be consolidated, without personal appeal today to take and vote. Like they just said, "We're going to the Opposition Block to vote." Our representative spoke and said, "We support, and now for you, Alaverdas, we turn to your political power and to those who join the coalition, and there are 5 of them: vote in favour of correcting the situation that you have led to in the country. And today you will see who is more in the hall — you, the audience, or the negative. And yours is, you know, the youthful passion when you talk about what you're going through for miners. Vote for the payout, then we'll do the same thing with you. We vote yes.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-11-m0.u78	So, colleagues, I see the national MPs are still coming in. Please take up jobs. Colleagues from beds, so we'll count each voice. Igor! Please come into the colleague’s room. I'm asking everyone to take up jobs. Please come into the hall. Please see who's not around and invite me to the hall. We're moving on to making a decision. And I'm putting to the vote the draft Order on Assignment in 2018 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's nominee scholarships for the most talented young scientists (No. 8418) on the basis and overall of the committee's proposal. Colleagues, carefully, each voice has a weight, and we will support young scholars. Please vote and please support. Let's all consulate the hall. Vote, please support, please vote, vote. [[11:35:54]] For-200 Now, come on, colleagues. Please invite the deputies to the hall. Invite the deputies to the hall. I'll read the factions. Peter Poshenko Block 61, People's Front 58, Opposition Block 18, Self-Help 11, Radical Party 17, Father's Party 9, People's Will 0, Rebirth Party 4, non-fractional 22. Colleagues, let's invite everyone into the hall. I'm told there's a part of it at an international meeting. Let's have an international meeting now. We'll invite them into the hall. They're meeting with the Iranian delegation, and they're about to be invited to the hall. Colleagues, give me a minute. Look who's not around. I also ask the Aparatu staff to explain where the meeting is and where there is an international meeting and to invite the National Deputies to the Hall. I'm told there's an international meeting on the third floor. Just let them know there's a vote in the room. And I ask the factions to look in the towers who haven't come in yet and invite them. So please don't come out of the hall right now, but go into the hall. So, colleagues, I'd like you to take your jobs, and invite me to the hall. Heads of factions, please work in the hall. People's deputies are coming up, please, with columns and columns going to the hall. Let's go, let's go, let's go. They're asking for 30 seconds. Colleagues are young scientists who have long awaited the decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. This is a question that will consolidate the entire room. Please come in. People's deputies are coming in. Let us unite and be able to support both. Please, now 30 seconds, John Kirilenko, while the MPs are at it. They've asked for 30 seconds. Do not leave the hall, but go into the hall. Please, Ivan Kirilenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-11-m0.u79	Dear Andrew Volodymyrovich, I believe in your talent that we will now have voices. And I very much suggest that the next decision is exactly the same, without discussing to vote on the next one. We've actually discussed everything. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-11-m0.u80	That's what we're gonna do. So, colleagues, prepare for the vote. And once again, every voice is going to have weight. I'll put the decision back on the vote first and then put it to a vote. Heads of factions, please ask the deputies to take up their jobs. Please do not resolve political issues during the vote, but take up jobs. So I'm voting on the proposal to go back to the draft Appointment Order 2018 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine for the most talented young scientists. — No. 8418. Please vote for return, colleagues, every vote. We vote carefully for the return. Please be supportive. Please vote. Let's vote, colleagues. Please be supportive. [[11:40:54]] For 218. We didn't make it. I can see I didn't make it to Mustafa. And, colleagues, someone voted "against," apparently by accident. Someone voted "against," apparently by accident. Guys, I'm gonna put it back on. Please come into the hall. We don't have enough votes. Come in, please, colleagues. I'll read the factions so you can see and see. Turn on the factions. Peter Poshenko's Block – 77, People's Front – 59, Opposition Block – 14, Self-Help – 12, Radical Party – 18, Father's Party – 10, Will of the People – 1, Rebirth Party – 4 and non-fractional – 23. Please, colleagues, come into the hall. And I want to emphasize, someone voted "against," obviously, by mistake. Be more careful when voting in such determining ballots. So I'm asking everyone to take up jobs. I would like everyone to take up their jobs and vote in favour of returning to the draft Order on the appointment of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's name scholarships for the most talented young scientists. Please, colleagues, please vote and please support. Let us vote in a consolidated and responsible way for the return. Please vote. Please be supportive. Vote, colleagues, every voice. Let us support young scholars. Let's vote, colleagues. Please be supportive. Vote. [[11:42:38]] For 219 Seven votes, seven votes. Let's get those seven votes together, colleagues. [[B in m in s a l in]] No, it's impossible tomorrow, we have to now, it's seven votes. Colleagues, don't leave the hall. I ask the secretariat to report again on the voting. [[B in m in s a l in]] Please, colleagues, don't leave the hall right now. The MPs will be here any minute. Please, Danchenko. Siewakovsky. Siewakovsky, please, 1 minute. Siewakovsky. Colleagues, right now I'm asking everyone not to leave the hall. They're gonna call the deputies. Don't leave the hall, on the contrary, look who's gone, and invite me. Head of the Sperm Committee, Alexander Sperm, 1 minute. And I ask the factions to invite the deputies to the hall. Please, Mr. Spiowakovsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-11-m0.u81	Thank you. Dear colleagues, well, we have shown great potential, and many national deputies have entered the hall. Dear colleagues, we have the opportunity to appease this situation, and more so, we see other national MPs entering the hall. Let's vote, we have seven votes left. I refer once again to all political forces, to all political forces without exception: there is no political subtext here. Dear colleagues, this is a question either just the President, or only the Cabinet decides students, and the Supreme Council stays away. If so, we ourselves show that we are unable to vote for young people in Ukraine. Let's focus. Let us consulate for the future of Ukraine, for the sake of our young people. And the glory of Ukraine! I hope we all vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-11-m0.u82	Thank you. So someone just left. Call me, colleagues. As soon as someone got out, Krivenko went to call the national deputies from the towers. Please come into the hall, I'll be right back. Look, he just came out. Mrs. Olena, call who's out of the hall. Please take your jobs, go back to the hall. So I'm betting on the return. Please take up jobs. Helen, call who it is. Call in the vote. Let all the debates stop. And, colleagues, was anyone against it? Support me, colleagues, it was obviously a mistake. So I'm voting on the proposal to go back to Project Order 8418 for prizes for the most talented young scientists. Let's, every vote, vote hard for the return. Please vote. I'd like your support, colleagues. Every voice, please stand by. Vote. Let's vote, colleagues. We support everyone together. We vote for young scientists. Please be supportive. [[11:45:59]] For 230 We're back. Attention! Don't leave the hall now. I'm voting on the draft regulation 8418 as a whole. Let's vote, colleagues, let's support young scientists. If you'll excuse me, I'd like to vote. Each voice has a weight. Vote. Please be supportive. Vote. [[11:46:31]] For 232 It's been decided. Attention, colleagues! The next decision is identical. Next. Draft Decision on the award of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to the most talented young scientists in the field of fundamental and applied research (8419). First vote. First vote in favour of the summary procedure, we vote. Colleagues, two votes, hold on for five minutes. The first one is for short. Vote. Please be supportive. [[11:47:17]] For-167 We've got it. Don't come out. We're already voting. Don't leave! Next. Siewakovsky. So, Singerkowski. I'm making a report. The draft decision is identical to the previous decision. And I ask him to be supported, and to vote on the basis as a whole. And I'm voting on the draft regulation 8419 as a basis and as a whole. Please vote, please support. Please vote, please support. Every voice. Please be supportive. I made a report, and after my report, we're voting. [[11:48:00]] For 208 My colleagues, please, I'll re-arrange. Colleagues, they didn't get all worked up. I'm asking you to mobilize. Don't leave the hall. Dear colleagues, I ask you the first question: To return to Project Order 8419. I ask you to vote and please support me, colleagues. Please be supportive. Every voice. Mr. Husak, please vote back to 8419. Let's vote, colleagues. Mr. Yuri, every voice. Please be supportive. For young scientists, please support. Vote. [[11:48:51]] For 208 Colleagues, I see, don't vote "The Opposition Block" now. Please give me one minute, Igorshurma, explain. And come into the hall. Don't leave the hall. Please, Mr. Igor.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-11-m0.u83	IgorShurma, the Opposition Block. Dear colleagues, the last vote and this vote show, unfortunately, that coalition is helpless. You can't even vote for students, for young people's scientists, give them money. Listen to these things and do not shout, or vote for yourself. And if you want the Opposition Block to join, I'm not talking to the chairman, I'm talking to you. Why do you force him to break the Rules: 10 times? "Come to the workplace! Show your support! Ask that question on Thursday first!" Why are you putting the presiding officer on appeal to the opposition block? You will be violating the Ukrainian Rules Act – vote for yourself. Discuss the questions, put them to a vote, and we'll see what happens next. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-11-m0.u84	Colleagues, pay attention! I want to speak to you again, colleagues. In fact, this question is identical to the one we just discussed, so I made a report. Keep it up, colleagues, that's the question. Please, 30 seconds Singer. And please come into the hall. 30 seconds to head the committee. I'm asking you to support me, colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-11-m0.u85	Dear colleagues! Listen, 55 projects of young scientists were submitted to this competition, 55. These are people, specific young people, PhD doctors, who. I'm sorry. Dear colleagues, I want you to hear, 55 projects, 37 young scientists have been removed, 20 projects have been completed. It's a big job, a whole year of people, young people working, the commission took them away. What are we doing now? I understand all the political subtexts. I'm talking to you, the Opposition Block. It's a big job, a year of young people have worked, let's, let's reward them for something they've done, for Ukraine they've done, not for Parliament, the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Please vote, tell the young, let's forget about our differences for young Ukraine. What's this all about? Dear colleagues, we vote! That's it.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-11-m0.u86	So, colleagues, I'm betting on the return of regulation 8419. I'm asking you to get all mobile, and I'm asking you to support the return to Project Order 8419. Please vote. Please be supportive. Vote. Please be supportive. [[11:52:10]] For 209 I'll put it again, colleagues, in closing, and the decision will be rejected if we don't vote. Colleagues, now the MPs are just gonna split up even more. Attention, colleagues, attention! I'm ready to give a discussion right now, if we guarantee it, those who will discuss what we will then be able to vote on. Do you support the discussion? Everybody backing up? Please two in, two in, two in. Two in, two in. I have a request for one minute to be in the discussion, one minute at a time. From Peter Dustock's Block, please, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-11-m0.u87	Ladies and gentlemen, the Petar Prashenko Block has backed the first decision and is in favour of the second decision, so I ask everyone to vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-11-m0.u88	Eutushka's giving John Krulka a minute, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-11-m0.u89	Ivan Krulko, "The Fatherland" faction. It is certainly a matter for young scientists to be supported in Parliament, and the Fatherland faction is voting for it. But I would like to look here to representatives of those who call themselves coalitions. Dear friends, well, the coalition doesn't end with you dividing the portfolios, it means the responsibility to be in the session room and vote, and Tuesday and Wednesday and Thursday, and not only when the portfolios are shared, that's the problem. And you don't have to throw up against the opposition, not the opposition because you don't go to work, but the irresponsibleness for that reason. So, indeed, we need to gather all the votes now and vote on this question, for young people are waiting and want to see that those taking responsibility are responsible for their responsibilities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-11-m0.u90	Thank you. Radical party, just one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-11-m0.u91	DmitriLenco, the Radical Party. We're in full stock, the whole faction of us, voting for this decision because it's the support of the best Ukrainian scientists today, which are not much left, the ones who haven't left yet. If Parliament does not vote these two decrees today, I think these last best scientists will go abroad. What happens every year is that we lose thousands and tens of thousands of doctors, scientists, the best experts, students who leave because they don't believe that Ukrainian authorities can do anything good for them today. That's why the Radical Party is voting in favour. And we ask the voters carefully to see who did not come and support this decision. It's a disgrace to Parliament if we don't vote on this decree to support our scientists. Glory to the Scientists and the Glory of the Young!
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-11-m0.u92	Colleagues, there'll be a vote in a minute. I'm asking everyone to come to the hall. In a minute, we'll move on to making a decision. From the Longshanks Opposition Block, one minute. From the Front there's a Yemeni, which is two minutes, and a vote. Please, Dobrenkov.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-11-m0.u93	The Opposition Block faction will support, support and support development by the State, protect young people. We do not give up on the need for additional protection of the listed category. Young people go beyond Ukraine not to vote in favour of this decision, because it's a small drop of support, it's actually nominal compared to the state support that young people get abroad. Young people leave because of their unpredictability, because of their lack of scientific priorities. And before we vote on the appropriate laws on the budget, we need to talk about the prospects for supporting young people, the prospects for supporting appropriate science. But right now we're talking about the political, narrow political, narrow political, and now we're talking about the threat of getting out. Please do not violate the procedure, we will join the vote, but without violating the Rules. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-11-m0.u94	And the closing statement is from the Yemeni People's Front. Colleagues, one minute to vote. Invite everyone to the hall, the heads of the factions, especially please, I'm asking you, invite everyone to the hall. Please, Jemec, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-11-m0.u95	Leonid Yemeni, People's Front faction. Dear colleagues, let's be honest with you, here's something that's absolutely right. Look around in empty places, and think about it as the deputies that the Ukrainian people have chosen to make decisions in Parliament. We are now forced to gather, simply to swear these voices to those who are in parliament today. Friends, and I'm going to the Opposition Block right now: don't make hostages of the political demands of those young scientists who are actually the acquisitions of our Ukrainian community. I'm addressing you, please, you said your position, we heard it, we heard it. Please vote for young scientists. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-11-m0.u96	I'm with the National Deputies: Why mention names or factions and delay debates? I don't understand. Please, I'll give you a line. Please take up jobs. I'll give you a line. Please, Dobrenkov. Take your seats, there'll be a vote. Debtenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-11-m0.u97	I repeat that we support young people and support these bills, but not in the way that the coalition proposes, in violation of the Rules. And please don't politicize this topic, because any good topic can be politicized, and the vote is over.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-11-m0.u98	So let's move on to making a decision. Colleagues, let's unite, let's leave the debate behind. So I'm voting on the draft Decision for the award of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to the most talented young scientists in the field of fundamental and applied research and technological development for 2017 (No. 8419). Please vote, please support as a whole. Vote. Please support, we vote. [[11:59:22]] For 229 Decision taken. We made two important decisions. Colleagues, I'd like to report that I'm here. The factions, okay. Peter Poshenko's Block – 80, People's Front – 60, Opposition Block – 14, Self-Help – 14, Radical Party – 18, Father's Party – 10, Will of the People – 0, Rebirth Party – 5, non-fractional – 28. There was a statement about a break from two factions: Self-help and Fatherland. They're ready to take a break. And before the speech, I'm sorry. Please, Teeth, three minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-11-m0.u99	Lubomir Zubac, Self Help Union. The right to choose and the right to be elected is the fundamental constitutional right of man and citizen. This right distinguishes democracy from monarchy or totalitarianism, where power is either assigned or elections are formal. In this regard, it is surprising that the situation in Ukraine has arisen with the appointment of out - of - turn elections in many communities, either in connection with death or with the permanent cessation of the responsibilities of the respective heads. In Ukraine, local self - government was abused differently. At different times, there was administrative pressure from law enforcement agencies, even garbage blockades, but there was no such thing as disenfranchisement from the public. First of all, I want to talk about the city of Lutsk, the administrative center of Volin County, where the city head died more than 1.5 years ago. So far, no elections have been scheduled. I understand why this is done by the so-called local elites, where an oligarchic clan has seized power in an illegal way and manages by robbing a city, and another oligarchic clan -- a satellite of the present power -- just doesn't have a candidate who can win an election, so it also blocks the election. A similar situation exists in other communities, a total of 98 out - of - turn elections are not for consideration by the Supreme Council. In this context, the Self-Help Unit is making a statement to the Head of the Supreme Council to tomorrow, Thursday, the last day when we can actually make a decision, all these decisions have been put to the vote, otherwise it will simply be an open rematch and abuse of local self-government. If we don't vote for these rulings tomorrow, it means that the election is delayed again in an indefinite manner. Mr. Head, put it in the agenda. And all the fellow MPs, all the factions call for support. Let the people choose power. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-11-m0.u100	Thank you. So, colleagues, now I'm going to call it a 30-minute break. Please all arrive at 12:35 to continue our work.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-11-m0.u101	Colleagues, break time is over. I ask everyone to enter the hall to continue our fruitful work. So, colleagues, I'd like everyone to come into the hall. Colleagues, please come into the hall. So, colleagues, I would like to inform you that a group of authors, national MPs, have asked that the next bill is a draft law amending some of the laws of Ukraine on strengthening State guarantees for mountain and high-level population sites, to postpone consideration. Thus, taking into account the position of both the committee and the national MPs, the authors, the bill is passed on. And the next draft of the law that we have in the agenda is the draft Law on the Legal Status of Missing Persons (second reading). I want to point out that this bill has a lot of rights, and that's more together. Almost 150 right-handers. He needs to be discussed in detail. And we can do the same thing that we did on the previous Wednesday: start a discussion of the rights, go through this whole discussion, and tomorrow the first question comes up with a decision. And I think this is going to be the best way to increase the efficiency of our work, because it takes about an hour and a half to discuss this bill. And that way we can make tomorrow more effective. So I ask the head of the Committee on Human Rights, the National Minorities and the International Relations of the Restoration of Grigori Mikhajlovich to come to the Hall to begin the consideration of this issue. And we move on to the draft Law on the Legal Status of Missing Persons (No. 5435). And I invite the head of the Committee on Human Rights, the National Minorities and the International Relations of the Nemira Grigori Mihajlovich to report. Please, Mr. Gregory, please report.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-11-m0.u102	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, I think it's very important to understand that we are starting to consider this bill on the legal status of persons who have disappeared, so that the left-hand side of the amendments that are, and 132 of them were from the 12 national deputies to the second reading, we have considered the left-hand part of them today, but we have to vote tomorrow. And I want to stress the special responsibility of all the national MPs for supporting this law in second reading and in general. According to the International Committee of the Red Cross in Ukraine, at least one and a half thousand people have disappeared. An example was given by Colombia, a former interior minister who had recently been here. There are 4,000 people and 7 million people in total. But according to the same data from the International Committee of the Red Cross, about, or at least, one thousand -- even think about, when they say about, at least one thousand bodies are unidentified. Some of them continue to be in morgues, some of them in the graves of so - called brotherly graves. Think for a moment of what and what situation, and how long, there are relatives, families, close to those who have disappeared. And it's not just disappearing, because in Ukraine there are about 34-35,000 reported missing missing every year, they're missing during the war in the conflict zone. So the actual organizing idea of this bill is to determine the legal status of these people, to create a special body that would deal with and coordinate, i.e. it was part of a state search system for missing persons, a search procedure. But it is also important that there be a social system for the protection of relatives, families. And a separate article of the bill, which we're starting to consider in the second reading, article 6, which is specifically addressed, is called "The Rights of Relatives of Missing Persons." I hope that today we will begin and tomorrow we will successfully conclude the discussion so that from tomorrow the parents will know that the state is looking after them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-11-m0.u103	Thank you very much. I am also convinced that we will be able to have a thorough discussion today, and tomorrow we will have a first question to come to a decision on this important bill. I ask the right-wing authors to prepare themselves for discussion. And I give the word to discuss rights to the First Deputy Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and to the co-author of Irina Heratchenko's law. Please, Mrs. Irina.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-11-m0.u104	Mr. Head of the People's Front faction, I also want to remind you and all your colleagues that when we discuss the bill in the first reading, we have agreed that the key novels in the alternative bill of Mustafa Nyem will also be included in the preparation of amendments to the second reading. I would like to thank the committee responsible for carefully preparing the bill for the second reading. Thank you, too, Mr. Nemira has rightly pointed out the relevance and sensitivity of the topic of the disappearances to Ukraine. Indeed, the International Committee of the Red Cross gives a figure of more than 1.5 thousand reported missing on both sides of the collision line. As part of the Minsk Group, we search for more than 300 Ukrainians, civilians, and military, who are missing and whose relatives have turned to the Ukrainian Security Service, and for more than four years some are searching for their relatives. And of course, our job is to support families and give them hope and chance that the state cares about these families. And the last. I would like, my fellow Members, to draw your attention to the fact that this bill has been prepared very much with the involvement of international organizations, such as the International Committee of the Red Cross, which has more than 100 years of experience in the search for missing persons, as well as social organizations, which we very much appreciate. And thank you to the committee for working so closely to draft a bill with non-governmental organizations that specialize in the protection of human rights. So we're moving on to the amendments. Amendment 3, People's Chamberlain. Please. Don't insist. Amendment of the 4th authorship of the National Deputies of Heratchenko, Ionova. Partially counted. At the same time, I would like to point out, honourable colleagues, that we have proposed to present in this edition 1 an article that is included, unfortunately, only in part, where it is very clear to record terminology regarding the definition of the terms "exhumation of the remains of dead persons", "one register of missing persons", "identification of the remains of the dead", "information that may contribute to the search for a missing person," "medical identification of the remains of the missing person," "sodical medical identification" and the term "armed conflict". Regrettably, the committee here has decided only to take this amendment partially into account, and I would like to ask the chairman of the committee to provide us with an explanation as the authors of this amendment. The amendment is now under discussion number 4. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-11-m0.u105	Thank you, Madam Chairman. In fact, it was mentioned in the introductory comments that we are now making a compromise. There were two bills, one of which was an alternative. And, of course, during the process, there were those things that, according to everyone, and this was unanimously voted on by the Human Rights Committee, have to go from alternative to primary. At the same time, it is clear that the situation where Ukraine, for the first time as a state, is facing this phenomenon of mass disappearance of people, including the violent disappearance of people in a war zone, in a conflict zone, we cannot and cannot, and we have no such ambition to have an ideal law. And in this case, we were guided by a rule and a principle that better not be an enemy of good. So that formulation, which is related to the removal of the remains of the dead, is the basic one that has entered. And I think it's in the data.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-11-m0.u106	Finish up, please, 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-11-m0.u107	In this case, it reflects what is needed. I would like to quote, "The removal of bodies (remnants) of the dead is a complex of actions carried out by qualified personnel aimed at removing remains from their location for identification and further burial in accordance with ritual and religious rituals." Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-11-m0.u108	Thank you. However, I will, with your permission, Mr. Restless, put to the vote the 4th amendment. Please identify ourselves as the original team of this amendment, and we ask that it be taken fully into account. Please be sure. [[12:49:34]] For-44 Thank you all for coming. Nevertheless, the amendment remains in the committee's agenda because only 44 deputies supported the amendment in the authors' version, so it is rejected. Let's move on, dear fellows. Amendment 16, People's Deputy of Semimenha, please. Don't insist. Amendment of 26 national deputies Heratchenko, Ionova.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-11-m0.u109	In this amendment, honourable colleagues, we propose that part five should be edited as follows: "An alien and a person who was. and a person without citizenship who has disappeared in Ukraine is similarly entitled to the status of a person who has disappeared, in accordance with this law, under one condition: if this person has lived permanently or temporarily in Ukraine, or if he has not lived in Ukraine, there is reliable information that his disappearance took place in Ukraine." It's understandable what we're doing to motivate this novel. Because in the conflict zone, in the war zone caused by the aggression of the Russian Federation, except for Ukrainian citizens, so are the missing citizens of other countries, and we are also looking for them. The committee only partially considered our amendment. I would ask for clarification. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-11-m0.u110	Thank you, Madam Chairman! In fact, we're going to have a couple of these situations that are practically typical when we're going to have a partial expression. It relates in particular to the fact that both the first draft and the second were accepted things that are established in the model law of the International Committee of the Red Cross. During the discussion, the situation was considered in view of the fact that, of course, those involved, and in many cases, they had confirmed facts, evidence of disappearance, and representatives of foreign nations. How can this be taken into account, how does this affect legal status, and what may then be the result? The same will be true of us when we discuss an article that regulates the violent disappearance. But in this case, I emphasize, the committee was guided to have a compromise formula that was finally adopted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-11-m0.u111	Thank you for your clarification. Dear colleagues, however, we will put to the vote Amendment 26. The chairman of the committee explained why it was taken into account in part, but I ask that the hall support it fully. I'd like to make a statement. [[12:52:55]] For-42 The correction is being rejected. We'll move on now. I'm sorry, dear fellows, we're moving on with you as amended.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-11-m0.u112	Amendment 22, same as Herotchenka, Jonah. And as Honorable Fellow Gregory Mikhailovich Nemira explained, it was taken into account in part. And the committee is motivated by the fact that when considering the novel of the alternative bill, these amendments entered another part of the bill. Nevertheless, we propose that by our amendment 22 we set out a more clear position on how a person acquires the status of one who has disappeared. And we suggest that the person be considered to have acquired the status of a person who has disappeared from reporting it to the register as decided by the authority authorized to do so in the order provided for by this law. I ask the honourable Gregory Mikhailovich of the Restoration to clarify this amendment 22.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-11-m0.u113	Thank you. Thank you, Madam Chairman. It's about things, according to the committee, about the formulation that partially took into account the amendment, it's more about protecting rights, and it's about the uniqueness of the situation where a person disappears, and at which point his legal status is determined. As the amendment noted, it was proposed to determine this status from the time it was entered into the register. Instead, the committee proposed the following wording: "a person acquires the status of a person who has disappeared, from the time that the applicants have filed a claim that the person has disappeared and his/her search has been found, or by a court decision." Thus, the committee believes that since the submission of the application is more protective, it is more consistent with the situation where it occurs in the conflict zone than when it will be entered into the register. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-11-m0.u114	Thank you for your clarification. However, Your Honor, with your permission, I will put to the vote Amendment 22, because we believe that the acquisition of status should take place not after the application, but from the time it is submitted to the relevant register. Please be determined as to this position. [[12:56:18]] For-44 So, colleagues, you're supporting here a version of the committee that the acquisition of status begins after the application is filed. Our copyright amendment is rejected. We're moving on. Please give me a minute to explain to your honorary colleague Nemira.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-11-m0.u115	One more argument to make it clear. It's about things that we've encountered over and over and over again. When the register is still being created, that is, the time to create the register, the time to test it, who is in charge of the register, it really takes time. We have isolated cases where data that are unverified can be entered into the register and then there is a conflict. That is why, in view of the already existing practice of instituting registers, their spheres of responsibility, and their supervisors. These registers, too, were another argument in favour of a person acquiring a status such that he has disappeared since the filing of an application for disappearance or for a court decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-11-m0.u116	Thank you. I want to agree with you, my dear colleague, that, in fact, this law must first regulate the creation of this single register, and this will be the first time in Ukraine, and this rule is consistent with both the recommendations of the Council of Europe and those of the recommendations, and the practice that exists in the International Committee of the Red Cross. And now we really have these different lists in different ministries, departments and services. Therefore, it is very important that we have a single register in the search for the missing persons involved in the Donbas war, inspired by the Russian Federation. Thirty-six amendments. People's deputy of Semimenach, please have a word.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-11-m0.u117	Madam Chairman, I'm 39th ready to report.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-11-m0.u118	Please have the word, 39 amendments.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-11-m0.u119	Semenha Roman, "The Self-Help Union" faction. Dear colleagues, the draft law allows the person responsible to be identified for the property of a missing person. My editorial outlines the authority of such a caregiver, including a list of the conditions under which the caregiver may be able to dispose of the property of the missing person. The edit allows the caregiver to use the property of the disappeared to support those who had previously been held captive by the missing person. These may be close teenage brothers or sisters, parents who have lost their jobs, and a wife who has disappeared during pregnancy. In addition, he suggests that a guardian not only accept the obligation of a missing person but also be able to count on his or her duty to perform civilian duties before the missing person, for example, could claim a debt in favour of the disappeared person. This will help the caregiver to carry out his duties, including at the expense of the caregiver. Please support, thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-11-m0.u120	Please explain the committee’s head regarding 39 amendments.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-11-m0.u121	Thank you. First of all, on behalf of the committee, I would like to thank the People's MP Semenesi for his active work in preparing this bill for second reading. Semenach’s MP, who is now talking to his colleague, made 19 amendments. And I want to show again that he's been acting like a concerned MP. In a specific case, Amendment 39, which deals with the custody of the missing person’s property, in an editorial adopted by the committee, notes that the caregiver over the property of the missing person is in charge of the property and ensures that the liabilities of the missing person are met at the expense of the property. And custody of the missing person’s property ceases in the event of the annulment of the court’s decision to declare the person unknowingly absent or to declare him dead. Keep going.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-11-m0.u122	Please finish for 1 minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-11-m0.u123	Of course, he has the right to life and that option, according to the MP, would provide more protection for such a person. But in this case, the philosophy of consideration in view of uniqueness and the fact that such a law is generally proposed for the first time, to see how this law will be implemented for a period of time, so that, in fact, in the present experience, as positive and negative, it can be improved. And in view of this formulation, the standards that the Committee believes at this stage are fully in line with the situation at hand. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-11-m0.u124	Thank you for your clarification. So we're talking about 39 amendments, honorary colleagues, regarding the formulation of the guardian. I'm asking you to make up your mind. We also heard an amendment from the author, the national deputy of Semimenah, and an explanation of the committee's rejection of the amendment. I ask you to make up your mind about this amendment, dear colleagues. [[13:01:57]] For-47 The correction is being rejected. I have to go back to Svetlana's request. In this amendment, she asks as the author that we take into account that "a person has disappeared in connection with armed conflict." It explains in this amendment what an armed conflict is. That "a person whose whereabouts are unknown to his family and who has disappeared in an area of armed conflict (international or non-international). The amendment was rejected by the committee, explaining that the definition of armed conflict was set out in another, at the end of the article. At the same time, Mrs. Svetlana urges us to listen to her position as colleagues. And I'm asking for an explanation of the committee head. And then we'll figure it out.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-11-m0.u125	Thank you. It is methodologically necessary to take into account international humanitarian law, such as the definition of conflict as an international armed conflict, an international armed conflict, in order to determine the special status of persons on the basis of this consideration. And in this case, the committee, as noted, has this formulation. An explanation of armed conflict, it is, is present in the article itself. But I also want to point out that for the first time -- and this is, they say, a novelty of this law -- has been introduced into the definition of a new category of "persons who have disappeared." Missing persons are persons who have disappeared under special circumstances. Moreover, the term “person disappeared in connection with armed conflict”. This allows us to take institutionally and legally into account this particular category from the point of view of protection.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-11-m0.u126	Give me a minute to finish, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-11-m0.u127	A war that has taken place in Ukraine for more than four years. And that's why there's a definition. "A person who has disappeared under special circumstances (quoted) is a person who has disappeared in connection with an armed conflict (this is what the National MP proposes), by military action, by disturbances within the state, or in connection with extraordinary situations of a natural or technological nature or other events that could cause mass destruction." So the new category of persons is definition and it is based on the existence of armed conflict, war. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-11-m0.u128	Thank you for your clarification. In fact, we can see that this law introduces enough novelties that relate to the characteristics of this category of missing fainting precisely because of the war on Donbassa. Dear colleagues, I'd like you to decide on the 9th amendment. Our colleague Svetlana Zalichtík is there proposing his terminology, and she believes that it is more accurate, and has worked with international organizations in this way. The committee puts these novices in a different edition a little bit in the other part of the law. I'm asking you to make nine adjustments. [[13:05:37]] For-47 The amendment is not accepted. At the same time, we thank Mrs. Svetlani very much, who has also been so closely involved in the drafting of the bill. Dear colleagues, I now give the floor to Mustafa Najem, Amendment 7. He, I want to remind his colleagues once again, co-authored an alternative bill. And it was during such constructive discussion and voting of the law in the first reading that Mr. Najam agreed that we were adopting a bill of authorship from another group, but he was very active in adding his amendments to the second reading. Please, Mr. Mustafa.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-11-m0.u129	Dear colleagues, this bill we have introduced concerns the status of missing persons, and in fact the definition of those who have disappeared by violent means, that is, the disappearance of whom is linked to the representatives of the State authorities. And we propose that this bill define that enforced disappearance is an arrest, detention, kidnapping or deprivation of liberty in any other form by State representatives or by persons or groups of persons acting on permission, for support or for the consent of the State. That's very important, because a lot of our guys on the front were just kidnapped by government officials and then found themselves in Russian. the territory of the Russian Federation. In addition, we know a number of cases where, and on the part of our national authorities, there have also been cases where people have been deprived of their will illegally. This too can be seen as a violent disappearance because their relatives and loved ones did not know where they were, turned to law enforcement authorities, but could not tell where these people were. And that's exactly the definition we're proposing to make in law.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-11-m0.u130	Thank you, Mr. Mustafa, for explaining your amendment. Please, Your Honor, introduce the position of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-11-m0.u131	Thank you. I would also like to thank you, as did the deputy of Semimenah, the national deputy of Najem, for his very active work in preparing this law. Not only was he the author of the alternative bill but he also participated actively in the committee's discussion of the bill for the second reading. And then, in fact, as a result of this discussion, we came to the conclusion that the key thing in the alternative bill is to change the Criminal Code in terms of violent disappearances. And it's a compromise formulation, it's been taken into account for the introduction of the bill of the new article of the Ukrainian Criminal Code, article 146, which I'm going to talk about. But also in this case we have a situation where there is an international law standard, it's international.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-11-m0.u132	Give me a minute to finish, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-11-m0.u133	The international convention of which the State of Ukraine is a party and is a real situation when amendments, in this case, to the Criminal Code, were more specifically designed to prescribe all these things. The committee, when it was preparing, approached all the central executive authorities, all the departments that were involved in this process, which would then do so. And we now have a situation, let's not forget that Ukraine has already recognised twice the jurisdiction of the International Criminal Court and appealed to this court in order for it to begin, the prosecutor of this court has initiated a proper investigation. Of course, all of these things and the fact that we will now have, if we approve this law, the changes and the new wording in the "transitional positions" of "violent disappearance," I think, will help in the general conclusion, in the final conclusion, the Special Prosecutor of the International Criminal Court to determine more clearly whether there are signs and how far they are present.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-11-m0.u134	Thank you for your clarification. So, dear fellow Members, we will now be with you in our 7th article. of the 7th Amendment of the People's Deputy Najem, concerning the position and terminology of "violent disappearance". As we heard an explanation from the committee head, the committee decided to establish this important standard, not in this article, but in the Transitional Positions. And I think it's fixed in these new positions and the Criminal Code. At the same time, Mustafa insists that our law, which we are discussing, should be set forth in Article 1, and should be amended accordingly. Colleagues, and there is no doubt that this is very important because the violent kidnapping and disappearance of people has become a practice in Donbassa in occupied territories. Please identify yourself with Amendment 7, proposed by the honorable Mustafa. [[13:11:09]] For-49 So the Hall feels the same way as the committee that this novel is to be set up in the Transitional Positions and Finals and the Criminal Code. Let's move on. Amendment number 21 as well as National Deputy Mustafa Nayem. Please, Mr. Mustafa, 21st.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-11-m0.u135	Dear colleagues, this amendment was rejected. I understand that it was presented somewhere in another article of the bill. It refers to the issue of discrimination. Any discrimination against persons who have disappeared and their relatives on the basis of their race, skin color, sex, religion, political or other views, national or social origin, belonging to any social group, territory of origin or disappearance, economic or social status. The thing is, we had cases where people were refused help or refused to seek it because they were either ethnic groups or they lived in one or the other groups. We believe that this is unacceptable, and this should be reflected in legislation.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-11-m0.u136	Thank you for explaining your correction. Dear Mr. Nemira, please give us the position of committee on the rules of non-discrimination.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-11-m0.u137	Thank you. Of course, the committee is absolutely in agreement with the organizational idea of this amendment, which is that there should be no discrimination at all, by any means. At the same time, it is obvious that this is a methodological approach in this case, why the committee rejected the amendment. For technical reasons, it was simply suggested that the change in article 4 should be made and edited. But the relevant rules on non-discrimination are set out in this edition, which is proposed by the Committee for Second Reading, in article 7 of the bill. And so, in our opinion, in this case, it is not the numbering of the article that matters, but the substance of the rule of non-discrimination and the prohibition of discrimination. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-11-m0.u138	Thank you. Dear colleagues, at the same time our distinguished colleague MustafaNayem insists that the issue of discrimination is extremely sensitive, including in the context of the families of the missing and the missing. And I propose that this be recorded in both the 4th article and is presented with its 21st amendment. I'm asking the room to decide on this 21 amendment. [[13:14:04]] For-48 The amendment is rejected, but it is emphasized that the committee has established rules on non-discrimination and non-discrimination in another block of the bill that we are discussing. Dear colleagues, I have been approached by a national deputy, Mr. Suhevich, who has also been very actively involved in the drafting of the bill for the second reading and asks that we return to its 11th amendment, which was not counted by the committee. I give the floor to Mr. Shuhevich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-11-m0.u139	Ladies and gentlemen, 11th Amendment. The 11th amendment refers to the fact that we agree to the first and third protocols of the Geneva Convention when armed conflict is not recognized by one State. In this case, the Geneva Convention also recognizes this conflict as an armed conflict and a national one. And that's why I'm asking you to consider it, and unfortunately, the committee didn't count. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-11-m0.u140	Thank you. Colleagues, so how did we hear the explanation of honorary colleague Yuri Shuhevich? Its 11th amendment, it refers to article 1 of the bill that we are discussing, and it refers to a position concerning armed conflict and the non-recognition of this armed conflict on one side of the conflict. This is, of course, the Russian Federation. I ask the committee to explain why this amendment was not taken into account.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-11-m0.u141	Thank you. First of all, I would like to thank once again the honourable colleague of Deputy Suhevich for also working actively to prepare this bill for second reading. Sühevich’s colleague made 12 amendments, 4 of which were taken into account, and 3 were taken into account in an editorial way. We talked a while ago about a similar amendment to the People's Deputies. Considering that this amendment also refers to the definition of “armed conflict”, I would like to point out that the term “armed conflict” in this law is used in the sense stated in the Ukrainian Law on the Specialities of State Policy and the Security of the State Sovereignty of Ukraine in the Interimly Occupied Areas of the Donetsk and Lugansk Region” and in the Presidential Decree of Ukraine on the Decision of the Council of National Security and Defence on the New Revision of the Military Doctrine of Ukraine and the Geneva Conventions on the Protection of Victims of War of 12 August.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-11-m0.u142	Just give me a minute, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-11-m0.u143	of August 12, 1949, and additional protocols to them since June 8, 1977. Again, I'm explaining, because it may sound difficult to explain, but we have a situation where there are norms of international humanitarian law, particularly those of the Geneva Conventions. In particular, the Geneva Conventions on the Protection of Victims of War. And there are already adopted laws of Ukraine, particularly the Law on the Characteristics of State Policy, which defines conflict, and in this sense, so that it does not conflict in different laws with each other's definitions, the Committee has adhered to this formula on the basis of the law of Ukraine and the Geneva Conventions that I have mentioned. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-11-m0.u144	Thank you, Mr. Restless. Indeed, the amendment of the 11th People’s Deputy Shuhevich refers to the first article of the bill that we are discussing. And the amendments to this first article were made by the national deputy of Svetlana Zalczyk; we voted on this amendment; the hall did not support it. Nevertheless, we listened to the author’s explanation of the amendment made by respectable colleague Shuhevich, explaining the head of the committee. And I'm asking the hall to determine with regard to Amendment 11. I remind you that it refers to terminology that is a armed conflict and how to act in a situation where one side of the conflict does not acknowledge its participation. I'd like to make a statement. [[13:18:50]] For-48 48 - behind, the amendment is rejected. But I would point out that the committee has taken these rules into account regarding the clarification of the armed conflict in other parts of the law and has referred to laws already in force in Ukraine, which include the opening of the Russian Federation’s armed aggression against Ukraine. The following amendment is made by 27 esteemed colleague Mustafa Najem. Please, Mr. Mustafa.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-11-m0.u145	Dear colleagues! The next amendment, 27 we propose, refers to article 5, to which we propose to add such a phrase as banning the practice of violent disappearances, that no one can be subjected to violent disappearance, no exceptional circumstances whatsoever, including the state of war or the threat of war, internal political instability or any other state of emergency, can justify the violent disappearance. I'm going to remind you that we said that a violent disappearance is when, before a person disappears, before his will is removed, the state authorities are involved. Thus, we deprive all our authorities of the justification that there is a state of war or an extraordinary state that allows them to kidnap people, to deprive them of their unlawful will.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-11-m0.u146	I ask the committee to clarify that. Why the committee rejected the 27th Mustafa Nayem amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-11-m0.u147	Thank you. I want to emphasize once again that the bills that were presented were fundamental and alternative, they had some conceptual differences. And in this case it's a very sensitive area of responsibility of the state for. or those bodies that are authorized to perform the functions of the State for such facts of violent disappearance. So when Irina Volodymyrna Heratschenko gave an example of Colombia's experience, it was recently about this, it was about this decision, because the appropriate body that was created, there were decisions that related to responsibility on both sides and on the other. And in this case, we're talking about the extent to which we're going to take this into account. It's a fact of life. And the compromise that was made, because we agreed, and the Najam people's deputy supported this, the compromise is to make a change to "Transitional positions." In the End of the Bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-11-m0.u148	One minute to finish, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-11-m0.u149	The Criminal Code of Ukraine, which deals specifically with this aspect, which was touched by Deputy Najem. So I want to emphasize once again, a significant number of rejected amendments, it's not because they're bad or not good quality. Two bills, they. different conceptual approaches have been put in place. And we can't be hostages here to debate concepts, we need to adopt a law that is compromising. In this case, it is very nice to agree once again that the author of an alternative bill accepted this proposal from a committee that was unanimously supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-11-m0.u150	Thank you for your clarification. So the committee insists that the same responsibility, these positions of responsibility for illegal, violent disappearance, will be laid down in the "Transitional Positions" of the Criminal Code of Ukraine. At the same time, MustafaNayem believes that, given the sensitivity of this issue and the fact that it concerns fundamental human rights for the European State, it should also be laid down in today's bill, which we are discussing. I'm asking you to identify the 27th Amendment Hall, your honors. [[13:23:04]] For-38 The amendment is not accepted in this way, but at the same time we are stressing once again the relevance of the issues being raised. Amendment 31 of the People's Deputies of Svetlana. Svetlana Zalitschuk suggests that in part two of article 6, we complete the sentence: "Parents who have disappeared have the right to conduct an effective investigation into the circumstances of the disappearance of State authorities." And it motivates this amendment because very rarely, and often, relatives of missing persons feel that the authorities that are to conduct a more thorough investigation into the circumstances of the disappearance do not use these capabilities, mechanisms to the end. Even taking into account the fact that it is occupied areas where there is no access to the Ukrainian authorities, but at the same time it does not use the mechanisms that can be implemented and applied to search. The committee rejected the amendment, and I would ask Mr. Nemira to explain to us the position of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-11-m0.u151	Thank you. The situation is quite simple and difficult. I want to remind you what the National MP is proposing in this amendment. Parents of missing persons have the right to conduct an effective investigation into the disappearance of State authorities. In principle, all Ukrainian citizens have the right to effectively investigate any crime. In this committee, the difference is that it's in article 6, which is called "The Rights of Relatives of Missing Persons," writes, in fact, what is the right to an effective investigation? In particular, the right to obtain reliable information about the move and the results of the conduct and search in accordance with this law and others, other rights. I mean, in the Committee's view, the general right to an effective investigation, although it can be done, but not to overload the committee with rules that are inconclusive and rather optical, the committee decided to adopt a approach when there was a specificization of this right to an effective investigation rather than just such a general formulation. I hope that's the right approach, which.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-11-m0.u152	Thank you for your clarification. I feel that the position explained by the committee is correct. We will not insist on voting, taking into account the circumstances that, in fact, the authorities of the State generally do not have access to occupied territories, rather than have access to occupied territories at present. And this slows down the effectiveness of the investigation. But it was quite fair for the committee to point out that the relatives of the missing persons have the full right to honest, reliable information, let there be even a little bit of information, but honest and reliable information about the course of the investigation and all the details regarding the fate of the missing unconscious. 37th Amendment of the People's Deputy MustafaNayem. It was partially accounted for. At the same time, the author insists that he be given the word and that the amendments be made fully clear. Please, Mr. Mustafa.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-11-m0.u153	Dear colleagues, our 37th amendment speaks of the acquisition of the legal status of the missing person. So we define the terms at which point. So what we're talking about is if the exact date of disappearance, for example, is unknown, man is thought to be missing from the moment of his application for an unannounced disappearance. We are also talking about the fact that a person is considered to be missing by the time his search is terminated in the order provided for by this law. That is, when law enforcement authorities acknowledge that there are no signs or signs of human death found, and their relatives agree, this person is considered to have ceased to be a missing person. And there is also the status of foreigners that we define in this law that they have the same right of status, the legal status of a person, the disappearance of ignorance, in the order provided for in this law. So we're taking this differentiation between Ukrainian citizens and foreigners who have disappeared in Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-11-m0.u154	Thank you for your clarification. And please, we want to hear the committee's position on why this amendment was partially taken into account. What's more, we've already discussed in previous amendments, which are foreign citizens or without citizenship, who have also disappeared in the war zone.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-11-m0.u155	Thank you. Well, this is a case where the amendment of colleague Najema was partially taken into account. In particular, not in article 9, as suggested, but in article 8, on the legal consequences of gaining legal status as a person who has disappeared, where that is actually the case. Again, I ask you to understand the situation that has arisen. This bill already has a long enough history from the introduction of it, the first reading and then very careful processing and preparation for the second reading. So we had to choose between situations where we would continue to discuss some of the details that might be better or worse in that formula. But in a situation where every day, I talk about it, families disappear when moms make kids sleep at night and the kid asks: "Where's my father?" - what is this mother supposed to tell her child? And the decision, and in that case, I thank my colleague.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-11-m0.u156	Just give me a minute to explain.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-11-m0.u157	With that approach. Once again, maybe it's better not to be an enemy of good, we have to adopt this law, it has very important things that, in particular, relate to budgetary consequences. And that's why I want to point out that it's very important to accept it at this plenary week so that the corresponding costs for its implementation are foreseen in the National Budget of Ukraine for 2019 so that we can start implementing it and have the opportunity to make appropriate changes in it in time, which are not crucial, are not conceptual, but would respond to the actual practice that will be accumulated at that time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-11-m0.u158	Thank you for your clarification. As I understand it, MustafaNayem, as the author of this amendment, is satisfied with the clarification of the committee’s head, and does not insist on voting entirely now.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-11-m0.u159	The next amendment is 41 by the National Deputies Heratchenko iionova. It's the same thing, colleagues, it's partly taken into account, but it's about a very sensitive issue. And as the author of this amendment, and I keep in contact with families of missing persons, I want to say that often these families remain, well, given the imperfections of Ukrainian legislation, without support, because they have no adequate sources of support from the state. And it is in this amendment that Mrs. Ion and I propose that the following rules be laid down that persons who have disappeared during military service in connection with armed conflict and/or hostilities are guaranteed the guarantees provided for in the Code of Laws on the Work of Ukraine and other acts of law. Correction counted in part. I would like to hear an explanation of the committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-11-m0.u160	Thank you. Well, it's a similar situation, it'll be repeated in consideration, discussion, and subsequent amendments. In this case, there is not such an essential specific formulation, it is the substance of an article that may or may not be in this law. And that's why I'm citing the committee's formulation: "Those who have disappeared during military service as a result of armed conflict and/or military action are provided with guarantees under the Ukrainian Act on Social and Legal Protection of Military Servants and Members of Their Families" and other Ukrainian laws." In this case, this formula is more broadly reflecting the social protection of family members who have disappeared during military service. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-11-m0.u161	Thank you. MariaJonova and I thank you for explaining how the amendment was made. We will not insist on voting the amendment in our version because we agree after you explain that the standard established by the profile committee increases social protection. Because it expands the list of legislation, except for the Labour Code, which is to protect, including these payments by the time a military officer is found or set up. Next amendment to the 46th People's Deputy, Elena Sotnik. Please turn on Mrs. Oleni's microphone. And I would like to point out that Mrs. Helen was at a meeting of another committee. If you insist on going back to your previous amendments, we'll do it now. And I want to thank you for carefully drafting the bill for your second reading. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-11-m0.u162	Thank you, Mr. Irina. Now I'm going to talk about 46 amendments, and so I'm going to have a few amendments that I'm going to ask to go back to. And I'm sorry, it's just the legal committee that's going on, and he's also looking at the amendments to the Court of Justice Act, and he's going to be there to present the amendments. 46 the amendment concerns the footnote. Because article 9, it defines exactly the characteristics of the legal status of persons authorized to perform the functions of the State. And I would still suggest that there be no variations, because we have different perceptions of this term in different legislation. I would suggest inserting a footnote here to make it clear that for the purposes of this article under persons authorized to perform functions of state, persons defined by the Ukrainian Law on Prevention of Corruption are understood. Because it contains the largest, widest list of persons who are now considered to be performing functions on behalf of the State. Thank you. But the committee was rejected.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-11-m0.u163	Please explain to the committee head.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-11-m0.u164	Thank you. I want to remind everyone how it happens, but I want to remind them, especially the viewers, how they prepare for the second reading. When the amendments are made, a table is drawn up, a committee is gathered. And in the case that there is an insistence on discussing an amendment, either rejected, or taken into account editorially or partially taken into account, in this case the committee always discusses it, and in the presence of the author of the amendment. Since I understand that, for objective reasons, there was no possibility of being present, it was not her fault, nor was she actively, like other colleagues, involved in preparing for the second reading, but the committee did not discuss the situation separately. But as Comrade Stotnik himself pointed out, it is more of a general problem when there are different definitions in different laws, in fact, persons who are authorized to perform the functions of the state. Therefore, it is only one law to be defined, such as the Anti-Corruption Act, the Committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-11-m0.u165	30 seconds to complete, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-11-m0.u166	But at the same time, the discussion of our bill shows the need to resolve this issue in general in order to be the only, established, cross-examination of this important concept of "persons authorized to perform the functions of the State." That is why this amendment was rejected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-11-m0.u167	Thank you. Do I rightly understand that, in principle, the committee does not deny such a standard if it is fixed? There was simply no explanation at that time for objective reasons from the author. Colleagues, I ask you now to vote on Amendment 46, which we are discussing, to determine. And if that's, I don't know, a fundamental question, we can go back to it later during the final vote. Please vote on the 46th amendment. [[13:36:24]] For-45 We're moving on. Mrs. Olena, are there any amendments to your 46th? Please give you a microphone, call your repairs, we'll be back.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-11-m0.u168	Thank you very much. I'd like to go back to Amendment 13. As a lawyer, I think that the more and more explicit in legislation, and in specific laws, especially in special laws, there are certain terminology, the better. Because, in fact, here I absolutely support the position and heads of the committee, that we need to regulate the situation when there is a lot of variation in legislation. And so I suggested that the financial assistance, which is mentioned so many times in the text of the law, was clearly defined precisely in the terminology of the law, and that is what this definition of financial assistance is in my 13th amendment, but unfortunately the committee did not support the position.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-11-m0.u169	Please explain to the committee, because, in fact, financial assistance is one of those painful topics that worries families of missing persons.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-11-m0.u170	Thank you. Again, the committee didn't support it because it was so evil and didn't want to support it, but because it was actually a typical situation and actually it had to settle in some other way. As a matter of fact, a more specific definition of what financial assistance is, but in the context of this bill, I can imagine that I cannot speak for the entire committee right now, because the committee has not discussed this issue, but I can imagine that the committee would not object. Personally, I wouldn't mind if you specified this definition of what financial assistance is. But if anything else, why are these monthly payments? They may be some one - time payout in extraordinary situations. Then perhaps this narrows the matter down, and then it may be a reason not to pay, if necessary, some one - time expense in the form of financial assistance for something. We can imagine what the discussion might be like then. Me, too.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-11-m0.u171	One minute, finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-11-m0.u172	To be guided here by the principle of non-ideality or improvement in any other way. We are in a situation of war, we have an unresolved issue, the phenomenon of more than one and a half thousand Ukrainian citizens who have disappeared, a thousand bodies are not identified. If we get caught up in such terminology, we might be in a bad service again. And what I want to stress is that we have to adopt this law before this session is over, so that all of these financial costs are foreseen in the State Budget of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-11-m0.u173	Thank you for your clarification. Dear colleagues, I ask you to identify yourself for Amendment 13 regarding financial assistance to families of missing persons, which is paid in connection with the disappearance of a person because of conflict, Mrs. Sotnik. I'm asking you to identify yourself for this amendment. [[13:39:52]] For-39 The amendment is not accepted. At the same time, we fully agree with the author of the amendment, with the head of the committee, that the adoption of the law will require the government to adopt serious legal acts, including those aimed at payment, for financial assistance. 33rd? 38th. Please, Your Honor, Mrs. Olena Sotnik, 38th Amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-11-m0.u174	Thank you very much, Madam Chairman, for giving us the opportunity to return to the amendment. Thirty-eight corrections. We're here in this sector of the law, or in this part of the bill, more specifically, we're talking about putting care over the property of a missing person. And so far, it is proposed to edit such care even after the court’s decision. But very often so, well, there is an objective situation where there is a need to look after, for example, the same body of care and care before the court’s decision. Because we know that today we can make this decision for a year and a half and a half. During this time, property may actually disappear. Thus, the Civil Code, in principle, allows this to be established before a decision is made on the basis of the actions of the notary, or notary. So I suggested that I add to the possibility that before the court's decision, there would be such a function, and I would go to the notary.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-11-m0.u175	Finish 30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-11-m0.u176	Thank you very much. Go to the notary and ask him to set up care. Accordingly, this would provide additional guarantees against the disappearance of property in the event that, well, the court’s decision to establish the fact that the missing person is missing is delayed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-11-m0.u177	Thank you. Please explain to the committee the 38 amendments that were rejected.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-11-m0.u178	Again, I would like to remind you of one of the previous amendments to the status quo. There was an offer about. From the time of registration, the other position of the committee is that of filing an application or a court decision. In this situation, this amendment is addressed. On the other hand, it is proposed that the committee decide: from the moment the missing person is entered into a single register. And the question of registering is a system of such a creative question, because on the basis of this register, in fact, other public authorities can then perform these functions that they are obliged to do. That's what they're relying on in this law. In this case, if you accept the amendment of Comrade Stotnik, in principle, and the committee would not deny it, but in fact we have a warning that this would allow for different interpretations by the authorities of the state regarding the availability or absence of data on this person in the state register.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-11-m0.u179	Finish, 30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-11-m0.u180	Avoid, and in this case it looks like an extra protection. But in practice, when we were thinking about implementing this law, we would actually be faced with a situation where what was expected is not being done, given the simple fact that there is no evidence that such a person is missing or present in the register. So the paragraph that was adopted, the phrase "from the moment of entering data on a person into the register of experimental research on property."
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-11-m0.u181	It'll be over by 15 seconds. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-11-m0.u182	"..can be set up in order provided for by the Civil Code." In our view, this is more orderly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-11-m0.u183	Thank you. Colleagues, I ask you to determine for 38 amendments, please, Your Honor. [[13:44:02]] For-36 The amendment is not accepted. The next is Amendment 51, as well as Honorable Fellow Helena Sotnik. And the same amendment was made by national deputy Yuri Suhevich, 52nd. And they relate to these amendments, the honourable colleagues, just four articles of the bill that we are discussing, and a more active involvement in the missing issues of the Human Rights Commissioner's Office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Please, Mrs. Sotnik, you have 51 words for correction.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-11-m0.u184	Thank you very much. This is the composition of the Commission on Missing Persons. In fact, I remind you that this is being suggested that it will be a permanent organ, an auxiliary body of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, and it is being created to coordinate the search for these people. And I think it's very logical for this committee to be made up of an Ombudsman because it's a human rights issue, and it's by no accident that we have this committee, more specifically, this bill right here in the Human Rights Committee. And it is logical that the Ombudsman should be part of this committee, including human rights enforcement and direct functions. So we would like to find the opportunity somehow and consider this amendment, perhaps just before the vote, directly in favour of the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-11-m0.u185	Thank you. I want to remind my colleagues once again that the same amendment was made by national deputy Shuhevich. And they're rejected by the committee. What motivates the committee, please clarify the position.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-11-m0.u186	Again, we discussed these amendments in view of the absence of the authors of the amendments, but from the point of view of the general approach in part four of section 10 of this bill, and this was the amendment made by Deputy Sukhevic, it was taken into account that the representatives of citizens’ associations and international organizations involved in the search for missing persons, including in connection with the armed conflict and the identification of their remains, selected in the order established by the commission. In this case, it is also an experience of lessons learned from other conflicts, none of which are similar to each other when they are involved, in fact, affected themselves, their representatives, or in this case qualified representatives of specialized non-governmental or international organizations. In fact, the committee does not have any principles regarding the completion of the mandate.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-11-m0.u187	Finish it. No, it's not. So, dear colleagues, we're putting to the vote the amendment of the 51st People's Deputies of the Sotnik regarding the involvement of the Special Governmental High Council for Human Rights. Please be supportive. As far as I'm concerned, it's the right thing to do. [[13:47:27]] For-36 The correction is being rejected. While the chairman is now at the meeting, I am very closely following the process of discussing amendments, if not against the head of the committee, and more than that, he has just noted that the committee would not have objected to such an amendment during the discussion and voting of the final text of the document, I would have asked to go back to this norm and include amendment 51 or 52, they are identical, i.e. this rule that the Commission should be joined by the Authorized Supreme Council of Human Rights, to the final text of the vote, because that is logical and that is taken into account, now the committee's head rightly pointed out that we have many unique moments in relation to the war on the Danube, we have to take into account practices. So the practices that exist today are evidence of involvement of an authorized group, including the work of a humanitarian mine group, other issues, and that would be very and very much. to work very actively with the relatives of the missing unconscious. I'd like to ask you to record this rule and to present it under the transcript during our final discussion, please, Gregory Mikhailovich. Thank you very much. Will there be no objection from colleagues in the hall? It won't. All factions support this norm. Thank you very much. Let's move on. Next amendment to the People's Deputies, Captain, 56th. Please, Mrs. Olena.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-11-m0.u188	Thank you very much, Madam Chairman. This amendment applies to the Advisory Council. It is a body that is actually formed by a commission that includes representatives of unifications, public or international missions, and so on, and even relatives of the missing. In principle, a very good idea, very right, it adds transparency to the activity of inclusion, the inclusiveness of virtually different social organizations, and directly of people who, in principle, suffer the most, i.e. relatives. But the only problem for me, which is not defined in the law at all, is the bill, more precisely, and which they have in relation to this right, is the members of this Advisory Council. This 56 amendment gives them minimal but yet clearly defined rights during their work with the commission.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-11-m0.u189	Please explain to the committee head.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-11-m0.u190	In this case, again, we have a situation: everyone agrees, including the authors of amendments, that the creation of such an auxiliary advisory body offers an opportunity more carefully, not just public control, but in relation to relatives, to be present or to know and receive information. With regard to the definition in advance of the law of the way in which it should be settled, or, as stated, the minimum rights of members of this Advisory Council, the committee concluded that it was rather the task of the Advisory Council itself to establish and propose to express its vision, because we have to hear, and what rights the same relatives would like to have, rather than predetermine it in the law, and thus unknowingly not in a direct way restrict such rights. And in this case, we have to view this as a tool for controlling civil society. And in this case, it would not be the legislator’s job to impose an advisory public body.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-11-m0.u191	Thank you for your clarification. Dear colleagues, I ask you to determine 56 amendments concerning the rights of social organizations of relatives in the Advisory Council, Mrs. Sotnik. Please make up your mind. [[13:51:33]] For-35 Correction not supported. MustafaNayem asked you to go back to the repair earlier? Oh, no? 48th? Please, Mr. MustafaNayem, give me your word.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-11-m0.u192	Dear colleagues, in this article we propose to create a Commission on Missing Persons. It's like an auxiliary body to government, to government organizations. And we propose that this commission be composed of representatives who are defined by the central executive authorities, the central executive authorities that ensure the formation and implementation of national security policies in the military sphere, the Attorney General's Office, the National Police of Ukraine, the Security Service and the Human Rights Council Commissioner. In order for this body to deal with all matters and coordinate all other bodies involved in the search for missing persons or in providing assistance to their relatives and in general all forms of assistance to all those who turn to law enforcement authorities for missing persons.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-11-m0.u193	Thank you for your clarification. Colleagues, Amendment 48 MustafiNiem's committee was partially accounted for, but the author insists on taking full account. And please explain to the committee head.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-11-m0.u194	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Well, it's partly taken into account even because we agreed in this case to the proposal that the Council of Governors be included in this commission. But from the point of view of the formulation itself, in fact, in the version proposed by the commission, those representatives of the central executive authorities are present. There is more to the question, the status of such a commission itself. And we can also talk about it when there are questions. But the chosen one was the least resistance in this case in order to enable the commission to begin operating at all. When we consulted the International Committee of the Red Cross, we also learned that in other cases this body was created in the first stages of conflict or war. And with the beginning of his work, with the accumulation of experience.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-11-m0.u195	One minute, please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-11-m0.u196	The status, authority and composition could change, increase if necessary. Or, in general, if the problem of missing persons disappeared, such commissions stopped their work. So once again, this is taken into account in an editorial way. The institutional factor itself is decisive. There is no commission now, there is no body to perform this function. This law settles this issue, creating such an organ in the form of a commission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-11-m0.u197	Thank you for your clarification. Colleagues, I just want to agree with the head of the committee on the question that, of course, the optimal option is to create a full body of executive power, but they went along with the least resistance of the system. And here's a novel about the coordinating body, the consultative body. If during the final vote. Because some factions have expressed, commented that they insist on an organ that is not consultative, but appropriate, institutional, it's going to be a suspense, and I think we can go back. Dear Mr. Mustafa, are you satisfied with this explanation? Don't insist. It's just you. Please. Please, one more minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-11-m0.u198	It's just, colleagues, once again, there are some precedents. I want to remind you, when a separate ministry was created, more than two years ago, which was not before this commission, as there is now no such commission, the Ministry of Temporaryly Occupied Territories and Internally Moved Persons was created, remember how long it took for it to start its work as a full-fledged central executive body. Location, state, funding, all, all things. And then in this case, the committee again came out of a situation of urgency to create a separate body that would start its work and not become a hostage to a slow bureaucratic machine, to find suitable facilities, and so on. That's why it was logical. But in principle, we have to see how this commission works. Again, if such a need arises, it can be strengthened both institutionally, physically and financially and organizationally.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-11-m0.u199	Thank you for your clarification. Please proceed with the amendment of 70 people's deputies, Captain. 57th. I'm sorry. 57 repairs to Olenia Sotnik.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-11-m0.u200	Thank you very much. The 57th Amendment, once again, refers to the commission that we discussed at the Cabinet of Ministers. You know, it's already from the practice of having similar organs. If a permanent executive body is not actually formed on such a commission, there is usually a very serious problem with the commission’s ability to work. We've already done this practice not only in the Cabinet of Ministers, for example, for the sake of virtue, for the commission of police and so on and so forth. So all of this shows that the executive organs, like a working horse, are needed, they're doing this current administrative activity that takes a very long time. So I proposed with my amendment that I should just complete article 10 of the bill and foresee the possibility of creating a permanent executive body on board. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-11-m0.u201	Thank you. There has already been an explanation of the substance of this amendment, which has been partially taken into account. But please, the position of the committee as to why we, realizing that the Coordination Commission may not be so responsible, institutionally speaking, do not fix the creation of a special body.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-11-m0.u202	In fact, there is, in practice, common sense in what is in the correction itself. But on the other hand, on the other hand, we know what it really is to drag the rope and not want to give up some of the functions that are inherent to the central authorities of the new authority or, in this case, to the executive body, the commission. And again, if there's such an urgent need, in principle, we didn't deny that once again, the principle, the original principle, which is cross-cutting, was applied to the preparation of this bill for the second reading, that it might be better not to be an enemy of the good that should be working now without waiting for any better times. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-11-m0.u203	Thank you. Your Honor, do you insist on voting? Don't insist. But as far as we know from the discussion, tomorrow we can go back to two norms during the final vote. The first is the commission of the Commissioner for Human Rights. And the second is a possible fixation with some term that the commission is created first as a coordinating and advisory body, and we put maybe a term there, and then it becomes a public authority organ, or we'll make this change after we try the work of the commission. Right? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-11-m0.u204	Thank you. Colleagues, let's agree on which amendment we're starting tomorrow. There is an insistence that 70 adjustments be made. You're in, right? This is Olena Sotnik, yours is 71. So we're starting at 70, if I'm right, that's 70 turns of Helen the Sotnik, and then it's going to be 71. That's why I'm asking you to be in the hall at 10 o'clock. Likewise, thank you very much to the head of the committee for the work, for the discussion today. I hope that tomorrow, in 20 minutes, maybe half an hour, we can finish the discussion and get to a successful vote. So, colleagues, so. We were able to take two important decisions today from the Education Committee. We've discussed an important bill that tomorrow, I'm sure, will support the Supreme Council Hall. I declare the morning plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine closed. And I wish everyone fruitful work on the committees. We're going to have a big, important day tomorrow. At 10 a.m. tomorrow morning, I'd like everyone to be there to resume our work. And now you're working hard on the committees.
