ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-20-m0.u1	Good morning, please come into the hall and prepare for registration. Colleagues, can we make an enrollment? All right, everybody, take your So I'd like the National Deputies to sign up for the morning plenary meeting. I'd like you to sign up. [[10:03:45]] 358 national deputies registered. The morning plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Colleagues, we have a lot of nouns in the hall today. And I want to say hello to Yuri Alexiyovich Pavlenko. Hello, Mr. Yuri. Taras Timothy’s Shepherd Mr. Taras, welcome. Paul Vasilovich Pinzenik. Welcome, Mr. Paul. Aleksandra Yuriovich Tretyakov. Welcome. And Mikola Trochymovich Fedoruk. Mr. Mikola, welcome to your birthday. [[Applause]] Also, colleagues, you know that Korea has completed its 13th winter Paralympic Games. Our athletes won 22 medals: 7 gold, 7 silver, and 8 bronze and placed 6 in the command post. Thank you and we are proud of you. You are a symbol of the integrity of the spirit from the victory of Ukraine. Welcome to our Paralympics. [[Applause]] Today, too, there are 100 years of new foreign service in Ukraine. In March 18th, a separate border guard unit was formed. And in our time, the border guards protect the civilized world from invasion. And today they are doing their job, protecting not only Ukraine, but the whole free world. Thank you all for standing by. Dear warriors, we wish you good health and the peaceful heavens. Glory to Ukraine! And, colleagues, we're moving on to the first part of today's session. I'll remind you that on Tuesday we have 30 minutes to announce statements, messages, proposals from MPs and groups. So please prepare for writing and ask the factions and groups to record for the performances. Please. From the Opposition Block. Mr. Wilkul, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-20-m0.u2	Dear people of Ukraine, tonight I returned from a journey of cities and regions where as a national MP met and associated with people about their problems and their primary demands on politicians and authorities. With full responsibility, I would like to state that the entire agenda of the work of the Supreme Council, which forms the present parliamentary leadership and the present-day majority, is totally not in line with the problems and demands that people are putting in place today. They are waiting for jobs worthy of wages and pensions, tariff cuts. People are waiting for normal medicine, the release of Suprun, and the opportunity to give their children quality education. All these bills have been introduced to us, but most of them are blocked by political populism alone. Question number one, which people raise at any meeting, is the need for early elections for both the President and Parliament. This is a clear and clear requirement that a responsible and honest parliament would have long met. People don't get the quality of most of the Supreme Council. People have become far worse off and rightly put their responsibility on active authority. Ladies and gentlemen of the vast majority, you and your government must exercise authority, go to the next election and give people the opportunity to express their trust in the political forces that have a clear and clear agenda to overcome the extraordinary situation in the Ukrainian economy that your rule has led to. But people are also asking who will be responsible for today’s economic situation in the country for the repeated decline in the standard of living of Ukrainian citizens in recent years. Who is to say that it is impossible to spend even a week on a fixed subsistence minimum and even a minimum wage, let alone a month? But this authority is short - lived. And in the mood of the people, I feel that people will give a worthy assessment and success of the reforms that are actually social experiments and genocide tariffs and the pitiful demeaning human dignity to wages and pensions. And I'm very pleased to see this determination in people's eyes, the determination to send this power back to history very soon. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-20-m0.u3	Arthur Gerasimov, head of the faction. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-20-m0.u4	Dear Mr. Golovo, honourable colleagues, honourable voters, the faction of the Party of Peter Poroshenko strongly condemns the cynical election of the President of the Russian Federation in the territory of the occupied Ukrainian Crimea. Our strategic allies -- the United States, Germany, France, Canada and a number of other states -- said they did not recognize the results of the annexed peninsula. The gross violation of international law has continued to lead Russia to even greater isolation. Regrettably, the Kremlin continues to find allies in foreign politics and in Ukraine. On the day of the vote, the pseudopatriots accidentally destroyed the installation of Ukrainian Crimea in the center of the capital. Also last week, Henprocuror made a strong accusation against the National Deputy of Hope Savchenko in preparing the attacks. The U.S.A. removed an entire arsenal of weapons from Vladimir Ruban. They don't even hide what they were planning to do with the coup d'état. Therefore, we need to consider appropriate submissions in the session room this week. The Supreme Council needs a draft currency law, 8152, introduced by the President of Ukraine. This document proposes the introduction of monetary liberalisation and the freedom of movement of capital, following the example of the EU. This will be a real economic failure, and it will also help create new jobs. Ukrainians will be able to invest unhindered, domestic businesses will be easier to deal with foreign partners, and administrative pressure on banks will disappear. This decision will open the door to additional investments in Ukraine and provide mechanisms to further strengthen the bracelet. The creation of the National Bureau of Financial Security, as foreseen in Project 8157, is an important condition for the development of the enterprise. The Bureau will provide fair and transparent business conditions that will promote competition in the market. We also call on Parliamentary colleagues to support the final adoption of laws on reforming diplomatic service in Ukraine. The proposed documents will complete the transition from the post - Soviet service system to modern standards of excellence. I would like to remind you that since March 14, the National Security and Defence Committee has approved the National Security Act initiated by the President of Ukraine. This document is extremely important for reforming the defence sector and modernising the Ukrainian army according to NATO and EU standards. These include the establishment of democratic civilian parliamentary control over the Armed Forces. This is an important step on Ukraine's path to NATO membership, we must take it in the shortest possible terms. Finally, we remind ourselves that at the end of March, the deadline for the submission of electronic declarations ends. Parliament should be quick to abolish the requirement of compulsory electronic declaration for members of public organizations. Bills such as 6675 and 6674 initiated by the President of Ukraine need to be considered in this plenary week. This initiative is an important component of the development of democracy based on the European experience of accountability to society. In the event that these draft laws are not approved, we consider it necessary to extend the deadlines for the submission of electronic declarations to representatives of public organizations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-20-m0.u5	Thank you. From the Radical Party, Oleg Valeriovich Ljashko.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-20-m0.u6	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Last week, the prosecutor's office conducted a search at a successful Ukrainian company called New Mail. "New Mail" is 30,000 working people, it's 2 billion 300 million taxes paid and it's millions of happy Ukrainians who, thanks to New Mail, have the opportunity to communicate with their families and loved ones. And instead of going to those who don't pay taxes, law enforcement officials went to those who do corruption to a successful Ukrainian enterprise. What is this signal to investors, what is this signal to the world? We call on investors to Ukraine, while law enforcement agencies and authorities are persecuting a domestic investor who creates jobs that pay taxes and helps Ukrainians communicate with one another. And me and a lot of the members of our team -- we're New Mail clients. And I'm happy to say that I've never had any problems operating this company. So the requirement of the Radical Party team is not to falsify criminal cases or create conditions for the foreign business to flee from Ukraine, but rather to allow the authorities to create all the conditions for both domestic businesses and foreign investors to feel powerful in the country, because this is an opportunity for our people to earn money. Because when they destroy an internal investor, they scare away a foreign investor, then we become exporters of cheap labor and raw materials, and millions of Ukrainians work abroad instead of working in their own country. One reason for this is low wages. Because Poland has a minimum wage of 500 euros and Ukraine has 120 euros. And that's why people are going to Poland, raising Poland's economy instead of raising Ukraine's economy. That's why we're asking the government to take the initiative to make changes to the minimum wage budget. Two million people get a minimum wage of 3,700, that's not enough. Our estimate is that the minimum wage should be 5,000 dollars per month and the minimum pension should be 3,000 dollars per month. Millions of people, especially those who have worked honestly in colospas, are now receiving a pension of about one and a half thousand dollars, not the kind of money that will make it possible to make ends meet. Therefore, the requirement for government, the Ministry of Finance, budget changes, wage increases, and a minimum pension. Well, finally, I'm addressing Prime Minister Groysman on a first-time basis, "Doctor of Death" Uljana Suprun is due to leave. This so - called medical reform has left millions of Ukrainians without medical care. Officials of their children abroad can treat, and millions of Ukrainians cannot heal. So we have to resign as a doctor of death and change this policy, which deprives Ukrainians of the ability to heal and live in their own country.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-20-m0.u7	Please, from "The Will of the People" People's Deputy Ribczynski. Please, National Deputy Ribczynski is invited to the floor.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-20-m0.u8	Eugene Ribczynski, Glossievsky district, the city of Kyiv Just now, Andrew Volodymyrovich said that our paralympics actually won seven gold, seven silver, and eight bronze. It's a great honor, it's a very big victory, the sixth place on Winter Olympics. We're in sixth place. And unfortunately, we have another little problem and a little note because the Paralympic medals for the first time in the history of the Paralympic Games are like the Olympics. Now the state has to pay the athletes $150,000 for the gold medal, 80,000 for the silver medal, and 55 for the bronze. So Ukraine now owes our paralympics $1 million, 875,000. Where this question is not in the plane I want to, I don't want to, it's a matter of honour, it's an obligation of any country that participates in the Olympics. That is why we ask Prime Minister Vladimir Groysman to take under his personal control the issue of the Olympic reward and without delay and without delay to pay off their appeals to the Paralympics. Now for the SND. Just four years ago, in March 2014, Andry Volodymyrovich Parubay announced the beginning of the process of Ukraine’s exit from the SND. We all clapped and rejoiced, hoping that eventually we would lose that yoke. But it's been four years. But this car is there now, and we're there. We are still members of the structure where the aggressor country, the occupying country, the killer country, heads and heads. I would like to ask Andrija Volodymyrovich to immediately submit to the Hall and accept the Supreme Council's decision to stop Ukraine's participation in this imperial project. Because while civilised countries send Russian diplomats, arrest Russian companies, close Russian information projects, reinforce sanctions, Ukraine instead increases Russian imports, buys billions of dollars of Russian fertilizers, oil products, and even more is planted on a gas needle. It's because Gazprom owes us 8.5 billion, 2.5 of which they have to pay for Stockholm arbitration already this month. And we're still paying for bills that have long been paid. And finally. The will of the people group requires that official Kiev under no circumstances recognize the results of the election of the President of Russia, which was conducted in violation of all possible international norms in the Ukrainian annexed Crimea. That is, an illegal thought was followed by an illegal president. And it would be clear if not for Kremlin agents inside the country, agents who show viewers of the map of Ukraine without Crimea who are doing subversive activities are preparing terrorist attacks in the heart of the state. The "will of the people" group is asking.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-20-m0.u9	30 seconds to complete, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-20-m0.u10	The People's Will Group is asking law enforcement authorities to investigate immediately and, if necessary, through the Nakrad to revoke the licenses of the TV channels, which in the fourth year of the war have not yet determined who our nation's main enemy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-20-m0.u11	Please welcome the leader of the Fatherland faction, Julia Timoshenko. Please, Julia Volodymyrna
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-20-m0.u12	Dear colleagues, when after the Dignity Revolution people elected this Parliament and gave each of us the right to represent the interests of the people in this Parliament, people believed that after the Second Revolution no interest of the nation in this Hall would be perverted, and no property of the state that was transferred into the trusted hands of this Parliament would be sold out, sold out, thrown out. And I can say that people still believe that there are national constituents here who will not allow the collapse of Ukraine. But at the same time, at the same time, there is now a process behind the Supreme Council to transfer the very important value of Ukraine's gas transport system to the management of 49 percent of unknown foreign companies. Well, even if they were known, I would like to point out that our gas transport system needs 300 billion euros to build it from scratch -- that's three years of GDP in Ukraine, and after the Stockholm Arbitration decision, the gas transport system takes almost $3 billion of government revenue, that's just as much as it's spent on all of Ukraine's defences. And now some unknown officials at the head of the President are, of course, discussing the transfer of gas to the administration of the transport system. And that means that $3 billion will no longer be the government's income. Please tell me, who, without making a penny without doing anything for Ukraine, will receive this $3 billion in Europe's poorest country? And that's why I'm calling on the room now to vote on Bill 8107, which prohibits any manipulation of the gas system and more than that, we don't have to show Ukraine and the world that our Parliament is worse than all of the previous ones. Since 430 votes were banned in 2007 from manipulating the gas transport system, the entire room knew unanimously that it was a responsibility to the people and refused to allow such things. And so I ask you not to reap the opportunity to take the most valuable property in Ukraine. Transfer to management is privatization without money, it's essentially a denial of the nation's right to control its property and to receive income from it. I believe you won't let that happen. And the second is a question that relates to the electronic declaration of public figures' income. Dear others, the Venice Commission has opposed the draft laws of the President of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-20-m0.u13	Now. 30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-20-m0.u14	It's because these laws want to strangle civil society. I propose that we vote a bill for our 6,271 authorship with you and stop the pressure on public figures. We need to protect our acquisitions – civil society and protect the people of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-20-m0.u15	Thank you. Please, from the Self-Help faction, the people's deputy Zhurzyi will speak. I'd like to have a word with you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-20-m0.u16	Andrew George, Self-Help faction. Colleagues, last week the country was rocked by an unprecedented action from the Attorney General's Office, which took place in the New Mail Offices with excellent searches. I'm not worried. This is the largest taxpayer, one of the largest taxpayers in Ukraine. I'm not worried about New Mail, New Mail stands out, it's a big business. But I'm concerned about thousands of Ukrainian entrepreneurs who face the vacchanal that the power organs have. I want to tell you that I don't trust the Attorney General. I don't trust a prosecutor who registers a criminal case on the last day of the Attorney General's office. I don't believe the Henprocuror who, through the press service, claims that yes, we've done searches, dozens of searches, and if no violations are found during the search, then we'll shut down the criminal conduct. Friends, where are the facts that you claim to be, and now you're saying you're ready to close? I do not trust the Attorney General, who speaks of tax evasion on Friday, but on Monday he claims problems with the shipment of goods. I do not trust the Attorney General, who drinks coffee in Amsterdam with one of the largest oligarchs in Ukraine, who has tens of billions of taxes in debt. I don't believe it! I am addressing the Head of the Supreme Council of Mr. Paribius to appoint and hold a separate meeting of the Committee on the Rights of the Child. The "New Mail" situation, listening to the lead investigator, the senior investigator who initiated this investigation, and seeing if there were any grounds for this criminal case that evidence had been obtained. And if this was not the case, if illegal acts were committed against a good taxpayer, the investigator should be held accountable rather than simply closing the criminal case. I'm sorry, the Attorney General has to be responsible and not tell television screens that investigating 212 without a debt is a robbery. Yes, this is a robbery that is being committed today by the Attorney General's Office under the direction of the Attorney General. This situation has shown that it is very relevant to create a financial investigation service -- the only body to deal with economic crimes, an organ that will not have former employees of economic units, an authority that will do analytical work, an organ that will ultimately not be accountable to the President for violating the Ukrainian Constitution, but that will be subordinated to the government and the Ministry of Finance. So, my friends, when we voted with you not so long ago on the Mask Show Stop Act, I want to remind you and the law enforcement authorities, it wasn't about masks, it was about stopping and stopping the business. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-20-m0.u17	Dear colleagues, I now give the floor to the head of the "National Front" faction of Maxim Burbak. Please, Mr. Maxime.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-20-m0.u18	Good morning, colleagues. The People's Front faction insists that the Supreme Council should adopt a decree in which we will give a proper political assessment of the farce, which is called the election of the President in Russia. Project No. 8153 was registered yesterday by the members of the People's Front faction. We claim that these are illegal elections by an illegal president, this is a gross violation of international law, a mockery of democracy and human rights. Earlier, the Supreme Council of Arsenius Yatsenyuk took the initiative to appeal to the international community regarding the non - acceptance and non - acceptance of the so - called vote. We've called on foreign nations to extend sanctions against Russia. The Kremlin held a criminal election, so Ukraine must take the next step. Today's ruling on the illegality of the so-called elections of the President of Russia is not, however, to meet with Putin in norm or not. This decision complements Ukraine's political and legal position on Russia's actions, creates grounds for extending sanctions and preparing a consolidated claim to the aggressor country. And most importantly, to emphasize once again that Crimea is Ukraine. That's the main point of this decision. We cannot allow the legitimacy of not just a dictator, but a war criminal and a maniac. The Internet publishes a propaganda video with a recent Putin interview that admits that Russia supplies Donbas with ammunition to kill Ukrainian military personnel, and makes it clear that Russia claims to dominate the world. One factor for Russia’s so - called great domination is the Russian gas swamp, in which Russia tries to drive as many European nations as possible. Ukraine had been loaded with this gas swamp for many years, and only after Arsenija Yatsenuk’s free decision to refuse Russian gas did we get out of this swamp. And I want to remind you again, we saved the Ukrainians $60 billion. And now we're all proud of it. But we have to warn the countries of Europe not to make fatal mistakes, we have to prevent the construction of the North Stream 2 because this is a plan for the energy suppression of Ukraine and of all Eastern Europe. The People's Front faction has registered a project to appeal to the EU States, calling for cooperation with Russia to be stopped in the construction of North Stream Two. This address should be another important word of the Ukrainian Parliament, proving our partners to be acting wrong. You don't have to go into Russia's gas tank. We're just getting rid of him and asking you, our European partners, don't go there. We call on the President and the government to initiate consultations with the Eurocomsia on the construction of the North Stream 2 in accordance with the Association Agreement between Ukraine and the EU. The Imperial State of Gazprom will never separate business from hybrid aggression against Europe. Can I have 30 seconds?
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-20-m0.u19	30 seconds, please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-20-m0.u20	Ukraine must continue its reforms aimed at reducing consumption, increasing domestic production and purchasing gas in the European Union. The gas market, Ukraine, and the European Union must be demonized. And the next. This week, Parliament should consider a bill on security. At this stage, this is one of the key issues of our dialogue with Western allies. So let's put it into the agenda, vote in the first reading and work on the profile. Committees. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-20-m0.u21	Thank you. And the last performance in this traditional column by the director of the Rebirth Group, Valery Pisarenko. Please, Mr. Valeria.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-20-m0.u22	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman. Dear colleagues! Last week, the deadline for amendments to the draft Law on the Anti-Corruption Court of Ukraine expired. In order not to turn the second reading into another multi-series show of Parliament, from which we are tired, we have done great work to speed up the adoption of the law. Our team analyzed and took into account all the comments made by international partners, the advice of professional professionals, and submitted 28 rights to the presidential model of anticorruption. In general, these are the very rules that were the basis of our bill. And we will again insist on their acceptance. We will no longer allow Parliament to simulate the fight against corruption and the Ukrainian people's nose. Yeah, the main thing we're proposing. First. In Ukraine it is necessary to create a Higher Anti-Corruption Court, which is a higher specialized court, which executes justice as a court of first instance in cases that are under investigation by the NAB. The other one. International experts should have a decisive role in the selection of judges. We propose to introduce four international experts, along with the members of the High Qualifying Commission, into a competitive panel for the selection of judges. In addition, it must be noted that the chairman of this commission will be selected from among the international experts and will have the veto power to decide on the competitive commission. Veto can be overcome if the decision is supported by at least three quarters of the members of the committee. And the third. The criteria for candidates for the judges of the Supreme Anti-Corruption Court must be clear and clear. We call on Parliament to be accountable to the voters and not to delay the process of creating an anti-corruption court in Ukraine. Next. We insist that the agenda of our Bill 4696-2, which calls for reform of the Rules of the Supreme Council, be put into order. The main point of our change is the legislative consolidation of the status of the parliamentary opposition. Since the first day of Parliament's eighth call, we've been introducing legislation on the recognition of the right and the guarantees of the activities of the parliamentary opposition so that we can get control and monitoring functions. In total, all our initiatives have been ignored. This is disrespect for those Ukrainians who voted in favour of opposition deputies. So our proposal is to create opposition with control functions in Parliament. The opposition must form as an opposition government, and its head must be present and present at the Cabinet of Ministers meetings. The opposition must have the right to represent in the leadership of the Supreme Council and its organs. Unfortunately, to this day, committees have been formed without opposition. And the latest developments show that opposition is urgently needed by the authorities. We are the opposition, we are not afraid to take responsibility. But today, for the first time in the history of an independent Ukraine, we have a real chance to change the rules of our work and finally start to demonstrate effective and rapid action. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-20-m0.u23	Thank you. Dear colleagues, a statement came to the presidency of the Supreme Council of Ukraine from two factions for a recess -- the "Peter Poroshenko Block" of the faction and the Radical Party of the faction. But our colleagues from two factions are ready to replace the break with a statement from two factions. Please have a word with me to announce David Makarian’s statement. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-20-m0.u24	Dear colleagues, there was a tragedy in Santa Claus on Saturday — the death of Hero ATO, the military pilot Vladislav Wolosyn. Please honor his memory with a moment of silence.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-20-m0.u25	Please honor our hero’s memory by a moment of silence. [[A Minute of Silence]] Please sit down.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-20-m0.u26	The head of the Mikolai government appealed to the National Deputies to take over the investigation. We're addressing the law enforcement agencies, the Attorney General of Ukraine, Lucenk Yuri Vitaliyovich, the Minister of Internal Affairs, Arsen Borisovich Avakov, to investigate the case under his own personal control and to report on the investigation of the national hero. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-20-m0.u27	Dear colleagues, I think that the whole Parliament is joining, all the national deputies to this appeal and to the law enforcement authorities to take personal control of both the Attorney General and the Minister of Internal Affairs, this is an investigation. And we also express our deepest sympathy to the family of the lost pilot. Dear colleagues, I ask you to return to the session room, because we are now going to review the agenda, to the vote, and we are actually going to have to vote on the draft Order of the Day of the Eighth Session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. And I'm very much asking you to go back to the session room, and in a minute we're going to the vote, and we're going to the agenda. Thank you. Dear colleagues, we literally will now have a vote in the agenda for the draft Order on the Order of the Eighth Session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine of the Eighth Call. I'm asking the leaders of the MP factions, first of all, to ask their colleagues to return to the workplace so that we can have the right voting potential. The MPs are going back to the hall, and we're now going to define our position on the Draft Order of the Day Session. We hope that this week we will be able to vote on the order of the day session. There's an offer to exchange ideas about. Dear colleagues, there's an offer from the leader of the Peter Prashenko faction, while colleagues gather, to exchange thoughts on the order of the day session. Please sign up for the discussion. Let's talk, let's talk. We're exchanging thoughts on the order of the day session, now. Please, from the Opposition Block, Igor Schurm. Please. Please, Igor Shurma.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-20-m0.u28	Igor Shurma, the Opposition Block. Dear colleagues, and all those who form the order of the day. Please tell me, how can the Opposition Block maintain this order of the day? There is no question that the Opposition Block is the authors of. And there's a question of internally displaced persons, there's a question of social protection for people who live in the occupied area of Donbas. In the end, this agenda testifies to what lies are brought from the government's bed and, unfortunately, to the great regret, including the Prime Minister. He says that the issue of health reform is relevant. Please tell me at least one bill that introduces a committee on agreed drafts into today's Hall. There are bills that can unite this session hall. What is the value of Friday’s issue of named scholarships and orphans ’ benefits? We will not vote for this order of the day.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-20-m0.u29	We understand your faction's position. Colleagues, there's probably been a breakdown in our system, because we're not speaking right now, we're discussing the agenda, and every faction has the right to speak for one minute. There are several records of each faction. One at a time, please identify yourself. Miroshenko, please, from Self-Help.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-20-m0.u30	Good afternoon, dear fellows! I'd like to ask you a question in the first place. And I don't understand what's going on in general, that we can't put Bill 7403/2 to the vote for the third week, by which we're returning to the agrarians the 15 billion dollars they took when voting the amendments to the Tax Code. Who are we, who do we demand? First of all, it's all the manufacturers that are covering the roads today, not for the first time. Twelve areas will be covered today. And they will soon come to Kiev. Second, 16 shells called on the Supreme Council to consider this issue, to include it in the agenda. Twenty-two agrarian deputies from the committee called. The five leaders of factions and groups regularly turn to the Head of the Supreme Council to put the bill under review. And I think this question is completely ignored. So our requirement is that we don't vote for the order of the session until then.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-20-m0.u31	15 seconds to complete.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-20-m0.u32	Until Bill 7403/2 is included in the agenda and the commission of the Customs and Tax Policy Committee is given for its consideration this week. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-20-m0.u33	Please. Sorry.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-20-m0.u34	Thank you. Mr. John, your honor, I would just like to ask you to examine what you just said. We demand that the agenda of the day session be in order 7403-2, and we will not vote in favour of the agenda of the session until then. He's on the list of drafts in the order of the day session. Without the agenda, the committee will not be able to consider. You're talking to me, and I'm talking to you guys and girls. Put them in the order of the day session, 7403-2. Twenty-two areas locked, include 7402 in the agenda. I call on you to be responsible! I've been approached by a number of deputies, I've been approached by an agrarian committee, I've been approached by agrarians, I call on you to vote 7403-2. Thank you. Next, who else hasn't spoken from the factions?
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-20-m0.u35	Three factions have not yet come forward, Sobolev and, I don't know, the Radical Party hasn't signed up. Are you going to talk in the daytime?
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-20-m0.u36	A radical party is a minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-20-m0.u37	No, it's not. Then it's just Sobolev and Mud.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-20-m0.u38	One minute, one day.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-20-m0.u39	One minute, order of business.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-20-m0.u40	Dear colleague, we are grateful that the bills we filed yesterday on the Conciliation Council are included. The only thing we can do now is, what will be the order of the weekly consideration? And actually today, we think, and I support the statement by the previous representative of Self-Help, a bill that requires urgent intervention that allows for the day before, the beginning of a serious agrarian season to invest real money in agrarian production, unfortunately, is not in the order of the day. And the second. This is a question that concerns the electronic declaration of public activists. The President's drafts were rejected by the Venice Commission. There's only one bill that supported all the factions that signed the first Yulia Timoshenko, which clearly defines cancelling the electronic declaration for public anti-corruption activists. Because we've got everything going wrong, the corrupts can't declare everything, and those who fight corruption have to declare it.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-20-m0.u41	Please, 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-20-m0.u42	So our proposal, these two bills this week, is to consider it urgent. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-20-m0.u43	Thank you. From the Radical Party Oleg Lazko one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-20-m0.u44	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Dear colleagues, our team insists on Parliament’s consideration of the resignation of Ulysses Suprun’s Acting Minister of Health. For two years, there is no full - time minister of health in Ukraine, and Ukrainians are told that medical reform is under way, and there is no one responsible for this reform. As a result of this reform, hospitals are closing down, and jobs for health workers are shrinking. Ukrainians are deprived of their constitutional right to receive medical care. We require the government to submit to Parliament the resignation of the Minister of Health of Suprun and the appointment of someone who will carry out a real reform, which will enable Ukrainians to be treated in their own countries and to live with dignity. Because people don't have money to treat abroad, like officials and deputies. Allow Ukrainians to live decently in their home country.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-20-m0.u45	Thank you. From the People's Front, Maxim Burbak, please. And please come into the hall, colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-20-m0.u46	Dear colleagues, I'm calling on all deputies to immediately vote and approve the agenda for the entire session. Because in this order of things, there are also bills on social protection for participants in combat in the ATO area, and in this order of day there is such a necessary bill on national security. In this order of affairs, there is such a necessary bill that continues to introduce economic reforms, the Bankruptcy Code. There are 35 bills, named by Prime Minister Vladimir Groissman, 35 laws that will significantly improve our rating in Doing Business and will continue the economic reforms that were initiated by the government of Arsenius Yatsenuk. I call on our colleagues, the BPT faction and everyone else to vote, because I don't want to think anyone wants to keep the Supreme Council on a short leash so that we can go under someone. So reject politics and vote for the agenda for the entire session.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-20-m0.u47	Thank you. So now there's going to be a closing statement, which will be followed by a vote, a vote in the order of the day session, where there are 2,000, 900 bills. I've been asked by about 10 committees that they can't deal with questions on the committee until they're included in the agenda of the day session. We've got about 10 committees blocked. And I emphasize that today is the deadline for us to vote on the order of the day session. And I'm asking everyone to come into the hall and take jobs, get ready for the vote. And I ask all the heads of factions to invite deputies to the hall and those deputies who called on me yesterday for the needs of the laws and the budget (Andrey Pavelko, head of the committee), and the agricultural (Bakumenko). I ask all of them to maximize their vote for the order of the day session. So now I'm going to invite you to the word "Peter Dusty Block." Who's with the B.P.P.? Illuminating. Please, Brainy, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-20-m0.u48	Thank you. Grigory Smoky, Peter Dust Block. Peter Poshenko's Block will support the draft Order of the Day Order of the Eighth Session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. But there is a request to remove the daily bills 2278 and 6641. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-20-m0.u49	And one minute, Shahov, "The will of the people." And please prepare for the vote, take up jobs. Shahov, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-20-m0.u50	Dear Andrew Volodymyrovich, distinguished colleagues! Yesterday, "The will of the people" on the Conciliation Council asked for a draft regulation 8108 prohibiting oligarchs from turning off light, water and gas from the population, social measures and state institutions. This draft decision was not tabled. And when he looked into the order of the day, there was nothing for the people, for the people, for the Ukrainians. "The will of the people" will not maintain the order of the day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-20-m0.u51	So please prepare for the vote. So please prepare for the vote. And, colleagues, I ask you to listen carefully. Two thousand and 900 drafts in the agenda. Among them are laws of all spheres of social life, as rightly stated, and security and defence issues. Among them is Bill 7403-2, which includes bills. of which the Head of the Committee on Budget Affairs, Pavelko, emphasized. After these, I propose to include the bill that was passed by Shahov, 8108, as was the sound of "Rebirth" -- 8059. And, colleagues, now I'm asking everyone to maintain the order of the day session. If you don't support him, the committee won't be able to look at 7403. For the sake of all the agrarians, in order to address the district councils, I ask everyone to vote for the order of the day session with those bills that I have named and which the Smudger has sounded under the stenogram, and which the Smudger has sounded under the stenogram. So please all take part in the vote and take the job. In accordance with the part of the first article 21 and part of the first article 22 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules, I introduce a draft agenda for the eighth session of the Supreme Council to be approved by the Supreme Council of Ukraine with proposals that have been issued: 8108, 8059 and which have been made available under the transcript by the People’s Ombudsman for adoption in general: 8063. Please vote and please support, do not block the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Vote, colleagues, please. Vote, please. [[10:52:08]] For 199 I'll put it again, colleagues, and then I'll just call it a day. So I want to. Show the factions, please. And please invite the deputies to the hall. Please come into the hall. So, Peter Poshenko Block 92, People's Front 63, Opposition Block 0, Self-help 0, Radical Party 17, Parenthood 12, Will of the People 2, Rebirth 0. I would like to emphasize to the People's Will that the bill that you have addressed is 8,108. I'd like to go to Rebirth Group. The bill you've been sounding -- 8059 -- I'm the one who's sounding. [[B in m in s a l in]] I'm the one with the sound. I'm sounding 8059! I'm sounding under the transcript. And that's why I'm asking my colleagues to mobilize and vote. So I'm asking everyone to take jobs. I ask you to prepare for the vote. I'm not going to repeat all the suggestions I've already made. I'm with all the suggestions I've made, 8108, 8059 and the offer. [[B in m in s a l in]] And I ask everyone to prepare for the vote and I ask everyone to support the adoption of the entire draft regulation 8063. Careful! Take your seats, please vote, please support. Vote! Please be supportive. Vote. Please be supportive. [[10:54:11]] For 204 And now I'm going to put it to a final vote. If there are no votes, I'm going to have to announce recesses, and we can't continue to deal with the laws that are in order of the day session. So once again, I'm asking everyone to take up jobs and I'm asking you to show by factions. "Block of Peter Poshenko" – 96, "National Front" – 63, "Occupy Block" – 0, "self-help" – 0, Radical Party – 18, "Fatherhood" – 12, "Will of the People" – 1, "Party of Rebirth" – 0. Colleagues, to get my bearings right, I'm addressing a representative of the will of the people. You asked me to turn it on. Shahov! You asked me to include a bill. Why don't you vote? [[B in m in s a l in]] "Rebirth," I made your offer. I've reached your offer. So I'm going to put the third time on the vote. And, colleagues, if there are no votes, I will have to announce a break for political consultations. And I'm going to be very sorry for the agenda that we've been preparing for a few weeks. I'm asking everyone to take up their jobs. I'm asking everyone to prepare for the vote. So you're ready, right? And I'm putting to the vote with all the rights that I've heard, with all the rights that I've heard. For adoption of the entire draft Decree 8063. Therefore, everyone is kindly asked to vote and I ask for your support. Vote, please. [[10:56:23]] For 202 Thank you. One more time on the factions. Peter Poshenko Block 99, People's Front 62, Opposition Block 0, Self-help 0, Radical Party 17, Fatherland 12, People's Will 0, Restoration Party 0. So, colleagues, we didn't accept the order of the day session, we can't start our work. And by exercising my right, I declare a recess in the plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. And I invite the heads of factions and groups on the third floor to the conference room. I'm entitled to a 15-minute recess. I'm announcing 15 minutes. I'll have everyone in the hall in 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-20-m0.u52	So, colleagues, we've completed political consultations. At the request of the factions, I will re-arrange the agenda for the voting session. I'm asking everyone to come into the hall and take up jobs. If the decision is not taken, I want to inform you, we will have the right to consider only drafts in second reading and ratification. Today we have a second reading of the draft Law on Strategic Environmental Assessment. And I want to warn the authors. Is that Ostup? Yes. So if we don't accept it now, we're going to go to the draft Environmental Assessment Act. We're going to have to work differently because if the agenda is not adopted, I won't be able to review the drafts of the first reading. So I'd like everyone to come into the hall and take their jobs. I want to remind you that every Board of Conciliation I have addressed all the heads of factions with a request to study and make suggestions on the order of the day. Almost all of these proposals, which did not involve a negative decision by the committee, were included. And I want to stress once again, I don't accept it when, in the voting itself, new proposals suddenly begin to be announced. All proposals were included. Now I ask everyone to come into the hall and ask the heads of factions to maximize the mobilization of Ukrainian national deputies. And I want to emphasize. If we don't take the order of the day session, the committees won't be able to address any agrarian issues or budget issues or hundreds of other issues that need immediate solutions. And I'm asking everyone to take up jobs. Heads of factions, please invite deputies to the Hall. Colleagues need higher mobilization. I'm not going to bet forever. Please see who's not around, call me back, ask me to come into the hall. Please take up jobs. I also ask the secretariat of the Supreme Council to report that we are now moving to the vote so that the deputies of all those who are in the towers will enter the hall. Ready to go to the vote? So I'm asking everyone to take up jobs. Please prepare for the vote. And I'm going to repeat the proposal I put on my break. Thus, according to the part of the first article 21 and part of the first article 22 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules, I present a draft order for the day - to - day eighth session of the Supreme Council for approval by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. I bet a vote on the whole draft Decree No. 8063, including draft Law 8059. Did you hear me? 8059, 8108. Did you hear me? We heard, yeah. Including 6391-1. Including the offer made by the Ukrainian national deputy of Zabotny under the stenogram. We heard. So all the suggestions are answered, which were made during the discussion. And I ask that you, with those amendments, accept the draft Decree 8063 as a whole. Everyone please take up their jobs and please support and vote. Vote please, colleagues. Please be supportive. Vote. Please be supportive. [[11:31:07]] For 239. Decision taken. And I now entrust the Tax Policy Committee with immediate consideration of draft Law 7403-2 as a matter of urgency, as one that needs an immediate solution. As I promised the head of the Agrarian Committee of Bakumenko, as I promised the representatives of agriculture, I am giving an immediate commission to the committee. And, colleagues, we're moving to the agenda of the day session. And unfortunately, we've lost a lot of time and we've lost it foolishly, but we're going to make up for it during the discussion. The draft Law amending Chapter VI of the Budget Code of Ukraine (No. 8099) is therefore the first in the agenda of the day session. Please support his consideration of the reduced procedure. Please vote and please support. Vote. [[11:32:16]] For 178. Decision taken. And I invite you to the report by Finance Minister Daniluk Alexander Alexandrovich. Please, Mr. Alexander.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-20-m0.u53	Dear Andrew Volodymyrovich! Dear National Deputies! The government has prepared comprehensive changes to the Budget Code, which introduce a full transition to medium - term budgetary planning. These changes are recorded in Bills 8043 and 8044 and are supported by the Budget Committee. We are set up for a constructive discussion with a view to jointly implementing the budgetary process of a new quality – transparent, systemic and one that ensures constructive cooperation between the government and parliament not only before the new year but throughout the budget period, throughout the year. The adoption of these bills will take some time. In order not to lose this year, your view is proposed for consideration by the draft Law amending Chapter VI of the Budget Code of Ukraine (for medium-term budgetary planning). The adoption of this bill is a necessary step towards ensuring the continuity of the process of transition to medium-term budgeting and the continuation of the budget reform launched in 2014, the development of the 18th year of the draft Basic Policy Guidelines for the mid-term period 2019-2021. The draft law provides for the addition of chapter VI of the Ukrainian Budget Code by a new paragraph 41.1, which foresees that Minfin develops and submits to the government by 15 May 18 the draft Budget Guidelines for 2019-2021, which is being reviewed and approved by the government no later than 1 June 2018. It's not later than the correct edition.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-20-m0.u54	30 seconds to complete.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-20-m0.u55	These terms correspond to the terms defined in the two bills that I mentioned earlier. The preparation of the main directions of the budget policy for 2019-2021 under the procedures and deadlines provided for in this bill will create the conditions for preparing budget participants for new approaches in the budgetary planning system. Please be supportive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-20-m0.u56	Thank you. The co-report invites the head of the Committee’s Committee on Budget Affairs, Ischeikin Constantine. Please, Mr. Constantine.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-20-m0.u57	Dear Andrey Volodymyrovich, distinguished national deputies! The Budget Committee at its March 15th meeting considered a government bill of 8099 amending the Budget Code on medium-term budgetary planning. The position of this bill is similar to that of section VI, section VI, of the Budget Code, according to which, experimentally, in 2017, the Cabinet of Ministers submitted to the Supreme Council a draft of the main budget policy directions for 2018-2020. Following the practice of last year, it is appropriate to regulate directly in the bill the need to submit to the Supreme Council for consideration, together with the project of the Main Directions of Budget Policy for 2019-2021, accompanying materials, which will include explanations and financial and economic calculations on the main positions and indicators of such a document. The relevant information will then be available to the general public, both in Parliament and in the public. In order to avoid ambiguous treatment of the deadlines for submitting such a project to Parliament, the bill also needs to set a specific date: no later than 5 June 2018. In addition, the Committee on Budget Affairs decided to draw the Government's attention to the need for further consideration of the Committee's conclusion on last year's draft guidelines to take into account the comments, warnings and recommendations in the preparation of the draft guidelines for budgetary policy for 2019-2021. The main scientific and expert office supports the adoption of the bill on the basis of which it is to be decided on the basis of the consideration of Bills 8044 and 8043, which are aimed at implementing the medium-term budgetary planning on a permanent basis. These bills were also considered by the committee last week and offered to be accepted only as a basis for further thorough revision of the second reading, which would take a long time. Therefore, to continue the implementation of medium-term budgetary planning.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-20-m0.u58	30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-20-m0.u59	and in order to ensure continuity and consistency of budgetary policy, the Committee supports the government's proposal for adoption today of Bill 8099. Taking into account the above, the Committee on Budget Issues recommends to the Supreme Council Bill 8099 to adopt, as a whole, as a basis and as a law, with the proposals made by the Committee in its letter of origin, namely: to clarify the wording of the submission to the Supreme Council no later than 5 June of the current year.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-20-m0.u60	Thank you. So let's do the recording: two-for-two-again. Please. By "self-help" Olena Babak. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-20-m0.u61	Please pass the word to Irina Sisoyenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-20-m0.u62	Irina Sisoyenko, Self-Help Unit. The bill proposes the introduction of medium-term budgetary planning, and the self-help faction will vote in favour of the bill in the first reading. At the same time, I would like to point out that the Budget Code states that members of the national parliaments make their proposals for budgetary policy. So here I am, along with my colleagues at Self-Help Group, for the second year we've been making budget proposals for the funding of the Emergency Medical Programme. Who in the government or in the Ministry of Finance hears the proposals of the people’s deputies? Nobody. I also note that the second year of the Health Committee insists on important health expenses, especially the raising of medical tariffs for health workers who do not go to work in the form of a new reform. Who hears the Health Committee at the Ministry of Finance? No one can hear. So when the Ministry of Finance proposes to Parliament to amend the Budget Code, we very much ask you to hear and listen to the people's deputies and to the committee's profile when it comes to budget policy. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-20-m0.u63	Thank you. From Fatherland, Ivan Krulko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-20-m0.u64	Ivan Krulko, "The Fatherland" faction. What's this bill about? This bill is, in fact, a technical bill that provides for a shift in time for the submission to the Supreme Council of the main directions of budgetary policy. We, as the Fatherland faction, support the idea that the country should move on to medium-term budget planning. But this medium-term budgeting should be reinforced by concrete content. Why does the government now make such a proposal? Because it's obvious that those bills (8044 and 8043) that we should be looking at in the session room today, in fact, are not ready for consideration in the session room, should be seriously worked out. Because if the country moves to medium-term budgetary planning, the main directions of budgetary policy cannot be given as they were given last year, they have to have concrete content, they have to have concrete plans about how the country will develop, and they can't be, exclusively, one about how the budget resolution will look. Therefore, my fellow Members, we believe that the issue of medium-term budgetary planning and this bill should be considered together, a serious document must be adopted, and that the country should actually make its planning for the most important document, namely the budget, as is done in European countries. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-20-m0.u65	Thank you. So you don't support it, John, do you? Oh, you do, okay. Sergey Kaplin, next from Peter Dustenk's Block, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-20-m0.u66	The most effective budget planning is being done in social-democratic Sweden, Norway and Finland. In September they adopted the budget, the next day a budget committee, an expert environment, a government gathering and preparing a plan and strategy for the next budget. But at the same time, there is a revision of the national economic development programme, which is adopted for 3, 4, 5, 15. I'd like to get from today's government a program of his actions for at least a year, I emphasize, for a year. It doesn't exist. I'd like to get from today's functioning mythical coalition, an audit of a coalition agreement that doesn't do the same thing, in which all the demands are written, but they don't follow this coalition agreement. I'd like to see three key things in this program. First, how many current Prime Minister and Kabmin will create new jobs for ordinary Ukrainians in the current year. Second, the current Prime Minister, Kabmin’s composition, and the coalition will increase the minimum wage. And the third is how much the current government will increase the minimum pension. These three key questions are of interest to ordinary Ukrainians today. We can make a lot of technical changes to the order of budget formation and its acceptance, all of which are welcomed by us, of course. But the key issue today is not in shape, but in the context of those steps and the direction that an active government today should have. The Constitution clearly states in the first article: "Ukraine is a social, democratic country." And we have to get out of this first of all, and we have to think not about form, first of all, but about pensions, wages and new jobs. It's a priority, and it's got to be a new one, and it's got to be a new one.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-20-m0.u67	Thank you. Colleagues, we're about to make a closing statement from the Opposition Block. Natalia Royal. And I'm asking everyone to come to the hall. In two minutes, we'll move on to making a decision. Please, Mrs. Natalia.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-20-m0.u68	Dear colleagues! The government wants to improve budgetary planning. Yes, that's good, but it's a question of what's at the top today: to create medium-term planning with low-income pensions, low-income levels, low-income wages, or to combine efforts today, and to create medium-term planning for living, economic growth, pensions and social standards. Look, today's living minimum is 1,000 762 bracelets in the country. What are we wasting our time for? Mr. Alexander, why are we talking about some kind of medium-term planning when you're offering people 65 dollars a month? Today is the International Day of Happiness. So our country only went down six steps in the last year, because people don't see the world at the end of the tunnel. And that's why the Opposition Block registered the 8224 bill, where we're clearly showing, by what and how to raise the minimum of living today, today to raise pensions and wages. And we demand that today, first of all, we consider the issue of social protection of citizens, the social protection of children, displaced persons, your promises about military pensioners, and make social planning for our people's insurance, not another technical bill here to be issued as your major reform. The Opposition Block won't support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-20-m0.u69	So there hasn't been a speech yet from the Radical Party, I'll give you two minutes. And I'm asking everyone to take up jobs. Easy.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-20-m0.u70	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Dear colleagues, I ask you to hear important, impressive figures. Last year, Ukraine exported nearly 42 million tons of grains, which we earned, came in with $3 billion in foreign exchange. For comparison, only oil exports from Ukraine amounted to $4 billion. So Ukraine is the record of harvesting crops, exporting grains, and we get absolutely low incomes, and then we turn into an exporter of cheap labor and cheap raw materials, and then we get the ear of the government hanging, talking about economic growth. There is no economic growth, when there is no working high-quality personnel left in Ukraine, an impossible economic growth when instead of selling products, we trade cheap raw materials, transforming ourselves into a raw material colony. And that's why the only way to stop labour migration, when millions of people, especially young people, are going abroad, is not border guards with dogs, but it's about raising wages and raising the standard of living of Ukrainians -- the only way to solve economic problems, including stopping economic migration. That's why the Radical Party team insists on increasing government wages and pensions every time, because it's economic development, it's jobs, it's a radical change in economic policy, when a person gets a salary from a beggar who won't be able to feed a family, when millions of pensioners who have worked hard get 1.5 thousand copies of a pension, as is usually the case for medicine, can't have a future success in a country where millions of people are poor and unemployed. Therefore, Ukraine's development guarantee is to raise wages, create new jobs, raise Ukrainian income and rebuild its own economy.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-20-m0.u71	Thank you. So the discussion is over, let's move on to the decision-making process. Please take up your jobs and prepare for the decision. And I'm voting on the draft Law amending Chapter VI of the Budget Code of Ukraine (for mid-term budget planning) (No. 8099) on the Committee's proposal to accept as a basis and as a whole, taking into account the Committee's proposals. So, if you'll excuse me, please vote. Colleagues, take your seats, please. Leonid, there's a vote. Voting is taking place. Please be supportive. Please vote. Vote. Please vote. [[11:50:08]] For 216 I'll put it back once. I'm asking everyone to come into the hall and take jobs. [[B in m in s a l in]] I can see it! So I'm going to put it once for confirmation. On my way back. Everyone please enter the workplace. So I'm voting on the proposal to go back to voting for the bill. Why are you leaving the hall? Why? Two more people left the hall. So I'd like you to prepare. I'm proposing to go back to Bill 8099. Please vote, please support. Vote, please. [[11:51:26]] For 215 Please, one minute, Daniluk. And we'll be, the next thing you know, it's a simple proposal. The next one is the proposal, just on the basis. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-20-m0.u72	Ladies and gentlemen, I'd like to address you and ask you to support this bill. This is not a technical bill. In fact, much of what you said here was that it was necessary to plan properly for our country to develop successfully. So in order for us to be open to each other so that we can work together throughout the year, all of your wishes to work effectively, to include in the budget, not in front of the tree, but from today, from the moment of the vote, we need to adopt this bill. In doing so, you will also be honest with your voters, because all you are going to say is that it is in the declaration, and it will be true, and it will be emphasized. strengthened by a resource. So this bill is really a step towards a transparent budget and it's a step for the country's prosperity. Please support him. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-20-m0.u73	I'll put it back again. And I'd like everyone to take up their jobs. So, can we vote? I propose to return to the vote in favour of Law 8099. If you'll excuse me, I'd like to vote. We're voting carefully. Please be supportive. Please vote. [[11:53:23]] For 209 Thus, the committee’s position was not supported. On the basis of that, do we vote on the basis? Colleagues, what's the basis? Then let's go back, and I'll propose on the basis. Does that make sense? I ask, Mr. Minister, is there a basis? I'm asking, is there a point? Yes, no, that's the answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-20-m0.u74	Of course, there is no basis for voting. If this is not supported, we stop working on the three-year declaration, that is, we have stopped the key reform in this country. I don't know how we're going to continue in the budget. I very much ask those who may now be ill - treated, think of the country. There went the team not very active in voting. Please vote actively. Please actively vote, because together we will support, we will move forward together. Support the government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-20-m0.u75	Colleagues, finance ministers, and the committee say that there is no point, either in general or rejected. Yeah? So I'm going to put the third time back in favour of the whole, if there are no votes, the bill will be rejected. The bill will be rejected. Okay, 30 seconds from the committee. Invite the deputies to the hall. The committee is Ischeikin. Invite the deputies to the hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-20-m0.u76	The bill gives the government only an additional deadline for the preparation of a budget resolution to be qualitative, with calculations and satellites. All the other directions you've been talking about will be adopted in the amended government bills. This bill only sets the date of submission. I'd like to support you very much. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-20-m0.u77	Thank you. Let's mobilize. Show the factions the last vote. Block of Petra Dustenka, 77. Colleagues, don't leave. I ask you to prepare for the vote. And I'm asking you to vote back to 8099. If we don't vote now, the bill will be rejected. I'm asking you to get ready. Ostap! Ostap! When environmental laws are in place, so will the groups. Please take up jobs. And I ask you to vote in favour of returning to draft Law 8099 on the proposal of a committee. Please be supportive. Please vote. Vote. Please be supportive. [[11:56:27]] For 209 There are no votes, Mr. Minister. Law 8099 was rejected. Let's move on to the next one. Next draft of the Act amending certain laws of Ukraine on the characteristics of government banks (7,180 and 7181). Please support the consideration of the reduced procedure. Please vote. Please be supportive. [[11:57:08]] For-166 Decision taken. I invite you to report to the Minister of Finance, Daniluk Alexander, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-20-m0.u78	Dear Andrey Volodymyrovich, distinguished national deputies! Today, one of the priorities of the work of Minfin and the government is to reform the state banking sector. One of the key tasks in this context is to scrutinize the principles and mechanisms of corporate governance of state banks. This is reflected in an updated strategy of government banks that was adopted by the Cabinet of Ministers about a month ago. For the purpose of carrying out this task, a specified bill was drafted that proposes to review the principles and mechanisms of corporate management of the holding, to bring them into line with the best international standards by creating an isolated system of managing the operation of the held by supervisory boards, most of which will be composed of independent members. The project is proposed to introduce in a new edition article 7 of the Ukrainian Law on Banking and Banking, according to which the supervisory board of the holding is made up of seven members, five of whom should be independent and two members representing the State. The list of criteria to be met by independent members of the Supervisory Board and representatives of the State in the Supervisory Board of the State Bank is also defined. In order to identify candidates as members of the Board of Supervisors, it is envisaged that the Cabinet of Ministers will form a competition commission composed of three representatives from the President and three representatives from the Cabinet of Ministers. Applicants for the positions of independent members of the Supervisory Board of the holding shall be determined by competitive selection in the order established by the Cabinet of Ministers, solely by the number of applicants selected under the terms of the open competition by the staff selection company, which has not less than a decade of international experience in providing services for the selection of the leading world banks. One candidate for the State’s position as the Supervisory Board for the holding is determined by the proposal of the President and the Cabinet of Ministers. The project also proposes to supplement the Criminal Code by establishing responsibility for illegal acts.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-20-m0.u79	30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-20-m0.u80	The project also proposes to supplement the Criminal Code by establishing responsibility for unlawful interference with officials. This bill has been considered by the committee and we fully support it under a single amendment, which foresees that we are moving from a model of five independent, two dependents to six independent and three dependent members: one from the Supreme Council, one from the government, one from the President.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-20-m0.u81	30 seconds to complete.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-20-m0.u82	Request to be accepted as a basis and by a reduced procedure. Thank you. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-20-m0.u83	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I suggest you finish the discussion after the break, because we still have the National Fisherman, the report, then the committee's report, and we've got 12 hours. So, colleagues, we're going to finish our consideration of the bill. [[B in m in s a l in]] Now the more, if we go in in 15 minutes, the more we can't go out. Colleagues, would you advise me to continue now or after the break? Continue now, do you think? Let's get this over with. Okay. So be it. Then please, I'm announcing a 15-minute extension of work, but it's important that people's deputies don't break up so that they're all in place. Right now, to the report of the National Deputy of the Fisherman, Sergio Viktorovich, please. Prepare Doubenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-20-m0.u84	Dear Mr. Head! Dear colleagues! After a violent bankruptcy, 60 percent of the banking system was owned by the state. By the way, it was 8. For two years on our committee, we tried to appoint members of the Supervisory Board of State Banks, as well as a Minfin strategy for the development of state banks. Finally, two years later, we received this strategy from Minfin. And what do we see? The main task is to sell. Yes, part of the state banks need to be reduced. But the main goal of government banks is to implement state economic policy. We need government banks to do support programs, support small and medium-sized businesses, support the manufacturer, support the exporting producer to provide long and cheap loans. Only there will we be able to create jobs and start our economy. Just like that, this is the position and program of the Radical Party faction. Opponents of the Bank of Reconstruction and Development have one argument, saying that all money will be stolen. Then we don't have to approve the state budget, then we don't need control organs, and that's how they're going to steal everything. So it is absolutely necessary to change the banking management system. We made an alternative bill on state banks and we think it's more solid. But the probability of passing today we see a government bill. I think we need to create effective work councils, but we need to defend the rights of our Ukrainian citizens in good faith. So on the first reading, we ask you to support the bill of government and then carefully redraft it. Dear colleagues, I ask you to uphold this law in order to bring the state banks into order today. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-20-m0.u85	Thank you. The report invites the first deputy head of the Committee on Financial Policy, Doubenko Mikhailo Volodymyrovich. Please. If you can, fine.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-20-m0.u86	Yeah. Thank you. At the meeting of the Committee on Financial Policy and Banking on December 19, 2017, drafts of Laws 7180 and 7180-1 were discussed by members of our committee. During the consideration of the matter, members of the committee came out of three problems. The first problem is the colossal replenishment of the bank's capital over the years of independence from our country's state budget. That's about 270 billion. The second problem is the catastrophic situation with the problem of corporate credit portfolio debt in government banks, over 90 percent. The third problem is that there are now three different systems for forming supervisory boards in four state banks. So the committee supported the decision that we should change our legislation. We also took into account the decisions, in preparing the decisions that the findings of the Supreme Council's Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration proposed appropriate comments and proposals to both bills, and also took into account the fact that the National Bank and the Cabinet of Ministers are supporting Bill 7180. Therefore, the decision of our committee was the following. Recommend to the Supreme Council a draft Ukrainian Law amending certain legislative acts of Ukraine on the characteristics of the administration of state banks (registration 7080) to adopt, on the basis of the Committee's proposals, under paragraphs 31, 51, 82, 88 of paragraph 3 of section 4 and of the bill on the balance of the number of representatives of the State. Please support 7,180 with the committee's proposals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-20-m0.u87	Thank you. Please hold the recording. Only, colleagues, I ask you as concisely as possible and only as strictly necessary. We've spent a lot of time. From "The Fatherland" Sergei. Passes on to Sergei Soboljevo. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-20-m0.u88	Dear colleagues, this is a very interesting bill. Think of what this scheme offers. At first, the state actually buys out the entire country's budget at the expense of banks that have been bankrupted by its owners, putting billions into refinance, and then buying up those banks. Then, when this happened, and actually from the state budget, let's call things our names, hundreds of billions of dollars, then the state starts selling these banks. Look at the procedure for selling banks. First option. First, we have to take this bank into office. To that end, the procedure whereby the President and the Government are given the extra-curricular right to appoint their representatives there is changing. And then there's a special new agency that's going to be putting together the holding fund to sell a 25% stock package. In this way total control is increasing even though not even half the shares are formally sold. Next, if the sale did not take place, it sells 5 percent at the same price, and only then does it involve the sale of the bank. So when you have to take hundreds of billions of dollars from citizens to refinance, to buy up banks, no one asks citizens. Next, when you have to sell them under conditions that don't give you absolutely any control over this process, there's a situation where you sell banks to your own. Our faction will not vote for this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-20-m0.u89	From the Radical Party, Lyashko.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-20-m0.u90	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. I'm talking to the Minister of Finance. In all of this history with state banks and our team of the Radical Party, and I'm sure all Ukrainians are interested in one question: and who will answer for the fact that these banks were destroyed and for the large-scale theft of the funds of these banks' investors. According to the U.S. agency Kroll, his former owners stole almost $6 billion from Private Bank. I'm asking what action the Ukrainian law enforcement agencies are taking before the $6 billion private investor's money is recovered, the ones that are being stolen today. We're hearing a report that in London, the court is considering a lawsuit by the Ukrainian Ministry of Finance against former owners of Private Bank. What do Ukrainian courts do? Where is the criminal case for the theft of 6 billion? Where is the announcement of suspicion to those who have committed these large - scale thefts? Where is the announcement in the interstate search for looters? None. So 6 billion dollars was stolen from Private Bank, another 120 billion dollars were paid to save the bank, pay for everything from Ukrainian pockets, and then tell us that you have to take $1 billion credit, because, you see, there's no money to cover the budget deficit. Stealing billions of dollars of people's money is a skill, and finding those who stole it, bringing it here to Ukraine, shaking people's money off of it, that's not a skill. I have a question for all those fighting corruption and law enforcement: what do you get paid for is for the mice to run or for the fat corrupts who stole billions of dollars of national money. We're asking the Parliament for a report on who stole the private money, the investors of this bank, and what the authorities are doing to get the stolen money back.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-20-m0.u91	Thank you. From the Peter Prashenko Block, Yuri Solovay. I'm just asking you to be brief. He's handing over the noodles. Rizanenko from the rostrum, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-20-m0.u92	Good afternoon, dear fellows! National MP Rizanenko, member of the Financial Policy and Banking Committee. It's very short on the substance of the bill. Today in state banks, three banks like Private Bank, Exim, Spare. But there's also a bank with a government stake in Krukgazbank, but it's not state-owned, there's 94 percent. Supervisory boards are made up of 15 people: 5 from the President, 5 from the Supreme Council, and 5 from the government. So today, I'm going to tell you that since 2012, the Supreme Council has not been able to appoint any person to the observation board. Our committee tried three times, turned to factions to submit their candidates, did not pass the factions, one or two factions just filed. Ten people were needed for the quorum. Since last year, since January, even on the President's and Kabmin's quota, there are no members, for the paralyzed observations of these banks. The bill proposes to change the formula when instead of 15 radios, 6 and 3. Six independents, one by one from the President, the Kabmin and the Supreme Council, by the nomination of the committee, and their work will be paid. Today, members of the Watch Tower Councils work free of charge, but they should not work in other bodies. So no banker will go to this council. Now, here's to the point of the problem. For example, there's this "Three O's" (the owner of the Guliver) and in 2012 it got $450 million from the Savings and Eximbank under one percent by 2024. Owners: 60 per cent Yanukovic Jr., 40 per cent Viktor Polishchuk, Mikhailovsky Bank. And to this day the problem has not been solved; there is no monitoring board and no control. So I ask everyone to support this bill. It'll give you the opportunity to restore control and control in these banks, they need it for a long time, and then they need to be sold. I propose to support it as a whole.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-20-m0.u93	Thank you. It's a closing act. Then we go to the vote, I ask everyone to come to the hall, and I ask you to mobilize as much as possible to make a decision. Gooseka Vladimir Georgievicz, please, is invited to the floor from the Opposition Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-20-m0.u94	Dear Ukrainians, dear colleagues, dear Head, good afternoon! The stated purpose of this bill is to improve the quality of governance of state banks. But somehow to improve the quality of this administration is proposed by the complete removal of the Supreme Council from this process. The supervisory boards of state banks should now be formed as follows: five members from the President of Ukraine, five from the Cabinet of Ministers and five from the Supreme Council. What is proposed? One member of the Supervisory Board remains from the President, one from the Cabinet of Ministers and five from the so-called independent. There is no Supreme Council. Next. The so-called independent candidates are to be appointed by the Cabinet of Ministers on the basis of the submission of a competitive commission, which is being re-formed: 3 members of the competition commission, from the President of Ukraine and 3 members of the competition commission, from the Cabinet of Ministers. At least the National Bank could be included. Next. These candidates are to be selected from the number of candidates who are selected in an open competition by a staff selection company that has not less than a decade of international experience in the selection of the leading world banks. Well, after what's happened in the Ukrainian banking system in recent years, it's unlikely that any of the Ukrainian banks can be called the world's leading banks. So we're going to have another competition run by an international company. We don't mind that. But the last examples are very sad. I can give you an example of the last. Wojciech Balchun's last manager, who promised a lot, but actually went to work three times a week and left the Crucifixion in worse shape. That's why our faction won't support this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-20-m0.u95	Thank you. So the discussion is over. I just had a consultation with both the committee's representative and the finance minister. They confirmed to me that the Supreme Council is represented in the same way as the Cabinet of Ministers and the President. So that we can vote objectively, fully balanced and fully balanced. And we can move on to making decisions, colleagues. So I'm going to ask you to take up jobs. Please. So I'm voting on the draft Act amending some of the Ukrainian legislative acts on the characteristics of the management of state banks, as proposed by the Committee at the beginning of 7,180, taking into account the proposals made by the committee that were presented under the transcript by the representative of the committee. Please vote, please support me as a base. If you'll excuse me, I'd like to vote. Let's vote, colleagues. Based on, yes, with the committee's proposals. [[12:16:21]] For-187 I'll put you guys in, invite you into the hall, I'll make an offer to come back. I'm voting on the motion to return to vote 7180. Or, colleagues, I'll put the next one here on the committee to work on, doesn't that make sense? Let me put it back on if there's no vote, if there's no vote, then we're already on the committee for work. I'm voting on the proposal to go back to draft Law 7180. Please vote and please support, we vote. [[12:17:20]] For 190 It's a committee to work on. Alternative, yes. Now I'm going to put 7180-1 (alternative). Whoever supports it, I ask you to vote. The Committee supports 80-1, which supports 80, please vote. [[12:17:54]] For 132 I'm betting on the next suggestion: to return to the committee to prepare for the re-reading of the first reading. Whoever supports this proposal, please vote on the committee for the re-reading. Please vote. [[12:18:20]] For a hundred and And the last. Return the subject to the right of a legislative initiative for further processing. Please vote. Please be supportive. [[12:18:41]] For-198 The decision is not taken. Thus, Law 7180 and Law 7180-1 are rejected. Colleagues, I'd like to tell you now. I am addressing the Committee on Law Protection with regard to the bill on State Protection of Public Authorities. Please consider immediately. And to the Committee on Foreign Affairs, consider a draft decree on the legitimacy of the election of the President of the Russian Federation. Consider, too, the possibility that we will be given the opportunity to accept this decision today. For those two, the law and the decree, please consider. Now, according to the Rules, I'm going to call it a break. After a break, we'll move on to the industrial policy and enterprise cluster. I ask the committee head to prepare for the report. And I'm calling it a 12:45 break. At 12:45, everyone please come to the hall to continue our work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-20-m0.u96	It's been 30 minutes. And, colleagues, we're moving on to the next issue of order of the day. I mean, we're a little out of pace, so we need to work harder. I'm asking you to invite all the deputies to the hall right now. I want to remind you of the logic of today. We now have a cluster of industrial policy and entrepreneurship, extremely important issues, among them the issues needed for the EU Association Agreement. Then we have a very important question of second reading: about strategic environmental assessment, about diplomatic service. And I'm also going to recommend today that we adopt a non-recognition decree in the Russian Federation. But in order to go through that agenda, we need high mobilization, and we also need to maintain the proposal for a reduced procedure, because otherwise it's going to take us an extra half hour. And so I'm going to ask all the national MPs to support the proposal of the first law, to consider it as a reduced procedure. And I ask everyone to come into the hall and prepare for the vote. I would like to remind you that the first law in the industrial policy and enterprise cluster is the draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine on the conservation of Ukrainian forests and the prevention of the illegal export of unprocessed timber. A bill that provides for increased liability for forest smuggling, and I hope that we will all be united around the discussion. But right now, it's going to be important for us to be able to get into his consideration of the reduced procedure. So I ask everyone to come into the hall and prepare for the vote. So logic is clear. And we are going to consider the draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine regarding the conservation of Ukrainian forests and the prevention of the illegal export of raw materials (Nos. 5495 and No. 5495-1). And I'm asking you, colleagues, all to support the proposal for a reduced procedure. Is there any understanding? Is there any support? Then I ask everyone to take up their jobs and vote in favour of the short-term draft of Law 5495. Please vote. And I'm asking you to back me up. Vote. Please be supportive. [[12:53:35]] For-119 I'll do it again. I see. Why don't you come to the hall? I ask you to prepare for the vote. Colleagues, logic is very simple. We're in the middle of the day, and I've already talked about this today, and the issue of a strategic environmental assessment that we couldn't get past twice, and the question of diplomatic service, there's 140 rights, it's going to take time, and the decision not to recognize the elections of the Russian Federation. We will not be able to go through this order of days if we do not enter into an hourly or more hourly discussion. There can be no logic here; there is only a common logic in Parliament. And I'm asking you, colleagues, to prepare and support everyone. Support the proposal to review draft Laws 5495 and 5495-1 under reduced procedure. I'd like your support, colleagues. Please vote. Please be supportive. [[12:55:32]] For-143 Seven votes. I'll put the third time. If there's no votes, we'll get into full procedure. I'll put it again, but this will be the last time. Guys, I'm gonna put it back up again. I'm gonna put it back together. If there are no votes, we'll get to the bottom of this. So I'm asking everyone to take up jobs. Please prepare for the vote. So I'm voting on the proposal to consider draft Laws 5495 and 5495-1 on a simplified procedure. Please be supportive. Please vote. Support me, colleagues, please vote. Vote. Please be supportive. [[12:57:03]] For-160. Decision taken. And I invite you to report to the head of the Committee on Industrial Policy and Entrepreneurship, Halasyuk Viktor Valeriovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-20-m0.u97	Victor Halasyuk, faction of the Radical Party of Oleg Lášk. Dear fellow national MPs! You and I have introduced a ten-year moratorium on the removal of roundwood from Ukraine. It was fully operational in 2017. I want to give you the first results. Plus 2 billion additional investments came into the industry, it's more than a double increase in capital investment in the woodworking sector. An additional 4 billion dollars of raw exports of goods made from the forest of Ukraine. 400 million dollars of extra revenue to the state budget of Ukraine thanks only to one of this Law on the Moratorium for the Export of Round Forest. Tens of thousands of jobs throughout Ukraine and dozens of new productions, including Ukrainian and European investors, have been created through a moratorium on the export of roundwood. But the positive effects could be even greater if there were no shameful smuggling that is taking place today and is undermining national economic policies. One of the key assets of the Ukrainian Forest Conservation Bill is criminalizing the smuggling of roundwood forests. We suggest you break the moratorium, smuggle the forest out of the country -- go to prison for 3-7 years, for a relapse, up to 12 years. It cost a lot of effort not only to accept it, but also to save the moratorium, despite the crazy, including the credit pressure from abroad. The main argument by the opponents of the moratorium that he was saying he was violating Ukraine's agreement with the World Trade Organisation and the EU. But that's not true. I hereby state that the moratorium falls under article XX, paragraph (g), of the WTO Agreement on General Exclusions. I quote, "saving the natural resources that are being exhausted."
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-20-m0.u98	30 seconds, please. One minute, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-20-m0.u99	Thank you. I quote the exception: "preservation of natural resources that are exhausted if such measures are applied together with restrictions on domestic production or consumption." This bill introduces such a restriction on the internal consumption of timber and implements absolutely 100 percent of our international arrangements. This takes the last prize from our opponents and guarantees a moratorium on the export of roundwood to all Ukraine's international agreements. I would like to point out that the government supports this bill, and the Minister of Environment, Ostap Semerak, has also confirmed that there is support for this bill. I am absolutely convinced, as deputy leader of the Radical Party, as chairman of the committee, that this is Solomon's decision to allow the moratorium on the exports of round-the-clock medicine. Three new bills: criminalizing forest smuggling, restricting internal consumption and, thirdly, implementing a comprehensive forest restoration programme -- what we demand from the government and establishing at the level of law.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-20-m0.u100	Thank you. The report invites Ukrainian national deputy Drevijanko Yuri Bogdanović.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-20-m0.u101	Dear colleagues! Dear Ukrainians! Yuri Derevyanko, "The Movement of New Forces". My bill is an alternative, and we fully support the concept of Bill 5495, which is to preserve our national wealth, the Carpathians, and not only to continue the moratorium on the forest, but also to hold administrative and criminal responsibility for violating this moratorium. Not enough, we've documented the facts, the New Forces Movement and other activists, the illegal logging of the forest and the export of them in the form of wood, called wood (code 4401) or bonded wood. It's when huge trains are loaded with a tree round, but documents are formed, as if exported to wood exports. So my bill also provides for a 10-year ban on exports under the code "wood" and "wood" only in the part that relates to a round of unprocessed. Not the part that concerns real wood or real sawn wood, where our entrepreneurs today supply to the countries of the European Union, but the part that concerns the unprocessed round. And I'm also proposing a slightly different way of internal restrictions on the consumption of timber, which is that the total annual volume of any tree edge can't exceed the amount of natural forest growth on land covered by the forest. At the same time, the defined global forest growth should not take into account the land covered by the forest, in the area of the natural reserve. So what we're talking about is that the limitations of annual cutting should be limited to the natural growth that is without touching the natural-invention fund. Please, Your Honor, support any of these bills, because we need to preserve our Carpathians and increase the responsibility of the administrative and criminal for violating the moratorium that we have set up. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-20-m0.u102	Thank you. From the Committee on Industrial Policy and Entrepreneurship, Halasyuk Viktor Valeriyovich
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-20-m0.u103	Dear Andrew Volodymyrovich, distinguished colleagues! The Committee on Industrial Policy and Entrepreneurship considered Bills 5495 and 5495-1. I'm reporting on the basic bill. The Cabinet of Ministers supports the bill and makes some observations. The Committee on Prevention and Anti-Corruption notes that the bill does not define corruption-related factors, and the draft act meets the requirements of anti-corruption legislation. In addition, I have already highlighted the position of the Ministry of Profiles and Minister Semerak. Taking into account the arguments that have been put forward, the measures proposed by the bill are fully in line with the WTO agreement, specifically article 20 (g) of the 94th anniversary agreement. The bill thus allows the smuggling of roundwood forests to be criminalized, restricting internal consumption, and proposes a comprehensive forest fund rehabilitation programme. Thus, the Committee on Industrial Policy and Entrepreneurship proposes to introduce and adopt Bill 5495 in the first reading. As far as Bill 5495-1 is concerned. The Cabinet of Ministers does not support the bill. In addition, members of the Committee on Industrial Policy and Entrepreneurship, after considering an alternative bill, decided to take into account its individual positions in the basic bill after its adoption and to return the alternative to the subject of the legislative initiative. And I also want to add that the committee is currently developing a comprehensive bill on the internal market for wood, where a number of additional positions will be taken into account for the cross-dressing of wood, space monitoring, on a multi-level trading system. And that's going to allow the complex to work in such a way that it works for the Ukrainian economy and for every citizen.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-20-m0.u104	Thank you. Please record: two for, two for. From the Radical Party, Amelchenko gives the floor to Oleg Lašek.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-20-m0.u105	Dear colleagues! Our struggle for Ukrainian forests is an example of how to protect Ukraine's national interests: ecology, jobs, economic development. Stop trading raw materials! On the border with Ukraine were former woodworking enterprises, in Ukraine unprocessed forests were taken behind coins, transported across the border, produced products, furniture, and then transported to Ukraine on three roads. I'm giving you examples right now. Lvivščina, Busk, was once considered the furniture capital of Ukraine, and more than 20 businesses worked there. As a result of the devastating destruction of the Ukrainian forests, 30,000 people have lost their jobs, and woodworking and furniture industries have disappeared in Ukraine. We used imported furniture. We started, our team of the Radical Party, the struggle for the Ukrainian forest, the ban on exporting it unprocessed, the struggle for jobs in woodworking and furniture industries for Ukrainians with one goal: conservation of forests, restoration of jobs in woodworking and furniture industries. And we did it. It's a success story. Because the figures show that this is the only way to make a strong country. Why do even loans offer us to cancel this moratorium? The answer is one. Because this law creates jobs for Ukrainians in their country, not for our foreign competitors. Because we have to make furniture and process it, wood, not our foreign competitors. Because we have to replant green plants in Ukraine, not cut off forests, but keep ours. Not in Austria, not in Norway, not in any other country will you find to cut down forests. And why, when there are stupid Ukrainians who can take everything away for free? Everyone who thinks Ukrainians are stupid and can take everything away for free is my personal enemies. I won't let the Ukrainians take away their future.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-20-m0.u106	Next performance from Self-Help. Semenha, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-20-m0.u107	Semenha Roman, "The Self-Help Union" faction. My dear colleagues, unfortunately, I don't share, although Self-Help will support this legislative initiative, I don't share the optimism of the authors. Well, realize that today's major problem in forestry is not just the phenomenon of deforestation, it's forest smuggling and shadow business, because that's the real source of the problem. According to the State Service of Statistics alone, the damage from illegal logging amounted to more than 200 million dollars during 2016. Think about that figure, 200 million dollars. But the same amount, for example, was allocated to the forest agency in 2017, namely 50,000 hectares. So that part of the forest that's being restored at the state expense is then going to the shadowy profit of individual companies. So, colleagues, I think it's important to realize that a moratorium is an appropriate but only temporary action, not a panacea, not a solution to problems. For example, after the ban on the export of roundwood, we're told by the people of Mikolayev that three of the changes are now being made by factories that convert the same round into cod and barges, echelons of barges break out of Ukraine. We can put a moratorium on the cod, then they'll find a way around it, and they'll, for example, convert it into a sawdust, and then they'll go in. I think we really need to tackle the source of problems, because the main problem in the field is that there is no value added product that could be exported. I think in general that the key problem is not a problem, it's not a problem, but it's a task to create a value-added enterprise that will also produce the same product and ensure the creation of an internal gross product. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-20-m0.u108	From the Fatherland faction, Vadim Ivchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-20-m0.u109	Vadim Yvchenko, "The Fatherland" faction. Dear colleagues! You know, 300 million hectares of forests have been cut off on the planet in recent years, and Ukraine has priority here. Please tell me, does forest management need a comprehensive solution? Yes. Do we have a designated head of the State Forest Agency? None. Can you please tell us how much wood we've got? 78 percent. Would you please tell me 22 percent of whom are subordinates? And why isn't it touching? Please tell me, have we made any changes to the sanitary section, where the environmental component has been fully taken into account? Have we separated the economic and control functions of the central executive body? Colleagues, what about the reform strategy, where we were offered to create the only legal person in Kiev? And do we know that budget-generating enterprises, especially in mountain areas, are actually wood-processing enterprises or the Sustainables? Colleagues, where's decentralization? Hasn't Fatherland been trying for two years to get some of the rent back from the main section? Who are we feeding? My colleagues, I want to say that the main thing for us is forest conservation and a comprehensive solution to these problems. So we're proposing laws and we want to make a comprehensive dedication to this day and vote, and save not only the forests, but do some work on how to organize the forest sector. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-20-m0.u110	Colleagues, we're about to make a closing statement. Is that right? No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. I give the floor to the People's Front, Anointed Andrew Vitaliovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-20-m0.u111	Andrew Pomazanov, People's Front faction. Please pass the word to my colleague Hennadia Crimson.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-20-m0.u112	Thank you, Andrey Amazanov, for your word. Gennady Krivoshia, faction of the People's Front. Dear colleagues, previous speakers, in principle, have said all the things that are quite right and necessary for today that need to be done, including many aspects of the bill. In particular, I would like to point out once again that the bill clearly mandates the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine to develop a comprehensive programme for the restoration of the forest fund of Ukraine and to identify the priority work on forest rehabilitation, logging, forest protection against fires, protection against pests and diseases, other forestry measures and the order and manner in which they are carried out. That's exactly the problem that the three previous speakers were talking about. In fact, today there is quite a problem with the fact that we have almost no forests left in Ukraine. And they're not left because we're just trying to smuggle it out of Ukraine somehow. People are good people, let's not just do jobs and create jobs, but the bill will allow us to develop programs and commit the Cabinet of Ministers to restoring these forests. We have to ensure the restoration of the forests, we have to ensure the restoration of the forest fund. In fact, there is a problem, and today we have fulfilling responsibilities. The people are good, but let the head be there at least three times. If he does not have a state position to restore the state forest fund, we will have no forests in Ukraine. We need to understand today.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-20-m0.u113	30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-20-m0.u114	Thank you. We need to understand that today, not just the national MPs who, I'm sure, vote for this bill today, but the state position of all the forest workers, including the businessmen working in this area, can not only ensure the conservation of Ukrainian forests, but also give new jobs and actually get out seriously.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-20-m0.u115	Thank you. I'll call you right back. Debtenko's on. And from the Opposition Block came Dudenkov, who's going to be speaking. Please, two minutes. Maybe in a minute, or do you insist on two minutes? Two, yes. He insists. Okay, two minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-20-m0.u116	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Alexander Doubenkov, Opposition Block. The Opposition Block will support the stated legislative initiatives aimed at combating unsanctioned exports of unprocessed timber. But the question is: Will it solve these problems of illegal export outside customs control through the smuggling of this timber scheme? I don't think so. The drafters suggest criminalizing, not actually criminalizing, but making a separate article as a criminal criminal offence, which is exporting outside the customs control of timber. You look at the chronology, we voted in favour of introducing a moratorium on the export of roundwood, so will you solve this problem of a new article that prohibits the export of timber? No, because this is already smuggling, according to current legislation. If there is a desire, of course, this article can be highlighted, but this question will not be dealt with. The other one. Many colleagues talked about what was under the woods. It's like an unprocessed roundwood that comes out of wood, some other material. Will the adoption of this bill lead to a solution? Nor is it, because the questions that need to be asked are for the executives, that is, here in the room we are adopting laws and we are voting here, the legislative initiative is useful, the complex problem it will not solve or resolve the issue of the executives of this law, namely, the customs chiefs who carry out documentary processing of the corresponding cargo that is being shipped outside of customs control. In addition, we need to talk, of course, about the restoration of the forest fund, about a comprehensive state programme aimed at restoring this forest resource. As for the preservation of Carpathians, we have 20 percent of the forests.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-20-m0.u117	30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-20-m0.u118	Twenty percent of Ukraine’s territory is forested, not just Carpathian conservation, but the entire forest fund of Ukraine needs to be preserved. And unfortunately, it's more complex than what's proposed. We'll support the initiative. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-20-m0.u119	Thank you. Saloway, please. Do you insist on two minutes? Please, two minutes. Colleagues, in two minutes we'll move on to making a decision, this is a closing statement in the discussion. And I ask all the factions to invite deputies into the decision-making room. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-20-m0.u120	Yuri Solovay, 89 constituency, Gutzulščina, and Pocust. Dear colleagues, what is Ukraine exporting today? It's corn, it's grain, it's soy, it's metal, it's forest. What does Ukraine import? It is a car, a TV, a refrigerator, clothing, and nearly 90 percent of the final product. What does that mean? That virtually all the added value in the economy is formed, not in our state, but outside our state. And so if we want to raise the Ukrainian economy, first of all, we have to think and take all the steps to keep the added value in our state. I want to give you one particular example. 15 percent of exports of such a country as Austria today make up the final product of woodworking. And I want to compare our highlands, four: Ivano-Frankivska, Lvivska, Zakarpatska and Cherniewecka, which have a forest potential greater than all of Austria. It is clear, therefore, that bills aimed at supporting Ukrainian exports aimed at supporting the development of the woodworking sector, and this bill clearly needs to be supported. What's more, I want to tell our partners that we're often told that we're overly lobbying these things, for example, recently in the United States, where the President of the United States, in a one-way manner, introduced import duties on steel and metal products into the United States. So we don't need double standards. We must support the Ukrainian sector, support the Ukrainian economy and support the production of the final product in our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-20-m0.u121	So, colleagues, the discussion is over. We're moving on to the decision-making process, and I'm asking everyone to take up their jobs and prepare for the vote. So I'd like to ask all of you to go back to the hall. Invite the deputies to the hall. As I understand from the discussion, all the factions support this bill, you just need to mobilize in the hall. And I am voting on a bill amending some of Ukraine's laws on the conservation of Ukrainian forests and preventing the illegal export of unprocessed timber products (5495) from being proposed by the Committee on the Basis. 5495 based. Please vote and please support. Vote. [[13:20:47]] For 246 Decision taken. Short for second reading, colleagues, let's support it. Short for second reading, let's support it, colleagues. Please vote, please support. Short for second reading. [[13:21:14]] For a hundred and Next draft Act amending some Ukrainian legislation on technical regulations and conformity assessment (6235). And I ask you to support the consideration of the reduced procedure. Please vote, please support. Vote. [[13:21:47]] For-163 And I invite the head of the committee's subcommittee on industrial policy, Krivoša Hennady Grigorovich, to report. Please, Mr. Hennaday.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-20-m0.u122	Good afternoon, dear colleagues. Thank you, Mr. Head. On April 12, 2017, the Committee on Industrial Policy and Entrepreneurship reviewed the draft Ukrainian Law amending certain Ukrainian legislation on technical regulations and conformity assessment (registration number 6235, developed). He is represented by the national deputies who are members of our committee: me, Galasyuk, Kugel, Rosenblatt, Nechayev, Humil, Kiral, Dubinin, and Ephim. The main purpose of the adoption of the bill is stated in the explanatory note that it is the proper application of legislative acts that regulate technical regulations and conformity assessments. The main scientific and export administration of the Supreme Council of Ukraine concludes that the draft law is appropriate to be adopted in the first reading. In addition, there are all his comments and suggestions. At the same time, a number of Supreme Council committees supported our bill. In particular, the Anti-Corruption and Anti-Corruption Committee, thank them. The Committee on Budget Questions, in its conclusion, also indirectly supported the bill. The Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine gave a positive conclusion from 26.06.2017. At the same time, the Antimonopoly Committee, the Committee on Profiles for European Integration, also came to a positive conclusion. Ukraine’s National Accreditation Agency also supports the relevant bill. In particular, the relevant committee and the Cabinet of Ministers and the professional agencies and the Antimonopoly Committee offer their own comments that we are proposing to take into account the second reading. At the same time, the Committee on Veterans and Actors of War has made some observations and, in the section of their questions, they have some observations where they do not fully support our bill. But in turn, I suggest that they take some of their comments away from the second reading, because the bill is important enough. And the members of the committee, when they discussed it, noticed that the changes were taking place.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-20-m0.u123	30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-20-m0.u124	That the changes introduced by the bill to a series of legislative acts aimed at eliminating the non-conformity of individual rules would allow for the implementation and proper application and harmonization of national, legal and organisational principles in the field of technical regulation in accordance with European legislation. Therefore, we recommend that the results of the first reading be taken as a basis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-20-m0.u125	Dear colleagues, I ask you to sign up for this bill. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-20-m0.u126	So from the Radical Party, the Wolf passes the word to Halasyuk Victor, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-20-m0.u127	Victor Halasyuk, faction of the Radical Party of Oleg Lášk. Our team will support this bill, as will all bills aimed at opening the road to Ukrainian producers to export products abroad and to avoid technical barriers. You know, because of the effectiveness of the Association Agreement between Ukraine and the EU, we have removed with you most of the tariff barriers for access to European markets. At the same time, however, there are huge technical barriers related to the transition to a new system of technical regulations, their conformity assessments, a new standardization system where standards become optional, and technical regulations and relevant EU directives are mandatory. Therefore, this bill, such as the following Standardization Bill 7123, is a very important legislative initiative to harmonize Ukraine’s legislation with the European Union’s norms and to remove the technical barriers that exist in this area. This is to ensure that our manufacturers do not undergo double, triple checks to prove that their products can be sold abroad. Dear colleagues, I, despite the insufficient assessment of the government's economic bloc, urge you to support these technical regulation and standardization bills, because they are important for Ukrainian producers, for the exporters of raw materials. They are essential to ensure that we do not have artificial restrictions on access to European markets. Because if our producers sell products abroad for dollars, for the euro, then we don't have to go to that International Monetary Fund or other creditors, under their demands to take credit. We have to live on investment, exports, production, personal development, not on foreign taxes. So support these bills. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-20-m0.u128	Next speech from Mr. Humil's National Front. Please, Mr. Hummel.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-20-m0.u129	Dear Madam Chairman! Dear fellow national MPs! Having signed the Association Agreement, Ukraine has made certain commitments to the same economy, perhaps even to the economy in the first place. I would like to call upon the House, the National Deputies, to support this bill and to simplify the lives of our exporters who face certain barriers, obstacles to the export of their products. Similarly, this bill removes certain barriers to the import of the products of known European Union companies that we do not need at all, sometimes unnecessary checks to comply with our standards. So I urge everyone to support this bill and vote in favour. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-20-m0.u130	Thank you for your position. And now the word from the People's Deputies' Block of Peter Dustenka. Please, Mr. Capplin.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-20-m0.u131	The pro-European left forces in the Ukrainian Parliament support the bill. And I'm in line, with the opportunity, to highlight the relevance, necessity, the urgent need for today's government, the Prime Minister to develop a plan, a global plan for the new industrialization of the national economy, a plan for the export expansion of Ukrainian enterprises, protection of domestic production and, of course, the liberalisation of domestic legislation. We are absolutely convinced that the future of the Ukrainian industry is combined with the development of the digital economy and the new Ukrainian industry. This will result in an increase in wages, then an increase in income from the Pension Fund, an increase in pensions. And in this way we can give people jobs first, we can give them pensions and social protection. The first priority, the most important concern of the Prime Minister and the government, is to create new jobs, and the Ukrainian Parliament is to consolidate and support this initiative. We wanted to see that these important directions are reflected in the missing, unfortunately, program of the current government and prime minister. The country needs to know, the Ukrainian payer needs to know the course of the national economy, the government, the coalition in Parliament. We have to guarantee for ordinary Ukrainian citizens the creation of new jobs, the increase in wages, the increase in pensions and a decent European level of social protection. We support this and other initiatives that improve lives for Ukrainian exporters.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-20-m0.u132	And the last speech during the discussion of this bill is by the National MP Sergey Sobolev. National deputy Sergei Sobolev.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-20-m0.u133	Dear colleagues, our faction has examined this bill, it is absolutely in line with the requirements of European standards, in order to make a perfectly transparent procedure for the passage of all the regulations for exported goods. But this is important for another purpose. In fact, this will also apply to imported products, because our requirements should meet the same key requirements that exist in the European Union. In fact, this bill is a definition of the key standards that apply to any product that crosses the product in one direction or another. We have decided to support this bill. By the way, this bill is a powerful testimony to when all the factions and government's projects are reflected in a very high-quality bill. Therefore, we do not deny simply accepting it, but in general. And we think it's a bill that will allow very rapid growth in the export potential that we've lost because of the aggression of the Russian Federation in the East, and we can replace it with a product that will go into the European Union. This is one of the barriers that prevents our export-oriented industries from expanding. And I think this barrier should be removed. We support this bill and we will vote for it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-20-m0.u134	Thank you for your position. Colleagues, I would like to point out that during the discussion, the proposal said that this bill could be adopted in general, not as a basis, but as a whole. Is there any objection? There will be no objection from the factions? No, just your faction said, in general. The first reading, insisting only on the basis. No, we heard, I'm just asking the factions. Based on the base. There are notes that work quickly on the committee, and then there will be a whole. Colleagues, I very much ask you to return to the city of labor, and there will be a vote now. I'm traditionally waiting for a few seconds to get together all the colleagues who are now in the towers because we're now putting this bill to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-20-m0.u135	So, colleagues, let's move on to making a decision. I'm asking everyone to take their seats. And, colleagues, I would like to remind you that this law is also part of the list required for the implementation of the Association Agreement with the European Union. And I would like everyone to take a very responsible approach to the vote. I ask everyone to come into the hall and prepare for the decision. So I'm voting on the draft Act amending some Ukrainian legislation on technical regulations and conformity assessment (No. 6235) on the basis of the Committee's recommendation. If you'll excuse me, I'd like to vote 6235. Vote. Please be supportive. [[13:34:34]] For 252 Decision taken. And, colleagues, pay attention! I'm asking everyone to pay attention and stay where you are. We have a discussion in the room that the next bill may not have votes. I don't want to lose half an hour. I'll run the ratings vote, if there's no votes, the committee asked me to move. I'm asking everyone to prepare now, I'm voting on Bill 7123 so we don't waste any time. I ask you to vote and support. Who supports the adoption of this law as a basis? The rating vote. Please take part in the vote. Please vote. Vote. [[13:35:21]] For-166 We will not take the risk of putting the bill necessary for the association under attack. And we move on to the next question of the agenda, this is the second reading, the draft of the Strategic Environmental Assessment Act (6106), 50 rights, 24 rejected, and we'll be able to look at it by lunch. So we're going to look at it. And I invite you to report to the Committee on Environmental Policy on Edna Ostap Volodymyrovich. Please, Mr. Ostap.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-20-m0.u136	Dear Mr. Head! Dear National Deputies! A second reading of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is being reviewed by a draft of the Ukrainian Strategic Assessment Act (registration No. 6106) which has been finalized in accordance with the Supreme Council of Ukraine Decree of 7 November 2017. The bill is designed to adapt Ukraine's legislation to the European Union's legislation in the area of application and order of strategic environmental assessment, in line with the approach established in the Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council of the European Union of 27 June 2001 and to implement the Protocol on Strategic Environmental Assessment of the Convention on Environmental Impact Assessment in a Trans-border Context. The bill is extended to state planning documents that will have an impact on the environment and health of the population, and does not extend to government planning documents that relate to national security and emergency situations -- which is what the President of Ukraine, when he returned to the budget and budget programmes and financial plans, as well as to economic social development programmes for areas and regions, cities, villages and villages for a short period of time. The bill included 54 proposals and amendments by Ukrainian national deputies. Of these, 32 amendments are taken into account, including partially and editorially, 22 are rejected. In addition to the second reading, the terminology of the bill was improved, its scope was clarified, its sources of funding, its strategic environmental assessment, the order of publication of information on the draft State Planning Document, the detailed and updated provisions of the Ukrainian Urban Action Regulation Act, as part of the strategic environmental assessment, etc. The Committee proposes to the Supreme Council of Ukraine a draft Ukrainian Law on Strategic Environmental Assessment of the outcome of the review to be adopted in a second reading and generally as a law. Dear colleagues, we have adopted this law a year and a half ago in the walls of the Supreme Council, and unfortunately, the President of Ukraine has returned it with the comments and suggestions we have taken into account. And I would now very much ask all factions to support this bill, because this is to fulfil our obligations under the Treaty with the European Union, the European Union, and this is the greening of state policy in the field of energy, agriculture, forestry, fisheries and so on, this is the transparency of public policy and this is very important for future generations, to prevent extraordinary situations and disasters. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-20-m0.u137	Thank you. I really want to point out to my colleagues that this bill is part of the scope of implementation of the Association Agreement, which is the issue of the environmental bloc, and also that all the proposals made by the President of Ukraine in the context of those he made through the promise procedure have already been taken into account. That's why we're moving on to amendments that the committee didn't accept. 3 Amendment, Ostap Ednak. Don't you insist? No, it's not. Next Amendment, Lopushanski, 9. Don't insist. If I don't call it an amendment, raise your hand, okay? Thank you very much. 25th, Ednak Ostap. Don't insist. We have the amendments of our colleague Lechchenk, who is absent for objective reasons. Andrey Illenko, there's also your amendments. You don't insist, do you? Andrew Illenko, your amendments are coming now, don't you think? Okay. 31 Amendment, Kolesniks. Don't insist. Andrew Illenko, he's taking off his repairs. Thank you for your constructive position. The low amendments came from the national deputies who had been removed. Colleagues, we don't have the amendments the authors insist on. I'm going to the hall right now: are there any other amendments that I haven't just mentioned? Dear colleagues, I see, my honourable colleagues, do not insist on the authors of those amendments that the committee has failed to take into account so that we can put them to the vote. In fact, you and I are now going to vote. We have an MP from the Dziblik Hall. Please, Deputy Djublik, give me your word. And I ask my colleague to return to the session room because in a minute there will be a vote for this important law. And I would like to point out that the committee took into account all the amendments that the President of Ukraine made to the bill. Please, Mr. Dziblik.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-20-m0.u138	Your Honor, I'd like to ask for confirmation of the 20th, 22nd and 30th Amendment. It deals with all organs of executive power and the consequences, that is, they will influence. I'd like to ask for confirmation.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-20-m0.u139	So, just from the voice of the National MP Djublik, he asked for the confirmation of the 20th, 22nd and 30th amendments that apply. I would ask Ostap Ednak to comment on this. And also pay attention to your colleagues so that your position does not then balance the law and it is not dedicated again. 20th, 22nd and 30th -- they're about monitoring the effects of the environmental disaster. Please, Mr. Ostap, I would like to comment.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-20-m0.u140	These amendments do not balance the bill. In the judgment of the Hall we can place them on confirmation, if there are no votes, I would still recommend that we vote on the law as a whole without these amendments.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-20-m0.u141	Dear colleagues, at the request of the People's Deputy Djublik, I will be in the turn to amend the 20th, 22nd and 30th. Amendment 20, I'm asking you to identify yourself. The committee supported her, but the National MP Djublik is asking for confirmation. Please make up your mind. [[13:43:39]] For 135 He doesn't get the required number of votes. Next. I'm sorry, Mr. Dziblik. Mr. Jublik, 22nd or 23rd? 22nd next. Please, we're putting 22 amendments on confirmation right now. [[13:44:08]] For 128 128 votes, no need. And the final amendment of the 30th at the request of the People's Deputy Djublik. The committee supported her, and the deputy asked for confirmation. Please identify yourself. [[13:44:34]] For 124 It doesn't add up, actually, then we're going to vote now, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-20-m0.u142	So the discussion is over. I urge everyone to return to their seats. We're moving on to making a decision. So, colleagues, twice we put him to the vote, twice we missed a few votes. Let's get together this time. Once again, this law is important for both Ukraine and it is also in the list of laws necessary for the implementation of the EU Association Agreement. I'm asking everyone to take their jobs, come into the hall, support this bill. Please, colleagues, mobilize everyone, heads of factions-- invite the deputies to the hall. And we're moving on to making a decision. I'm asking everyone. Mr. Ostap, you have a card, right here? Okay. And we're moving on to making a decision. Mr. Mikhail, Mr. Vladimir, support this law, please, colleagues. So I put to the vote the draft Law Strategic Environmental Assessment (No.6106) in a second reading and in general. Please vote, please support, vote, colleagues. Please support, we vote. Mr. Oleg. [[13:46:15]] For 233 Decision taken, colleagues. Hello! And we're moving on to the next one. And the law was passed, not only a decision, but also a law that was passed in general. Mr. Ostap, welcome! The next is the draft Code of Bankruptcy Procedures for Ukraine (No.8060). And I'm asking you to support his consideration of the reduced procedure. My colleagues show me that there are over 100 articles. The head of the committee, Ivanchuk! Ivanchuk! I'm on my way. Pinzenik says that there are more than a hundred articles, we cannot follow the reduced procedure. Please tell me, if we go in full, we won't be able to look at it by noon. Andrew, please, give me some advice. [[B in m in s a l in]] Colleagues, can we start and finish after lunch? So we're starting with a full procedure, as prescribed by law. But we'll announce it. At 14:15, we'll announce a recess, and at 4:00, we'll finish his consideration. So we move on to the draft Codex on Bankruptcy (8060). And I invite the head of the committee, Ivanchuk Andrija Volodymyrovich, to report. And the author of the law. I'm asking Ivanchuk. Please report.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-20-m0.u143	Dear Andrey Volodymyrovich! Dear fellow national MPs! I'm not going to exaggerately say that today is a very crucial day that we're starting to consider such an important bill. It's not just a bill, it's another philosophy, it's another philosophy to restore capacity in Ukraine. The first thing that's brightest is we call things our names. This code is called the Code of Bankruptcy. We introduced a new mechanism, we never had a physical bankruptcy institution in Ukraine for our independence. He is in a loving, civilized country. And you know that a lot of our acquaintances, friends who are good debtors, they have circumstances in their lives, they didn't have legislation to even have a mechanism to get out of this debt pit, out of this cabal, and that's why this bill is very significant. And I would like to thank all the co-authors (26 people's deputies) who, along with me, signed the bill and co-sponsored it. The MPs represent, without exception, all factions, parliamentary groups and non-factional MPs, i.e. he was born by the entire Ukrainian Parliament. I would like to point out that if this bill is adopted as a whole as a law, it will transfer Ukraine to the Doing Business rating from 156 to 62. Imagine a breakthrough. And in the overall business rating in Ukraine, we're going to get an extra nine positions. This will give a very good signal to all our international partners that Ukraine does not just promise, but it keeps its promises and simplifies business in Ukraine. Therefore, respected friends of the bill, given that the issue of bankruptcy of individuals and legal persons, the restoration of their ability to pay, differed greatly, and we accepted such philosophy. We created: Book 1 in the Code, which deals with all issues of recovery of legal capacity; and Book 2 where all questions relating to the restoration of the bankruptcy procedure of a natural person. It's very comfortable. We've done a lot of round tables and work to fit all the international standards in the bill. But you realize that there are no ideal laws, and so our Rules, which provides for the adoption of the law in two readings, will allow us at the stage of the second reading to redraft the code, to take into account all the best initiatives of the legislators. And for the second reading, I'm convinced that we're going to have a huge breakthrough in this issue. The Economic Policy Committee considered the bill 8060 at its meeting and decided unanimously to support the bill in its first reading on the basis. Dear friends, I see we're few in this room, but after lunch, I think there'll be more national MPs. And I am convinced that we should adopt the bill in the first reading today. We have exactly two weeks to be able to process all the amendments on the committee, and on the next plenary week, we have to make such a gift to Ukrainian businesses and our international investors by Easter. Thank you for your attention, Mr. Head. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-20-m0.u144	Dear colleague, please remain in the rostrum. I'm asking the MPs to sign up for a question to the author of the bill. And Double Two, to the head of the profile committee that we have, Mr. Ivanchuk. Victoria the Birds, your question. Please. No questions? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-20-m0.u145	Thank you for your word. I would like to ask what we are going to do with the rules after the vote in the first reading, such as, let's say, the absence of a minimum amount of debt for legal persons when we can apply for bankruptcy, because we understand that if there is no minimum amount, then we can bankrupt legal persons with meager debts. Moreover, I am also concerned about the bankruptcy of natural persons in part of the possibility of recognizing the bankruptcy of a person who has died. I realize that all inheritances must include both rights and obligations. And according to this norm, I think it's possible for non-lethal heirs to take advantage. What are we going to do with all these gaps? How are we going to continue working on this bill? How are we going to remove all the gaps in this project until the second reading? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-20-m0.u146	Please respond.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-20-m0.u147	Dear Mrs. Victoria! Well, first of all, you and I have discussed this subject in terms of the amount. We can't talk about the amount right now, it's a million, 10 or 100 to start a bankruptcy procedure. Bankruptcy procedure is when an enterprise is not accounted for in good faith or in good faith. whether or not it is able to fulfill its obligations or not. But we're talking about bankruptcy with you right now. As far as physical persons are concerned. I'll tell you the truth, I'm counting on your great support and your experience, because we're entering this institution for the first time. So I think we shouldn't rush. We have to take all the points of view that are in world practice and work on our Ukrainian book number two to, well, just minimize what risks might be. But you and I, as no one, as lawyers, know that no matter what kind of law the Supreme Council doesn't adopt, when it starts to be implemented, when real lawyers start working with it, there can be things that we need to make changes and complements. But I know one thing.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-20-m0.u148	I understand your position. Please, People's Republic of the Pigeon, your question.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-20-m0.u149	Thank you very much. Vladislav Dove, 197th constituency, Cherkashina. Dear Andrew Volodymyrovich, well, you're absolutely right that the critical necessity of adopting the bill is obvious. Because the Bankruptcy Institute is archaic enough for us, and it has not really met the standards of European law that have gone far ahead. Of course, it is vital that we bring in the institution of bankruptcy of a natural person in order to allow a simple person, a citizen, to claim a new life, provided that life is new. But tell me, please. As far as I know, the drafters of the bill also had the idea of including the institution, the new institution, the institute of securitization. How far did this book go into the bill? And don't you think it's still necessary to isolate this institution? Because in fact, it has very little to do with the institution of bankruptcy. Thank you very much for your answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-20-m0.u150	Thank you very much, Mr. Dove. Thank you for joining the co-authorship of the Codex. Thank you for your idea, I want all my colleagues to know, to call bankruptcy bankruptcy in Ukraine, not avoidance. Because we can't translate into English what we call laws. As for the securitization, I really wanted to write this institution with a national commission. We didn't make it. I think we're going to look at it with a separate bill, where we can write it more clearly. I wanted it to be when the codex came in, it set a framework for us. When we called this bill the Code of Bankruptcy Procedure of Ukraine, yes, we can't put any other stuff in it.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-20-m0.u151	Last question, please, National Deputy Gusak. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-20-m0.u152	Dear Andrew Volodymyrovich, I do have a question about both the name and the essence of the bill. Indeed, the previous law was imperfect and needed to be improved, but yet its name, where the first was the restoration of the debtor's ability to pay and only then the recognition of his bankruptcy, was successful. Because the purpose of bankruptcy legislation and in developed countries in the world, and including in the United States, is to restore the ability of the borrower, not to sell his assets, as described in the explanatory note, 10 cents per dollar. So what I'd like to ask is, is there any rules in this bill that allow you not to sell an enterprise for scrap metal and give creditors 10 cents per dollar, but give the enterprise a chance to continue working, save jobs and eventually settle with creditors?
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-20-m0.u153	Thank you very much, Mr. People's MP, for asking. I would like to say that I am very important to Yuri Mikolaiovich Voropayev as a co-author of this bill. And we're in the law, no matter what the name has changed, and the emphasis hasn't changed, the recovery of payability is first. We've even combined concepts such as "peace treaty" and "sanimation" into one procedure. We've been given deadlines. Trust me, well, it's not just that we've moved from 162th place in the world rating to 100th place, 60th place. You understand. I mean, really, a lot of novelties and a lot of answers we've given to questions that have made it possible for arbitrational managers and businesses that have been bankrupt. There are still Soviet colonies today, which we have. So the procedure of the 91st year didn't end. We answer these questions. And that's why I'm asking you to join the second reading. Read the bill and all your qualified comments will be considered and taken into account.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-20-m0.u154	Thank you. You can return to your workplace because you have completed your questions under the Rules. Ladies and gentlemen, I ask you to sign up for the statements by the MPs and factions in the context of this bill. Please. And I ask you to continue, I continue to work in Parliament now on. plenary session for 15 minutes in the morning, morning session. Please, Mrs. Ostrikova, Tetjana Ostrikova gives the word to Mr. Sidorovich. Please come to the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-20-m0.u155	Dear National Deputies! Dear Ukrainian people! March 20 can enter history exactly as the beginning of one of the most systematic reforms. The Code of Bankruptcy Procedures has 142 pages. This is a huge document that can radically change the state of our country’s financial problems. I want to talk about people first. When we adopt laws in our country, we forget very often and what they can give to an ordinary person. Ukraine experienced not one but two very serious financial shocks in 2008, in 2014, not to mention smaller financial crises. As a result, we have created a vast array of people who are unable to cope with the financial problems that exist. And what has the state done over the past four years to solve the problem of so-called monetary lenders, mortgage loans that cannot be served? The state just froze the problem and makes it look like it doesn't exist, and the debt is accumulated, they're not going anywhere, the bank accounts for every month. This bill, for the first time in the history of Ukraine, gives a citizen a chance, a person who has been in financial trouble for a new life, yes, with certain losses, yes, with certain consequences, as they say, but this is a chance for a new life, that a person who has been in financial trouble for 30-40 years, 50 years, will have the opportunity to become a taxpayer again, have the opportunity to work and have the opportunity to legally provide for himself and his family. So it's actually a historic chance to get rid of the financial slavery of the Ukrainians that got into the debt pit. A few words about the bloc by legal persons. The Ukrainian Parliament of the Eighth Congress has adopted one of the very systemic reforms -- the launch of the ProZorro-based public procurement system -- is the economy of billions of state funds. We're proposing on this very basis that we put in place a system for the realisation of assets in bankruptcy. The system has proved its transparency, its objectivity, and its integrity. Together, by bringing all these factors together, we will be able to restore the capacity of those individuals, whether legal or physical, who are in debt trouble, thereby restoring the Ukrainian economy, allowing businesses not to lie down.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-20-m0.u156	30 seconds, please. Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-20-m0.u157	allowing Ukrainian businesses that are in financial distress to not be cut down, destroyed, and actually restored to jobs, and citizens who are not able to service their loans will be able to recover. So we vote in the first reading, we work very seriously and neatly on the second reading, and we allow the Ukrainians to be freed from debt slavery.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-20-m0.u158	Please, from the Peter Dust Block, Yuri Soloway. We're waiting to hear from you the faction's position on this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-20-m0.u159	Yuri Solovay, 89 constituency, Gutzulščina, and Pocust. First of all, as a member of the Committee on Economic Policy, I would like to point out that this bill is one of those who has worked very thoroughly and thoroughly with an expert environment, with professionals in the field, with lawyers, with lawyers, and this bill is the result of several years of work by all interested parties. And I think that's one example of how laws like this should appear in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. And, you know, although it's called the Bankruptcy Act of Ukraine, I'd rather call it the Bankruptcy Act. Let me give you a couple of digits. You remember the 2008 crisis from the devaluation of the Ukrainian currency, and the consequences of the crisis, which many millions of Ukrainians have experienced. About 40 percent of mortgage loans ended in real estate, and the vast majority of debtors were deprived of the right to repay their debt. The identical crisis in the United States ended in a completely different way: 65 percent of the debtors who faced financial problems at the time completed the bankruptcy procedure with a recovery plan and restored their payability. That's what this bill is primarily about. Because it needs to be made clear that even though the bankruptcy procedure contains the name "bankruptcy," its main idea and ideology is to give the debtor, whether legal or physical, the possibility of restoring its payability, because it is with the start of bankruptcy that the fines and pennies are stopped. Right from the start of the bankruptcy procedure, a tool like the recovery plan appears. Most importantly, this law contains appropriate standards not only for legal persons but also for individuals. As the chairman of the committee said, this is one of the key and most systematic laws that regulate the right relationship. And that's why I go to my colleagues in the hall to definitely support him in the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-20-m0.u160	Thank you. And now, please, the representative of the opposition block, Mr. Gusak, who represents the position of the faction, is invited to the floor. Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-20-m0.u161	Dear Ukrainians, distinguished national deputies, honourable presiding officer! In the market economy, it is very important to have both an active market entry mechanism, the creation of new enterprises, and the existence of an effective mechanism for the exit, liquidation or bankruptcy of new enterprises. By the way, if the situation is more or less normal in Ukraine with the creation of new businesses, both with the liquidation of enterprises, even with the goodwill of owners, and with the bankruptcy of enterprises, which is an element of coercion, there are major problems. So we consider this bill a positive step, and unfortunately, it is now particularly relevant to the Ukrainian economy, because, let's say, in 2017, 30 percent of all Ukrainian businesses were bankrupt and this figure tends to increase. In 2015, 26 percent of Ukrainian businesses were bankrupt, and in 2016, 27 percent were bankrupt. And it's obvious that the bankruptcy of an enterprise over a number of years is a straight line to insolvency, the inability to meet its obligations to employees, to the budget, to creditors, and it's still time to make decisions about how to get out of the market, and to implement it. So given that this is a necessary step to improve the legal security of the Ukrainian economy, the faction of the Opposition Block will support the Bankruptcy Code, I would still like to use the term "recovery of the debtor" in the first reading. Of course, there are many standards that need to be improved before second reading. Many have said that it is necessary to keep the emphasis on keeping businesses, not selling them for scrap metal, in order to give creditors those 10 copies per bracelet. Bills, for example, have rules that significantly reduce the quorum of creditors in certain cases. I think that the tendency of the Ukrainian business and the legal culture to register this may not be possible, and we will make appropriate proposals. But on the first reading, our faction will support this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-20-m0.u162	Thank you. Dear colleagues, given this constructive discussion of the MP factions, I see that in our bill of the Code of Bankruptcy, there is a good chance of being supported in the first reading by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. We've now concluded a discussion with you from the MP factions. And after the break, we will continue to consider this bill, but it is already debated by the Ukrainian people's deputies. Now I'm going to let myself read an ad that came to the fore. In accordance with article 60 of the Ukrainian Act on the Rules of Procedure of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, I report on the creation of the Eighth Interfractional Union of Foreign Children in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The National Deputy of Ukraine, Lucenko Irina Stepanovna, was elected head of this association. We want a union of fruitful work. I'd like to announce a closed plenary meeting this morning, colleagues. Please meet us in the session room at 4 p.m. and continue the debate on the draft Codex on Bankruptcy. And now the plenary session is closed in the morning. Thank you.
