ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-07-m0.u1	Good morning, dear fellows! Please come into the hall and prepare for registration. Please prepare for registration. Everybody ready? Dear colleagues, please register. [[10:03:42]] 347 national deputies registered. The morning plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Today is the birthday of our colleagues. Irina Stepanovna Lucenko's birthday. We welcome Mrs. Irina, Representative of the President of Ukraine to the Supreme Council. And we welcome Yuri Alexander Buglak, our colleague, to our birthday. We have another birthday today, colleagues. On February 7, 1992, the Ministers of Foreign Affairs, Economics, and Finance of Western European Countries signed the Treaty on European Union. And that's actually today's birthday for the European Union. Let's welcome our European friends with this holiday, because our goal, Ukraine's goal, is Ukraine's full membership in the European Union. And the Ukrainian Parliament has to do everything to ensure that this goal is achieved as soon as possible by both parliament and government. The road map of priority European integration bills that we should implement yesterday, we adopted two important laws for European integration, and, I'm sure, with the same dynamic we'll keep going, and this will be one of the priorities of our work of this session, as in our entire office. Ukraine returns to the family of European nations, where every Ukrainian will live free and dignified. And today we will have important ratifications in our agenda, as always on Wednesday. I hope for the productive and active work of the hall. Now, according to the Rules, 30 minutes for speeches by national MPs, I emphasize not by factions, but by national MPs. And I'm asking everyone who wants to speak, who wants to make a statement, to prepare for the recording of the speeches by the national MPs. Please hold the recording. Please. From the Radical Party, from the MPs, the Fisherman passes it on to Victor Halasyuk. I invite you to Victor Halasyuk's rostrum. Please, Mr. Victor.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-07-m0.u2	Victor Halasyuk, faction of the Radical Party. Dear Andriy Volodymyrovich, distinguished colleagues, today's efforts by all branches of government and the Ukrainian Parliament are primarily to be set up for the sole purpose of creating jobs, this is to increase the real level of welfare of citizens, this is to increase tax revenues from the development budget, not from foreign loans and loans, this is high-tech exports. This is all that will make the country stronger economically, since only strong countries count in the world. Only a strong country can provide a perspective for its citizens. In order to do that, we need to radically change economic policies. It's not just looking at some economic laws that really change very little, but it's the basic laws that will start up the Ukrainian economy and increase GDP from 2-3 percent to 7, 8, 9, and more per cent per year. These are industrial parks, these are tax incentives that are powerful to invest in Ukraine, this is an export credit agency. I just got off the phone with First Vice Prime Minister Stephen Ivanovich Kubi. Today the government is finally planning to approve the statutory documents of the Export Credit Agency. This means that in the near future, loans to Ukrainian producers will be lost at the same time. This means that they will be able to channel funds for modernization, to channel funds to raise wages in the country. We need to adopt it immediately in the second reading and in the whole "Buy Ukrainian, Pay Ukrainians," because this law will allow us to secure a reasonable import, allow us to remove the country from the artificial needle of imports that we are sitting on today, strengthen the bracelet, stabilize prices in stores. It's a real tool. Not what the National Bank does today, for example. Yesterday, the candidate for the Head of the National Bank was at the Radical Party faction, and for an hour and a half we had a very hard conversation. We don't support his candidacy, because he's essentially just proposing to go on with the same policy. What are they doing? They raise the bill, they make loans more expensive for businesses, for citizens. By doing so, they increase the cost of Ukrainian goods, by essentially disposing Ukrainian producers from the market, by reducing the purchasing power of citizens, and imports like butter enter the Ukrainian market. This needs to be corrected and corrected radically. That's why we're in favour of changing the economic course of the country and for the new monetary policy of the National Bank, because Natzbank has to be independent from external influences, not from the common sense and national economic interests of the state. That's the Radical Party faction policy. And I urge all the political forces to support it regardless of your political preferences. Because we need strong, rich, and successful.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-07-m0.u3	Thank you. Dear colleagues, before giving the next speech, the message is small. The delegation of the Lebanese-Ukrainian Parliamentary Commission of the National Assemblys of the Republic of Lebanon is currently visiting Ukraine. The delegation is now in a diplomatic bed. Let's welcome our honored guests. [[Applause]] We wish them a fruitful visit to our country and a vivid impression of the hospitable Ukrainian land. Welcome, my friends! Welcome, fellows! Good luck! Didic gives the floor to Vitalia Kupriya. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-07-m0.u4	Dear colleagues! I would like to mention how recently Peter Alexiyovich Poroshenko has told us that we need to develop land relations, we need to take down the moratorium on the sale of agricultural land, and that he as a guarantor of the Constitution will ensure that we have the law in place so that no rights are violated. But I would like to remind you that Peter Alexeiovich Poshenko himself is a well - known land apherist. This is a person who, by taking advantage of her opportunities, bought bribes, such as by bribing officials, took delight in and continued to take possession of land. The first situation we know about the investigation of journalists is diagrams. This is when they and Mr. Connonenko seized a hectare of land in the Kingdom village in the capital. The Shahrai scheme did not come into the budget of the territorial community of Kiev. The second situation is that the plant that belongs to President Prashenko, I call it the Lenin Cushion, is more in keeping with the Prashenko spirit, now it's called "Cuzna na Rybalski", and it's getting 100 million dollars in land taxes. The territorial community of Kiev does not receive these costs, although there is a fabulously profitable business, a wealth of defense orders. The third situation that I clarified and found out by my anti-corruption investigation was when Peter Poroshenko, at the time of the shootings of the people in Maidan, killed the Celestial 100th, behind the Chinese, negotiated the purchase of hectares of land in Kiev for the construction of commercial entertainment complexes and at a low price, I estimate, also up to 100 million dollars was undervalued, and the community of Kiev lost. And recently, when I visited Kozin, I wanted to see if the truth was telling me that there was also a land instrument to capture the labor base. So I sent a letter to Mr. Groissman, Prime Minister, to explain to me the reasons why he is now operating there and living in the President, how was the transfer of ownership to the property of the labor force? So what did I get, what was the answer? First, Mr. Groissman, in violation of the Ukrainian Law, "For the Cabinet of Ministers, did not answer me completely, I got a write-off from another body, another organ is a geocadastra, and it's also his people, he said that all the matters relating to the property of Dusty in Kozyn, the land-based documentation, all removed by the Department of State Security of Hellett. This is a cover-up, I think, so I've already filed an appropriate statement of criminal offences against Mr. Groissman, 351, that failure to comply with the law to require a deputy to provide information and to Mr. Helett, who, along with the Prime Minister, is hiding the assets of the apherist President Prashenko. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-07-m0.u5	Thank you. Next talk, please, is by the national deputy Wilkul, to whom is the word of his colleague Martovitchki.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-07-m0.u6	Dear people of Ukraine! From this rostrum, I would like to ask one very important question that, I'm sure, is bothering millions of Ukrainian families today. A week ago, it became clear that Kabin was still preparing a dramatic increase in gas prices for the population. For several months, half-truths and attempts to avoid specific answers ended with the Prime Minister admitting that, under the IMF cooperation, the authorities plan to significantly increase tariffs on gas, they call it such a beautiful and sporadic formulation as bringing gas prices to market levels for the population. In fact, there is only one thing behind this phrase — the next price of space in Ukrainian citizens’ payments, most of which cannot be paid even by existing tariffs at the moment. I personally resent the fact that the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Vladimir Groisman, as a great achievement, tells us that he will do everything possible to ensure that the price increases are carried out after the heating season is over. I want to ask, what happens after the hot season, life ends? First of all, I really want the government to explain to the Ukrainians where this gas independence that we've been hearing about for the last three years from Kabmin Yatsenuk and from today. What I'm asking is what energy independence is, which is why gas prices for people in Ukraine will soon be higher than in Europe, where people have a very different level of income. Is it the Ukrainians who pay for the schemes again? Secondly, I think that the process of negotiations with the IMF, which is being led by the government team today and where gas prices are being discussed, is absolutely not transparent. We don't know what part of our citizens' national interests and rights are being traded there. So I demand that the government make a detailed and clear report on all the nuances of the negotiations, and I have answered the question why, for a loan of one and a half billion, the government is preparing another price hike. We only have because of corruption, a country loses more money every month than it can give us, and any other international donors combined. I believe that this report should take place immediately. The government must make a commitment that the next loan will not result in a social catastrophe for Ukraine. First, describe the economy, create jobs, stabilize prices, and guarantee European wages, and then set European tariffs. And finally. Take the street to the military pensioners, to the people you cheated on three times. We've filed a motion for a ruling -- it's blocked, we've brought it to trial -- you're blocking it.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-07-m0.u7	15 seconds to complete.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-07-m0.u8	I demand that you immediately raise your pension for military pensioners in the hall and stop bullying people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-07-m0.u9	Dear colleagues, the next performance is Boris Ivanovich Tarasyuk, who gives the floor to his colleague John Grigorovovich Kirilenko. But it's going to be later, because there's still a statement from two factions to match time. Please welcome the national deputy Shurma, who is given the word of his colleague: Germany and Morocco. Please, you have six minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-07-m0.u10	Good afternoon, citizens of Ukraine and those who have stayed in the Supreme Council Hall today. I would like to remind you that, according to insider information, more than 40 national deputies have now gone to the United States for a prayer breakfast. By the way, economists would like to study the subject, and perhaps you'd better invite the President of the United States here. This will be cheaper, and people will be at work, and prayerful breakfast will take place. Now. And now, in fact. The Opposition Block faction requires the leadership of the Supreme Council, I appeal to Mr. Parubia, in this case the presiding officer, to immediately submit to the 5642 Sessional Hall, which was registered on 16 January 2017, the draft Ordinance on the Recognition of the Employment of the First Deputy Minister of Health, temporarily acting as Minister of Health of the Suprun Uljana Health, to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine for the discharge of her position. We don't have any questions, and I'll explain why we're bringing this up for the session room. But I'd like to ask everyone in the hall for your attention right now, all of you, so you can hear it. On July 11, 2015, the president handed over passports to Ukrainian citizens Uljana Suprun and Marco Suprun, the right to citizenship. Do we have the right to listen to this person in the hall today? Enter the official Web site of the President of Ukraine: 10 numbers, 11ths, 1st July, 1st January. August of the decree of granting citizenship, the President's decree is not. In order not to insert the rear-numbered shimmers now, we made screen shots. So do we have the right to listen here today to a Ukrainian citizen who has no citizenship, a citizen of another state? This is a question for Peter Alexiovich. Peter Alexiyovich, or someone is setting you up with the citizenship of Suprun – there is no official document – or give her citizenship and let her come into the hall. This is the first question. The second question. We turned to the migration service: who is Uljana Suprun, a citizen of Ukraine or a non-national of Ukraine. We were shocked when, among the reasons that prevented us from accepting it. To give up the second nationality is to pay for the exit from the second citizenship, which is more than half the minimum wage. Let me remind you, in 2015, the payment was essentially $2,000, it was about 40,000 dollars, the average salary was 1218, it was supposed to be 609. You can use the norm, but where's the morale, when you don't pay 40,000 dollars, which you call yourself a patriot, while you have over 100 million dollars in deposit accounts? Well, there is a desire either to be very rich and patriotic, or there is wickedness. And what happened to Kvitashvishi, which cannot be found today, means that he wants to escape responsibility. What responsibility does she want to avoid? Remind me, please, one year in 26 years of independence, when more than 3,000 people became ill and dozens died of measles. You won't find a country in Wikipedia when you have tens of thousands. When dozens of botulism sufferers, dozens of whom have died, do not respond properly. And this is at a time when this person is personally responsible, signing the budget, funding, and guaranteeing the withdrawal of money for international purchases. I'll remind you, in 2016, 4 billion dollars is a blow to international banks. To date, only 50 percent of 16 years of drugs have gone to Ukraine, 17 years of nothing. And they're still saying there's no money for today. The World Bank loaned us nearly 6 billion dollars to reorganize the health system. What do you think? Not enough to pay a million 200 percent, we are still wise to use those funds in a timely manner and pay the fine. And here's to the account. Report to the Court of Auditors: they paid 700,000 dollars for the early withdrawal of money from the World Bank. And this person tells us that there is no money for embalming Pyrogov. Perhaps because of her ideological beliefs, she views Pyrogov as a fellow thinker of Hoshimin and Lenin, who are embalmed, I have to say that she is. I think it's a doctor. She might not know that, because if you look at a diploma that was issued in 89, that's the term when she graduated from Michigan University. And you think who recognized her degree as a doctor, even though it's about secondary education? The so-called First Deputy Minister Sowsun. And you find who Sosun is. On the official site, this is Ulyana Suprun’s adviser to the Ministry of Health. I gave it to her. She left. But by the way, she wrote that she could work and continue her studies. So let Suprun come here, tell us about his citizenship, tell us about his desire to live, learn, and work here. Please make this decision for consideration.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-07-m0.u11	Please now give the floor to Olga Belkova, who is given the right to speak by her colleague, National Deputy Melnik. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-07-m0.u12	Thank you. Dear colleagues, here one of the speakers was interested in what happens to gas prices. And I want to tell you what's going on with Ukrainian gas in Crimea. At the time of the occupation of Crimea, the people of Ukraine owned large quantities of oil and gas in Crimea. It's because of Black Mornaphtogaz, who then owned 19 special nadrama permits, 14 of them on the shelves of the Black Sea and the Azova Sea watershed, four on the land of Crimea and one special permit on the underground reservoir of natural gas. Since the annexation of Crimea, Russia has illegally extracted about 7.2 billion cubic metres of natural gas, oil, and natural condensate of 231 tons. So where's the Ukrainian gas going today? So far, five special permits for BlackMornaftegasus have been revoked because society has no opportunity to continue the work of the special forces. Russia’s production through its controlled enterprises is the product of the listed genealogies. The Society has no access to assets or bank accounts blocked by creditors, and the lack of financial resources to pay for the congregations is linked to the continuation of licences. In fact, four more licenses will be suspended. The court’s case for writing down a hopeless tax debt is pending before the Supreme Court. In fact, today BlackMornaftogaz is in a very difficult position, and we owe them the opportunity to defend all their rights in all courts through the adoption of Law 5370. Meanwhile, in Russia, they don't waste their time and try to enact separate laws to legalize the illegal production of our gas with you. Thus 31.12.17 The Government of Russia approved the amendments to the so-called Law on the legal regulation of the use of nedrama in connection with the admission to the Russian Federation of the Republic of Crimea and the formation of new entities within the Russian Federation. In fact, this law is now trying to enable various private offshoreers to extract our gas in order to take everything away, and then there was no one to call upon. In fact, today we have a huge task: to preserve the Ukrainian company and give it the opportunity to defend its rights in international courts. I urge you, colleagues, to support Bill 5370, together with all my claims to unite and support all the efforts of Ukrainian diplomats to defend our interests in international courts, not to share the licenses that Ukraine needs today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-07-m0.u13	Thank you for the current problem in your speech. And please welcome the National MP, Mrs. Gopko. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-07-m0.u14	Dear Ukrainians, good morning, good morning. First of all, I would like to say that a very important task for the Ukrainian Parliament is to have a transparent and inclusive review of each candidate for the Central Electoral Commission at the level of the profiling committee and during the plenary session. I very much hope that we will see really how the regulatory procedures are followed, and there will be no culinary arrangements, because the updated composition of the CEVC will work for the next seven years, and it will be just two presidential campaigns and parliamentary campaigns. And it's very important to us once we've finally chosen a new composition of CBC, it's to go to the Electoral Code. And so together with the people's deputies like Victoria Ptashnik, Ostap Ednak and many others, we went to the Speaker of Parliament to commission the Committee on Legal Policy and Justice to finally create a working group to start looking at those amendments, and this is what happens to the Correctional Spam, to the Electoral Code, and to get a quality Electoral Code that would cover the presidential, parliamentary and local elections, and not see this sabotage happening. Thus, a huge appeal that the Committee on Legal Policy and Justice should finally begin to consider this important Electoral Code. Also extremely important, in addition to updating the composition of the CWC, is the update of the Accounting Chamber that we failed last year, but the Court of Auditors is one of the important instruments for monitoring public government finances, and this is one of the same important tasks as the NABA auditor, giving NABA independence in listening to the court's decision and also the NAMC issue, launching automatic verification of electronic declarations. And I would also like to say that yesterday the whole world was watching how the Falcon Heavy SpaceX Ilona Mask test rocket was launched. And one of our ideas was to see Ilona Mask and many other innovators along with Ukrainian startups working to make Ukraine modern, innovative and join the club of high-tech countries in the world. And that's why a lot of representatives from parliament in Ukraine are working on the so-called European Investment Plan from the government. Already in March, the European Union will present the European External Investment Fund and these opportunities, where Ukraine will be able to do the same to finance infrastructure projects and support small and medium-sized businesses. I think it's very important that we don't focus on the loans that we get from the IMF, which is important for macro-financial stability, by doing these important institutional commitments. But to speak about how Ukraine as a space state can participate in these scientific developments. Which was confirmed especially during the Ukrainian House in Davos. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-07-m0.u15	Thank you. Please, Mr. Podlisecki, the national deputy of Podlisecki is invited to speak.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-07-m0.u16	Leo Podlisecki, Self-Help faction. I'd like to raise the issue of "rabic" tariffs today. A completely new scheme in Ukrainian energy. And it's very symbolic that it starts with Winnie. That's exactly what this is about. On February 1, 2018, so-called public hearings were held in Winnice about the introduction of "rabic" tariffs, in other words, stimulating tariffs. In public hearings, the head of the Vinicko Observatories, his deputy, and the head of the Vinicko District Council took part in the public hearings. It also stated that no public initiatives had been made, and there were no objections. And as a result of April 1, 2018, Winnizaoblenergo is being introduced and proposed to introduce so-called incentive tariffs. I'll say one thing for a long time. Since April 1, the system will start to work, which will each year record more than 1 billion dollars per year. And it's going to be on the payroll of every vineyard. And that's just the beginning. Let me tell you what a stimulating tariff is and what it's for. Let me give you a banal example. Dniproblonergo was sold at 750 million -- 25 percent in August 2018. I bought the DTEC company, of course. The estimate of 25 percent of 750 million says that the total cost is 3 billion. For this stimulating tariff, the same Dniproblonergo is estimated at 13.4 billion. So the owners of Dniproblonergo per year are going to get their so-called investments back 1.6 billion dollars. Thus, the new investment of DTEK and Mr. Ahmtov will return literally in two years. This does not apply only to Winnitz and this does not apply only to Dniper, but this applies to every Ukrainian, since the system is given. It is already published in "Governmental courier" and will gradually start to be introduced in every cloud as of April 1st, and will actually apply to every Ukrainian, because every Ukrainian consumes electricity. The total amount per year will be more than 30 billion dollars. Everyone knows about Rotterdam Plus. But "Rotterdam Plus" was just the beginning and it was just the flowers. Slave tariffing is probably symbolically called RAB because it really drives Ukrainians into slavery. And it's no wonder that more and more Ukrainians are going abroad because no one can live like this in Ukraine anymore. That's why I demand the Self-Help faction to stop this power abuse and stop the introduction of the "rabic" tariff.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-07-m0.u17	Please, the national deputy Antonistak, who is addressed by his colleague, Mr. Keith, is now invited to the floor.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-07-m0.u18	Good afternoon. Andrew Antonishtak, National Control Political Party. The people of Ukraine, if, until yesterday, someone else had hoped for the common sense of the Polish politics, then after Andrzej Dudo's signature of the unfortunate law, the very historical fact that for the first time in Europe in 1932, the concentration camp was established in Bereza-Kartuski under Lvivščina, his denial bears criminal responsibility. At a time when part of Polish politics is speaking, using its memory, the past pain of the peoples of Europe for their political purposes, and at the legislative level trying to distort European history, we should consider the tragic pages of our common historical past, the establishment of historical truth, and the preservation of the memory of crimes against the humanity of the former totalitarian regimes, which our nation has not yet given proper assessment. One of these tragic pages was the total forced eviction of Ukrainians in 1944-51 from the ethnic lands of Lemkovishtsk, Nadsenje, Holmščina, Podlesh, Lubovishtina, Western Boykishina, the so-called Zakerzonna, which affected more than 750,000 Ukrainians. The process of eviction was carried out in several stages. In the 1944-46 years, there was a forced eviction from the homeland of ancient lands from Poland to the Ukrainian Republic of almost 500,000 Ukrainians on ethnic grounds on the basis of a criminal agreement between the Government of the Ukrainian Soviet Socialist Republic and the Polish National Liberation Committee. The official version of the reason for the eviction was support for the Ukrainian population of the Ukrainian rebel army. The massive so - called voluntary relocation, and in fact the forced eviction of Ukrainians, was carried out under the pressure of aggressive propaganda from both governments, the active terrorist activity of underground Polish gangs, the involvement of regular parts of the Polish army, about 20,000 Red Army personnel, and the penal forces of the NCAF. After the forced evacuation of half a million Ukrainians in Poland, thousands remained. In April-April 47th, a military-political operation called Vistula completed the operation with a final solution to the Ukrainian issue. Some 150,000 Ukrainians were exiled and dispersed for the purpose of assimilation. Suspects of disobedience were sent to a concentration camp in Javozno, where about 4,000 Ukrainian families were in the Vistula operation. Deportation took place through the use of State terror methods, brutal violations of human rights and of nations, and cynical disregard for the principles of justice.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-07-m0.u19	Thank you. There's a lot more going on. Dear colleagues! Thank you. 15 seconds, please. I understand, but we're all the same in the room, they're equal opportunities and rights. 15 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-07-m0.u20	Therefore, I consider the deadline and the initiation of the creation of a working group to draft the Ukrainian Deportees Act, defining the status of forced evacuations as victims of the political repression of the totalitarian regime and their rehabilitation.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-07-m0.u21	Thank you, Your Honor. And the last performance of the speakers. Dear Mr. Sergey! Mr. Ivan Grigorovich will be given 6 minutes, now. We've got it under control, don't worry. Now, please, instead of the River, Maxim Burbak has the word. It's under control. And then we move on to the speeches in our statements. Thank you. Mr. Maxime, word for word.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-07-m0.u22	Dear colleagues! The leader of the National Front, Arsenij Yatzenuk, is visiting Washington, D.C., where he meets with senior representatives of the United States National Security Council and the leadership of the Department of State and the Pentagon, as well as with U.S. congressmen from the Republican and Democratic Parties. We expect a strong reaction from Western partners to the election of the Russian President in Ukrainian territory. One of the main issues discussed by Arsenija Yatzenuk during the meeting is the geopolitical issue that stands in the order of Ukraine’s day and should stand in the order of the world’s day, including the United States. There is to be a strong position on the part of our Western partners, on the part of the United States, that elections in Ukrainian territory can only be held in relation to the President of Ukraine, not the President of Russia. Another issue is Ukraine's NATO strategic course. We need to sign with the Alliance a plan of action for NATO membership and give a clear signal to the world about Ukraine's goal -- membership in the Alliance. On Monday, the People's Front recorded a decree calling the Supreme Council to the Security Council and the General Assembly of the United Nations, the OSCE, the European Union, NATO, other international organizations, parliamentary assemblies, foreign parliaments and governments on the non-admission and non-recognition of the Russian President's election to Crimea. Once again, the Kremlin plans to organize illegal voting in the occupied Crimea, as it was during the so - called elections in the State. Then, at the initiative of Prime Minister Arseny Yatsenyuk, the Ukrainian Parliament declared these elections illegal with appropriate legal consequences. Now we have to do the same thing. We must turn to the whole world to prevent so - called elections in Ukrainian territory in Crimea. Yesterday we finally unlocked the adoption of the law on temporarily occupied territories, we recognized Russia as an aggressor, and Donbas and Crimea as occupied territories. The redefinition of the Russian king on Ukrainian soil is illegal, and it also makes it impossible to recognize this assignment as legitimate. I appeal to you, Mr. Head, to give a task to the committee of profile as soon as possible to consider this decision at the next meeting that will take place today and to put to the vote the first question of the order of the next plenary Tuesday. I would like to point out that the process of preparing for these elections is now accompanied by systematic and massive human rights violations, reprisals against the local civilian population. These crimes of the Kremlin must be stopped. I'm sure Rephat Chubarov will say his word in support of this decision. Finally, I appeal to all factions and deputies to use the Rules to delay the process of dealing with the impeccable issue of the establishment of the Anti-Corruption Court. Yesterday we saw some factions dragging this process away. I want to remind you of the clear public position of the People's Front that as of next week the bill will still be in order of the day, and the Anti-Corruption Court will vote in favour, and we will begin the procedure for its creation. Stop stalling, it's our duty, the court has to work, and the corrupts sit behind bars. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-07-m0.u23	Thank you for your current suggestions. My colleagues, as I was saying, Boris Ivanovich Tarasyuk is now speaking to a colleague of Ivan Grigorovovich Kirilenko, and plus there are statements from two factions: From "self-help" and "Fatherhood" to the performance, so we're putting together six minutes. And now he's got Reverend Ivan Grigorovich six minutes. Please, Mr. Ivan.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-07-m0.u24	Dear colleagues, I went out to the rostrum with this humble bag, it's ravioli. In this package of Made in Italy 250 grams, the average European price is about 3 euros. As in focus, as in the drop of water, our problems, our problems, and our powerful prospects for development. Italy does not export any grams of raw material. Italy exports finished production. And it's famous all over the world for wonderful wines, cheeses, pasta choices and so on, one of which is what I'm showing. Guys, we're celebrating the world's export of raw materials. So multiply, we're used to doing megaspans, multiply these grams by tons and count, friends, 250 grams, where flour and filler -- spinach, base -- flour, the price of the question is between 10,000 and 12,000 euros. We're exporting grain for 100 euros. Our grains are made from ravioli, spaghetti, pasta, pizza, and so forth, they are taken to Ukraine. What the poor are asking about. The answer is well - known. Dear colleagues, who has given the secret of Italy such success? Family farms were given, and in Italy there are 1 million 870,000. From a hectare of Italy, with much worse lands, much less in processing, it has ten times more profits than Ukraine. So we translate our 17 billion from agriculture, from export dollars, into Italian farming mechanisms, we get, as Odessa says, the unmatched stuff -- 170 billion. Does that seem fantastic? No, no. Last night, you and I seemed to be getting as close as we could to that main link of the chain, as the classic used to say, by grabbing the one you could pull out the whole chain. Yesterday, we discussed Ukrainian family farming as an arrangement in the country, like what people ask, what people are accustomed to. We have this farm family farm. We are fed by a support farm of 95 percent of vegetables, fruits, potatoes, 82 percent milk, more than half meat, no birds, and half eggs. 14 percent of farmland. Guys, we already have it naturally, let's make it legal. Yesterday we tried to do it. First fucking coma. We've gone into history, and I suggest we go into history. So I think we got close to that truth yesterday. Our faction's proposal. Personally, the Head of the Supreme Council to lead a working group of representatives of all the factions who are more involved in this topic, to engage in science, to involve public organizations, farmers' associations and to write a package of laws, it's almost ready for us in the hall. Guys, we need to make this legal. Let's put the law on the table. Do we need State support? We have to tax them to say that they will be clear, accessible, and suitable for peasants. Second law. Do we need state support for credit? You have to create a peasant, a farmer's bank, only government funds there have to be less than 2 percent of the year. Where do you get the money for the bank? Friends, why did we give $5 billion to billionaires? I'm sorry, it's not right and it smells stupid. Let's put this money into the capitalization of the village bank and lend it to the family farm. Does it take much to organize it? At first, on its support farm is a roll of film and 200 kilograms of coal. These are small funds, but hundreds of thousands can start their business. Guys, you need a law to do this? We're writing. Or the decision of the National Bank. We're writing to the task force. Isn't that enough? The earth must be, the earth. Are we handing over the land to the community or are we playing? We pass it on to the communities, we pass it on to the land. Without the conditions that we write, the head of administration makes the final decision. What head of administration? Mega-corruption, just the kind of side. And what administrations will follow the unification of communities? There will be no areas when this process is completed. Guys, let's end this rudimentary and atavism at the same time. But in the end, decentralization in action, whether we're playing or we're standing still. But no, let's still give the community the right to manage the land around the populace, outside, the price of the question is 4 or 7 million hectares that are today in the shade. To whom will this earth go? But let the community decide who the family farm is for. Is that what you're drawing? Let's see, how do we trade? Maybe we need to re-establish our cooperation. The co-operation of manufacturing, because John Dire has no purpose in buying three hectares of production -- it's absurd, it's manufacturing, it's manufacturing, it's manufacturing, it's trading, it's manufacturing, it's processing, it's small machinery, it's organic agriculture -- that's all we're interested in for a lot of Europe. This requires laws. We write in this working group. And finally, a moratorium on land. If this applies to the family farm, this moratorium will be dropped, sorry as a banal letter, but for the family farm. I'm speaking on behalf of the faction of the Supreme Council: ocholte, Andry Volodymyrovich. And instead of getting into history as it was yesterday, let's go into history. Fatherland is ready for this! We invite everyone. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-07-m0.u25	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we still have statements from factions who are willing to replace it. The first statement came from the Radical Party. Please, Mr. Lazko, let's get to the show. And from the People's Front. And the second statement is "The Opposition Block" and the Rebirth Group will be delivered by the Lithuanian People's Deputy. Please, please, Mr. Baby.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-07-m0.u26	John Grigorovich Kirilenko's excellent speech, the very right proposals, and I hope that together we are all here in Parliament, united efforts, because for the development of family farming, cooperation, processing, what is the key? Answer the question "Who's the master on earth?" In the Constitution, we propose to write that agriculture is the basis of the agricultural system of Ukraine. 180 Ukrainian national deputies signed under amendments to the Constitution to legitimize farmers at the level of the Basic Law of the country, because paradoxes, but there is no word in the Constitution of Ukraine about peasants or farmers. Regrettably, among 180 national MPs, there is no signature from any of the distinguished colleagues of the Fatherland faction. I urge you to sign this law, and I ask the Head of Parliament, because the changes to the Constitution have been in Parliament for more than a year now, let's finally bring them up for consideration by the Supreme Council, and once and for all, let's say that the master of Ukrainian land is a Ukrainian peasant, not a Latino or a transnational corporation. But I would like to draw attention to another, equally important problem, is the rise in consumer prices for essential products. Last summer, the government canceled the government's price regulation for emergency products, and we see a tremendous increase. According to the results of 2017, inflation is almost 14 percent, including the decision of the authorities to release all prices. It is said that the free hand of the market should regulate prices – yes, but it cannot free the hand of the market, it will smother the poor, the pensioners, those with low incomes. And that's why we're asking the government to restore government price regulation. Last year: wheat bread of the first species, nearly 22 percent, grain bread 22 percent, beef 30 percent, pork 36.5, bird meat 25, fat 69 percent, cheese 24, cream 24. I mean, who can pay these prices when they go up at this catastrophic rate? We demand that the government restore the government's regulation of prices for essential products and protect the interests of the least protected categories of citizens. Because instead of raising prices, you have to pay, you have to raise pensions, you have to raise people's income. Instead, the government commits itself to increasing gas prices to take on a new loan. In this year's budget, more than 70 billion dollars have been spent to compensate for the cost of residential services. If we raise the gas price again, that's over 100 billion dollars from the budget to compensate for the cost. And the key is that people can't pay these space prices for gas, a huge non-payment crisis, and as a result of stagnation in housing and utilities. We demand that the government not raise gas prices but raise Ukrainian wages, pensions and income.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-07-m0.u27	Thank you. Colleagues, there will be a closing statement from two factions instead of a break, Vladimir Litwin. In three minutes, we'll move on to the ratification review. And I'm asking the factions to invite MPs into the hall. Please, Mr. Vladimir.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-07-m0.u28	Dear National Deputies! Ladies and gentlemen, I am speaking out of a group of deputies, not only from two factions concerned by the situation that the Cabinet of Ministers has been cynically ignoring its own decision to recalculate pensions for military personnel as well as those who have served in internal affairs. In Lviv, in Žitomirščina, in other cities and villages, people will be brought to despair by resorting to extreme measures that they did not want to resort to as disciplined people, namely, to cover the routes to draw the attention of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, and not least the Supreme Council of Ukraine, which, in fact, pursues irresponsible actions of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine in order to ensure that constitutional obligations, social obligations of the State and their own decisions of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine are fully implemented. I would like to point out to you that a large group of deputies, you, your distinguished colleagues, are co-authors of the decree to oblige the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine to cancel its decision and to comply with the previous decree of the Cabinet of Ministers on the recalculation of pensions for military officials. Unfortunately, I must say that the hands do not come to the Supreme Council of Ukraine for its consideration. So I'm asking your support, I'm asking the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to consider this first decision tomorrow and make the right decision, and we've committed the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine to do what they have to do in part of the pension census. Because the Supreme Council has managed, it has found the opportunity to set up huge wages for today's representatives of the power structures. She found the opportunity to establish pensions, that is to say, financial maintenance forever for judges, tens and hundreds of thousands of dollars, but it turns out that those people who protected the country, and the example of whom we should all follow, are being abandoned today. I would ask, Your Honor Mr. Head, to address you, honourable national MPs, with a clear request to support this decision and to consider tomorrow's appropriate decision of the Cabinet of Ministers. The Cabinet of Ministers is accountable and accountable to the Supreme Council of Ukraine, and it has to do the will of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, especially since it is a direct commitment. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-07-m0.u29	Thank you. So, colleagues, now we have four ratifications in our agenda. And I have a request from all my colleagues from all the factions to support the review of the reduced procedure so that we can go through all the ratifications. We have a busy working day, and so I ask for all understandings, to reject political debates -- international issues should unite the hall. And I'm asking everyone to take up jobs. Now, after the first ratification, I'm going to propose a simplified procedure. And we are moving on to the draft Law on the Ratification of the Trade Agreement between the Government of Ukraine and the Government of the Kingdom of Thailand (No. 0170). Colleagues, I'm asking you to take up your jobs and I'm asking you to support the review of the reduced procedure. Please vote and please support. [[10:55:26]] For-119 Not all of them made it. I'm asking everyone to come into the hall, take jobs. Heads of factions, invite the deputies to the hall. Once again, if we enter into a full process of consideration, we will not be able to implement that plan today, according to our international obligations, after ratification. So I'm very much asking, first of all, that all the factions take part in the vote, and I'm asking you to support this proposal, and I'm asking everyone to take the job. Colleagues, please come into the hall; don't leave, come into the hall. My proposal is logical, I'm sure everyone supports it. Please, colleagues, are you ready to vote? I am voting once again on the proposal to review the Law on Ratification (0170) for a reduced procedure. Please vote. Please be supportive. Colleagues, we're voting carefully. Everyone, please take part in the vote. Please be supportive. Vote. [[10:56:54]] For a hundred and Decision taken. And I invite you to the report of the Deputy Minister for Economic Development and Trade of Mikolska Natalya Jaroslavna. Mrs. Natalie, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-07-m0.u30	Dear Mr. Head, distinguished national MPs! You are considering a draft Act ratifying the Trade Agreement between the Government of Ukraine and the Government of the Kingdom of Thailand. There's no secret that exports are the engine of the economy. Therefore, the objective of the agreement is to create preconditions for the development and deepening of trade and economic relations between the two countries. Why a covenant is important. Thailand is a promising market for Ukrainian exports. In line with Thailand’s export strategy, it is defined as a market in focus and thus has prospects for increasing Ukrainian exports. Yes, in January-September 2017, the volume of our trade in Thailand's goods and services amounted to $342 million, with the volume of exports of goods in nine months being almost $200 million. So, as we can see, the potential for further development of trade and economic relations is large enough. To that end, we have foreseen the following mechanisms. First. Encourage bilateral investment and technical cooperation. The other one. Increased cooperation between business circles, including exchange of visits, business missions, and meetings of Ukrainian and Thai entrepreneurs. Third. Conducting fairs and exhibitions, sharing information. Four. Creating joint ventures. And most importantly, the creation of a joint intergovernmental trade commission that will look after opportunities for increasing and diversifying mutual relations. Ladies and gentlemen, please support this agreement and mobilize together resources to increase Ukrainian exports and to open new markets for Ukrainian exporters. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-07-m0.u31	Thank you. To my co-report, I invite Gopko Hanna Mikolayevna, head of the Committee on Foreign Affairs. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-07-m0.u32	Dear Ukrainians, good day to all. Today we bring to your attention the draft Ukrainian Law on the Ratification of the Trade Agreement between the Government of Ukraine and the Government of the Kingdom of Thailand. The Committee on Foreign Affairs held its meeting on December 6, 2017, discussed the draft law introduced by the Cabinet of Ministers and approved the decision to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine the adoption of the bill and the ratification of the agreement. I would like to thank the representative of the Ministry of Economics of Natalia Mikolska for the report on how she described our exports to Thailand. And it is very important that this trade agreement will create preconditions for the development of trade and economic relations between the two countries on the basis of equality and mutual assistance. I would very much like to see after the ratification of this agreement, and I would very much like to mobilize the presence of deputies in this room right now so that they don't ratify the third and fourth attempts, because this agreement is extremely important for the exchange of visits from delegations, entrepreneurs and also for the creation of a joint intergovernmental commission, which is extremely important. And I would also like to call on Parliament to vote for this right now, because we have no less important ratifications. In general, I believe that changes to the Rules should be made in order for Wednesday to be a full-time workday. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-07-m0.u33	Thank you. Please record: two in, two in. I'm the only one I'm going to ask for as concisely as possible to be able to accept ratifications more. Halasjuk Viktor Valeriyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-07-m0.u34	Victor Halasyuk, faction of the Radical Party of Oleg Lášk. Dear colleagues, the government has brought us a new trade agreement to ratify. But I want to remind you that trade agreements are signed for what -- just to sign them? No, it's not. In order to create additional jobs, to increase Ukrainian exports, rather than raw ones, but high-tech ones, in order to increase the welfare of citizens and give additional orders to Ukrainian industry. I think this agreement is beneficial, but we need to learn more about its consequences. But remember the so-called State Procurement Agreement, which was presented to me here in 16 years by the First Deputy Minister of Economics, Maxim Nepheods. And he convinced us that this agreement is extremely useful for our industry, our economy and so on. So, I think it's time that we were with you to listen to this official from this high-level government rostrum to see what the consequences of the implementation of this agreement are, how much Ukrainian high-tech exports have increased, how many contracts have been signed, how many Ukrainian producers have won on foreign procurement tenders, how many currencies have it brought to the country, how many jobs have created in Ukraine, and how much does this give you in general moral, professional and other rights today to criticise this first deputy minister's "Buy Ukrainian, pay the Ukrainians" and to say that this international agreement does not allow you to do that. So either pursue high-quality economic diplomacy, or retire, for positions in the government to defend the national economic interests of Ukraine, the Ukrainian industry, Ukrainian citizens, including through commercial diplomacy, rather than merge these interests and speak out against state laws. So we're developing our own industry, "Buy Ukrainian, pay Ukrainians," and then all trade agreements.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-07-m0.u35	Thank you. By "self-help" Plew Teofilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-07-m0.u36	The Self-Help faction will support the ratification of this agreement. But I would like to point out to a very small number of deputies in the Supreme. In the Supreme Council Hall, which is really confusing and disturbing and does not give any confidence in a positive solution to the issue. And this is actually every Wednesday. And this actually speaks of the irresponsibility of Ukrainian politicians in the issue of Ukraine's participation in international markets and international cooperation. We appeal to the West for sanctions, we appeal to the West to help us fight the aggressor. But we do nothing here, in Ukraine, but we do not recognize Russia as an aggressor in an adequate and timely manner; we do not recognize; we do not impose any sanctions and moratoriums on trade; we continue to trade with the aggressors; we do not carry out any obligations or any more obligations with international partners. So I urge you, Mr. Head, to mobilize people to accept and ratify these agreements, because they really help work with the international community. Self-help will vote in favour.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-07-m0.u37	Thank you. In turn, I call on you and all the national MPs, and the factions' heads to invite all the deputies into the hall, we have two more speeches, that is, in six minutes, there will be a vote. And I'm asking all the factions that aren't there, look, call back, ask who might be in the towers to come into the hall, and in six minutes there'll be a vote. And now from the Opposition Block, I invite you to the word of Dobrenkov Alexander Valeriyovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-07-m0.u38	Thank you, Mr. Head. Dear colleagues! Respectable Ukrainian citizens! The creation of a free trade zone is an extremely important issue in the development, economic development of the country. At the same time, however, it is necessary to tell the truth: Free Trade zones are convenient for economically developed countries. Because if the country is in a fairly early stage of economic development and is an exporter of raw materials, it should not expect to be so serious about economic development. We see this in the example of the EU Association Agreement. Everyone here said the factions that were part of the coalition "European Ukraine," that this is a matter of the Ukrainian Parliament, this is going to be a very serious push. What Has Really Turned Out? In fact, it has now been shown that the level of exports of Ukrainian products to EU member countries has fallen compared to that of 2013. Why is this happening? And because the member states of the European Union have set trade quotas for export-oriented industries: the agricultural sector, the metal industry, the chemical sector. Just think, in just a few weeks of January this year, we have exhausted quotas for exporting wheat, corn and other products, goods. And accordingly, those who have voted all the bills for the implementation of this agreement have all the responsibility to close the markets in the east, and we cannot compensate with the Western markets. What about this bill of ratification? The Opposition Block faction will not vote in favour of any bill, as our draft laws aimed at protecting the rights of internally displaced persons are not passed on Wednesday. We agree that we need to work all day, but not just consider.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-07-m0.u39	30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-07-m0.u40	There is no need to limit ourselves to the consideration of government bills. Earlier Wednesday was the day of opposition, when opposition bills were being considered, and now these bills are not even about voting, most of them. We insist that opposition bills be considered on Wednesday. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-07-m0.u41	So, colleagues, this is the closing act. Once again, I am addressing both the heads of factions and the apparatus, inviting all the national MPs into the hall, and in three minutes the vote will take place. Please, from the Peter Dust Block, spores Ivan Dmitrovich, turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-07-m0.u42	Ivan Sporish, Peter Dusty Block, 15th Wynnickin County. As we can see, all the speakers support this agreement and it's nice enough that we're going to support it, but it's very common that the opposition block, for them the worse in the country, the better. So what I'm proposing is that we sign this agreement, do everything we can to get it accepted. And we still have a lot of agreements, so let's get together and we'll all support these agreements for our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-07-m0.u43	Thank you. Replica is Dudenkov, 1 minute. And please come into the hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-07-m0.u44	Dear colleague of the coalition faction, of the President's faction! The Opposition Block did not vote in favour of pension reform. The Opposition Block did not vote in favour of educational reform. It's not the Opposition Block that is voting for the land reform you're proposing to tear apart the land. We're not trying to create a situation where it's worse than the country, we're trying to make sure that these pseudoreforms don't lead the Ukrainians to poverty at all, but the country does. Therefore, we need to refrain from making the above - mentioned comments. We insist that we consider, especially our draft laws. You ignore the rights of opposition, no bill has been considered, no system bill, no internally displaced persons. You're talking about Thailand, you shut down the East Market, it was $20 billion. You've covered up the Western appropriate market of the European Union, and now you're trying to say that we're to blame for what we're doing. You're the one who's ruining the country with your reforms.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-07-m0.u45	So, please come into the hall, colleagues. I'll wait another 30 seconds, please invite the deputies, two deputies have just arrived. Please invite everyone in the hall who's in the towers. Help the factions' heads ask MPs. One minute, head of the Kishkar Friendship Group, turn on the microphone. And in a minute of voting, colleagues. Come into the hall, please. Paul Kishkar.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-07-m0.u46	Paul Kishkar, "The People's Movement of Ukraine." Thank you very much to the Ministry of Economics for making this proposal, this agreement for the approval of the Supreme Council. In addition, I would like to remind you of Thailand’s unique experience of how they managed after the war, after World War II, to concentrate on their territory the production of all car manufacturers. Form production capacity for tyre production, protect your market with import duties, and produce a premium system for jobs to form your own. I think that the unique experience that we already have in the agrossphere that we have in military and technical cooperation needs to be enhanced. A few questions remain for the Ministry of Foreign Affairs regarding the visa-free regime with the Kingdom of Thailand and the opening, after all, of embassies in Ukraine and receipt.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-07-m0.u47	Ten seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-07-m0.u48	and receiving the same premises in exchange for the opening of the Embassy of Ukraine in the Kingdom of Thailand.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-07-m0.u49	Thank you. So let's move on to decision-making, colleagues. Take months of work, fellow workers, get out of the discussion, and take up jobs. I'm asking everyone to take up jobs. And I put to the vote the draft Law on the Ratification of the Trade Agreement between the Government of Ukraine and the Government of the Kingdom of Thailand (No. 0170) as a whole. My colleagues, I ask you again to take up your jobs. I very much ask that you all take up your jobs. Please vote, please support. Vote, colleagues, international agreement, please support, vote. [[11:12:56]] For 176 Thank you. Colleagues, please come into the hall. If I say to the committee for re-reading, will you vote? You'll vote. Well, colleagues, the paradox is that there are enough deputies in the room and we just need to get to a common position. Colleagues, and now, so we don't lose the bill, I'm going to make the next proposal that the Rules provide. I'll try again first. If there are no votes, I'm going to propose to the committee to re-read. I'm asking everyone to come into the hall, take jobs, get ready for the vote. I'm asking you to show the results of the vote on the board so you can see the ratio of factions, I mean, by factions. So, colleagues, I propose to go back to voting for the draft Law on Ratification 0170, to go back to voting. All in all. If there are no votes, I'll return to the committee. Please vote, please support. Please vote, colleagues. Every voice, please stand by. [[11:14:43]] For 181 The decision is not taken. I would like to make the following suggestion: to the committee for review, to the committee for consideration. I'm asking you, colleagues, to maximize your mobility. Colleagues, I ask you to vote as much as possible right now. It's for the pre-work committee. This is not a decision-making process, so I think the whole room will support it. And I'm asking you to mobilize. I'm putting a motion for a vote so that we can refer the draft Law on Ratification 0170 to the committee for review. If you'll excuse me, I'd like to vote. Colleagues, please, every voice. Don't leave the hall. Vote, please! Please vote. [[11:15:52]] For-200 Show the results of the vote. Come on, colleagues, let's ask a colleague. Please don't leave the hall. Let's ask a colleague to the hall. Friends, because I don't want to use the practice of voting and then publishing in the newspapers missing national MPs. So I ask everyone to invite a colleague to the hall as much as possible. I ask you not to leave the hall, to invite deputies into the hall. I'll read it. Peter Prashenko Block 78, People's Front 54, Opposition Block 0, Self-help 17, Oleg Ljashka Radical Party 14, Parenthood 9, Will of the People 3, Rebirth Party 4. My colleagues, if you'd like to come to the hall, I'm going to put a motion to the vote again. Call someone, I'll wait another 30 seconds. Invite the deputies to the hall. So take up jobs, I'm going to propose once again that we send the draft Law on the Ratification of the Trade Agreement between the Government of Ukraine and the Government of the Kingdom of Thailand to the Committee for further work. Please, everyone, take your seats and take part in the vote. Please vote, please support the committee for further work. Attention, every vote, please vote, please support. Vote. Please be supportive. [[11:18:22]] For 206 Please. We should invite people into the hall. We should invite people to the hall, colleagues, call and invite them to the hall. I'm asking you to come to the People's Deputies Hall right now. Colleagues, 30 seconds. I'm asking you to invite everyone into the hall and stay out of the hall. Please invite the deputies to the hall. So, colleagues, please come into the hall. I'll wait a few more minutes. Please, Hanna Hopko, head of the committee, one minute. Invite the deputies to the hall, colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-07-m0.u50	Dear colleagues, especially those who are now deliberately refusing to vote in order for this important ratification to take place in Parliament, I very much ask you to take a state position and vote. If you do not want to ratify, at least send this ratification to the committee for review. I think that regardless of whether you're in power, you're in opposition, but this deal is an opportunity to increase exports to Thailand, it's an opportunity to create jobs, to increase trade. And I think your voters, whom you represent here, should appreciate. And especially those present today in the hall who simply can't click on the button to support without any comments or objections to this agreement. I'm asking you as non-fractional as head of the committee, please give the votes, because that's what it takes to develop our trade. We've been here so long. The representatives of the Ministry of Economics present, why waste time when you can vote and do it for the country if you just said you were in Ukraine. Please, let's try it.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-07-m0.u51	So, colleagues, I'm going to put the vote again, if there are no votes, I'm going to have to announce that the bill is rejected. I ask you to prepare for the vote. I'm asking you to take up jobs. So, colleagues, I'm once again putting to the vote the proposal that the draft Law on the Ratification of the Trade Agreement between the Government of Ukraine and the Government of the Kingdom of Thailand (No. 0170) should be sent to the Committee for further work. I'm asking everyone to take jobs. Please take part in the vote. If you'll excuse me, I'd like to vote. [[B in m in s a l in]] Hold on. Hold on. Hold on. Vote! Please be supportive. Please vote. [[11:22:17]] For 206 Draft Law 0170 has been rejected. Colleagues, we now have a decree rejecting the vote of our Privatization Act. And it's actually blocking us from signing the Privatization Act. According to the Rules I can put it at any moment, I understand there's readiness. Now they're asking me to put up. Signals? Do we have a chance? Colleagues, let me make the following laws right now -- if we have a chance in any way. This is my right, as provided for by the Rules, to place a rating vote on support. So I'm going to put the next draft of the Ratification Act 0171 on the rating vote. This is a rating vote to determine support. Please vote, take part in the rating vote. Please be supportive. [[11:23:45]] For 201 There are no votes. Next. I had a proposal, I see Mr. Valerius Pisarenko came in, followed by this block by his law, a draft law amending certain legislative acts to guarantee the promotion of sports skills for young people (4186). Mr. Valérie, I'd like to move it. If there are voices, we can get in. Mobilize everyone around. If there are voices, we can look at it. As we agreed, colleagues, 4186 is a rating vote for support. It's just a rating vote. Please, this is the support of young people, 4186 is the rating vote. Please take part in the vote, please support. Colleagues, we vote. Please be supportive. If there are voices, we can move it and get into the debate. [[11:24:45.]] For-187 Unfortunately, there's no point. Again? Let me do it again. So, colleagues, once again, the rating vote. One minute, Pisarenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-07-m0.u52	Dear colleagues! Dear colleagues and Oleg Valeriyovich, I also address you. This bill was made by representatives of different factions. There are only our students who participate in competitions on behalf of Ukraine, in international and Olympic competitions. We give them a vacation for this period when they represent Ukraine during international and Olympic competitions. And that's a very important question. Because not all universities and institutions today support our young people. Given that we are now the leading Olympics, let's support the student youth. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-07-m0.u53	So I'm going to re-set the rating vote. That's going to be the last rating vote. Please take a vote in support of the draft Act amending certain legislative acts to guarantee greater sporting skills for young people (4186). Please vote, please support. Let's vote, colleagues. The rating vote. Please be supportive. [[11:26:20]] For-189 Mr. Valérie, there's no support. And that's why we're moving on to the draft Decree repealing the decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine of 18 January 2018 on adoption as a whole, as a law of the Law on Privatisation of State Property (7066). I'll remind you that this motion for a ruling does not apply to the agenda. And I would also like to point out that, without considering this decision, as Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, I do not have the right to sign the Privatisation Act. And it's going through the system of consideration as a reduced procedure. And I invite you to the report of the Ukrainian National Deputy Andrey Illenka. Please, Mr. Andrew.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-07-m0.u54	Andrew Illenko, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. The National MPs, the Freedoms representatives, issued this decree, because during the consideration and adoption of this bill there were gross violations of the Rules. First of all, these are the facts of the buttoning that have been fixed, which have been mentioned, but unfortunately there has been no response to these facts. Secondly, during the second reading of this project, there was actually a gross violation of the amendment procedure: they were read at the last moment of the vote. Similarly, the rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine were grossly violated. Well, and of course, aside from the formal part that's not empty, which is very important, but still the formal part, there's a meaningful part of why we've been making this decision about cancelling. Because we think that in today's conditions during the actual war waged against us by the Russian Federation, talking about privatization, mass privatization of state property is just nonsense, it's just a robbery of the country, because at no cost these enterprises will be sold out to the oligarchs. We realize that if there's a bankrupt enterprise that's really corrupt, then maybe there's really a point to selling it. But first, we need to check that it's really corrupt, not fictitiously bankrupt, as it always did in Ukraine to give to its close-up oligarchs. And second of all, we need it. Because there are strategic enterprises, there are profitable enterprises, which is the whole point of giving them to someone if they're important to our economy? We don't have much government property left in the economy, we have almost everything private. But unless it is necessarily a synonym of efficiency. The whole oligarchi business, the private monopolies in energy, in other sectors of the economy, they're private. But they also abuse, they're just as corrupt, and they're actually hurting our economy. That's why. Can I have another 30 seconds?
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-07-m0.u55	Please add a minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-07-m0.u56	And that's why we understand very well that in today's conditions, this is actually what today's authorities want to do is to have a dembel chord for the election to make a big sale to Ukraine. We also understand very well that there are many myths that are spreading. For example, that the apriors of any state property are ineffective and so on. Well, of course, if you put the corruptionists there, then really, there will be corruption and inefficiency. And if it is to recruit people in open public contests, if it is to set integrity criteria, why should there be corruption? The best railway system in Europe is a German railway, 100% government property. France's largest energy companies are owned by the state. And this makes it possible to control the market, it makes it possible to influence the situation, to ensure stability, social justice and so on. Now there is no economy of a completely free market. This was in the 19th century. Now all the developed economies in European countries, they have a multi-complex system. We're offered to sell everything. I think that's the exact wrong way. And that's why we've made the right decision and we're proposing to the Supreme Council to support the repeal of this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-07-m0.u57	Are you done?
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-07-m0.u58	All of it. I'm done.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-07-m0.u59	All of it. Thank you very much. So I invite you to report to the First Vice - Chief of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, Phinehas Pavel Vasilovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-07-m0.u60	Mr. Head, respectable colleagues! Our committee at the February 6th meeting reviewed the draft Decree (Registration No. 7066-P) and the application of the Ukrainian National Deputies of Levchenka, Illenka, Golovka, Osuhovski (since 19 January 2018) for the removal of the requirements of the Rules adopted when the Supreme Council decided on a bill on the privatization of state property. And according to part eight of article 48 of the Rules of the Supreme Council, he concluded that the procedure laid down in the 48th Rules provided for the appointment of a national deputy to the chairman of the plenary meeting with a statement in the event of a violation of the Rules during the consideration and voting of the draft, the submission of a written statement to the Head of the Supreme Council and the simultaneous submission of the relevant draft decision. According to parts of the fifth and sixth 48 articles of the Rules, the National Deputies, the authors of the initiative, after considering Bill 7066, made a written application to the Head of the Supreme Council and submitted to the Supreme Council a draft of the Decree for the registration number, as already stated, 7066-P. The committee has determined its conclusion that you have the opportunity to get acquainted with. And he also suggests that we decide whether or not to reject Project Decree 7066-P by voting. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-07-m0.u61	Thank you. So, colleagues, please take part in the discussion. And I'd like you to record: two in, two in, two in. Please. From the Opposition Block, Gusak Vladimir Georgievic, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-07-m0.u62	Dear colleagues, dear Ukrainians, dear Head! The opposition bloc will vote in favour of lifting the vote on the Ukrainian Privatisation Act, because this law, like many others, has been passed with gross violations of the Rules. Regrettably, ignoring the rules of the Rules has become a sad tradition of this Parliament. And perhaps it's easier now to find solutions, if at all possible, those decisions that have been taken to comply with the rules of the Rules, because the rest are being taken with complete disregard. And I have another proposition. Dear Andriy Volodymyrovich, dear colleagues, let's cancel these meetings on Wednesdays, because you have a coalition. And by the way, this coalition isn't just working on Maldives and Seychelles. Because when it was necessary to cancel the plenary week in January, because probably four weeks of leave was too little, the votes were found, and this plenary week was cancelled, and very many bills, important bills, were not considered. For example, I work at the Transport Committee, there are a lot of bills that will at least make it easier to work on Ukrainian infrastructure, and then the Ukrainian economy, they don't consider it, they don't have time. And today there are just no deputies in the hall, so let's cancel Wednesdays. Well, what's the point of doing that when the Head of Parliament has to invite deputies tens of times to vote on one technical issue? In general, I believe that the deputies of the Ukrainian Parliament should go to work in the Ukrainian Parliament.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-07-m0.u63	From the People's Front, Bondar Mikhailo Leontijovich, turn on the microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-07-m0.u64	Bondar Mikhailo, 119 constituency. Please give the word to Oleg the Medunice.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-07-m0.u65	Turn on the wire to Oleg's Medusa.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-07-m0.u66	Oleg Medunica, People's Front, Sumi. Ladies and gentlemen, they are now trying to stop the privatization of Ukraine, to stop the privatization of that unnecessary gambit that the state holds in its hands, all these state-owned timbers, alcohol factories and other surpluses, where the state in no country in the world can be an effective owner. Yesterday a private businessman, Ilon Musk, launched a rocket on Mars, which is flying successfully there. And next to that, Russia launches. State business in Russia launches spaceships that explode like soaps. What are we talking about? The terminological privatization of all things that are not working now stands, is the source and seed of corruption in Ukraine. So the People's Front is going to stand for cancelling this decision, more loyally against this decision, to open the way for transparent and public privatization of state property, which is ineffectively used. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-07-m0.u67	Thank you. From the Self-Help faction, Captain Helen.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-07-m0.u68	Thank you, Chairman. Captain Olena, Self-Help faction. Just think about the numbers: 3.5 thousand enterprises, over 80 billion losses today from state enterprises. Of course, we can dream for a very long time that we will have effective government, but for almost 30 years the independence of the state has shown that this is essentially the theft and use of state property, not in the interests of citizens, but in the interests of very specific people, who are viewed or controlled by specific state enterprises. The way out is one, two of them, actually. One of them, of course, is to punish, plant and stop corruption. But if the state hasn't been able to do that in 27 years, we have only one option: to reduce the potential of corrupting state-owned enterprises, state-owned wealth. And the only way to do that is to transfer it to private property. So, of course, we have supported this law and we will closely monitor every privatization process. We're going to make sure that this really happens in the interests of, firstly, the people who are in these enterprises, and secondly, in the interests of the state itself. But here I want to point out something else. We still don't see from the Economic Policy Committee the text of this bill. We're concerned about the key phrase that Self-Help demanded, and it was spelled out in the law that the Aggressor State and any person or legal person, or physical person associated with the Aggressor State, will not have access to Ukrainian capital, to Ukrainian assets. We want to see the final edition of this article, and we warn the committee, if it is somehow deceived, we will go and demand the punishment of the fraudsters. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-07-m0.u69	Thank you. From the Radical Party, Oleg Valeriovich Ljashko. Liszko Oleg Valeriyovich, please. Mr. Oleg.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-07-m0.u70	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. I say that the Ministry of Economic Development, which is formally in Ukraine, does not actually pursue economic policies in the national interest, in the interests of Ukrainian producers, in the interests of Ukrainian workers. All the politics, the so-called politics of the Ministry of Economics, the main task they consider to be this deregulation and, in fact, the protection of the interests of importers in our own country. We think government policy, government policy should be absolutely the opposite: it's the support and development of national business, it's the creation of the most favourable conditions for the domestic economy. The goal is to create jobs for Ukrainians, increase incomes, new opportunities, develop new markets, because as a result of Russian aggression, we lost our eastern market. Where is the work on finding new markets? None. Where is the promotion of the interests of the national manufacturer? None. In this Parliament, a law on an export credit agency was passed on the initiative of the Radical Party team. State tools are supporting national exports and pushing our products into external markets. What did the Ministry of Economics do? Instead of thanking our team for this state position, they've been blocking the establishment of an export credit agency for over a year, preventing the implementation of state support and public policy to support a national producer. We demand that the government change economic policies radically. It's not mechanical tariff increases, it's not raw materials, it's not trade in land and national interests, it's trade in Ukrainian products, it's promotion of new external markets, it's protection of national producers in the internal market, it's support for Ukrainian law, it's development of the domestic economy. The goal is to overcome poverty, increase the income of Ukrainians, create new jobs. That's what Ukrainian politics should be like.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-07-m0.u71	Thank you. So the discussion was over, and everyone was speaking. And now we're going to be able to vote for that. I will remind you that whoever supports the signing of the law does not vote in favour of this decree. And I'm going to say, to my profound belief that, in fact, the absence of privatization is one of the biggest sources of corruption in Ukraine today. No country in the world has as many enterprises as Ukraine has. This is not in comparison with European countries, but we want to join the EU, nor with our partners, Canada and the United States. It's just a shame and it's our indulgence in corruption in Ukraine. We need to unlock the privatization process, we need to make decisions, and this will allow us to fill the budget, not encourage corruption, and not encourage the annual damage suffered by the Ukrainian State. So I ask you to vote against this decision. And I am voting on the draft Decree repealing the decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine of 18 January 2018 on the adoption as a whole of the law on the privatization of state property (No. 7066-P). Whoever votes in favour of the law votes against the ruling that supports the ruling, votes in favour. Please vote, please make up your mind. [[11:42:56]] Z-11. The decision is not taken. Shall we go back to the vote? The decree is rejected, and this allows for the signing of the Privatization Act. So, colleagues, today we've been trying to find drafts by way of a rating vote that can find support in the hall. Sadly, none of them found support in the hall. In this regard, I will close the cancer session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. I wish everyone a fruitful active committee work, today important committees. Tomorrow morning at 10 a.m., I invite everyone into the hall and ask for a higher level of discipline and mobilization. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is closed.
