ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-22-m1.u1	Dear colleagues, please come into the hall and prepare for registration. Colleagues, please come into the hall. Break time's up. So, colleagues, I'm asking you to register and take part in the registration. [[16:04:14]] 361 national deputies registered. I declare the evening plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine open. Colleagues, I would like to inform you, as I have already informed you before the break, that the Constitutional Court has taken a decision, and we are now able to consider a draft Act amending the Constitution of Ukraine (as regards the strategic course of the State for obtaining full membership of Ukraine in the European Union and in the North Atlantic Treaty Organization). At lunchtime, the Committee of Legal Policy decided to support the bill. This means that we have all the legal prerequisites so that we can consider it today in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. I emphasize that this will be a beautiful and important sign: by the fifth anniversary of Euromaidan, that we define the European course as a strategic course for the Ukrainian State. And so, after considering the draft Law amending the Ukrainian Budget Code, I'm going to propose to you, Your Honor, that we move on to the draft amendments to the Constitution. I hope everyone supports this proposal. I am sure that all EU and NATO supporters support this proposal. After the Budget Code, I propose to go to draft Law 9037, amendments to the Constitution (EU and NATO). You're determined by factions, but I'm sure everyone supports the proposal. And now I'm like a short run to lunch. We have considered the Codex Budgets of Ukraine and continue its consideration. We have come up with situations that are controversial and controversial throughout the line. We went back to the right several times, some of them were supported, like 151st, some of them were not supported. I gave the commission to the Committee on Budgets to do this work on a committee, not a committee, so that they could review again all the amendments that were proposed and around which the discussion was taking place, and make a balanced decision for the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The committee representative will now read this decision to the committee, if it's supported by a room, we can settle all the debates on the rules and go to the vote for the law itself. So I ask, colleagues, very carefully now to listen to the decision taken by the committee -- a compromise, balanced decision. And for this report, I invite the head of the Committee on Budget Affairs of Ischeikin Kostin Evgenovich. And I'd like everyone's attention again.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-22-m1.u2	Dear Andrew Volodymyrovich, distinguished colleagues and invited! The Committee on Budget Affairs has further considered individual proposals by the national MPs, which are generalized in a comparative table to Bill 9084, and adopted the following decision. To recommend to the Supreme Council Bill 9084 to adopt in a second reading and generally as a law taking into account supported proposals in the final edition, as set out in the committee's comparative table to the bill and the following clarifications. To take into account the amendments: 39, with the wording of the National Deputy Solovya, 151 National Deputy Sisoyenko, 161th National Deputy Kulinić. But recommend rejecting the 165th and 180th amendments, as stated in the previous committee decision. Please support the committee's decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-22-m1.u3	So, colleagues, did everyone hear? Is everyone in the clear? Got it. Colleagues, for that. I'll give the factions a minute. So in order to be able to sort out all the discussion points, I want to invite the heads of the factions now, and I'll give everyone a minute. So, pay attention, colleagues! You heard the committee's proposal. Now I'm going to give all the heads of factions a minute, and then we're going to go to the vote. So I'm asking everyone, colleagues, factions will be speaking for about five to seven minutes, about five to seven minutes we'll go to the vote, so I'm asking everyone to come into the room, get ready to vote. And I'm going to give by that traditional sequence, from the largest fraction to the smallest. So the first word, one minute, is Arthur Gerasimov. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-22-m1.u4	Dear Andrew Volodymyrovich, distinguished colleagues, respected Ukrainians! Today, indeed, there is a glorious day in the Ukrainian Parliament, one that really determines not even a month or a year, but a decade. Today, first of all, we will continue to vote in favour of consolidating in the Constitution our desire for Euro-Atlantic and European integration. Before that, I would like to say that we urge the entire Parliament to unite and vote in favour of the Budget Code as we have just received from the Committee on Budget Affairs. I'll explain what I think. You know, there were a few moments that separated the hall. At the moment, according to the commission of the Chief of the Supreme Council, the Committee found a compromise. These amendments, which divided the hall at the moment, according to my information, have been removed from the body of the law. Thus, we urge all to unite and vote in general.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-22-m1.u5	Thank you. 30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-22-m1.u6	Unify the Hall and vote on the Committee as a whole on the Budget Code. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-22-m1.u7	Thank you. Only, Mr. Arthur, I would like to emphasise that we will have the first proposal -- who supports the committee's proposal, and will then be in favour of the law itself. So, colleagues, now from the People's Front, Maxim Burbak, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-22-m1.u8	Dear colleagues, I would like to ask everyone to come to the hall more quickly, not to delay in time, for we still need to adopt a budget in general today. So I encourage everyone to be set up for good and finally get to work and accept the budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-22-m1.u9	Thank you. There's no one from the Opposition Block. The Radical Party raises Oleg Lazko. Please, one minute, Oleg Lazko.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-22-m1.u10	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Mr. Head of Parliament, I am addressing you and all the deputies. By noon, Parliament had voted on our 165 amendments, which included funding for the Academy of Sciences, for development, for modernization, for technology. Now you're trying in a totally fraudulent way to cancel this amendment and take the money from the Academy of Sciences. I'm addressing all the deputies! If you want Ukraine to be a poor and raw colony that trades only cheap labor and raw materials, then take the money from the Academy of Sciences. If you want our country to be successful, so that you don't trade raw materials, but ready-made products, technology, scientific development. To enable scientists to realize themselves in Ukraine rather than to travel abroad. Then I ask you not to cancel this amendment and leave funding for the development of the Academy of Sciences of Ukraine. We have our science to raise, our technology, our economy, not work for someone else's uncle. So for science, support and not cancel.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-22-m1.u11	Thank you. From the Self-Help faction, Semenha, please, Roman Semenha.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-22-m1.u12	Dear colleagues! The Self-Help faction will not support the changes to the Budget Code, since most of our rights, in particular those that would strengthen local budgets aimed at strengthening local self-government, have unfortunately not been taken into account. Although we hear fervent talks about decentralization, increased authority, yes, authority and responsibilities of local self - government authorities are increasing, no way does the Supreme Council increase its ability. So the offer was very simple, allowing communities to collect more and leave taxes in places. Otherwise, it's just propaganda, and more than that, local self-government only suffers from such decentralization. That's why the self-help faction won't vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-22-m1.u13	Thank you. But as far as I can tell, your review committee supported 151, right? Parliament? Did you support her? Colleagues, now I'm going to give everyone a word, just so we don't have to go back to the vote. I emphasize that in three minutes there will be a vote and I ask, colleagues, all to enter the hall. I won't call and wait for everyone to get together in the hall. I ask the heads of factions to maximize the mobilization of MPs in the hall. And please invite everyone to the hall. So from the "Fatherland" faction to the word, John Kirilenko is invited. Please, Mr. Ivan.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-22-m1.u14	Dear Lord Chairman! Dear colleagues! And once again, I'm bringing you back to a very important subject. The American president recently said, "We finance science not because we're rich, but because we finance science." So Amendment 165, which defines the support of national science, defines our scientific and technological progress, defines us as a state that will move in the direction of world processes, rather than being on the side, a raw addition to other countries, must be clearly preserved. And another example. We'll vote on the budget, like 200 million. Whether it's a mistake or a smile, removed from science and passed on to swimming pools. Look, the world's gonna laugh at this. Well, what is it? We will not vote under any circumstances, if this is the attitude towards national science, to our future.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-22-m1.u15	Thank you. Mr. John, we had a discussion in the hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-22-m1.u16	So, colleagues, once again, I'm a proponent of how probably each of you would want discussions on such specialized things as budgeting to take place on the committee. The committee made a decision. The committee met, and the committee made a decision. The vote will be in two minutes. I'm not going back, I'm just announcing the suspension of the budget process. So, colleagues, from Rebirth Pisarenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-22-m1.u17	Dear Andrew Volodymyrovich, distinguished colleagues! I mean, our group also calls for 165 amendments. It is a principle for us. Because supporting the National Academy of Sciences, especially before the 100th anniversary of the Academy, is important. It's not about the very large sums that we're making today, and it's in the budget for the police, the prosecutors, and so on. Today we need to think about the future, not how to feed and increase police spending today. Therefore, we propose 165 amendments to be supported. And then our faction will also vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-22-m1.u18	Thank you. From the Opposition Block, Igor Schurm.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-22-m1.u19	Igor Shurma, the Opposition Block. Dear colleagues, the position of the opposition block faction. We will not support this bill. What are our reasons? Look, today we're talking about decentralization. This means that our regions should become stronger in places. What we did, we took the money from them. So the budget is filled by the redistribution of funds. Is that so? Yes. Please tell me, have you ever given any thought to the procedures that we have here in the voting room? You didn't notice we've had second-hand smoke since the button shop? Why can't you see that? It's a shame. And the next. Do you know why the market necklaces are missing, from the markets? They've moved into the government offices. That's who it takes to put 5 percent of the gross domestic product in the End of Life vote in order for the government to do everything in order to settle it and hand-distribute it! And MPs have to do it.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-22-m1.u20	30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-22-m1.u21	So in these circumstances, when these culinary arrangements go through and everything is resolved here in the hall, we will not vote. And, Andrew Volodymyrovich, look at the buttonage. That's the horror that's happening! Smoke's coming!
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-22-m1.u22	Colleagues, we're about to make a statement by the First Deputy Head of the Supreme Council of Irina Heratchenko, and then we're going to go to the vote. I ask everyone to be in the workplace during the vote. Colleagues, I'm asking everyone to come into the hall and take jobs. In a minute, we move on to making a decision. I ask the heads of factions to ensure the participation of all deputies now. Sometimes we missed one or two votes. I now give the floor to Irina Heratchenko. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-22-m1.u23	Dear colleagues, there is no one in this session room who is unaware of the need to support Ukrainian science. But this three - hundred - vote session room supported the first reading of the Constitutional Court’s decision to support Euro-Atlantic, European integration. Please tell me, is there a single country in the world, a member of the EU or NATO, funding from the Academy of Sciences budget? No! No! Because it's really important to talk about the following. Science is funded everywhere, primarily at universities, at universities. And so our proposal that the issue of financing science should go the way it is in the EU and NATO countries -- through universities, support and plus through domestic business, which should support specific scientific developments, not just an institution that should promote, indeed, scientific development. That's what this is about. And that kind of lobbyist stuff.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-22-m1.u24	So, colleagues, let's move on to making a decision. I remind you, I gave the commission to the committee to make a compromise proposal. I will now put to the vote a proposal from the committee that was made by Ischikkin under the transcript. I ask everyone to take up their jobs and ask everyone to prepare for the vote. I ask you, colleagues, all to take up jobs and prepare for the vote. And I'm putting to the vote a proposal from the committee that was bugged by the head of the committee, Ischaykin Costin Eugeneovich, for a transcript at the beginning of the evening session. If you support the committee's proposal, please vote and please support. Every vote, colleagues, please vote, please support, vote. Please support the committee, we vote. Please support the committee, we vote. [[16:21:02]] For 207 Colleagues, the committee's proposal is not supported. I have one option, colleagues. Attention! Put the Budget Code to the vote. Colleagues, I have one option: to put the Budget Code in that state. Colleagues, come on, I'll do it again, let's exchange thoughts. Please, dove, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-22-m1.u25	Thank you, Andry Volodymyrovich. Vladislav Dove, 197th constituency, Cherkashina. Andry Volodymyrovich, I am addressing you as the guarantor of our basic law in this sessionary hall, the Ukrainian Act on the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. I'm not going to talk about those amendments, the essence of their rights, but let me explain: there was a positive vote in the session room for 165 amendments, and it should be voted out separately, not included in other amendments. The committee cannot change the decision of the session room. As for the 180th, I would like to remind you of the position of article 4 of the Ukrainian Law on the Judiciary and the Status of Judges, which prohibits amendments to the relevant law, except through the Law on Amendments to the Law on the Status of Judges, and not through the Budget Code. Therefore, Your Honor Andrew Volodymyrovich, if we do not know how to act, let us act by law, and then there will be a vote. Please vote on each individual amendment — what the Committee has adopted — and then immediately vote in favour of the Budget Code. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-22-m1.u26	Thank you. Guys, I want to remind you. Colleagues, attention, we don't have a discussion. I want to remind you of one important thing, I don't know all the rights that have been introduced to the Budget Code. I placed each bill separately, placed each one separately for lunch. But there were so many that I went to the Committee on Budgets, our committee, my colleagues, our committee, to sit down and make the only decision. The committee held a long, six-and-a-half-hour lunch, and now we're looking at no corrections, and we're looking at the committee's decision. I want to stress, I'm betting on the vote. I put to the vote a committee decision after the consultations have been held, and only the Supreme Council can make these decisions. So I'm going to say it again, I'm going to do it again. If it doesn't work, then I'll put it on the condition we were in before lunch. Colleagues, so I'm saying logic again. The committee doesn't change, the committee suggests that the room be identified. The committee doesn't change, he's offering to identify himself. So, colleagues, I'm going to put it again. But, colleagues, I want to warn you, if there are no votes, I warn you, fellow members of the coalition, then we're going to the Budget Code in a state like this before lunch. I'm talking to everyone, I don't have any other option. If the committee's decision is not supported now, then I'm putting the Budget Code in a state where we're done for lunch. That's clear enough, isn't it? Of course it's fair, colleagues. First vote: whether or not there is support for the committee's proposals. If there is no committee proposal, then I put the law in the way it was before lunch, where our discussion ended. So, colleagues, I'm putting to the vote a proposal from the committee that Ischaykin Kostin Eugeneovich, head of the budget subcommittee, before. which he sounded under the transcript of the Supreme Council of Ukraine as a decision of the Committee on Budgets. Who supports this proposal, please vote, please support. Voting, voting. [[16:25:51]] For 214 Colleagues, that's 12 votes. So my colleagues, so I'm voting on the Ukrainian Budget Code, and I'm stressing, in a state like this, before lunch. I mean, I'm stressing, I'm sounding. Or suggest another way. All right, give me a minute. Colleagues, let's exchange thoughts, exchange thoughts. Please, Arthur Gerasimov.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-22-m1.u27	Dear colleagues, when we're talking about lawmaking, you know, in this room, decisions have been made many times, taking into account the thoughts of factions, even those that don't now join the coalition when we started together. And I'd like to focus once again on all the national MPs present, and we've had our remarks to 180, 165. The committee took it down. The second question. There have been observations by our colleagues from Self-Help that should be in the budget code number 39, which applies to the health system. It's now added. Therefore, honourable colleagues, we ask you to support in the form of a compromise that was supported by the committee and recommended by the committee at its meeting, the Budget Codex (9084). Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-22-m1.u28	Burbak.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-22-m1.u29	Dear colleagues, I'd like the degree to go down, the degree of tension to go down in the hall, and we've finally made a government-balanced decision and voted in favour of a compromise. Because we need to move on and today accept the budget as a whole. The country has to get a budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-22-m1.u30	Thank you. Easy.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-22-m1.u31	I refer to all Ukrainians and scientists, to Ukrainian scientists who, contrary to the policy of power, still remain in Ukraine, believe in Ukraine and try to make Ukraine stronger. What is taking place during such intense discussions? The question is 200 million dollars. The parliamentary majority does not want these 200 million dates for the updating of science, basic funds, modernization, for Ukrainian scientists to work in Ukraine. They found a billion dollars on the presidential fund, and they budgeted that money, and 200 million dollars, they say they don't have science because there's no money in the budget. So, fellow scientists, here we are fighting for you to have the money to develop. It's not budget money, it's money that scientists make themselves, we suggest that they focus on updating core funds, upgrading, acquiring equipment. Who in this room might not support science? How can you, BP and the People's Front, vote that scientists go abroad so there's no state support for science.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-22-m1.u32	30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-22-m1.u33	When a man sits in the lobby and tells the story, show me a country that finances science from the budget. All developed countries finance science. And when there are people in power who don't want to support science, they ask why we live so poor. Because science is development, it's technology, it's high wages and it's worth living for Ukrainians. So I say to everyone: don't vote to take money from scientists, let's leave them.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-22-m1.u34	Sidorovich, Self-help.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-22-m1.u35	Ruslan Sidorovich, Self Help Union. Dear colleagues, when they say that the 39th Amendment is the amendment that Self-Help insisted on, it's totally not true. Amendment 39 is the amendment of the Squaryuk People's Deputy, which refers to the rent for the special use of forest resources. Self-help absolutely in no way insists on lowering the wage on forest resources. Our medical amendment is amendment No. 151 of the Sisoyenko People’s Deputies. And to say that the 39th amendment that relates to the rent is the amendment that our faction insisted on, it's totally not true, it's full manipulation. As for the 180th Amendment to the Courtship Act. It was specifically provided for by article 4 of the law not to be placed in the End of Budgets and more, and something else about beekeeping to be taken into account beyond the limits of consideration of the Judicial Act. That's why.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-22-m1.u36	30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-22-m1.u37	So the Self-Help faction insists that it is absolutely unacceptable to include issues relating to the settlement of matters by the system in the End of the Budget Code.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-22-m1.u38	Ruslan, I'm telling you, there's no 180 revision, she's not on the committee's decision. Do you understand? I'm just letting you know. Sergey Vlasenko of Fatherland.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-22-m1.u39	Colleagues — What Is the Discussion About? The discussions are now going on, in fact, about one revision. We are told that there are no countries in the world that directly finance the Academy of Sciences. To those who don't know, I say, France directly finances the National Academy of Sciences. That's the first one. We're told there's no money, there's no 200 million to support science. Take from the billions of Poshenkoskis, who he has recalculated as a fund to bribe people during the elections. Take the 200 million out of there, take the rest of the 800 - distribute for tariff cuts, and everything will be fine, and there will be no discussion. You don't have to form budgets under the "hotels" of the current president of Ukraine. You don't have to blackmail the Supreme Council by not voting if your "hotels" don't, and science needs to be financed as most European countries do. Because science is the future of our country. Science is what will develop our country. That's what needs to be reformed first. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-22-m1.u40	From the Opposition Block, Storm, and then Anton Yatzenko, after the Shurma. Please, Shurma.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-22-m1.u41	Igor Shurma, Opposition Block. I'm going to stand up to Mr. Soenk. Mr. Sijenko, can't you see? So I'm asking you to sit down like me. Do you want to like yourself, as was one of our late members of the MPs? Why are you conducting the hall to vote? You put order on the Cabmine there so you can have so. Ministers didn't sit there. Bring the suprun here, put Makarova in the hall, and we'll give you a haircut. That's the first one. It's different. You want to build Ukraine, you're at the National Academy of Sciences, what did you keep money for? 200 million. What else can it be called? Return not 200 million, but 600 million, because they don't have enough money. What are you doing with your medicine? You've been sniffed out because you've got 190 billion, and you're giving 90. And now you're trying to run this process here. The budget code is a financial religion. You don't do anything for the financial Bible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-22-m1.u42	From the Rebirth faction, Anton Yatzenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-22-m1.u43	Dear colleagues, we have spoken on this issue. Well, really, it's very sad that here at 165, the price of the issue is not 200 million at all, and even 40 million is for the state relatively small costs. And over here, it just acts like it's a coin of exchange in some kind of dismemberment. So we're calling for this code to be adopted right now, mobilized, but taking into account the 165th amendment. By no means can scientists, who are still exiled today, beyond the limits called, be unable to function properly. And I want to think that there are a lot of candidates in this room for science, for doctors of science, for academics, even. Well, let's support the National Academy of Sciences. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-22-m1.u44	Thank you. Colleagues, may I have your attention, please? We really have a key question: this is the adoption of the budget today. I'm stressing to you that this is a key issue today. I respect all the discussions and all the thoughts in the room. But we need to find a compromise around which we can unite the hall. The Budget Committee assured me that the committee’s decision would unite the hall. Mr. Ischeikin, I ask you again to the rostrum, explain what we must do now. Please, Mr. Constantine. And please, we are now voting, please prepare for the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-22-m1.u45	Dear colleagues! Regarding the decision of the committee I announced. I would like to draw your attention once again to the fact that the Committee recommends to the Supreme Council Bill 9084 to adopt, on second reading and in general, as a law taking into account supported proposals in the final edition, as set out and prepared by the committee in a comparative table. So with the following clarifications. Take into account the amendments: 39th, with the wording of the National Deputy Solovya, 151st National Deputy Sisojenko, 161st National Deputy Kulinić. And it recommends rejecting the amendments that were previously rejected by the committee: 165th and 180th, as stated in the previous committee decision. I'd like to make a separate point about that. So I'm answering. 165 papers on the support of national science were discussed on the subcommittee and were supported. If there has been a process where the relevant institutions have been brought up for consideration, which they deserve and need support because there is an institution in the system. [[B in m in s a l in]] Colleagues, I'm explaining the substance of the draft. In support of science, we need to understand that it's the same thing as the 180th, it has to be in code, it has to be through the appropriate profiling committee to go through. [[B in m in s a l in]] I've announced the committee's decision and I'm asking you to support it. The head may put a decision to the vote and may. [[B in m in s a l in]] Of course, this will put the Supreme Council to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-22-m1.u46	So, colleagues, I understand, I understand that the key situation is that they're offering to go back to 165. [[B in m in s a l in]] So, colleagues, pay attention! I'll make the committee's decision again. And if we don't, we're going to go to the vote that was before lunch. So, colleagues, I'm once again putting to the vote the proposal made by Constantine Ischeykin, the head of the subcommittee. Whoever supports the committee's decision, please vote. Whoever supports the committee's decision, please vote. Anyone who supports it, please vote. Vote! [[16:38:41]] For 204 I'm telling you, there are no votes. So, colleagues, I propose now. Colleagues, pay attention! I'd like to have everyone's attention right now. I propose to return to the condition before lunch, that is. No, right? BP doesn't vote. [[B in m in s a l in]] Well, then take a break from two factions. Excuse me, is there anyone who can make an offer that could bring the hall together? Colleagues, would you like the Peter Dusty Block faction to announce a recess, please? [[B in m in s a l in]] So, colleagues, I'm on it. I have two ways. Then I'm going to call it a break, okay? As Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Colleagues, pay attention! [[B in m in s a l in]] Colleagues, why don't we do something else? Let the factions' heads come to me? Come to me now, the heads of the factions. I'm asking the factions to come to me for consultation right now. [[B in m in s a l in]] The head of the budget or Ishchikin, please. [[B in m in s a l in]] So, colleagues, please take up jobs. Please stop blocking the rostrum, this is contrary to the Supreme Council of Ukraine regulations. So, colleagues, we found a compromise proposal, and now I'm going to sound it very carefully, my colleagues, I'm going to sound it. Please listen carefully and go into the hall and prepare for the vote. So that's what it's all about. I don't vote on the committee's decision, I don't. I'm reporting that we're going to vote in favour of the law, taking into account the 161st edition that Kulinic recorded under the transcript, 39th in the editorial that Solovy (be careful), Solovy, yes, 151st, and the proposal that Constantine Ischeikin now reads, changed, and that we discussed. And I ask Ischeikin Constantine to read a compromise proposal from all the factions that have been formed together and will now be read by a representative of the budget committee. And I ask everyone to come into the hall, and in a minute there will be a vote. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-22-m1.u47	Dear colleagues, we offer you the agreed position of all factions regarding the support of Ukrainian science. Paragraph 25 of Section I should be supplemented by sub-paragraph 5 of the following sentence: "To establish that, by 2023, an inclusive part of net profit is to be directed to the State budget of Ukraine by the state-owned unit companies belonging to the National Academy of Sciences of Ukraine, in accordance with article 29, paragraph 17, of this Code and article 11-1 of the Ukrainian Law on the administration of public property, and that they are directed solely to the conduct of their innovative scientific and scientific and technical activities, the financing of innovation and the expansion of their own material and technical base."
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-22-m1.u48	My colleagues, did you hear that? I'm asking everyone to come into the hall and take their positions. I'm asking everyone to go back to work. I'm asking you, colleagues, to return to the workplace again. We're moving on to making a decision. Please come into the hall. So, colleagues, I emphasize, instead of 165 revisions, it's going to be the one that was bugged here. There's only two words, just two words. One, just one word. And this is just what I'm going to say under the transcript, if we vote that in the formulation that Ischaykin made, that's the key formulation that was. And I'm asking everyone to pay attention. I'll call all the revisions. It is likely that all Ukraine knows these right numbers by heart. And I ask you to be careful before the vote, and especially the Committee on Budgets. So be careful, colleagues! I put to the vote the draft Law amending the Ukrainian Budget Code, with 39 amendments to the editions that were read under the Solovay stenogram, including 151 amendments that were supported by the Hall, including 161 amendments to the edition that Kulinic had read, and 165 amendments to the text that Ischakini, a representative of the Committee, was quoted as a transcript for the entire session hall. Is that clear? So in the second reading and in general with technical law, please vote, please support. Vote, colleagues, please. Every voice, every colleague, we vote, please support. [[16:59:46]] For 243 The law is passed. Colleagues, let's not break up, let's not break up. I welcome the committee! I will now put to the vote the proposal that we go to the draft Act amending the Constitution of Ukraine (for the strategic course of the State to acquire full membership of Ukraine in the European Union and in the North Atlantic Treaty Organization). There is a decision of the Constitutional Court, there is a decision of the committee. According to the law, the Supreme Council itself determines when to consider it. I am convinced that today is a good day for the fifth anniversary of Eromaydan, so that we can look at the first reading of the amendments to the Constitution on Ukraine's accession and the definition of the Ukrainian EU and NATO orientation. So I'm asking everyone to support us now to move on to draft Law 9037. Please vote and please support. Colleagues, all European factions, please support, vote. Please support us to move now to the EU, NATO, we vote. [[17:00:59]] For 266 Decision taken. And we, colleagues, are moving on to the draft law. You are considering a preliminary approval of the draft Act (No. 9037) amending the Constitution of Ukraine (on the strategic course of the State for obtaining full membership of Ukraine in the EU and NATO). Honourable National Deputies, in accordance with article 159 of the Basic Law of Ukraine, the bill amending the Constitution is being considered by the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the basis of the findings of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine on the compatibility of the bill with the requirements of articles 157 and 158 of the Constitution of Ukraine. In line with the conclusion of the Ukrainian Constitutional Court of November 22, 2018, which you have been given, the bill of registration. 9037 is generally recognized as meeting the requirements of articles 157 and 158 of the Constitution of Ukraine. And regarding his position, the Constitutional Court of Ukraine did not make any warnings. According to article 149 of the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the issue of prior approval of the draft amendment to the Constitution of Ukraine is being considered by a full discussion procedure, a colleague. So I give the floor to the head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Committee on Legal Policy and Justice to Ruslan Petrovich Knazević. Mr. Ruslan, I'd like you to report to the rostrum. Please, Mr. Ruslan.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-22-m1.u49	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. Head, dear colleagues! At its meeting today, the Committee on Legal Policy and Justice considered, in addition to the bill itself, registration number 9037, also the conclusions of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine of 22 November 2018 at registration number 3 in/2018 and established the following. Dear colleagues, I would like to remind you that on September 20th in this session hall, a majority of the votes were adopted by the Constitutional Assembly of the Supreme Council, Order No. 2555, concerning the inclusion in the agenda of the ninth session of the Supreme Council of the eighth vocation and referral to the Constitutional Court of Ukraine of the Law of Ukraine amending the Constitution of Ukraine to obtain the conclusion of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine that it is consistent with articles 157 and 158 of the Constitution of Ukraine. In its conclusion adopted today at the meeting of the Grand Chamber of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine, the Constitutional Court of Ukraine concluded in general that the bill amending the Constitution of Ukraine on the strategic course of the State for obtaining full membership of Ukraine in the European Union and the North Atlantic Treaty Organization met the requirements of articles 157 and 158 of the Constitution of Ukraine. According to part five of article 149 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Rules, the Supreme Council of Ukraine may initiate a preliminary approval, discussion of the question of prior approval and adoption of a decision on the preliminary approval of a bill amending the Constitution in the event that the relevant bill has been concluded by the Constitutional Court of Ukraine, indicating the appropriateness of the bill in articles 157 and 158 of the Constitution of Ukraine, and in the case where the Constitutional Court of Ukraine has made no reservation to any other position of the bill. Given that, in its conclusion today, the Constitutional Court of Ukraine, in addition to establishing compliance with 157 and 158 articles of the Constitution of Ukraine, has also made no reservations to the other provisions of the bill, taking into account the requirements of article 149 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Rules, the Committee on Legal Policy and Justice today, at its meeting, approved the decision to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine previous approval of a bill submitted by the President of Ukraine amending the Constitution of Ukraine on the State's strategic course for the acquisition of full membership of Ukraine in the European Union and in the North Atlantic Treaty Organization for Registration No. 9037 of 3 September 2018. The decision was taken unanimously by the members of the committee present. Thank you very much. Ready to answer your questions.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-22-m1.u50	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I'd like you to sign up for a question to an honorary reporter. Please, National Deputy Krivenko, your question.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-22-m1.u51	I beg your pardon, Hani Hopko.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-22-m1.u52	Please turn on Mrs. Hopko's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-22-m1.u53	Dear reporter, would you please tell us, at the end, in the End Positions, where you're ruling out, is it possible to consider placing the military bases of those states that are allies that are already joining NATO, such as the United States of America, others, in Ukraine? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-22-m1.u54	Dear colleagues, I would like to reiterate that the Committee on Legal Policy and Justice is only considering the conformity of this bill with the constitutional procedure established by the Constitution, the Law of Ukraine on the Rules of the Supreme Council and the Law on the Constitutional Court. We are now in the stage of prior approval, after the Constitutional Court has concluded that it has not made any warnings to the text of the bill and established its conformity with article 157, 158 of the Constitution. From the point of view of the subject of our committee's knowledge, we believe that there are sufficient grounds for the Constitution and the Rules Act to consider and adopt the bill today, as the Rules of Procedure Act says, by approving it, having previously approved it in the sessional room. So let me not answer about the substance of the bill, because it does not belong to my authority. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-22-m1.u55	Please ask Maria Ionova.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-22-m1.u56	First of all, my fellow Members, I would like to welcome the overwhelming majority of the Constitutional Court's decisions on the recognition of constitutional consolidation in the Constitution of Ukraine's EU and NATO membership course, because this is a really important stage in which the President's changes are initiated, and we look forward very much to the official publication of the text and, most importantly, the effective vote during the next parliamentary session. And my next question is, does it need a referendum to make changes to the Constitution that the President has initiated? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-22-m1.u57	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-22-m1.u58	Can I answer that?
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-22-m1.u59	Yes, yes, yes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-22-m1.u60	Well, even during the consideration of the question of the inclusion in the agenda of the ninth session of the referral to the Constitutional Court, the matter was resolved. And the committee has clearly established its conclusion, and the decision that was adopted in the session room accordingly has established that the bill, introduced by the law-making body of the President of Ukraine’s initiative to amend the Constitution, does not provide for amendments to the first, third, and third chapters of the Constitution. If such changes were to be made, then this would be due to the approval of the relevant changes in the entire Ukrainian referendum. Such changes have not been made, and the Constitution does not need to be approved accordingly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-22-m1.u61	Thank you. And a question from Elena Sotnik. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-22-m1.u62	Thank you. Olena Sotnik, Self-Help faction. I'm talking to you right now as the head of the profile committee, the legal committee. And you're not a regular committee. And so we are asking you, as a professional lawyer, from the Ukrainian National Deputy, from the head of the profile committee, to explain how, as of today, you are assessing the consequences of the exclusion from the Transitional Regulations of paragraph 14? And was that appreciated by you during the committee? Was this a question raised by the Constitutional Court of Ukraine to present its conclusion? And you're personally the head of the profile committee, and including you have a constitutional subcommittee, did you evaluate the impact of these specific changes? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-22-m1.u63	Please, your answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-22-m1.u64	Thank you. If you want my personal position or the position of the committee? The committee may act only in the order and manner provided for by the Constitution and the Committees Act and, accordingly, the Rules of Procedure Act. The subject matter of the Committee is the procedure for amending the Constitution. Please read the law clearly and do not manipulate me if you allow me to express myself. As to whether the matter was considered in the Constitutional Court. I would like to point out that all the conclusions of the Committees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine that dealt with this issue, including the committee headed by Mrs. Gopco, where these questions were also the subject of the Committee's conclusion, and in other conclusions of the Committee, were referred to the Constitutional Court, which has been comprehensively considering the draft conclusion, taking into account the findings of the procedure and the content of the Committees of the Supreme Council. So this conclusion was just accepted by taking into account the documents that were being sent to the Constitutional Court. Believe me, we didn't leave anything behind. The Constitutional Court had every opportunity to assess the findings. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-22-m1.u65	Thank you. The question ended. Thank you. Thank you. Please sign up for discussion by the MPs. Please, Alexander Danchenko. Alexander Danchenko, please. Oleg Beresuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-22-m1.u66	Please pass the word to Oleg Berezuku.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-22-m1.u67	Please, Mr. Olege is invited to the floor.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-22-m1.u68	The authorities love the mouse’s neck and wide. However gratifying it is that the Ukrainian Constitution states that the country is going to NATO and the EU, the sentence in the Ukrainian Constitution will not go there. The country will enter NATO when the government, the President, the Parliament create a clear structure, a vertical governance of the Ukrainian army based on respect for the Ukrainian soldier, the Ukrainian soldier, respect for the commander, respect for the parliament and the government of money. Construction of powerful Ukrainian military bases on the collision line as a guarantee that Ukrainian soldiers will not die, that Ukrainian territory will be protected. Building a powerful military-political alliance, possibly bilateral with Eastern European countries: Poland, the Baltics, Hungary. Building a strong economy that will work for military and defence needs. What is the government and the president doing today? Today there are total thefts. And the example of today's vote for the Budget Code, the future vote for the country's budget shows -- this is going to be an economic robbery. And that means the robbery of the Ukrainian army, the humiliation of respect for the Ukrainian soldier and the Ukrainian army. NATO is built with money, respect and a high patriotism of Ukrainian power, not an oligarchy that cynically robs the Ukrainian budget. That means he's stealing from the Ukrainian army. Fine Ukrainian military bases in the area. Quality cooperation with NATO troops is a guarantee of security.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-22-m1.u69	Next performance, please, from Irina Lucenko's Peter Dusty Block. Please, Mrs. Irina.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-22-m1.u70	Dear colleagues! For good reason, someone wise said that the Constitution was an act aimed at preserving the state. The changes proposed by President Dustenk not only provide for Ukraine’s development in the Basic Law but also reinforce the main achievements of the Dignity Revolution. As an independent state, Ukraine has already gained its sovereign right by means of blood, without external pressure, to determine further steps in internal and external politics. The changes proposed by President Dustenk are intended to be anchored at the constitutional level primarily by the authorities — the Cabinet of Ministers, the Supreme Council, the President of Ukraine, the Constitutional Court and the elected Ukrainian people, its majority, and the course. And this is President Dustenk's consistent position today. Only five recent laws have secured Ukraine’s integration into the European Union and NATO. This is the basis for foreign policy in the Internal and External Policy Act of Ukraine; it is the approval of the National Security Strategy of Ukraine; it is the law on the reintegration of Donbas, where basic protection criteria are provided for by NATO member countries; it is the Act which created the Constitutional Court, which aims to ensure and guarantee the continuity of the established course today, for which we will vote in the first reading; it is also in June the approved National Security Act, where Ukraine has clearly taken responsibility in a unilateral manner to comply with NATO standards. The consolidation at the constitutional level of the legal certainty of Ukraine's EU and NATO membership course will mobilise Ukrainian society and Ukrainian power and contribute to reforms aimed at achieving the ultimate goal of becoming a member of the European Union and a member of the North Atlantic Alliance. And most importantly, with these changes to the Constitution, we reaffirm our European identity, because the concept of 'European identity' is broader than the notion of 'European values', because it provides for a link between values and responsibility. Thus, the wording proposed in the Constitution means that the Ukrainian people fully share the civilizational values inherent in the European community, which are inseparably linked to its responsibility. So be responsible and let's support President-elect Dusty's course and changes to the Constitution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-22-m1.u71	Thank you. Dear colleagues, from the Opposition Block, Germany insists that he signed up and requires words.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-22-m1.u72	I want to confirm that I am, indeed, the national MP of the Opposition Platform for Life of the Opposition Block. I asked for a word. And I want to say about the bill that provides for changes to the Constitution of Ukraine. First of all, I would like to remind you of the distant year of the 1990s, the stormy year at the break of our nation's history, of how Ukraine went to its sovereignty. And in the 1990s, in July of the 1990s, Ukraine was a legislative body, and representatives of the people of Ukraine adopted a declaration. This was accepted when Ukraine came out of the Warsaw Treaty, when everything had not been rebuilt since the Great Homeland War, when soldiers had not yet been found and found their rest, and they were gathered all over the world. And then Parliament decided that we were a sovereign state, and for that we are going into a non-locked status, we are on a peaceful path of reconstruction. That's what was in the declaration. What did they do? Ideology has defeated the decision of the 91st people, or some extreme need, or fighting, or a war that no one says. If there is a war, there must be a solution. We're responsible for the entire nation today, and we're going to fit a norm that doesn't exist anywhere in the world, believe me. We first wrote in the Constitution of Ukraine about the Rome Statute, the Criminal Code, we will call it. Now we're going to write NATO. You know what the President of France said about the establishment of a military union in Europe. We're going to write and it's in ours. Do we have a national Ukrainian sovereign constitution? I'm going to tell you that to this day, to ask a question like this, and it's very strange, it's very awkward, and it's uncomfortable to accept whether this is being initiated by the Bank, it's being initiated by the state. This is initiated by the Head of State on which respect is placed, ensuring the guarantees of human rights and freedoms. If we spoke today about making changes to the Constitution, deciding on a declaration, it was our predecessors who decided.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-22-m1.u73	Thank you. Please, Sergey Sobolev, from the "Fatherland" faction, is invited to the floor.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-22-m1.u74	The Fatherland faction has consistently advocated membership in the European Union and NATO. This position has been constant for all the last years. It is the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Yulia Timoshenko, who remains the only Prime Minister to sign a letter to the NATO summit on the possibility of granting Ukraine the status of the NATO Membership Action Plan. It was under this slogan that Ulya Timoshenko, a candidate for the Presidents of Ukraine, conducted the entire electoral campaign when everyone else told us stories about the impossibility of even thinking about NATO membership. But I think that, unfortunately, the political elite of Ukraine has fallen behind, and my predecessor only stresses this, completely deviated from the opinion of the Ukrainian people, who, clearly during the Dignity Revolution, expressed himself in favour of one single position. They were not even interested in wages and pensions, even though they were meager and pitiful. No one was interested in other questions. First thousands and then millions of people went to Midan with only one: this is the course of Ukraine and the direct route to the European Union. We are now standing before the adoption of a political decision. But that's not enough. I am confident that Parliament will support this proposal. The key question is how the course for membership in the European Union and NATO will also be implemented in laws, and, above all, in the understanding of each person, because NATO is not just a record in the Constitution, it is a change in the mentality of the nation itself. And I think the people are ready for that. The political elite will now confirm whether it supports the choice of the Ukrainian people. We vote yes.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-22-m1.u75	Thank you for your position. And the "will of the people" group is invited. The People's Will Group is invited to the Feldman People's Deputy? Colleagues, who's from the People's Will Group? Please. From the place, National Deputy Feldman.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-22-m1.u76	My word to Pisarenko Valeria.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-22-m1.u77	Please, Valery Pisarenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-22-m1.u78	Dear colleagues, the MP's Rebirth Group supported the referral to the Constitutional Court of this bill. We have really been consistent in this matter. We wanted to get an expert opinion from the Constitutional Court on the constitutionality of the matter. Today we have got the right decision and this opens a window for Parliament now to vote on this issue in the first reading. I will remind my honourable colleagues that this is only the middle of the road and that in the next session Parliament should confirm this decision by three hundred votes, and only then will these changes become part of the National Constitution. But at the same time, I want to remind you of another proposal that we discussed and spoke to our group in this session room, which is the question of holding a U.S. referendum. Unfortunately, today this issue is blocked, and most parliaments do not want to hold a referendum and do not want to pass an appropriate law. This will mean that on such sensitive issues, we will not have the opinion of the Ukrainian people. And I always warn my colleagues when they go to the rostrum and say that the Ukrainian people want it, from speaking on behalf of the entire nation. Because if you look at sociology, about 50 percent of Ukrainian citizens today actually support Euro-integration, less than 40 percent support NATO accession. Accordingly, what about those 50 percent and 60 percent who have their own, other opinion, who will be the leader of these people? That's why it would be wise, and that's what we've been announcing here in the session hall, to hold an all-U.S. referendum on this issue. And so we're looking at this impeccable and sensitive issue in a period of actually already peaking presidential campaign, when the election is on our nose. So for today, I think everyone will make their choice. And really, we need to look at what's going on, my colleague said very well that we need to keep track of time and what's going on around us. Today, individual countries make decisions in referendums on the exit from the European Union, and some confirm that they remain. Therefore, we need to listen more to the Ukrainian people. He understands everything and he sees what we're doing here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-22-m1.u79	Thank you. Dear colleagues! Several other MP factions have not been able to sign up for the performance. Please now give the word to Maxim Burbaku, who represents the position of the People's Front.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-22-m1.u80	The People's Front welcomes the approval of constitutional changes in Euro-Atlantic integration. This is the execution of Arsenius Yatsenuk's initiative. The leader of the People's Front announced this idea on June 28th of this year. We are ready to finally vote on this bill as soon as possible. According to sociological surveys, more than 60 percent of Ukrainians support Ukraine's accession to NATO, this is a confirmation of the constant trend that has emerged since 2015. Since the beginning of Russian aggression, Ukrainians have clearly understood that NATO guarantees peace and security to its members. Ukraine's Euro-Atlantic integration is a non-alternative, irreversible course. This course was started by Prime Minister Yacenyuk in 2014. Remember how much skepticism there was when Ukraine was told that it was going to lose its way with the European Union? Now, finally, after you and I have implemented a plan of action that was developed by the government of Yatsenuk in 144 laws and regulations, Ukraine has been given an Olympic visa, and all our citizens are free to travel in Europe. Dear colleagues, there is no stopping on the constitutional fastener. The objective of NATO's accession, the EU should be drafted not only in the Constitution, but also in specific laws that should have a plan, a schedule and a list of those responsible for the implementation of the NATO Action Plan on Membership, the status of the EU candidate country, etc. The People's Front has been demanding this for a year. You and I have done our home work on visalessness, we have to agree with our partners, the Alliance's member countries, on the Plan of Action for Ukraine's NATO membership, and we will do it. We're going to lose the car, we're going to get NATO and EU membership. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-22-m1.u81	Thank you, Sir Maxime. And please, it's Eugene Ribczynski. Eugene Ribczynski, he just raised his hand first. Dear Mr. Oleg, in this case I'm just going after who raised his hand first, then you. He represents the "will of the people" position and then the leader of the Radical Party, Oleg Lazko. Please. The card needs to be inserted in order to get the word.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-22-m1.u82	Thank you, thank you. I have one comment, it refers to chapter XV of the Transitional Regulations, article 14. The use of existing military bases in Ukraine for the temporary stay of foreign military formations is possible on lease terms as defined by the international treaties of Ukraine ratified by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The observation is very simple. My colleague just said 70 percent of the population for joining NATO. We don't explain here what kind of military formations foreign we can allow into our bases, that could be Russian. But sooner or later this war will end, and what, we'll let the Russian fleet back in Crimea, we'll let the Russians? We have here at the 14th position to point out that only countries that joined NATO, Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-22-m1.u83	Thank you. Please, Oleg Lazko, you are welcome to speak.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-22-m1.u84	Our team certainly supports Ukraine's NATO and European Union membership course. But we offer from declarations to actions. The changes to the Constitution proposed by President Prashenko, in our view, limit Ukraine's cooperation with NATO, with our strategic partners. The President proposes the deletion of paragraph 14 of the Transitional Regulations, which confers rights on the basis of international agreements to place foreign bases in Ukraine, particularly members of the Alliance. After this situation has been removed, article 17 of the Constitution of Ukraine provides that foreign military bases are not to be placed in Ukraine. That is, after the NATO Declarations, President Prashenko is actually restricting Ukraine's cooperation with NATO, with our partners. What would the President of Ukraine do? At each meeting with the U.S. presidents, with the leaders of other countries, to highlight the drafting of a direct military agreement between Ukraine and the United States outside NATO membership. Because the NATO perspective is far away and the country needs to be defended today. Two years ago, Parliament, at the initiative of the Radical Party, voted in favour of the United States Congress for a direct military agreement. The United States has such military agreements with 17 countries around the world, including Israel, Japan, and a number of other countries. President Porcelain is silent about this. What would the president of Ukraine do? At each meeting with our partners, we demand that the Budapest Memorandum be observed and implemented. We, the world’s third nuclear power, the president of Ukraine, Peter Poroshenko, speak from the UN rostrum and mention no mention of the Budapest Memorandum. The president of Ukraine, Peter Poroshenko, goes to the White House, to other offices, and does not mention a single word about the Budapest Memorandum. Although this is an example for the world as a whole, failure to meet Ukraine’s commitments to nuclear weapons has provoked the proliferation of nuclear weapons. What would the president of Ukraine do? To do everything to deepen our cooperation with our strategic partners and to bring our membership in NATO closer. Sadly, today’s authorities are doing everything they can to ensure that we are not there. After the declarations, behind the boards, "Mova. Army. We have things quite different in our faith, when the possibilities of Ukraine's cooperation with NATO are limited. I'll do what President Prašenko doesn't do. I will force our partners to implement the Budapest Memorandum. We're going to make a direct military defense agreement with the United States outside of NATO membership. And we will make changes to the Constitution, which will allow us to place the military bases of the Alliance's member states in Ukraine, where we will definitely enter.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-22-m1.u85	Colleagues, speak to the deputies immediately. Nine minutes is a statement from the deputies. Anyone who intends to take part in the discussion, please hold the record. Nine minutes, please. Merrily Natalia gives the floor to Hanni Hopko. Please, Mrs. Anna.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-22-m1.u86	Good afternoon, dear fellows! I want to say that, indeed, the Committee on Foreign Affairs at its meeting has been considering this issue of changes to the Constitution. And, in particular, the committee's decision has led us to decide on the establishment of a temporary special commission as the chief to continue working on a bill to amend the Constitution of Ukraine, part nine of article 146 of the Ukrainian Law on the Regulations of the Supreme Council. Why? Because we had a big debate on the committee about what to do with the article. Section XV, paragraph 14, "Transient positions", which were proposed to be excluded. Instead, we suggested, inter alia, that, by communicating with the experts, "Transitional positions" should be worded as follows: "Before Ukraine's accession to the North Atlantic Treaty signed in Washington on 4 April 1949, cooperation between Ukraine and the North Atlantic Treaty Organization will be determined by international agreements and arrangements, according to which the military formations of the Alliance member states may be located in Ukraine and by the Alliance's infrastructure facilities on terms determined by the contracting parties." So until Ukraine's accession to NATO, we allow it, and in particular, in the changes to the Constitution, we prescribe it -- the placement of bases. If we look at Poland now, Poland is agreeing with the United States not on a rotational basis, but on a permanent basis with U.S. military bases, clearly understanding the threat posed by the Russian Federation. This is exactly what the Committee on Foreign Affairs has been trying to communicate with internationals through the creation of a commission that would work and this 14th paragraph of "Transitional Regulations" has polished to national interests, clearly realizing that our adherence to the Constitution to EU and NATO changes. Realizing that our laws are approved. Still, the prospect of membership is not the next year, it might be 2-3-5 years, so that would be a guarantee of security. Unfortunately, we have not been able to convince the President's Administration to replace this point with exactly the kind of proposals that have been agreed upon with international experts. I can say that, indeed, Ukraine from the victim of Russian aggression has become a counter to European security. We are, indeed, a NATO partner behind the eastern flank. But that's not enough. And we have to put ambitious and demanding plans with our partners. What do we get instead of becoming members of the EU and NATO? In particular, on a visit to Merkel, we had to demand a more stringent understanding of the blockage of North Stream Two. Demand a clearer road map when we become members of the EU and NATO, given that in 2020 Germany heads the EU, in 2025 Poland, in 2027 Lithuania. Let us be more demanding to our partners, and then they will hear us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-22-m1.u87	Thank you. Melniczuk Sergey Petrovich is invited to attend. From the rostrum, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-22-m1.u88	Good afternoon, citizens of Ukraine, fellow citizens of honour! We all swore an oath to the people of Ukraine in this room, and I still swore an oath to the people of Ukraine in the Armed Forces of Ukraine. And we have to remember and care for the interests of Ukrainian citizens themselves. The Constitution of Ukraine says that in war conditions we cannot change the Constitution. But we have an international conflict, an international conflict, which was discussed a week ago in this room by international experts, international legislators from criminal law. When I told them we had a hybrid war, they said, no, you have a full-scale international conflict. And we have to remember that. And we have no right to change the Constitution. We didn't ask the Ukrainian people if he wanted to do it. As for bases and NATO. I am for NATO, for cooperation with NATO, but there are many obstacles, and we are in NATO until we wait because we don't have one. We're in conflict. We need to develop new conditions for NATO, the EU-Ukraine, to make a new format and work in this format. Why have we not so far declared in the UN that we do not have a military conflict and declare Russia an aggressor there, but even though we use 51 articles and accept the resolution? So there's a lot of questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-22-m1.u89	Thank you. Moroko Yuri gives the word for Villukul.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-22-m1.u90	Dear people of Ukraine! I'm not even in the session room right now, I'm talking to you, everyone who can hear me right now. Tell me, what has changed in the country in the last 4.5 years? Has the foreign policy course of the state that declares today’s authorities changed? No, it's not. Has the President changed? No, it's not. Has the Supreme Council changed? No, it's not. What do we see now? We see that the presidential elections have begun, there are four months left, but in active power, there is only a few percent of the support of the current president in society. I haven't seen these few percent among the common people, except this room, and the officials, but sociology shows what it is. And even those in active power, that's a few percent, they say in social terms, they're boasting about nothing: low-income pensions, low-income salaries, total poverty, but they want to get out and they want to get out. Regrettably, therefore, the presidential election campaign began, not with questions that unite society, but with questions that divide it. It's a matter of language, it's a question of interference in the matter of faith, and it's a question of foreign policy. We have been told several times by the Secretary-General of NATO that NATO will never take us into this. The same statements were made by representatives of the European community. But they do. Our authority wants to model those expectations that will never really happen. Our country must be strong, non-locked. After winning the election, we will build a strong Ukraine, we will build a strong army that will guarantee our security, and everything else is no more than a slogan, and no more than a campaign of the President-in-Office. And we're not going to take part in it, by 100%. We'll vote with red buttons. Just off-block status! Only European standards in our country! This is the normal future of a peaceful Ukraine, the foundation of which is man. Neither the IMF nor NATO, and man, his family, his security. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-22-m1.u91	Krivenko Viktor Mikolaiovich is invited to the closing address of the National Deputies.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-22-m1.u92	Victor Krivenko, National Movement of Ukraine. Dear Ukrainian people, you have a clear understanding of why wars do not begin. Wars begin for only two reasons. The first is the possibility of a symmetric answer when the same number of soldiers, the same quality of the army, and they don't fight the army, because the front line is going to go a hundred kilometers, and they're all going to be in a belt in the blood. When there is a nuclear weapon. NATO had a six-fold stockpile of destruction of everything living on the planet, the Soviet Union, a twelve-fold stockpile of destruction of everything alive on the planet, and no war. When members of a bloc where an attack on one country means global war. Ukraine lost all of this. In 91st, she chose independence on December 1, 92 percent, and elected a communist president of Kravchuk, who then gave up nuclear weapons with the next communist. In 92, the High Council of Communists was preserved, which was ruled by the state until 94. And the symmetric answer was completely lost. There's an alternative, an asymmetric answer: you're putting our boots on the border -- we're going to destroy an atomic station, a dam, some radioactive garbage over the capital. Nothing's been done since the '91st. All our designs, I'm the former deputy director of the Yusmash, nothing's been done. And that's why Ukraine is completely defenseless. We certainly need to go to NATO, this decision is more symbolic, the People's Movement of Ukraine will support it. And we call on Parliamentary colleagues to support it as well. I support Mrs. Hopko and those other speakers who say that she is incomplete and will not allow us to place the military bases of our partners in our territory. It's very clear that the Ministry of Defense's primary mission is to defend it, not attack it. And the very absence of an attack is his first step toward this defense. Please see, a hundred years ago, when Poland rose up in the ruins of two empires, Austria-Hungary and Russia, and then Pilsudski won Tukhachevsky, revived his state. Twenty years later, two weeks later, Poland was gone. Because all horses don't decide is tanks decide. In today’s war, the tank lives for four minutes. The visibility of the rocket is 94 percent, the cost is less than one percent. The war with Ukraine will be full-scale for two or three weeks. Yes, then we will defeat them through our guerrilla forces, because of our resistance, but in fact with that state of protection of the sky and other military components, we now need the collective help of the whole world. Because whoever doesn't vote for this bill now, with all the slogans, the personal antipathy to the President, who failed on Tuesday by his faction of naming my native Sicheslav region, will be the enemy of Ukraine. Thank you. Please vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-22-m1.u93	Thank you. So the speeches by the national deputies have been completed. I now invite the head of the Ruslan Knazevitch committee to the closing statement. Knazevitcha, colleagues. Then, colleagues, attention, then I invite you to speak to the President of Ukraine after the speech of Knjazević. And then there'll be a vote. Now Knjazevic is in 3 minutes, then I invite you to the words of the President of Ukraine and then to the vote. Please, Mr. Ruslan, in three minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-22-m1.u94	I'll try faster. I, my dear colleagues, would like to reiterate the position of our committee. Our committee, as the Committee on Legal Policy and Justice, is profiled in terms of compliance with the procedure for amending the Constitution of Ukraine. Following the Constitutional Court’s conclusion on the compatibility of the bill with the requirements of 157, 158 articles of the Constitution and in the absence of any warnings to the other provisions of the Constitution of Ukraine, this means that the Committee is obliged to make a draft decision for the Supreme Council’s consideration on the preliminary approval of the proposed Act amending the Constitution of Ukraine. Since the committee has unanimously decided on the benefit of such a decision, we ask for support for a draft committee decision and a draft decision, respectively, of the Supreme Council on the prior approval of the draft amending the Constitution of Ukraine. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-22-m1.u95	Well, thank you, Mr. Ruslan. The discussion is over. I would like to inform you, colleagues, that the President of Ukraine, Peter Alexiyovich Poroshenko, is taking part in the meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Please invite the President to the address and welcome the President of Ukraine. [[Applause]] The president of Ukraine, Peter Alexiyovich Poroshenko, is invited to attend. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-22-m1.u96	Dear Mr. Head! Dear National Deputies! Dear compatriots! In fact, I have no doubt that now the Supreme Council, in its first reading, will exactly support the bill of amendments to the Constitution. They will, by force of the Basic Law of Ukraine, oblige any Ukrainian authority, stressing any and all branches of Ukraine, to work to ensure Ukraine's entry into the European Union, Ukraine's accession to NATO. I don't see why I don't vote, I don't understand these arguments, and I don't take it. And that's why. In four years, we've overcome you and me, this is our common achievement, we've overcome a vast distance on our way to European and Euro-Atlantic integration. Yesterday, according to one Euronomiser, Ukraine and the European Union approached each other more than ever, thanks to people who began the Dignity Revolution five years ago. I'm going to add by myself that no state that is not a NATO member today has such a close relationship with the Alliance as Ukraine now has. And it's also because of people who started the Dignity Revolution five years ago, and they're sitting in this room. But if we compare ourselves with our neighbors, unfortunately we are extremely late, we are far behind. Poland, Hungary, the Czech Republic joined NATO in March 99th and joined the European Union in May 2004 with Slovenia, Slovakia and the Baltic States. And we didn't even knock on those two most successful international alliances at the time. And in the same fourth year, we barely broke the plan to pin Ukraine on the only Russian economic space. Post-colonial society has long remained in the grip of imperial stereotypes and illusions that have plagued Ukraine for decades with Kremlin propaganda, including myths about supposedly brotherly Russia, and the seemingly aggressive NATO bloc. The political elite of that time, instead of going ahead, followed by the most intoxicating superstitions. Yes, there were people in our Ukrainian politics who thought strategically, who looked to the future, who saw threats and sincerely sought answers to them. At the end of the zeros, we tried to force our entry into NATO. There were many witnesses and even participants in those events. Some acted openly, they blocked the work of the Supreme Council for months, sowed misinformation in the media about NATO. NATO's opposition has been declared a cornerstone of its policy. Do you remember the balls in this room? I think it's going to be a very effective symbol of their activity. In whose interests did they act? They acted in Russia's interests as a classic "fifth column" and now they're trying to do the same. And others, even though they used to use words and even NATO-support signatures to quietly stick sticks in their wheels, send signals to the West, saying, well, my dears, it's not the time to give them VAT, and now it's not giving them any peace. There's a hat on the porch. The then authorities did not speak of their position on NATO by one vote. And we lost our chance to secure ourselves, unfortunately, we lost our chance of Russian aggression. “In a number of neighbouring States, the attempt to expand NATO continued, including through the so-called accelerated accession to the Alliance of Georgia and Ukraine. All of this, of course, required clear and coherent work by all special forces, law enforcement agencies and very high levels of coordination of their activities. I must immediately say that the Federal Security Service has generally been successful in carrying out all its tasks.”
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-22-m1.u97	Dear friends, I just quoted a message from the site cremlin.ru in their national language. [[Applause]] The date of this report was January 29, 2009. And this is in the original language of the words of the then president of Russia at the expanded KGB College, the FSB. To the Russians, I don't have any questions. But how do Ukrainian politicians today feel when they finally took part in what they call the so-called ‘ special operation ’ that torpedoed Ukraine’s accession to NATO and left the country defenseless from the Russian invasion? Friends, I strongly believe that if we were a member of the Alliance, Russia would never dare to annex Crimea, never dare to invade Donbas. Finally, I will note that the Kremlin’s aggression against Ukraine was solved just when the Yanukovich regime declared our closure. As early as the 14th year, we went back to the Law on the Principles of External and Internal Policy, the rule of Euro-Atlantic integration. This swing, when the fundamental law rules here and there with a simple majority of votes, you and I, dear friends, should be broken. And we're going to make it an amendment to the Constitution -- our vote today, which, I'm looking forward to, and I'm sure it's meant to bring this room together, which is not going to happen today's political opposition in Ukraine. And in February, in the next session, we will accept the changes to the Constitution definitively. What is it? It's just an additional guarantee against the rematch of the pro-Russian, anti-NATO and anti-European forces. And I certainly don't want to exaggerate the threat of such a rematch, but I also urge him not to ignore or underestimate it. We must guarantee all together the irreversibility of a European and Euro-Atlantic course. This is our responsibility to present and future generations. And by establishing in the Constitution the obligation to enter NATO and the European Union, we send a very powerful message about the seriousness and irreversibility of our intentions to our partners on both sides of the Atlantic. Last week, by the way, in Washington on the basis of my agreement with President Trump, there was a meeting of the United States Strategic Partnership Commission. And I would like to point out that in a summary statement, the United States has reiterated: Ukraine will be in NATO. Period! [[Applause]] And in the summer, this perspective was documented in the final resolution of the NATO Brussels Summit, in which I personally participated in the meeting of the Commission of Ukraine-NATO and Georgia-NATO. And among the 19 speakers, all 19 heads of state and government strongly called for an immediate prospect of membership for Ukraine and Georgia. [[Applause]] And they confirmed that the decision was adopted in 2008 in Bucharest. The door of the Alliance for Ukraine is open. Yes, not everyone in the West is thrilled by our persistence, and many are accustomed to looking back on Moscow, as are some in this room. But can that stop us Ukrainians? And by establishing in the Constitution the obligation to enter NATO, to join the European Union, we also send a memo to Moscow: we part definitively and irreversibly. Russia, as an aggressor country, does not have and will not have a veto on our accession to NATO or the European Union. [[Applause]] Once again, we will ask permission to no one, for this is Ukraine’s sovereign right as a country that is sure to follow its course. And the European Union and NATO issues are very closely linked. In these two organizations, there are slightly different goals, but precisely common values, and the criteria for membership that we still need to achieve are very and very similar. Joining the EU and the North Atlantic Alliance is actually a very ambitious task, and it's very difficult to do. It's not so easy that it would be wrong to promise specific terms right now. But every day of our hard work with you, the work of diplomats, the work of the military, the work of the whole country brings us closer to this goal, because the only Europe is our promised land, the land that is protected by a safe umbrella, because NATO is the most effective, powerful and most organized collective system of security and defence. In almost seven decades, no country has dared to attack any, even the smallest, member of the Alliance. I have repeatedly stressed that we are going to NATO with exactly no empty hands. Over the past few years, you and I have created a powerful and fighting army with tremendous experience of reflecting Russian aggression. Praise the Ukrainian army! [[Applause]] Ukrainian Armed Forces. Thank you. Praise the Ukrainian army! [[Applause]] Thank you very much. Our Armed Forces, the whole of Ukraine will significantly strengthen the eastern flank of the Alliance, which implements an ambitious program of transition from Soviet to Nazi standards in all areas of military construction through an unprecedented number of joint learning, the implementation of annual national programmes, the achievement of the compatibility of the entire security and defence sector. The same fact that we defend ourselves in the East, not just ourselves, but the entire European civilization, greatly strengthens our moral right to claim entry into the European Union as a full member. We are currently focused on the implementation of the Association Agreement and the Free Trade Zone. We see exports of Ukrainian products increasing steadily to the European Union. Last year he jumped 30 percent, and this year he jumped 16 percent. And it's very important that the export structure is gradually changing. Yesterday, at a meeting between my Prime Minister and the Business Minister, Ambassador Hugo Mingarelli, a representative of the European Union, stressed that in the 13th year, the European Union was only 25 percent and now 42 percent. And this is a very clear position that we can count on in a difficult hour. How devastating Russia expected the imposition of the embargo, not just aggression. And for today, we're demonstrating that Ukraine has radically changed the direction of industry over the past four years, reorienting exports. And our cooperation, and our deeper and inclusive area of free trade with the European Union, has completely justified itself. Because now we're moving from selling raw materials to selling processed industrial and agro-products with high added value. In view of the absence of customs barriers, European companies have finally moved their production to us and created new jobs here in Ukraine. Moreover, the treaty is a way of implementing our common civilizational choice with you. The reorientation of the economy to European and other markets has helped us to overcome the deep socio-economic crisis caused by war and economic blackmail by Russia. Russia, I stress, closed its market, which was traditional for the sale of Ukrainian goods, which once consumed more than a third of Ukrainian exports. She wanted to smother Ukraine economically and made Ukraine stronger and more confident in her civil election. In recent years there have been and are times of great trial for Ukraine. The country has experienced a deep economic crisis, which I have just mentioned, and the standard of living is being restored, unfortunately, too slowly. Some inevitable reforms have proved to be too painful, but they should not have started because the consequences of these reforms would have been much more difficult. Because of Russia's attack, we lost thousands and thousands of lives -- Ukrainian heroes, soldiers and civilians. And the deep wound of these losses remains open and does not heal at all. The promise to end the war quickly failed, and I publicly apologized to everyone and everyone. But in all things, we have become more powerful as a nation, more confident in our own strengths, stronger in our intentions, stronger our unity and stronger in our faith our European future. This faith and confidence are being cemented in the Constitution today. Today's vote is not just a random episode, it's part of our joint strategy with you that we've been implementing over the past 4.5 years. Only the integration of Ukraine into Euro-Atlantic space guarantees us both peace, security, and independence, and overcoming poverty. We certainly will not deviate from this strategy. Ukraine is bound to become a full member of NATO and a full member of the European Union. Neither I nor you nor most Ukrainians have any doubts about this. Thank you. And glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-22-m1.u98	Heroim Slava! Dear colleagues, we have thus concluded the discussion, and we can move on to making a decision. I remind you, there are 226 votes, but it will be correct if Parliament is able to mobilise itself and give more than 300 votes. So I ask everyone to come into the hall, take jobs, colleagues, and prepare for the decision. Heads of factions, please invite all deputies to the Hall. Thus, according to article 155 of the Constitution of Ukraine, part of article 149 of the Law of Ukraine. [[B in m in s a l in]] You will not stop Ukraine's path to NATO! We'll vote. The Ukrainian Act "On the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine" puts to the vote a proposal for prior approval of the draft Act (Registration No. 9037) amending the Constitution of Ukraine (on the strategic course of the State for obtaining full membership of Ukraine in the European Union and the North Atlantic Treaty Organization). Please, colleagues, vote. Please, we're backing up. We support the Ukrainian choice – the EU and NATO. Vote, fellows! We're backing up! To Ukraine! Vote! [[18:08:01]] For 311 Decision taken. Glory to Ukraine! [[Applause]] Dear colleagues, we thank the President for his participation in our meeting. We have adopted an extremely important law. And, colleagues, I'm going to remind you that our work is continuing. I want to remind you that the work of the Committee on Tax Policy is now continuing. And, colleagues, there's a proposal that while we have a tax committee working on the Tax Code, we had a lot of demands on personnel issues. We've been given the Cabinet today and also the decision of the committees on three human resources issues concerning Kutov, Minister of Agrarian Politics, the proposal for a minister on the issue of veterans Irina Friz and also Minister of Finance Oksana Markarov. So, colleagues, there's an offer to now move on to personnel issues, each of which I'm going to put to the vote separately, and we're going to make a separate decision on each of them. I'd like to ask if there's a decision in the room. None of them. So, colleagues, I'm asking you to stay put. I would like to remind you that staffing issues do not need to be included in the agenda of the day session and are immediately considered when they are ready for consideration. And that's why as Head of the Supreme Council, I'm announcing the transition to human resources issues. The first question is the committee's decision. Draft Decision No. 9327 of the Minister of Agriculture and Food of Ukraine. And I'm asking you to support his consideration of the reduced procedure, colleagues. I'm asking you to support a reduced procedure. Vote. Please vote. Please be supportive. [[18:11:35]] For 177 Decision taken. I invite you to report to the deputy head of the Committee on Agrarian Policy and Land Relations, Mr. Bakumenko Aleksandra Borisovich. Please, Mr. Alexander.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-22-m1.u99	Dear Mr. Head of the Supreme Council! Dear National Deputies! The Agrarian Policy and Land Relations Committee at its meeting discussed the resignation of the Minister of Agriculture and Food of Ukraine, Taras Kutov, on his application, and decided to support the application for the resignation of the Minister of Agriculture and Food of Ukraine, Kutovo. And the second. Recommend that the Supreme Council of Ukraine accept the resignation of the Minister of Agriculture Policy and Food of Ukraine Kutovo. Please support the resignation.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-22-m1.u100	Thank you. Dear colleagues, please sign up for the discussion: two in favour, two in favour. Mr. Bakumenko, you can go back to work, thank you. Please, Danchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-22-m1.u101	Dear colleagues, I think Taras Kutov is a professional. But if a person wants to leave, he has the right to leave. But there is such a right in the democratic parliament, and we want Taras Kutovov to report to Parliament. But if a person wants to leave parliament, of course he needs to be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-22-m1.u102	Please, National Deputy Shurm.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-22-m1.u103	Igor Shurma, Opposition Block. You know what's going to happen now is from the wicked one. How good we are, he's such a professional, he wants to go. Why don't you tell me why you've been so good for a year and a half? I'll remind you that this man wrote his application on May 23, 2017, and he's been waiting for his application for a year and a half. He wanted to leave, so he didn't want to work. So this government is unworthy. So people are good, let's deal with human resources policy, because we have one so-called. Minister, second. For example, today I watched Mr. Sijenko conduct the voting for the Budget Code. I have a question for him as to the Minister of the Cabinet, of course he won't answer. Why are you not so consistent? Where are the candidates for the minister of health? And why Suprun is two years old, a person who has no higher education, which is confirmed by the conclusion of the Ministry of Education, which did not pass a passport from another country, which at the same time has access to a state secret that travels more abroad than is in the workplace. Why don't you bring this man into the session room? For example, the Opposition Block is ready to address the issue. We want to ask questions and wait for a coalition that is responsible for government activity to back it up or not to trust it. But let's see why that is, we're considering in a year and a half after Kutov's application, Mrs. Friz, we're going to appoint Markarov. Why such injustice to the citizen of another State of Suprun? What is discrimination? Why are you humiliating her like that? Why is it so disrespectful for a colleague who has no right to sit in a government bed and always sits there? We don't accept your involvement in personnel matters, you don't have personnel policies.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-22-m1.u104	Please give the public a speech. The position of the People's Deputy Ivan Sporish will be echoed by the "Block of Peter Prashenko".
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-22-m1.u105	Ivan Sporish, Winnichtina, 15th District, Peter Dusty Block. Of course, there is a statement by Taras Kutov, and sooner or later we should consider it. I'll say that Taras Kutov, as minister, was on the right side. Just because he wrote a statement doesn't mean we're just firing him. I think let's unite, let's not drag on with time, let's unite and vote for it all unanimously.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-22-m1.u106	Thank you. Colleagues, or all factions and groups? Please, Valery Pisarenko, Rebirth Group.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-22-m1.u107	Dear colleagues, we really need to support the minister's statement of his release, but I would also like us to establish a very good tradition, so that the ministers who come out of office will report to society and to the Supreme Council what they have done and that they will transmit to the subsequent candidates of the Ministry. And I would very much like to hear from the Cabinet of Ministers what will happen next with this ministry, where we will now release the minister and who will lead him. Because no one is in charge for a year and a half, and what will be the fate of this ministry now? By the way, because we keep talking about Ukraine as an agrarian state, we probably need to have not only a development strategy, but a minister in this position. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-22-m1.u108	Thank you, Your Honor. The Radical Party also asks for words. Please give Mosiyczuk the right to speak, turn on the microphone. Colleagues, and we're moving after this speech to a vote, I ask you to return to your seats. Please, Mr. Igor.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-22-m1.u109	Igor Mosiyczuk, Oleg Lachka Radical Party There is no minister of agrarian politics for more than six months. In the village of Ukraine, raiders, and apherists rob Ukrainian peasants. Vladimir Borisovich, I am addressing you personally. Now, in my native Poltavska, the apherists have robbed the peasants, more than 300 peasants, and in Romodoan PCP they have seized the grain. The villagers block the tires, burn the tires under the HPP, and prevent them from being taken out. They don't count with peasants. If there is no minister, I ask you personally to intervene in this matter. Now for the faction position. The faction will not vote on Oleg Láska's Radical Party for the personnel decisions that the government is currently proposing. And there's a lot of reasons for that. Not only that we are in opposition but also that no one is taking or raising the question of the appointment of a health minister. The Ministry destroys, the branches destroy, the hospitals destroy, the health institutions destroy and don't bring in the minister because they understand, "Dr. Death," who does all of this in the country, the Parliament Hall won't support it. It's just a theater show. In this regard, we will not vote in favour of the decisions proposed by the government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-22-m1.u110	So, colleagues, the discussion is over. We're moving on to making a decision. And I'm asking everyone to take up jobs. I understand everyone's very excited, but I'm asking everyone to come into the hall and get ready to vote, and take jobs. I remind you, our first Order is the resignation of the minister of agrarian politics and food of Kutovo. And then there will be two election decrees offered by the Cabinet of Ministers. So, is everyone ready to vote? I'm asking you to take up your jobs, colleagues. Please step away from the government's bed. Please return to your voting stations. I would like to stress the first Order of the Minister of Agriculture and Food of Kutovo. The government proposes to support it. So, colleagues, we're moving on to a decision, and I'm putting it to a vote. [[B in m in s a l in]] And take your seats, colleagues. You're standing around the hall again. I'm not going back to those questions. Heads of factions, please state the order in your factions. state the mood. I'm voting on the bill of resignation of Ukraine's Minister of Agriculture Policy and Food. Please be supportive. Please vote. Let's vote, colleagues. Please be supportive. Vote. Every voice. [[18:21:34]] For 257 Decision taken. Let's thank Kutov Taras Viktorovich for his fruitful work for Ukraine, for our government. Thank you. Next up, colleagues. Next, Decree 9323. Draft Decision on the appointment of Mr. Irina to serve as Ukrainian minister for veterans. Please support the consideration of the reduced procedure. Please be supportive. Vote. [[18:22:18]] For-200 Decision taken. Before submitting, I invite Prime Minister Groisman Vladimir Borisovich, Prime Minister of Ukraine. Welcome to Vladimir Borisovich. From the rostrum or from the scene?
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-22-m1.u111	Good afternoon, Reverend Mr. Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine! First of all, I would like to thank the Ukrainian Parliament for making decisions regarding the start of the budgetary process. I hope that today we will adopt all the important decisions, including those of the staff. As Prime Minister, I have taken advantage of my right to run for office as Ukraine's national deputy, Irina Frez, for the extremely responsible post of the newly created Ministry of Veterans. I think this area is extremely important for Ukraine and Ukraine, especially for our veterans. And as a result of the consultations that took place between the coalition factions, this candidature was defined, which I am pleased to support, and I have made an appropriate submission. I ask the Ukrainian National Deputies to support this submission, to approve the decision and to appoint a minister so that we can start working on creating the Ministry of Veterans as soon as possible. Thank you for your support.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-22-m1.u112	Thank you. The co - report invites the head of the Committee on Veterans and Persons with Disabilities of Trelyaków Alexander Yuriovich. Out of place, turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-22-m1.u113	At today's meeting, the committee considered the appointment of Prime Minister of Ukraine, Mr. Groysman Vladimir Borisovich, as of 21.11.18, at number 22428/0/2-18, to the post of Prime Minister of Ukraine on the matters of veterans, Mr. Irina Vasilovna. However, in the light of the discussion, the committee decided to recommend that the Supreme Council of Ukraine appoint Irez Irina Vasilovna to serve as Ukraine’s minister for veterans. The committee's decision is unanimous. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-22-m1.u114	Please, two for, two for, two for, two for, two for, two for. Dmitry's line gives Igor Mosiychuk a word for the performance. Please, Mr. Igor.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-22-m1.u115	Dear colleagues, dear Ukrainian people! Our faction stands in opposition to power, but not in opposition to the Ukrainian people. And we don't really vote in favour of the appointment of the government. But in this case, it's not about the candidature, it's about the creation of the Department of Veterans. A ministry that Ukraine really needs in times of war. The ministry that is needed to adapt Ukrainian heroes who are taking part in a national-liberal war to civilian life. The Ministry, which has, as in the United States, to do, unite society, the efforts of society, the efforts of volunteers, the efforts of the state, primarily around Ukrainian heroes, Ukrainian veterans of our national-liberal war in the East to adapt to life in order to stop that huge number of suicides that unfortunately have room to stop the use of Ukrainian heroes in the crackdowns, criminal exterminations, in order to give Ukrainian veterans a job worthy of pay, in order for Ukrainian veterans to become Prime Minister and President of Ukraine, and I am convinced that this will be, in the future, a claim for seats in this room, in the Ukrainian government, and not only for this ministry, but for the veteran to become Prime Minister and President of Ukraine. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-22-m1.u116	Thank you. From the People's Front, the word is given to the head of the faction of Maxim Burbak.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-22-m1.u117	Dear colleagues, I'm working on a profile committee on which we unanimously decided today to support Mrs. Irina Frezz as Minister of the Department of Veterans. I think the best experience in the United States should be taken over and implemented by the Ministry in Ukraine as well. This will help us to coordinate action on social protection and rehabilitation for our boys in the East who are now fighting for Ukraine's independence. So, your honors, the People's Front faction will support this and I ask everyone to vote in favour. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-22-m1.u118	Thank you. From the Opposition Block, Gusak Volodymyr Georgievic.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-22-m1.u119	Vladimir Gusak, Opposition Block. Our political power, the Opposition Block, is the only real opposition, the opposition in this Supreme Council. We've always been in this sequence. For example, we have never voted in favour of budgets since 2014, unlike some factions that are now trying to call themselves opposing. We did not give any votes for the budgets for pensioners, single mothers, and black people. And we've never voted in favour of the personnel appointments in these governments that were being promoted by this coalition. No vote for any staff assignment. Again, unlike certain factions that are now shouting about their opposition everywhere and who voted for, say, the worst government in the history of Ukraine in 2014, where there were many foreigners who had no connection with Ukraine. Where are the aliens now? And look, what exactly did you coalition now bring the country to? That's why our opposition block faction won't vote for this personnel assignment.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-22-m1.u120	Thank you. From the Self-Help faction, I invite you to the word of Taras Shepherd, please, two minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-22-m1.u121	Taras Shepherd, Self-Help faction, Ternopil. In fact, the ministry must have been working for us in the first year of the war and taking care of the fate of those boys, their health, their psychological condition, with which they return from this war. And it was to be, indeed, the minister who felt their pain that felt their needs. So over and over and over and over again, the environment of the boys who returned from the war, they called on us to create such an office of ministers. And in fact, their idea was that one of them, one of them, one of us, and the person who feels the pain of losing his brothers, who knows what it's like to be hurt and not get any help from the state, who knows how hard it is to socialize after the trenches in civilian life, where there's fireworks, weddings, birthdays, and everyone doesn't notice what a war is, that is, the person who feels the pain and need of that ministry, and not just like a know-it-all, and that body that actually helps those guys. Unfortunately, I realize that today’s political schedule requires certain trades and certain compromises. And so perhaps the choice that Mrs. Irina Fries had today is probably one of the best choices that could be in this room. That is why I personally support and encourage other deputies to support them. But I would like to address the Prime Minister today, because. Although he is now busy talking to other MPs, so that he can actually direct his efforts so that this woman, who will lead the department today, is essential to our veterans, can work without formality by issuing any directives, norms, but so that this department can work with the real help of each of our country's defenders, each of our heroes. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-22-m1.u122	Heroic glory! Thank you. From the Rebirth faction to the word, Valérie Pisarenko is invited.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-22-m1.u123	Thank you. Dear Andrew Volodymyrovich, distinguished colleagues! We really support the government to take more care of these matters, and we are glad that today the issue is that the Ministry of Veterans is fully functioning. We would also like to advise on issues that will be of concern today, including the issue of agriculture, namely: the new Minister of Agriculture; this and health issues, we also need to talk about the Minister; this is also the question that there are a large number of committees in the Supreme Council today without their heads, and there is not even a political will today to balance the work of the Supreme Council properly. There is no effective control by the opposition, because in these four years, the opposition has not been given any control function and no control post, everything is distributed among the majority. We want to say that we are looking at this process as an effort to make it work with veterans. But we would also like to ask the government to look closely at the problems that displaced people face. These are millions of people who have actually left their homes today and are looking for a better life in Ukraine. They need special help. We feel it in Harkow, by the way, when a lot of the people who live in Harkow today, the settlers, they really do. This is already obvious, and the infrastructure of cities today is actually strained by the fact that settlers are going to the best cities in Ukraine, like Kharkiv, Kiev. And we need help from the Cabinet of Ministers, more help from cities where settlers live to help these people.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-22-m1.u124	From now on, the First Deputy Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Irina Heratchenko, is invited to the floor.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-22-m1.u125	Well, dear colleagues, really, I think we should apologize to the veterans of the Russian-Ukrainian war for creating this ministry very late, and promise the newly created ministry and minister, Madam Minister, our full support is that we will support everything that Ukrainian veterans need in order to receive the comprehensive support of psychological rehabilitation, social, employment and the other problems that come before every person who returns to peace. Very often, returning to peaceful life is much more difficult than even taking up arms. And I believe that the coalition has put forward the most worthy candidate today for the post of minister. Because Mrs. Irina, including as head of our inter-parliamentary delegation of Ukraine-NATO, has proved not only her commitment to protecting Ukraine's territorial integrity and sovereignty, but also its great efficiency in this direction. We would like to thank Mrs Irina and for the great work that was done at the last session of the NATO Parliamentary Assembly, thanks to her efforts, in many ways we have been given the right to hold the Assembly in 2020. But Irina and I were on the front dozens of times, and then we did everything we could to strengthen security and defense and protect Ukrainian veterans. And I want to remind you that today there are 25,000 women in the Ukrainian army. Already over 3,000 female contractors are officers. We have the first woman general. And we also welcome the fact that the question of appointment of a minister also adheres to the principle of gender equality. They are convinced that her performance will do anything to ensure that veterans know that it is a worthy coalition decision. And the Equal Opportunities IFF, Mrs. Irina, will always support you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-22-m1.u126	Thank you. Colleagues, in one minute we're moving on to making a decision. I'm asking everyone to come into the hall and take jobs. I want to remind you that Mrs. Irina, as a colleague of ours, has a conflict of interest. I'm giving her a minute to get out of the place. Please, Mrs. Irina, turn on the microphone. And I'd like everyone to come into the hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-22-m1.u127	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues, I have prepared a separate talk, but I will not pay any attention to it right now. I just want to point out that any decision you make is a huge honor, because the challenge that we face, especially when we create this ministry, is very significant, and it's really our debt to the veterans we owe as a state. Because it is the Ministry of Veterans that must defend their interests and their rights at the level of the Ministry. I have a conflict of interest, so I will not vote in accordance with article 6 of the Rules. Thank you, sir.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-22-m1.u128	Thank you, Mrs. Irina. I'm asking everyone to take up jobs. Colleagues, I'll tell you my position. As Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Irina was able to work with the head of our delegation at the NATO Parliamentary Assembly. All I heard from all foreign partners were words of enthusiasm for Mrs. Irina's work in promoting national interest and protecting Ukrainian interest in the world's most secure forum, the NATO Parliamentary Assembly. And from the Head, from Mrs. Russa, I heard only words of admiration about Mrs. Irina, about her work. So I'm sure the Department of Veterans as a new ministry is headed by a man who has experience both in Ukraine and on the front, but also international experience so that we can study experience in other countries. And I am convinced that Mrs. Irina is the candidate who will be able to work effectively in this important enterprise, the ministry. In fact, by voting for it, we vote for the work of the Ministry of Veterans. So I'm asking you, colleagues, to support everyone, all those who are hurting for the front and for the army to support. Let's vote, colleagues. I'm putting the bill to the vote. The Order on the appointment of Frez Irina Vasilovna as Minister of Ukraine for Veterans. I'm asking you to vote, I'm asking you to support me. Vote, colleagues, support. Vote. [[18:39:06]] For 270. Decision taken. [[Applause]] After the personnel questions, Mrs. Irina, I welcome you, but we still have to vote in favour of withdrawing your deputy mandate, discharge, as it were. We're moving on to the next personnel issue. This is a draft Order appointing Markarov to serve as Ukraine's finance minister. Oksana Sergiyevna is in the hall. I ask, first of all, to vote in favour of the reduced procedure. Please vote and please support. Vote. [[18:39:52]] For 206 Decision taken. And I invite you to the report of Prime Minister Groisman Vladimir Borisovich of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-22-m1.u129	Thank you, Mr. Head, thank you to the Ukrainian National Deputies for supporting Irina Frezz's appointment as Prime Minister in our government. And also, honourable colleagues of the national MPs, I've made an appointment, for the long-awaited appointment of a minister of finance, an expert, in my opinion, with whom I've already worked not the first day, an expert very competent, professional, this is Oksana Sergiyyyyyov, Minister. the acting minister of finance. I want to say that this area is extremely responsible and requires a lot of professional skills and organizational skills, because managing the finances of a large European country of 45 million needs very serious business qualities that have been clearly demonstrated and demonstrated by Oxan Markarov. I am deeply convinced that Ukraine deserves a full minister of finance, and therefore I am very pleased to present this candidacy. People's deputies please support her. And I am deeply convinced that this will be, including our contribution to the stability of the country's financial system. So once again, I will be grateful for your support. Thank you, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-22-m1.u130	Thank you. The committee’s chairman, Pavelko Andriy Vasilovich, is invited to the report. Please. [[B in m in s a l in]] Don't put your staff at risk, colleagues! You're just going to be brief.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-22-m1.u131	Dear Andrew Volodymyrovich, distinguished national deputies and invited! At the request of the Head of the Supreme Council, the Budget Committee at its meeting on November 22, 2018, discussed the submission of the Prime Minister's proposal for the appointment of Markar Oksana by the Minister of Finance of Ukraine. Oxana Sergiyevna does not need further representation because she has been working at the Ministry of Finance since 2015, and everyone in Parliament knows her as a competent and responsible leader. According to article 85, paragraph 12, of the Constitution of Ukraine, the appointment and release of members of the government is part of the Supreme Council’s mandate. Following this constitutional position, the committee unanimously approved the decision to recommend to the Supreme Council to support the proposal of the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the appointment of Markar Oksana Sergei as finance minister of Ukraine through the adoption of the draft Supreme Council Decision 9322. Please be supportive. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-22-m1.u132	Thank you. Two in, two in. Lapin, please from the People's Front, Igor Lapin.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-22-m1.u133	Dear colleagues, I think we need to support this candidate, based on the fact that, above all, this is the responsibility of our coalition government, this is the proposal of the Prime Minister of our coalition government, and this is our full responsibility as the national deputies who have chosen this government. So I think that in times of crisis for the state of Ukraine, we need to be fully occupied by a man who will no longer be in the U.S., but will be a minister. I think we don't have better recommendations and a better candidate right now. And I stress again, we need to support and vote in favour. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-22-m1.u134	Thank you. From Peter Dustenka's Block, Neda. Do you pass the word or not? No, he doesn't say a word. Please turn on Nedava's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-22-m1.u135	I am. No, it's not. I, of course, and the Peter Dust Block supports this candidacy. This person is an expert in capital, it's a very good choice. But I do hope that Mrs. Oksana will give more attention to environmental taxes and environmental matters as head of the ministry. Thank you. The Peter Dust Block supports Mrs. Markarov.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-22-m1.u136	Thank you. From the Opposition Block, the Storm of Igor Mikhailovich, from the rostrum, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-22-m1.u137	Igor Shurma, Opposition Block. I just want to say, to Mrs. Oksana Makarov, no one in that room knows you as long as I do. I could remind you right now where we met, you were just a little expert -- you're good, you know, when you're laughing. I don't have a claim, and I don't have any claims against Irina Freise in the Environment. We have a claim to the human resources policy that the government is running today. Volodymyr Borisovich, a European course, and what is justice? Where is George Stac and his statement? He wrote it the way he wrote it. What is this selective right? They said he didn't want to work, we should let him go. So he doesn't want to work that you tied him up like a ox. Let go of that Yuri Stec. Let go. You said twice today: I took advantage of my right and I applied for the Friz, and I brought Markarov. I'm asking you, well, take advantage of your rights, well, run for office as Health Minister. Well, you don't want to bring Uljana Suprun, put in, as they say in the people, a candidate for Uljana Groisman, well, let's do it. There's gonna be a vote in this room. It's people who ask for identification. Because what's going on, it's just, well, it's not going anywhere. Volodymyr Borisovich, it's not necessary to create anything. There is a Ministry of Health. He's a man from another state. Under United States law, she spends three weeks a year there. The year ends, and you know when she was there, and why was she driving? Well, in Bali, I went, let's say, to the Security Forum, and met with the CEO of the only hotline in Sydney. He does what he wants. Well, that's your face. Bring it in, be consistent. You must be a good prime minister. Personnel policy should be your face. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-22-m1.u138	That's true. Prime Minister Groissman is good. Let's go. From Self-Help, Danchenko Alexander. Colleagues, over. All right, there's gonna be another show.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-22-m1.u139	Mrs. Oksana, I know you for a long time. I know how a successful investor is. Today, the coalition represents you as Prime Minister. Oh, Minister of Finance. I represent the opposition now, the democratic European opposition, and I want to ask you and wish that in the government you would protect that area that is now opposing, unfortunately, for your government. The IT branch, the telecommunications you're trying to pay with extra taxes, with extra rent. I would very much like you, Mrs. Oksano, to be a successful banker in your activities, to make priorities for the development of the state and not bet on the industries that bring and so much income that you find it very difficult to meet with IT, the telecoms, not Sofia, and not to pay extra taxes anymore, but to support these industries. I really want the innovation sector not to be in opposition to the Ministry of Finance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-22-m1.u140	So, colleagues, this is the closing act, one minute from the Rebirth faction. And in one minute, we're moving on to making a decision. I ask everyone to come into the hall and prepare for the vote, for the decision. It's one minute from Rebirth, Valérie Pisarenko. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-22-m1.u141	Thank you, Your Honor Andrew Volodymyrovich. I want to contact the future minister of finance right away. I want to tell you. To wish you success, yes, and to tell you that I wish you in your work to see what's already good in this country is done in order, first, to take a good experience, and secondly, not to make the mistakes that other people who worked in this position have made. Note, then, the experience of the city of Harkov, which today is indicative of most issues in various fields of activity, and help design this experience throughout the country. We have very good work in various areas, and if you as a finance minister realize that financing Harkov is today the development of all of Ukraine, and we can show an example in many areas, I think that your work as a finance minister will also be very successful. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-22-m1.u142	Thank you. So, colleagues, let's move on to making a decision. And I'm convinced that the candidate for Oksana Sergiyivna is the best candidate for this job today. Both work with international institutions and in Ukraine. Her high professionalism and knowledge today give her full confidence that she will be able to serve fully as Ukraine’s finance minister. And I'm asking everyone, colleagues, to support this candidate. And we're moving on to making a decision. I am voting on the draft Order on the appointment of Markar Oksana Sergeina as Minister of Finance of Ukraine (No. 9322). Please vote, please support. Every vote, we vote. Please support, we vote. [[18:50:52]] For 242 Decision taken. [[Applause]] Colleagues, attention, attention! Now we have to do the following thing: withdraw the parliamentary authority from the newly elected minister. And I want to announce and ask everyone to remain seated. According to part three of article 7 of the Ukrainian Law on the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, the question of the permanent suspension of the mandate of the national deputy is immediately considered by the Supreme Council of Ukraine at the same plenary meeting after its appointment as a member of the Cabinet of Ministers. According to paragraph 1 of part two of article 81, Ukrainian national deputy Frez Irina Vasilovna filed an application for her appointment as a member of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. I invite Mrs. Irina to the rostrum to read the statement. And then we're going to go to the vote. Mrs. Irina, please. And please, everyone be seated, we're going to vote now.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-22-m1.u143	Dear colleagues, thank you very much for your confidence, and I hope that I can justify it by all one hundred percent. Because you and I have a lot of work ahead of you for the Department of Veterans to be a star and an example of how the Ministry works, protecting the interests and rights of veterans, it has to become a lobby for our veterans in executive power, and I will report to you. Now, in accordance with part six of article 37 of the Supreme Council Rules, I report that there has been a conflict of interest and that my powers have been terminated as Ukraine's national deputy on a permanent basis. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-22-m1.u144	Thank you. So, colleagues, I'm putting a statement to the vote. Everyone please take up their jobs. Colleagues, please return to the hall. In accordance with article 81 of the Constitution of Ukraine, the Ukrainian Act on the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine put to the vote a motion for a permanent suspension of the authority of the Ukrainian national deputy, Irez Irina Vasilovna. Please vote. I'd like your support, colleagues. Hold on, it's just a cancellation of the MP's powers. Please be supportive. Vote. Please be supportive. [[18:53:28]] For 248 Please, the committee. Decision taken. I ask the Rules Committee, together with the Apparatus, to issue a ruling on the consequences of the decision we have taken. And now, colleagues, another important thing. Pursuant to article 10 of the Ukrainian Law on the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, a person appointed as a member of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine shall, on the day of his appointment, serve at the plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. And to make an oath to the rostrum, I invite the Minister of Ukraine in the matter of veterans, Iriz Irina Vasilovna. Please, Mrs. Irina.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-22-m1.u145	Thank you. I, Iris Irina Vasilovna, aware of the high responsibility of a member of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, solemnly swear allegiance to the Ukrainian people. I commit myself to upholding Ukraine’s Constitution and laws, strengthening Ukraine’s sovereignty and independence, upholding human and civil rights and freedoms, and caring for the well - being of the Ukrainian people, the constant democratic development of our society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-22-m1.u146	Thank you, Mrs. Irina. Welcome! Welcome to the election! You are a productive and successful worker! And to make an oath to the rostrum, the Minister of Finance of Ukraine, Markarov Oksana Sergiyevna, is invited. Please give Mrs. Oksani a chance, don't block the exit. Mrs. Oksana, I invite you to make an oath.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-22-m1.u147	I, Markarov Oksana Sergiyevna, aware of the high responsibility of a member of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, solemnly swear allegiance to the Ukrainian people. I commit myself to upholding Ukraine’s Constitution and laws, strengthening Ukraine’s sovereignty and independence, upholding human and civil rights and freedoms, and caring for the well - being of the Ukrainian people, the constant democratic development of society. And let my professional conscience and God help me. Thank you all very much for the trust you have shown me today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-22-m1.u148	Thank you, Mrs. Oksana. Congratulations! And let's welcome the members of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine to take office! From this moment on you are ministers of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine! Welcome, fellows! My colleagues, I want to let you know that the next question that we have in order of the day is 6424-d. But in order to look at it, we have to put it in the agenda to make a decision. So, colleagues, I'm asking everyone to mobilize. I'll read it. I am voting on the proposal to include in the agenda a draft Act amending the Ukrainian Housing Code and other Ukrainian legislation on the protection of the rights of owners (users) of housing units (6424-d). On that point, we had a vote, and we didn't have enough votes. They're offering to put it in the order of the day session to make a decision now. I'm asking you to back me up. Please vote. Please be supportive. Vote, please. [[18:57:09]] For-166 There are no votes now. And we're moving on to the next question of order of the day. This is a draft law amending certain laws of Ukraine (concerning the harmonization of legislation in the field of comparative advertising with European Union law) (No. 8515). And I'm asking you, colleagues, to consider a reduced procedure. Please vote. Please be supportive. Vote. Next Public Procurement Act, colleagues. The following Act on Public Procurement is in order of the day. Let's work effectively and effectively. [[18:57:47]] For 134 Colleagues, what's the matter? I'll do it again, colleagues. I ask everyone to vote responsibly. I'm voting again on proposal 8515 on a reduced procedure. Please vote. Please be supportive. So that we can move more quickly into public purchases. Please be supportive. [[18:58:20]] For-140. Colleagues, I'll put in the third time. Let's see the factions. I don't know what the logic of our actions is right now. Colleagues, pay attention! I'm asking everyone to support the reduced procedure now. So I'm going to put it again. If there's no support, colleagues, we'll go through a long procedure, it'll be an hour. We have the next Public Procurement Act. I'm going to do it the third time. And I'm asking you to support everyone. Let's see the factions. Peter Dustenka's Block, 82, People's Front, 44. Colleagues, I'm asking you to support the proposal: draft Law 8515 under a reduced procedure. Please vote and please support. We're voting for a reduced procedure. Please vote. Please be supportive. [[18:59:19]] For-141 Why don't you explain it to me? Colleagues, plan to get into full procedure, hourly? You can explain what you're up to. So I'm asking you to take jobs. I ask you to prepare for the vote. Thank you. So, colleagues, we have the following questions in order of the day, and there's my usual logical proposition. Nobody wants to sit until nightfall, we're waiting for the tax committee to decide. Until the Tax Policy Committee decides, we will not be able to consider the Tax Code. While we await the committee's decision, there is a proposal to consider the following issues of the agenda: 8515 and public procurement. I'm asking you to support review 8515 on a reduced procedure. Please vote, please support. Vote. Please be supportive. Colleagues, please support everyone. [[19:00:39]] For-137 Very good. If the hall wants an hour to review the law, there are no warnings. One more time at the factions, please. Let's see the factions. Peter Prashenko's Block - 80, People's Front - 37. Is this a principled position to complete? Self-help – 1, Parenthood – 7, Will of the People – 6, Rebirth Party – 1. Colleagues, I'll call everyone in. And I now ask the factions to ensure that there are people in the room. I'm addressing the factions, I'm asking everyone to vote now. So I'm asking everyone to come into the hall who came out. I'm asking you to help organize the national MPs. Can we vote? Please come into the hall. Don't come out, on the contrary, come into the hall. So once again, I'm going to propose, colleagues, it's 150 votes for us to consider draft Law 8515 by a reduced procedure. Please vote, please support. Come into the hall, colleagues, please. Come into the hall and support. Please vote and please support. We're voting for a reduced procedure. Please vote, please support. Vote. [[19:02:25]] For-153 Decision taken. I invite you to the report of the Ukrainian National MP Condratiuk Olena Konstantinovna. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-22-m1.u149	Dear Head, dear colleagues, this is a very simple and very short law. It doesn't have to be discussed exactly in full procedure, it's going to be a fairly short procedure. And as this comes from the very name of the project, we propose to harmonise our legislation in the field of comparative advertising with European Union law, in particular with the requirements of the EU Directive on misleading and comparative advertising and Directives on unfair commercial practices. As a result of the adoption of changes, we have to create opportunities to make full use of comparative advertising in business activities in Ukraine. What are the benefits for consumers and entrepreneurs in the case of comparative advertising? Consumers will get more objective information about a product that will be able to combine, i.e. compare, and that's any abstract or with ads of the same product, only from another brand. By using comparative advertising, entrepreneurs will have greater opportunities for honest competition. What are the criteria of comparable advertising? This is a lack of legislation to protect consumers ’ rights as to the signs of unfair entrepreneurial practices and objective comparative material characteristics of a homogeneous like product or activity that is important to the consumer when choosing a particular product. Since EU legislation has the potential to use comparative advertising is directly linked not only to maintaining the criteria of objectivity but also to defining advertising as such, it is the EU’s understanding of the directive on unfair trade practices. consumer needs according to changes only to a professional advertising law. We can complement, clarify, existing legislative implementations on forms, species and signs of prohibited unscrupulous entrepreneurial practices. Colleagues, my coauthors and I have looked at and realized that this is the kind of legislation that makes us.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-22-m1.u150	How much do you need to finish? 30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-22-m1.u151	We can increase the amount of advertising that we absolutely need in order for our media to be able to finance on their part. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-22-m1.u152	Thank you for the performance. And I invite the head of the Committee on Freedom of Speech and Information Policy of the People's Deputy Victoria Sumar to report.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-22-m1.u153	Good afternoon, dear fellows! Thank you, Madam Chairman. Indeed, the bill, the colleagues, is very simple. In fact, it protects both Ukrainian advertisers and consumers in the field of comparative advertising. Since in the European Union, of course, trademark owners, for example, are advertised, are much more protected, and we need to move to European standards, and we need to protect more, including copyrights, including trademarks used, including those used in advertising, which are very often subject to unfair competition. In general, I'm going to take a moment to say that we should generally move towards harmonisation of Ukrainian legislation in the media field to the norms of the European Union. In this context, I want to say that a bill was adopted in France today, which has been discussed there for the last few months since the election of Macron, Emmanuel Macron, president of France, and when Russia's involvement in the elections in France was recorded. And today, finally, there was a dot in this epepoch in France. And the French passed a law that allows a national regulator without. Colleagues! Yuri Bereza, you're louder than I am. It allows the national regulator to conclude that in the event of foreign interference, television programs, particularly in France, are being cut short. I think that Ukraine, which today is the subject of information aggression by the Russian Federation, should borrow this experience, the European experience. And I immediately urge all factions to join the working group to develop such appropriate bills and to adopt them in Ukraine as well, and to continue to harmonize our legislation in the field.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-22-m1.u154	Please, 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-22-m1.u155	This bill is of course supported by the committee because the members of the committee are its authors, please support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-22-m1.u156	Thank you. We're moving on to the discussion. Please record the factions: two in, two in, and two in, against. Welcome to the Opanasenka People's Deputies from the Self-Help Unit.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-22-m1.u157	Dear colleagues, I hope we will have a more responsible attitude, and in 10 minutes they will come, and we will have a quorum of 226 votes. What is this law about? Apart from such terms as "comparable advertising," there are a lot of things that are directly linked to the unscrupulous advertising that is now in our markets. We have received repeated appeals at the committee level from pensioners who are constantly being misled by any announcements in newspapers or letters of happiness there and so on, and in fact, non-lethal businessmen cheat, draw money from our pensioners. Let's take this bill in the first reading, get to the second reading so that there's no more possibility for our grandparents to cheat money on dishonest businessmen. Please support everyone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-22-m1.u158	Thank you. I'd like to invite the People's Deputy Ribak of Peter Prashenko's Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-22-m1.u159	Thank you, Mrs. Oksana. Ivan Ribak, 202 constituency, Cherniewec district. We will definitely support this bill because we have long to start serious work on harmonising Ukrainian legislation in the field of advertising with the legislation of the European Union. Because there are, indeed, established practices that are used by those societies, and today we should use them in our media, including. But today we need to talk about what we need in Ukraine is a serious reform of legislation that regulates political advertising itself. Soon we have large electoral campaigns, large electoral campaigns -- state-wide presidential and parliamentary campaigns, and then local electoral campaigns -- and today many people are manipulating advertising, using art films to advertise political characters, and in the prospect of candidates for some high office in the state. Such things are unacceptable, for they manipulate the consciousness of just the ordinary Ukrainian, who sometimes find it difficult to figure out what is truth and what is invention. That is why we will definitely support the bill. But there is a need for advertising, political advertising, orderliness, and we also recognize that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-22-m1.u160	Thank you. And from the Radical Party faction, please, National Deputy Lozova.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-22-m1.u161	Andrew Lozova, Radical Party of Lazka. Once so inconspicuously, dear colleagues, we did not pay attention to a very important anniversary a week ago. I would like to welcome all the co-authors, including Victoria Petrovna Sumar, including the leader of our faction Oleg Láška, Igor Mósiyczuk, Dmitry Linka, Mikol Knieżicka, other patriot deputies, who received quotas for Ukrainian language on Ukrainian radio a year ago. What do we see? Colossal shocks, tectonic changes, and our people can hear our songs in their sacred Ukrainian language. For many young performers, this achievement together has become the way to find a listener. And, of course, the bill also bears technical but positive changes, and we will support it. What's more, notice, your esteemed colleagues, what's going on today. Isn't the only program on television that protects the Ukrainian song, the Folk-music program led by Oksana Pekun, where our folk songs, Ukrainians, where our cultural heritage, where the treasures of our ancestors' spirituals, this program wants to shut down the leadership of so-called social television, led by Mr. Alasania. Oleg Láska's Radical Party refers to Parliament, to the President, to the government, demanding that the Folk Music program be closed. It doesn't have to be closed, but more programs are needed. Because 300 years of Russification have had very negative consequences, which we see in the front zone, which we and our colleagues Linck, Dedey, Musijczuk saw a few days ago in Ishmael, in Odessa, where secession propaganda works very hard. We have to protect our Ukrainian space, protect Ukrainian culture.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-22-m1.u162	30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-22-m1.u163	It is the sacred duty of everyone here to protect our information space, to protect our culture, to protect our language, and to protect our Ukrainian song. And I'm going to end with Taras Shevchenk saying, "Our thought, our song will not die, it will not die. Where is our glory, O people, the glory of Ukraine?"
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-22-m1.u164	Thank you. Honorable National MPs, have all of them spoken out of all political power, or are they desirous? Please, National Deputy Ribczynski.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-22-m1.u165	Eugene Ribczynski, "The Will of the People", Kiev. Gentlemen, it's a surprise to see you attending meetings under very important laws. First of all, I want to say that the election campaign is now under way, and advertising will not be just about powder or Domestos or anything else, chemical. There'll be tools, and so on, and so on, and so on, everything we see on the road right now, when we're on the boards and so on, it's all going to eventually go to the TV, because the television audience is so much bigger than the audience of motorists. In order to bring all of this to some normal plane, we must adopt this law. But I see that in the hall, well, there's a hundred deputies the most, that means that we're actually breaking the important election days of the law, and we're going to throw the shit into our Ukrainian audience, because that shit that's being dumped politically by some forces, it's, well, you can't compare to a regular commercial. And we should adopt a European law on European standards in television advertising. I would very much ask Oksana Ivanovna and anyone who can and the heads of factions to bring their factions into the hall to vote for this law, not, as always, to fail. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-22-m1.u166	Thank you. Are they still willing to speak? Please, National Deputy Capplin.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-22-m1.u167	Such an important, you know, sometimes in the Supreme Council of Ukraine in the Hall we don't notice, really, important bills that relate to the real interests of the common people. It's about how much. how much methodologically we can make our production competitive in terms of foreign analogues inside the internal market. And I agree with the thesis that we must in every way protect both copyright and property rights in our country, and not only declare it with new legislation, but also in every way contribute to the direct work of those bodies that, at the constitutional level and at the level of basic, key laws, must provide adequate guarantees, rights and freedoms for ordinary Ukrainians. I wanted to get back to the subject of protection, such as the right of choice for ordinary Ukrainians, which was extremely important, extremely delicate, and really competitive. Today we learned that a detective with a name change in the city’s head register continues. Today several bandits, thieves from the Ministry of Internal Rights, went to the Pecher Court to arrange with the judge to make a decision there, as the Pecher Court often does and knows, on a change in the register, some kind of fairy tale approval in the Cave Court. And for tonight or tomorrow, we're waiting for proper action by the registrar. Say it again, please. The second step and the second option is to go and imagine cynicism on the anti-rerader committee of the Ministry of Justice doing the same thing. Imagine. What entrepreneur from the West will come here, build factories, factories, create new jobs, give jobs to our Ukrainians when countries have such legal nihilism and such direct banditry?
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-22-m1.u168	Colleagues, I want to make a message, and I want everyone to listen to me very carefully. I did everything I could to enable us to review the budget in time, and I asked that by the second hour there should only be an amendment to the Tax Code. Unfortunately, hundreds and hundreds of them have arrived, and now dozens of our deputies are on the tax committee in parallel and they're looking at the whole thing. It's a huge number of rights. And that's why I don't want to put this law at risk, and I only have one proposal. While the committee is working, where there are a lot of people, I'm going to call it a break, and then we're going to get together after the break, and we're going to finish our consideration of this bill. And, colleagues, that's the right thing to do, that's the right thing to do. I asked the committee how long it would take. Actually by 9:30, I'll call it a break, colleagues. It's a real state. Okay, till 9:30, colleagues. But it's gonna be lunchtime, and it's gonna be time and committee time for all the meetings. And I'm asking you, colleagues, all with understanding to respond to this so we can get to 9:30. I'll be there by 9:30. You can call your family and tell them you'll be home later. At 9:30, colleagues, I invite everyone into the hall to continue our work. And now I'm going to call it 9:30. And we will continue to discuss this law. I'm asking the reporter to be in the hall and I'm waiting for everyone in the hall at 9:30, colleagues. I'll see you later.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-22-m1.u169	Good evening, dear fellows! I want to make some announcements. First, statements from several of our colleagues came to the fore. In particular, National Deputy Kirsch asks that his vote in favour of Law 9037 on amending the Constitution for consolidating Ukraine's Euro-Atlantic status has not worked, and asks that his vote be taken into account in favour. Also, our colleague, Andriy Lopushanski, appealed to the Presidium to consider his voice as "yes" for the Bill of Decree 9322. Nor did the National MP's card of Zagoriya's balloting for the appointment of Minister of Finance, Oksana Markarov. Dear colleagues, we made an announcement about those cards that didn't work. And now I want to point out that the consultation on draft legislation is continuing. And I'm calling it a two-hour break, until 11:30. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-22-m1.u170	Good evening, dear fellows! Let me inform you that our tax committee colleagues are continuing their inspired work on the amendments. And I'm going to call it an hour. [[B in m in s a l in]] I won't quote you. They say it's a plagiarism of one of the other presidential candidates. I won't quote you. Dear colleagues, I am not a member of the tax committee, but as a representative of the presidency, I would like to apologize to all of you, to the presidential candidates and to the simple people's deputies, and to inform you that. And in front of the journalists who are working on the tax committee amendments, all our fellow MPs are working. And in exactly one and a half hours, we'll meet you in this session room, we'll go through the amendments, we'll go through the Rules, we won't break the Rules, and hopefully we'll be able to do a good job. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-22-m1.u171	Good night, fellows! Puts the vote to the vote. So, colleagues, attention, no one predicted that the tax committee would last that long. Only half an hour ago, they made a decision. You would go and work with them before laughing. Half an hour ago, they made a decision, and only now is the table signed, so they're going to print it for about half an hour. We have to finish the review of the previous law, and then when there are tables in the hall, we can go to the Tax Code. Fellows, I would like to stress once again that we are entering into the adoption of the budget, realizing that the socio-economic situation in the state and in general depends on it. And a lot of people are dealing with irony, but this is obviously a high level of responsibility, which I obviously feel like the head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. And that's why I also call on everyone to have a high level of responsibility. So now we have to finish the previous draft of the law first, and then, when the tables are printed, move on to the changes to the Tax Code. So, colleagues, I'm asking you to come into the hall. And I ask you now to look for the authors of the previous law. We'll talk again. So I remind you, colleagues, that we are continuing to consider the draft Act amending some of Ukraine's legislative acts (to harmonise legislation in the field of comparative advertising with European Union law). Now we're going to figure out who's going to report it. So, colleagues, to remind you, I remind you once again of Olga Cervakov's co-report, and then we'll include: two in, two in, against, colleagues. In the meantime, national deputies will be gathered. Mrs. Olu, please. They decided to report Irina Heratchenko, the First Deputy Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Mrs. Irina, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-22-m1.u172	Thank you, Your Honor. I'm happy to present this bill as the former chairman of the Committee on European Integration. Among the coauthors of this bill are representatives of various political factions, forces. This is also Mrs. Olena Kondratuk, and Victoria Sumar, and Mr. Opanasenko, other deputies. And it is very important that, according to the title of the bill itself, this proposal harmonises our legislation in the field of comparative advertising with European Union law, in particular with the requirements of EU Directive 2006/114/EC on misleading and comparative advertising and Directives on unfair trade practices 2005/29/EU. And as a result of these changes, we have to create opportunities to make full use of comparative advertising in business activities in Ukraine. Consumers will be able to obtain more objective information. This is very important when we have so much going, such a load of unreliable and unobjective information in advertising. And using this comparative advertising, entrepreneurs will get more opportunities for fair competition. It is very important that this bill introduces European criteria, such as the lack of definition by legislation of consumer protection of signs of unfair entrepreneurial practices, comparisons of homogeneous goods used for the same needs, others. And we're supplementing this bill and we're clarifying the existing legislative position on forms, species and signs of illegal unscrupulous entrepreneurial practices. This detail, it actually greatly enhances the integrity of entrepreneurial practices. And we ask you to support this bill in the first reading and on the basis. There is a positive verdict from the profile committee. Once again, among the authors of this bill are representatives of various political factions, both in coalition and in opposition. And him.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-22-m1.u173	Please finish 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-22-m1.u174	And it is unifying in terms of, well, the professional attitude toward the organization of advertising, in order to make our advertising more conscientious. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-22-m1.u175	Thank you. Dear colleagues, please record: two in favour, two in favour. From the People's Front, Schwariluk Vladimir Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-22-m1.u176	Vladimir Schwarliuk, People's Front. We'll support this bill. Please support everyone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-22-m1.u177	Dear colleagues, have we rightly understood from the applause that the People's Front supports this bill? Great. So we have the potential to accept it in the first reading. Sobolen Yegor. We hope you will support this bill. If you don't, make the second call, and they'll tell you it's very important in terms of advertising.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-22-m1.u178	Madam Chairman, what can I tell you? In fact, there are tears, laughter. On the one hand, it's funny, because we've already discussed this bill and we've informed the speaker that the second time we're talking about something a little strange. Why the tears? Because everyone understands that this is a discussion and this vote is going on because you have to pull time for the dereban 1 trillion 100 billion taxpayers' money. And that's sad. And for the self-help law, he'll vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-22-m1.u179	Thank you. But I still think you may have tears from your sleeplessness. But we will vote for the law. That's very good. Ivan Krulko. Please take your political position.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-22-m1.u180	Ivan Krulko, "The Fatherland" faction. I want to say that this bill was drafted by my colleagues from Fatherland, especially Olena Condratuk, Alexander Abdullin. And we really understand how important it is to harmonise legislation in the field of comparative advertising with European Union law. This is an adaptation of our legislation to European Union law. And Fatherland will support it. And I would also like to give the floor to Mrs. Oli Cervakovy, an expert in this field, to be able to express her opinion as well. May I have a word, please?
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-22-m1.u181	We can't pass on the word. But BP didn't sign up for the discussion. I'll just give you my word, I'll just give Mrs. Chervakovy a word as a representative of the faction and the profile committee to discuss the bill. Please, Igor Shurma.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-22-m1.u182	Igor Shurma, Opposition Block. I'm looking at the clock: 1 hour 20 minutes. Dear colleagues, I have a lot to say, but it's this very minute I'm going to keep my mouth shut. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-22-m1.u183	Thank you, Sir Igor Shurma. You know, it's a tradition that was born back in the days of your power, your authority. So it's bad, of course, that we're not leaving this tradition. Please, we are. I can't hear you. I don't hear, but it doesn't matter, and we're discussing a bill right now that concerns bad advertising and it's about joining European directives. Please, Mrs. Chervakova, give me your word.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-22-m1.u184	Dear colleagues, I would like to point out that comparative advertising is a perfectly legitimate and accessible way in all EU countries, a legitimate way of informing consumers of the advantages of a product if it does not mislead consumers about these advantages. The bill clearly sets out prohibitions on misleading consumers, the responsibility for misleading them. So this is done exclusively for both consumers and manufacturers. manufacturers could provide honest information and consumers could obtain it. You and I have signed an Association Agreement, we have committed ourselves to implementing these European standards in Ukrainian legislation, which are required of us by the European community. So I ask you to return now to all the towers of the Supreme Council, yet to go into the hall and vote in favour of the bill that unites the hall and against which no one actually has any objection. Let's take a preliminary budget vote to show an example of the consolidation of the session hall and vote in favour of this bill, which is what the entire Committee on Freedom of Speech and Information Policy, which members of this legislative initiative, is asking you to do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-22-m1.u185	So, colleagues, I'm asking everyone to come to the hall right now, we're two minutes away from making a decision. I, colleagues, ask all the heads of factions to invite deputies to the hall. I ask the Secretary of the Supreme Council to inform the deputies who are in the towers that in two minutes we are moving on to the decision-making process. And I also urge all factions together to unanimously support this bill. It's just a base, and it's just an important mobilization. In two minutes, I ask everyone to come into the hall and prepare for the vote. Now I'm giving it to the author. The co-author of Irina Heratchenko's bill, two minutes for closing. Please invite everyone into the hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-22-m1.u186	Dear colleagues, I also ask you to return to the session room. I join here in calling on our honourable Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, and I stress that our key task as a Parliament is to adapt Ukrainian legislation to European norms. I would like to stress once again that the topic that we are discussing right now, that bill, it's important in the first place for consumers, because today consumers are the ones most suffering from bad advertising. And this bill simply brings Ukrainian legislation into line with the directives and the law of the European Union. So this is a Euro-Integration Bill. And I hope that here we are uniting in this session hall. In fact, we are certain of the bill. And so we ask, the copyright team, to support it exclusively in the first reading on the basis. The profile committee is ready to work on this bill, taking into account GNEU’s comments. And we want to point out that, by the way, the budget committee doesn't have any comments on the bill, so the government doesn't have any comments on the bill. So this bill doesn't need any additional funds from Ukraine's budget, which is relevant in the context of tonight's budget when we're looking at the 2019 budget. Well, and I remind you that the key innovations in this bill are related to harmonising our legislation in the field of comparative advertising with European Union law, in particular with the requirements of EU Directive 2006/114/EC on misleading and comparative advertising and Directives on unfair trade practices 2005/29/EC. And by accepting these changes, we will be able to create opportunities to make full use of comparative advertising in business activities in Ukraine. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-22-m1.u187	So let's move on to making a decision. Colleagues, I'd like everyone to come into the hall and take their jobs. Please prepare for the vote. I would like to stress that the draft Act amending some of Ukraine’s legislative acts (to harmonise legislation in the field of comparative advertising with European Union law). I'm sure everyone in the room, all the factions, we'll support him. It's a law that has little amendments, but it's very important. And the Committee unanimously asks us all to support it. So, colleagues, many people are in the towers, please enter the hall, please take up jobs. Let's go in, take up jobs. So, colleagues, I'm voting on a bill amending some of Ukraine's legislative acts (to harmonise legislation in the field of comparative advertising with European Union law) (No. 8515). The committee suggests accepting it as a basis, colleagues, just as a basis. Let's all go to the group that's in the hall and support it. Please vote. Please be supportive. Vote. Please vote. Vote. [[01:26:04]] For-182 Obviously, not all of them have made it. Invite the deputies into the hall, colleagues. The factions. Block of Peter Poshenko – 74, National Front – 56, Opposition Block – 1, Self-help – 9, Radical Party – 9, Father's Party – 5, Will of the People – 8, Rebirth Party – 6, non-fractional – 14. Colleagues, I'm asking you to invite everyone into the hall. I'll put it on the way back. I'll give the committee a chance to speak. Victoria Sumar, please, two minutes. I'm asking you to come into the hall. We can go back. And I'm addressing all the factions, colleagues, that's beyond politics, support, let's group up and support this law. Please, Victoria Sumar.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-22-m1.u188	Dear colleagues, I understand that we are now being held hostage to an actual budget night, but this bill certainly does not give rise to any objection. Let's mobilise, I get it, we'll still have to do it to vote on the Tax Code, and adopt the country's bill. Because today it is directly up to further development of both copyright and advertising. Please come to the hall and vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-22-m1.u189	So, colleagues, I invite everyone to take up jobs, and I'll put it back on now. I have a request that the factions' heads invite deputies to the hall. Please come into the hall. So I'm going to vote on the proposal, go back to the draft Law on Amendments to Certain Legislative Acts of Ukraine (to harmonise legislation in the field of comparative advertising with European Union law) (No. 8515). For your return, colleagues. Please vote, please support. Olya, vote, vote, please. Please vote, please support the return, vote, vote. [[01:28:40]] For 202 The dynamics are good, the dynamics are strong. Colleagues, the truth is, there are many deputies in the towers. And there's one simple thing to do: go out and invite them from the towers to the hall. I'm asking you, colleagues, to invite everyone into the hall and please include the factions. The factions, please. "Block of Peter Poshenko" – 86, "National Front" – 57, "Resistance Block" – 1, "self-help" – 10, Radical Party – 8, "Fatherhood" – 5, "will of the people" – 8, "Resurrection" – 6. Colleagues, we're getting bigger in the hall. And the non-fractional is 21. Colleagues, I'd like you to invite everyone from the towers into the hall, please. So they went into the hall. Colleagues, I'm asking everyone to mobilize. Colleagues, I'm asking you to take up your jobs. I know that all tired people, colleagues, are not easy for everyone, and believe me, it's not as easy for all the deputies as it is for the Presidium. I ask a simple thing to go from the towers into the hall to support a law that is unifying to all. There have been a number of deputies. So, colleagues, I'm re-voting the proposal to go back to the debate. So, colleagues, please come in, I'll wait another 10 seconds, come in, please. Take up jobs. Colleagues, everyone in position, can we vote? I am voting once again to return to the draft Act amending some of the Ukrainian legislative acts on harmonisation of legislation in the field of comparative advertising and European Union law (No. 8515). And I'm asking you, colleagues, all of you are now assembled to support this proposal. Please, colleagues, support the offer. Please vote and please support. Vote. Each voice has a weight. Who doesn't have a system? Colleagues, let's vote and see. I ask you, colleagues, to vote for the return to draft Law 8515. We vote, every vote. Please vote, colleagues. Vote. We support, responsibly and each voice, please support. [[01:31:58]] For 228 We're back. Colleagues, now I'm putting draft Law 8515 to the vote as a basis, colleagues, just as a basis. Don't come out. Every voice matters. Colleagues, take up jobs. So 8515 is the base. Please vote, please support, colleagues. And I ask everyone to participate carefully in the vote. Vote. Please be supportive. Let's vote, colleagues. We're backing it up. Vote. We support our committee. Vote. Vote. [[01:32:43]] For 223 Colleagues, no credit cards. I'm going to do it again. I'll put it back in, please. Colleagues, when you scream from the hall, I tell you, I don't hear anything. Maybe it's nice to send a messenger, I just can't hear anything. I see they're not working. Come into the hall. Colleagues, the discussion is over. If I give it to anyone, I have to give it to everyone. Vote. Take up jobs. Colleagues, take up jobs and do not debate during the vote. A vote should be taken. So the colleagues, carefully, are responsible again for the return and then for the law. I propose to go back to the draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine (to harmonize legislation in the field of comparative advertising with European Union law) (8515). Please vote, please support, colleagues, all responsible and in agreement, please support. We vote, we vote, we vote, we vote, we vote, we vote, we vote, we vote, we vote, we vote, Let's vote, colleagues. [[01:34:26]] For 229 We're back, but the voices are low. Please, Mr. John, come into the hall and take part in the vote, colleagues. Mr. Jaroslav, we count each voice. Please. So I'm voting on the draft Act amending some of Ukraine's legislative acts (to harmonise legislation in the field of comparative advertising with European Union law). Colleagues, and carefully every voice. Mr. Ivan, come back. Please vote, please support 8515 as a base. Please vote, please support, colleagues. Every vote, Jaroslav, we vote, we vote on the basis. Please support, vote, colleagues, in agreement, vote responsibly. We vote, we support our committee. [[01:35:29]] For 231 Decision taken. Colleagues, pay attention! Before we go to the Tax Code, colleagues, we have the next draft of the Public Procurement Act before the Tax Code. Colleagues, pay attention! So we agreed, colleagues, we're going to move into the next draft of the law, which is going to be in the order of the day as they print the tables. We next have the 8265 Public Procurement Bill in order of the day. I ask you to support his consideration of the reduced procedure. Please vote. Please be supportive. [[01:37:06]] For a hundred and Decision taken. And I invite you to report the head. First, the head of the Committee on Economic Policy, Ivanchuk Andrija Vladimirovich, the largest reformer in the Ukrainian Parliament. [[B in m in s a l in]] One of them, we'll be right. One of the reformers of the Ukrainian Parliament, it will be correct, it will be right, yes. And please report, Andrew Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-22-m1.u190	Dear Mr. Head, distinguished national deputies, good evening. [[B in m in s a l in]] Good night! You know how pleased I am to see so many of my friends, who have given up their personal time, "the country above all things." And when they say that the Ukrainian Parliament doesn't meet the demands of the Ukrainian people, I want to pay attention to the Ukrainians: look at these people's deputies, these are the very bright representatives of the Ukrainian people. Even Capplin supports me, you know. That's why. It's rare. Dear friends, an extremely important bill. We've all completely and radically changed the procedure of public procurement. Today, Ukraine has an unprecedented transparent system called ProZorro. It gave us the opportunity to save tens of billions of dollars. All the things that were said before, you know, it's very fashionable to accuse any institution of corruption. You and I have all managed to create a course where everyone has equal rights. But there is such a problem in legislation that when the moment comes to implement those reforms that we are adopting with you in the Ukrainian Parliament, there are certain things that need to be changed. And I am very grateful to the President of Ukraine, Petra Alexiyovich Dustyenko, that he is. The BP fraction is very weakly applauding. I am very grateful to the President of Ukraine, Petr Alexiyovich Dustyenko, for the legislative initiative we have here.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-22-m1.u191	Please, 30 seconds, finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-22-m1.u192	This Bill 8265, introduced by the President of Ukraine, we will work together with all of you in the second reading with all of you and all of you in the legislative initiative, and we will come out -- I promise you as the head of the Economic Policy Committee -- in a coherent manner. And we're going to improve the electronic purchasing system. So the committee invites you, honourable national MPs, to adopt this bill as a basis for first reading so that it can become the property of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, and we can all improve it with you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-22-m1.u193	Thank you. The First Deputy Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Irina Heratchenko, is invited to the report, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-22-m1.u194	Dear colleagues, in fact, despite the criticism that is sometimes fair to today’s Supreme Council and government, there are topics that we should be proud of together. And one of them, of course, is the ProZorro system, which today has high scores not only of Ukrainian business, foreign investors, but also of our foreign counterparts. And then, thanks to ProZorro, about 61 billion dollars of taxpayers' money has already been saved, of which 28 billion dollars were saved last year and the system received, as I said, numerous even international rewards. And if you and I support this important bill that the President of Ukraine has put forward today, then we can still guarantee the business of simplified purchasing, and also all the documents and actions of the customer, the participants will be available for monitoring, which is very important, including for our partners in the non-governmental sector, and the bidders will be able to lower the price during the auction itself. The potential economy is going to be 9 billion dollars. It's really important that you and I, if we adopt this law, can also help simplify the procedure for bidders and the supplier can correct their mistakes during one working day, if any, all people, when submitting documents. Similarly, in order to pay back the charges, other improvements to the AMCA will be prohibited from postponing a complaint that will significantly reduce manipulation, which means corruption, during tenders, and the complaints of each lot will take place separately. Complaints the rejection of proposals. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-22-m1.u195	30 seconds to complete, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-22-m1.u196	Please support this important bill, which will actually increase the work of ProZorro, and give more opportunities for both the Ukrainian business and the investors. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-22-m1.u197	Thank you. So let's do the recording: two in, two in, two in. Please, from the Self-Help faction of Roman Semenich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-22-m1.u198	Semenha Roman, "The Self-Help Union" faction. Dear colleagues, indeed, the reform of public procurement is probably one of the few reforms undertaken jointly by the government and parliament. Today, through the ProZorro system in Ukraine, there are about a million auctions per year. And in less than two years, the system was able to save more than 50 billion dollars. And it's not just numbers, it's actually a colossal resource that state-owned enterprises can invest in their own development. But perhaps there are no ideal systems, so it is time to improve this legislation. In particular, today's legislation allows us to choose whether to conduct purchases for the public enterprise between 50 and 200,000 dollars through the ProZorro platform. And for obvious reasons, companies often choose not to do so. Today, it is also possible to correct formal errors in tender proposals only in private auctions, and there is no such possibility in government. This literally means that a mistake in a digit or a letter or for any other formal reason can be a reason to discriminate against an unfavourable participant. The charges of purchasing goods today cost 5,000 dollars, and the procedures for purchasing jobs cost 15. This leads to a lot of complaints to the Antimonopoly Committee about the expensive trades, and almost no one complains about the cost, and the price is high for them. That's why the self-help faction will vote "yes" in the first reading. But the draft law needs to be thoroughly revised in the second reading. That is, the bill provides that the charges of simplified purchase are made in court. However, it is difficult to say that the effectiveness and effectiveness of such an accusation is the result of short periods of purchase and lengthy trials. In millions and millions of purchases, one and a half percent can be a significant amount. Obviously, the price of the large - auction lawsuits should also be reduced. Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-22-m1.u199	Please, 30. One minute to complete.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-22-m1.u200	Also worth mentioning is the serious, weak protection of ProZorro's information resources. During the targeted verification carried out by the State Security Service, it was found that the enterprise operates an information and technology support, where personal data is processed, but there is no comprehensive information protection system, and the information and technology support is connected to the global Internet. And this violates the requirements of a series of articles in legislation. I am convinced that all interested in correcting the flaws in preparing for the second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-22-m1.u201	Thank you. And please, Andrew Teteruk. He represents the position of the People's Front.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-22-m1.u202	Andrew Teteruk, People's Front. Considering that all decisions in Parliament are taken with the People's Front and no decision has been made without us, of course we will vote in favour of this bill. It certainly needs work, and I'm convinced that the national MPs will do their best to improve it to such a level that it works and strengthens our ProZorro system, and we're proud that we're the Parliament that started it, and now we're multiplying it into the world. So I urge everyone to return to their jobs now, to vote in favour, and to end this night with the winners. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-22-m1.u203	Thank you very much. Please, Mr. Lensky. Ah, Victor Halasyuk. Please, Mr. Victor.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-22-m1.u204	Victor Halasyuk, Oleg Lachka Radical Party. What does this bill offer us? To continue the policy that the Ministry of Economics and Government has not spent the first year. You see, Kiev bought 2 billion dollars of Polish tram cars instead of the Lion's Electronics. You see, you bought $650 million of French helicopters instead of Zaporozhye Motor City. You see, in the presence of Stepan Ivanovich Kubi, they signed a memorandum from the U.S. Hydroenergo, they want to buy $500 million of Chinese turbines instead of taking them to the Harkowi Turboatem. But that's five years of Turboatu's work, where 3.5 thousand Ukrainians work! So these laws of yours continue this policy -- the policy of destroying the Ukrainian industry, stealing Ukrainian jobs abroad, desecrating Ukraine's economy and fertilizing the debt of the International Monetary Fund. The Radical Party team proposes, in principle, a different policy of public procurement: to make the country a tool for the development of the Ukrainian economy. And for that, I thank you very much, colleagues, for adopting the bill "Buy Ukrainians, Pay Ukrainians." It favors Ukrainian goods in public procurement, it makes it not the price of the main criteria, but the life cycle, the local ingredient and price, including how it works in Europe and the United States. How does that actually work? And you made us a banana republic because the raw economy depends on the IMF's loans, and you're proposing to continue this policy today. We are definitely against it. The price of Ukrainian producers, orders to Ukrainian factories, not as today: critical entry of imports, more than 50 per cent of imports into the economy, in China, 15 per cent, in the United States, 17 per cent. What you're turning us into is a dump of imported goods. Support for your own manufacturer, wages, jobs for Ukrainians.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-22-m1.u205	Please, Vladimir Gooseka, give me your word.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-22-m1.u206	Vladimir Gusak, Opposition Block. Dear Ukrainians, dear colleagues, dear Head! With regard to this bill and generally the spheres of public procurement. Let's not be happy with the illusions, the corruption in government procurement has gone away in recent years. And just like before, in this area, tens or hundreds of billions of dollars are stolen or simply disappeared. The only thing that got bigger was, like in that anecdotes, more paper work became. And this bill will not solve this problem, because there is neither the desire nor the will to fight corruption nor the will to fight for more effective public procurement. Your Honor, it's almost 2:00 a.m. Both the Head of the Supreme Council and other leaders today have repeatedly said that our work now depends on the life of the country, so we need to work with responsibility. I have one question. Now they're going to consider a very complex tax bill, over a thousand rights. A lot of things. These are complex things that need to be worked out. Why is this bill adopted at 2:00 a.m.? What quality of government can we speak of in general? We need to set an example for the country, not the other way around. And in these circumstances, of course, the faction of the Opposition Block will not be able to support the bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-22-m1.u207	Thank you. My colleagues, I just want to remind you that the Supreme Council of Ukraine voted in favour of continuing its work. And now we can't break this important vote, and we have to go through the entire agenda. This was the decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. And now the Presidium can't break it. That's why we work, colleagues, and, you know, this Supreme Council didn't work. Please, the word is now given by the non-fractional deputies of the People's Deputies, then by the Government, the word is given to the Deputy Minister of Economics, Maxim Nephrodov, and we go to the vote. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-22-m1.u208	Lewchenko, Freedom, 223 District, Kiev City. Right now, the Supreme Council, by adopting this law, is in the process of correcting mistakes in fact. And in general, given the atmosphere we're in right now and what's happening right now, that's basically the whole story of correcting mistakes. For those of the few who may still be watching or listening, I would like to say such an interesting thing. Having entered the session room just now, the first thing that feels is a direct sense of overheat in the air. Overheaval is simply felt in the air. That's how many national deputies have been openly pouring for themselves for the last few hours, and they've been using it very well. Well, that's the reality that's happening right now, and now the Supreme Council wants to vote on the budget. And the law that is now being passed is the law that is right. Indeed, the errors made in ProZorro should be corrected. It's just this law, what it says right now, is that criticism that we sounded, that I personally, "Freedom," sounded like the original law that was passed a few years ago. And a few years ago, we said that we couldn't leave 50, 100,000 dollars without any total control. We can't leave them at the threshold. You can't do that, you can't buy anything and there won't be any reports. That's what we've been saying. We warned you not to approve. What did they say? Then there was talk of liberalisation, of deregulation, which needed to be done to make things easier for everyone, and of running. It's been a few years and they're passing this bill and they're saying, oh, corruption, we have to do something, let's do it. Yes, we are voting for him in the first reading, although he is far from correcting all problems. But when you finally start to adopt normal laws instead of, if you'll excuse me, just do it in a banal way.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-22-m1.u209	Dear colleagues! Ladies and gentlemen, I now give the floor to sum up this debate on an important bill, which is given to the Deputy Minister of Economy, Maxim Nephrodov. Please, Mr. Maxime.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-22-m1.u210	Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for considering this bill at night. But this is really important for the country. This bill continues to reform the public purchases you started and makes Ukraine number one in the world, we're learning from all countries, this system is already operating in our neighbours. We are deepening reform and providing additional access to small businesses for purchases. What does it mean that we're going to simplify small tenders? This means that small businesses will be able to gain access to purchases that were formerly just culinary and devoted to the direct contract of godfather, brother, and marriage. And we're also correcting the problems that have accumulated in the system over the last three years. We are improving the situation of the complaint, which many of you have also come and reported and reported and reported to the voters. So the situation is going to be much better now. I very much ask you to support in the first reading, I'm sure we'll be working on it for the second time, taking into account the ideas that have come along over the past six months. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-22-m1.u211	Thank you, colleagues. We finished the discussion. Colleagues, in one minute we're moving on to making a decision. I ask all the heads of factions to invite deputies to the hall. Please inform the Supreme Council Secretariat that we will be moving into the Hall in a minute. One minute, Caplin, please. And the closing word is one minute. Okay. Please, Caplin, come into the hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-22-m1.u212	Simple Ukrainians need to explain the contents of manipulations, the falsification of data by the deputy minister of the economy. The economy in public procurement before ProZorro was 24 percent, now about 7 percent. That's the first one. The other one. Anyone who's ever faced the problems of ProZorro in local self-government knows how our children are starving because we can't do a tender, we're doing more precisely, and then we're meeting suitors from some of the other counterparties who are blocking the execution of one or more contracts. It's a complete nonsense, putting ProZorro in place for contracts up to 1 million dollars, it paralyses local self-government, children will be hungry, the communal sphere will not work, you'll destroy all the institutions of local self-government, utilities, just let them go under the oxygen. This bill cannot be voted on in any way today, especially today, by drunken MPs.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-22-m1.u213	Dear colleagues, please sum up the discussion that took place in the hall. First of all, I want to remind you that in the Supreme Council of Ukraine it's forbidden to drink alcoholic beverages and they don't sell in the buffet, so I'm asking you to pay attention. The second is very important in terms of the bill, not the atmosphere in the hall. This is an extremely important bill that continues this trend, which is positively and positively accepted by both Ukrainian entrepreneurs and foreign investors and our colleagues. Because on the ProZorro system, we managed: (a) and much to fight corruption on purchases, and (b) to save very serious costs. And the adoption of this bill provides another 9 billion savings. Are these costs too much for our budget today? So it's very important, and here we thank all the colleagues who stressed it. We need to vote on this bill today. Please support and do not invent any existing nonsense, as if it were a law that poses risks. It's good for the Ukrainian economy, it's transparency of the economy, which means competitiveness. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-22-m1.u214	And now the closing statement is Andrew Ivanchuk, please two minutes, and we're going to the vote. Colleagues, come into the hall, I'm asking you to invite everyone from the towers into the hall. Please, Andrew Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-22-m1.u215	Dear friends! Please note that this is about first reading and taking the bill as a basis. I agree with all the national MPs. But for that, we vote in favour of the draft in the first reading so that we can make some changes to the second reading. I'm asking everyone to support him so that he can become the property of the Supreme Council, and we can work on him. Thank you very much and please all vote in favour. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-22-m1.u216	So let's move on to making a decision. I'm asking everyone to take up jobs. Please return to the hall. To return from the beds of both the government and the guest. You're ready, aren't you? And I'm voting on a bill amending the Ukrainian Public Procurement Act and some other Ukrainian legislation (No. 8265) on a basis, colleagues, just on a basis. I ask everyone to support and please vote, and to be in places during the vote. Please vote and please support. Vote, colleagues, please. Vote. [[02:01:05]] For-166 Please show by factions. Peter Poshenko Block - 75, National Front 58, Opposition Block - 0, Self-help - 10, Radical Party - 0, Fatherland - 0, Will of the People - 6, Rebirth - 2, non-fractional - 15. Colleagues, I'll put you back. Please come into the hall. So, colleagues, I'm proposing to go back to the draft Public Procurement Act. And I call on all factions, especially coalition members, to vote and support. Please vote, please support. We're voting for the return. [[02:02:22]] For-160. Andry Volodymyrovich, there's not even close to a vote so we can take it. So, colleagues, draft Law 8265 I declare rejected. And we, colleagues, are moving on to a draft law that we have the next day to amend the Ukrainian Tax Code and some other Ukrainian legislation on improving administration and review (No. 9260). I want to emphasize that the tables are distributed in the hall. Many of them have already been sold out. Please, come on. In addition, all the tables are on the Web site of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. And that's why anyone who wants to watch the Web site of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The tables continue and will continue to be distributed in the hall during the discussion of the amendments. And I invite you to report to the head of the Tax and Customs Committee of South Carolina's Nina Petrovna. Nina Petrovna, I invite you to the report. Please, Nina Petrovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-22-m1.u217	Dear colleagues, you know we haven't had a lot of time, but we've been on the committee looking at all of your amendments to Bill 9260. And today, at its meeting, the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Tax and Customs Policy recommended to the Supreme Council of Ukraine the adoption of Bill 9260 in second reading and in general with technical law. As far as amendments are concerned, there was really a lot of work going on. And most of them are related to the fact that, in fact, during this year, we have passed very few bills related to the amendment of the Tax Code. And that's why some colleagues have amended all their draft laws, which they've registered separately, in the form of amendments to the bill. So we had to make every correction long enough to understand and understand the meaning. Of course, some of the amendments were supported, and some were rejected. As for the very key points that are in this bill, before we go to the amendments, I apologize for the whole blocks that we have been forced to exclude from this draft law that were passed by our colleagues and signed by most members of the committee. These are related, for example, to whole blocks related to the taxation of income derived from cryptocurrency operations. We didn't look at this block of norms on the committee, because there was a request from the Ministry of Finance to start with basic definitions and then approach the tax system. I hope that we, our country, will not lose the chance to tax those incomes that are generated by the new trend, the new income-generating tool, but we will still be able to tax such incomes in the country. As for the bill itself on resource amendments, they're almost unchanged, we'll go to them, you'll see what proposals were made. Most of the amendments involved, for example, the cost of shipments, and some amendments related to the electronic fuel management system and the electronic administration of ethyl alcohol, which has been debated so far. We can go to the amendments and look at each of them. Will there be a solution?
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-22-m1.u218	Thank you. Take. Is there another solution? So, colleagues, I'm asking the right-wing authors, we're moving on to the discussion. But I would ask you not to insist on all the revisions, but only on those that are the most principled for discussion. I really hope that we can have a dynamic review of the rights, and I ask the right-wing authors to emphasize only the most important. I'm very counting on it, and I'm hoping for an effective and fast work in law enforcement. And please, on the right-hand side, I'm handing over the word to Irina Heratchenko, and the right-wing authors please pay attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-22-m1.u219	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I also hope that the committee has worked very effectively on the amendments, and you and I will be able to get through them very quickly. Ostrikova insists on repairing the number. 20th. Don't you insist? Please, the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-22-m1.u220	Dear colleagues, the 20th amendment of my authorship proposes to implement in the Tax Code the 13th step of BEPS to introduce into our tax legislation the notions of an international group of companies, a mother company of an international group of companies and the obligation of such companies to report in a country and a master file to record all companies that are part of a group indicating what they are doing in this group. And this is a step in an anti-offshoring settlement. I point out that according to our international commitments, Ukraine is obliged to do so by January 1, 2019. Unfortunately, the draft bill on the website of the Ministry of Finance and the National Bank has been posted but is not submitted or registered in Parliament. So at least this step we have to implement right now. This is an anti-offshor action in our Tax Code. Thank you, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-22-m1.u221	Please be determined by Mrs. Ostrick's 50th to 20th amendment. I'd like to make up my mind. Colleagues, if I miss a correction and you'll let me know. Okay? Now we're on the 20th amendment. [[02:09:51]] For-57 The correction is being rejected. Debtskov, 50 repairs. Do you insist or do you insist? Yours. Don't you insist? He insists, please. Huh? Please, Dudenkov's microphone. And I'm going to ask you, colleague, to sound these amendments that you're going to insist that we walk on them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-22-m1.u222	Thank you, thank you. Thank you very much. First you need to turn on the microphone and then wait for the answer to your questions. As for the rights, we worked on them on the committee. I've had a lot of rights, but we've found a constructive compromise that we've been able to reach. Accordingly, I do not insist on all the rejected amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-22-m1.u223	Thank you. You don't insist on your revisions. Nina Petrovna, Your Honor Nina Petrovna, please note now that the People's Chamber of Commerce insists that we make the amendment adopted by the Committee be confirmed, Amendment 52. This is the amendment of the people's representative Rizanenko. So now I'm going to give the word Sold, then I'm going to give the Rizanka as the author, that's your amendment. Please, Mrs. Prodan.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-22-m1.u224	Dear Nina Petrovna, distinguished colleagues, I ask for confirmation of the 52 amendments supported by the committee. This amendment provides that taxpayers are entitled to provide information by e - mail. Therefore, the provision of information is deemed to have been given in the case that, if taxed, it sent its e-mail and whether the payer received it, did not receive it, opened it, or did not open it, it is believed that he received a tax notice from the tax service. I think it's wrong, there are completely different, including electronic, means of transmitting information, and I think that this amendment cannot be taken into account and I ask that it be put to the confirmation and not voted for. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-22-m1.u225	Please speak to the author, Paul Rizanenko. Please, Mr. Paul. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-22-m1.u226	Dear colleagues, the amendment was made on purpose, as there are problems with the administration of the real estate tax that we have imposed. This is about hundreds of thousands of letters that are tax bound to be sent to individuals, for this is the only way to inform them. To ensure that no one is afraid or concerned, I would like to point out that an email message is possible only when the taxpayer has agreed to do so by providing an appropriate e - mail address to the tax collector. If he did not do so, he would be notified by letter. Why did the problem arise? Because this tax usually consists of a pair of tens of dollars, and its administration, that is, sending envelopes with a message, costs even more. That's why this amendment was proposed. Anyone who wants will receive e-mails, who doesn't, and will receive letters. I'm asking you to support this.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-22-m1.u227	Mrs. Oksana, you have heard the explanation of your colleague Mr. Rizanenko. Are you comfortable with this explanation? No, he's not. Dear colleagues, I'd like to confirm the amendment of the 52nd Paul Rizanenko. The committee accepted it. Oksana Prodan requires that she be put on the stand for confirmation. I'm asking you to fix this for the committee. Please make up your mind. The committee is requesting support for this amendment. Please make up your mind. [[02:13:36]] For-64 The amendment is not accepted. Colleagues, I'm asking for your attention right now. And we're at the correction. I would be grateful if Mrs. Ostrikova and Mr. Semenach would give me the list of their amendments that you insist upon me. Because it's hard to, you know, mark them. 90th is yours, Mrs. Ostrikak. Don't you insist? If you give me a list of these amendments, I will be very grateful. In the meantime, please give the floor to the National Deputy Illenka. 155 revisions. Colleagues, if I don't have an amendment to 155, please raise your hand to 155th, I'll give you my word. Okay. Please, Mr. Illenko, give me your word.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-22-m1.u228	Andrew Illenko, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union, the city of Kiev. Our amendment refers to what we consider to be inappropriate for the actual transfer of customs administration to international postal operators. That's what customs is supposed to do, first. Secondly, our amendments also concern the issue of non-admission to reduce the cost of duty-free shipments from 150 euros to 100 euros. Because it is a very important channel of support for Ukrainians today, who are not very often forced to go abroad to make a living for themselves and their families, to support their families in Ukraine. And that's an increase in their workload when the price goes down to 100 euros. I think it's, and we think it's totally unacceptable and it's a criminal antisocial policy.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-22-m1.u229	Colleagues, I'm asking you to make 155 adjustments, please. [[02:15:47]] Z-71 The correction is being rejected. Please turn on Mrs. Captain Oleni's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-22-m1.u230	Thank you. Olena Sotnik, Self-Help faction. I ask for confirmation of the order of 152 Deputy Babia in view of what we believe to be a threat to the single working, efficient reform of public procurement. And these risks are too great for us to be able to do this today just when we have this chaotic vote for the Tax Code so that they can be accepted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-22-m1.u231	Dear colleagues, this is the amendment of the People's Deputy Bobov. Is he in the hall? Would you like to take the floor as the author of the amendment, National Deputy Bobov? Please, the microphone to the People's Deputy Bob, he's the author of 152 amendments. [[B in m in s a l in]] Babi. Dear colleagues, if you'll excuse me. Babi’s national deputy. I apologize a thousand times. Please, your microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-22-m1.u232	The correction lies in the budget plane. The committee is unanimously supported. It's purely technical. Please vote, please support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-22-m1.u233	Dear colleagues, therefore, the amendment of 152 people’s deputies, Babia. The committee counted it, Oksana Prodan. Helen Sotnik is asking for confirmation. Please be sure. Oksana was just coming to me, I'm sorry. [[02:17:39]] For-82 The correction is being rejected. Please, Your Honor, 187 amendments, National Deputy Biloczerkovets. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-22-m1.u234	Dear colleagues, I would like to support 187 rights regarding the impossibility of lowering an untaxed base when buying goods from 150 euros to 100 euros. For millions of Ukrainians who buy goods in online stores, it's principled, and it's not going to add anything to the government's budget. We need to support our fellow citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-22-m1.u235	I'd like to make a number of 187 adjustments. [[02:18:48]] For 1052 The amendment is rejected – 102 votes. Next 183, Lechchenko. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-22-m1.u236	Lewchenko, Freedom, 223 District, Kiev City. There are no provisions in this Tax Code that will finally deal with transfer pricing, through which billions are legally derived from Ukraine. There is no tax on luxury in this Tax Code. There is no progressive taxation of income in this tax code. Yes, this government and this majority are not introducing our bill on breaking up with the Cyprus Double Tax Agreement. But instead of the tax code, there is a desire to tax only a living Ukrainian middle class and even poorer people, reducing the threshold for taxing shipments from 150 euros to 100 euros. By the way, taxes also go out to employees who are forced to leave the country in order to earn a little bit of bread. That's what you're doing. What kind of blasphemy? Do you have any conscience at all, or have you even forgotten what it is? So our amendment suggests that this innovation be taken away as completely socially unfair and absurd.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-22-m1.u237	Please identify 183 revisions. [[02:20:23]] For-86 The correction is being rejected. 190th Amendment. Ostrikova, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-22-m1.u238	Dear colleagues, the amendment is also directed to return and forever be the norm on the untaxed threshold for citizens' postal shipments, for citizens' shipments of 150 euros. I'm going to let you in on a secret, down from the second half of the 19th year, untaxed imports of shipments up to 100 euros will, according to the government, bring as much as 300 million dollars into the budget. And they think it's an agreed standard with the IMF and it's really going to do some good. But those who today abuse the shipments and the commercial parties break down the goods on the grounds, as if hiding them in the hands of citizens, will not be defeated by this norm. Because in order for this to work, it was necessary to have an e-registration of e-registrations for recipients, e-mailers, to make it all electronic and to make it visible and transparent, and to replace customs declarations. Unfortunately, this has not been done. The implementation of this register is delayed until the 22nd year. So that's the norm.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-22-m1.u239	Please identify 190 amendments. [[02:21:53]] For-81 The correction is being rejected. Mrs. Tetjana, I would appreciate it if you could give us a list of the amendments you insist on. The next amendment, 193, is the People’s Deputy of Semimenah. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-22-m1.u240	Semenha Roman, "The Self-Help Union" faction. Dear colleagues, today shipments from abroad for Ukrainians are taxed if the cost of such shipment exceeds 150 euros. The draft law offers absolutely incomprehensible reasons to tax a shipment of 100 euros for Ukrainian citizens. According to the government, this should lead to a government budget, attention, an additional 300 million dollars, that's against the backdrop of all the discussions on the budget. Our amendment to the self-help faction is aimed at breaking this rule because it will make the cost of services for the Ukrainians more valuable. The budget gap system, due to increasing pressure on ordinary Ukrainians, is totally unacceptable. I call on the entire session room to support some of our colleagues' adjustments in order to keep the current standard that allows for more than 150 euros to be taxed. I don't understand why the committee didn't hear any of this because it's actually in the pockets of ordinary Ukrainian citizens today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-22-m1.u241	Please comment to the head of the shipping committee. Please. After this amendment, 193.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-22-m1.u242	Dear colleagues! I'll allow myself to comment on why the committee has adopted such a position. And I'm asking you not to abuse or take the populist position that you just sounded. The situation with the mail is very difficult right now. While some operators already have e-registration mails, they can be identified and some operators transport them, continue to carry them with bags. We know that this is how large batches of goods are being processed that are being sold in these kind of online stores. This is one way to smuggle goods into Ukraine. So it's only for this bill that we're introducing an electronic package administration system. And this system, unfortunately, can only work since 2021, because Crucifixion is in a contract, a European post office agreement and it can't start early.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-22-m1.u243	Thank you so much for your clarification. Please be determined by 193 amendments. I think we have had an explanation for this amendment. And Mrs. Yuzanina explained that it was a fight against smuggling, so the amendment was rejected. [[02:24:45]] For-78 And now the hall has turned it down, 78 in favor. Next 213 Ilyenka. And then I'll give you my word, I see. Please, 213th, Illenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-22-m1.u244	Andrew Illenko, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union, the city of Kiev. This amendment of ours, it refers to not allowing artificial limitations essentially to engage in entrepreneurial activities that already apply to the aviation industry in this matter. But at the same time, with the opportunity, I would like to call on Parliament, no matter which, even if not our amendment, but still do not allow this situation to get worse for the Ukrainians, with the messengers, that now any shipment that has more than 100 euros will be taxed, and that cannot be allowed. Because it is extremely difficult for people to live now, a huge number of Ukrainians at work, so they support their families. And this is not allowed in the Supreme Council to do so, and especially under the cover of night, but the Ukrainians will know who is voting for it. You definitely can't do that. Just as it didn't work out in the Budget Code to push, so now you want to push out the Tax Code, but actually indulgence for corrupt judges. This is similar in the middle of the night so that people do not notice.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-22-m1.u245	I'd like to make my mark on 213 amendments. [[02:26:21]] For-67 The correction is being rejected. Please turn on the microphone to the People's Deputy, please call the number of the amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-22-m1.u246	Thank you. Gennady Krivoshia, faction of the People's Front. Amendment 186, she was missed, I'm not going to put her to a vote, but I would like, in principle, to support what Nina Petrovna said about the corruption and abuse that might be, here I support. But I'd just like to make it clear again how we're going to have this shipment today. So I realized that for a period of time, we're allowing them to be imported to ordinary ordinary citizens, and I'm talking about ordinary ordinary citizens who are constantly buying for their children, for families, ordinary goods, child stuff, and so on. What's this going to be, and what's this period, when it's 150 euros, and what's the price when it's 150 and 100, what's the difference, what's the period in which we just put it on this dot and don't go back? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-22-m1.u247	Thank you. I am asking for the request of the People's Deputy of Krivoshi and the previous amendments, the head of the committee of Mrs. Southan's, to be clarified as to what moments will the shipments be made? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-22-m1.u248	Dear colleagues, such as those worth more than 150 euros, 1.4 percent of the total. And I want to say that to date, a citizen who receives a shipment worth more than 150 euros, he also pays his customs fees and then presents a receipt and collects his parcel. All the operators said that now the absolute behavior of all people is going to change, everyone who needs and buys really goods for themselves, they're going to make sure the shipment doesn't cost more than 100 euros. This will apply exclusively to batches of goods that are imported for sale through stores.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-22-m1.u249	Thank you for your clarification. There was no insistence on voting. Amendment 303, People’s Deputy Belkova. I'll be right back with you, Honourable MP Lewchenko and Halasjuk. Now 303, please, Mrs. Belkova.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-22-m1.u250	Dear lady, thank you for the opportunity to submit for confirmation 303 amendments, it relates to the rent on ore. In my opinion, the misproposed version of Minfin was presented in a version of the Committee with a limitation on the term of the rent on ore only next year. Appropriately, please place on confirmation. And the next one I'd like to take as much as it's mine, also for confirmation.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-22-m1.u251	Please, Honorable People's Deputies, this is your 303rd amendment, it was counted by the committee, Mrs. Bilkova asks to be put on confirmation. Now, as the author, I give you my word on this amendment, 303rd. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-22-m1.u252	Dear colleagues! The proposal was discussed with the Cabinet of Ministers, along with the Ministry of Finance, supported by the committee’s colleagues. And so I would like to support this proposal because it is weighed and considered necessary to support the hall. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-22-m1.u253	Dear colleagues, please proceed to Amendment 303. The committee supported her, please identify yourself. [[02:30:16]] For-66 The correction is being rejected. And I ask you to pay attention to this committee head, 303 amendments. Now it's national deputy galasjuk. And please call the repair number.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-22-m1.u254	289.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-22-m1.u255	289 revisions.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-22-m1.u256	Victor Halasyuk, Oleg Lachka Radical Party. With an amendment, Oleg Valeriovich and I insist that we make a difference between the dragon's increase in environmental taxes for industrial enterprises. It is not enough that this tax is raised 70 times, nor does it have a purpose. So these costs then don't go back to those enterprises so they can take measures to reduce environmental emissions and to deal with the problem. It's a crazy hit on industry. A few billion dollars are being removed from industrial enterprises, and the environmental situation is not getting any better. So Oleg Lášk and I insist on the opposite of this shameful norm. Please consider this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-22-m1.u257	Colleagues, stop. Let's give it a big round of applause! But the sensory repair number. Is that a 289 amendment now? Dear colleague Halasyuk, can I have another 289, please?
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-22-m1.u258	Yes.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-22-m1.u259	Yes. This amendment was not accepted by the committee. This is the amendment of Halasyuk and Laška, please identify yourself. I'd like to make up my mind. [[02:31:52]] For-56 The correction is being rejected. Next amendment of the People’s Deputy Levchenko. 224th, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-22-m1.u260	Lewchenko, Freedom 223 constituency, city of Kiev. With my last amendment, I would like to draw the attention of all Ukrainians to the circus that is now taking place here. These guys now gave us two packs, about 200 pages each about. Yeah, 200 pages each, amendments. Yes. Here they were given literally two minutes before the question began. Yeah, you can, you can barely figure out what you're doing, you can still read it. But to read everything that you've done here, you've stuffed all of your "hotels" with oligarchics and try to process them and beat them down so that this Supreme Council doesn't vote them out, or even if the chances of it being so, it's not realistic. You violated the Supreme Council regulations tomorrow, like, a hundred times. Article 117, which clearly states that you should give in 10 days. And I'm saying in advance, the 561 amendment that you want to essentially throw back that little positive that is still in the so-called judicial reform, that little bonus in this stupid reform, and you want to clean up that we didn't release in the budget code, you want to push through here.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-22-m1.u261	I'd like to make my mark on Lehchenk's 224th amendment. We move under the Rules, colleagues, and all those who want to debate on their amendments have the right to do so. [[02:33:26]] For-31 The amendment of the Levchenka was rejected by 31 national deputies. Next, amendment, People's Deputy Rizanenko, 302nd, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-22-m1.u262	Colleagues, 302 revisions apply to coal rents and I ask you to listen very carefully. We've got the gas and oil approach right, the rent is calculated from the market price and the export-import parities taken. And here's the coal we have the rent, just from the sale price. What I'm saying is that we have coal basically and what's energetic is passed on to the same controlling companies, to those who control these mines. The base is downgraded, according to this right it is proposed to account for the market base. We have an electricity tariff, and I'm sorry, it's based on the cost of Rotterdam Plus Coal, so it's suggested that we take the rent into account from the market prices in Rotterdam and Antwerp ports. And that's exactly what that tariff is, and it's going to make you pay a fair rent, not a low price, as it is now. And in the same direction, it's proposed to raise the very percentage from 0.75 to 3 percent. It was rejected, but I insist and I offer to support it.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-22-m1.u263	Colleagues, I ask to be identified by our distinguished colleague Rizanenko, Amendment 302. Please. [[02:35:00]] For-83 No correction accepted And Amendment 304, this is People's Deputy Belkova, the amendment. Please, Mrs. Ola.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-22-m1.u264	Dear colleagues, my bill relates to the rent on oil and condensate. Unfortunately, the committee didn't listen to my suggestions that I explained that worldwide, they always have the same rent rate. It's gas, oil, and condensate. For some reason this has happened to us that each of these objects has a special approach. They changed for oil last year, promised to change for condensate this year. An updated rate has not yet entered into force; we are already changing it. Of all the rostrums, both the President and the Prime Minister and many deputies in this room are promising Ukrainians an increase in Ukrainian gas production. No investor will believe a country that changes all these bets every night. I only care about the stability of our regime. Please be supportive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-22-m1.u265	Fellows, thank you for explaining the amendment to Mrs. Bilkovi, and I ask that you be determined by 304 amendments, colleagues. [[02:36:34]] For-82 The correction is being rejected. Dear Mrs. Jujanina, now Mrs. Prodan is asking for confirmation of her amendment, her amendment 296 which was supported by the committee, but the author has changed her position. Please, Mrs. Prodan's word.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-22-m1.u266	Dear colleagues, my amendment was marked in the table. In fact, the committee supported a more complete edition of the environmental congregation, where we predicted to the entire committee that those CO2-sourced objects with emissions of less than 500,000 tons per year would not pay environmental taxes. So I take off my amendment and I ask you to consider it rejected because you put it on confirmation and you don't vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-22-m1.u267	Thank you. We heard they were shooting. Dear colleagues, I welcome you, we've passed the first volume of the amendment, we have only one volume left, and I think we're doing enough dynamic work. So now it's 562. [[B in m in s a l in]] I remember everything. I remember everything. [[B in m in s a l in]] Now. My colleagues, look, I'm going after the amendments that the authors have made, and they're not accounted for by the committee. And we're going the wrong way. Then I'll go after those who asked for confirmation. And I'm asking you to come up, just call me those numbers. Okay? 562th, this is the amendment of the people's deputy Kulinić, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-22-m1.u268	Please place amendment 562 on confirmation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-22-m1.u269	Now, one. Now we're going the wrong way. I'm rejecting it. No, I think he misphrased. I'm opening the amendment and now I'm going to read you what it's all about. Dear colleagues, I have heard and I remember, and now I want to tell you once again that my logic was that we first follow the amendments that colleagues insist on, the rejects, and then the confirmed ones. That was my logic. If she's wrong, I'll agree with you. Just a minute. So now we have amendment 562. Colleagues, Amendment 562, this is the amendment of the Kulinić People's Deputy. She was counted by the committee. You changed your mind, and you changed your mind. You want her to be rejected. Dear colleagues, Mr. Kulinic is making his own amendment for confirmation. I'd like to make a statement. [[02:39:55]] For-37 The correction is being rejected. Yeah, we're moving on to that amendment, colleagues who are asking for confirmation. 561, Sobolev. This is an amendment made by the Janicki People’s Deputy, who was considered by the committee. I'm asking you to turn on the microphone of Sobolev and then the author of Janicki's 561st amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-22-m1.u270	It's actually a shame for Parliament to consider such proposals. We're looking at the Tax Code with you now. The amendment, although I'm sure it's not him, and he's been forced to sign it, suggests those judges who lost the contests that are now going to the courts to consider that they can continue to do justice. In fact, this is particularly true of the sad judge Vuka, who is very well - known in this room. He did not really go through the competition, after which he stopped the evaluation, and this amendment allows him to be regarded as having passed and confirmed his right to exercise justice. It is a shame to suggest such a thing and, more importantly, it is a shame to suggest such a thing when considering the Tax Code. Please do not vote for this proposal or submit it.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-22-m1.u271	Please, Mr. Janicki. Is there an amendment? He's out. Now I'm betting on confirmation of 561 amendments. Ms. Nina, I'd like you to fix those amendments that are valid for confirmation. Colleagues, please identify yourself. [[02:42:04]] For-36 The correction is being rejected. Next. My colleagues, look, I can't hear. I am very grateful to all who have come along to call the amendments. I'm going to go after whoever called it, who else wants to add something, please come along, write. 572, this is the amendment of the Vasunika People's Deputy. We'll go back to the others, I'll go after all the adjustments. 572, Vasunika People's Deputy, amendment. Batenko's asking for confirmation, 572.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-22-m1.u272	Dear Mrs. Irina, I thank you very much for your consideration and scrupulousness of all the amendments to the Tax Code, regardless of the 3rd hour of the night. I want to say that this amendment applies to the aviation congregations, as I am, and not only to me, to too large an aviation congregation that does not contribute to the development of our domestic aviation sector. If it is not buried, it is not possible to get back on its feet. Therefore, we ask that this amendment be made for confirmation and that it is not supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-22-m1.u273	Dear colleague Vasjunik, please microphone. Don't walk away from me.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-22-m1.u274	Thank you. Dear colleagues, it is very common in court to block the arrival of a special aviation operating fund. Therefore, at the legislative level, we simply need to establish this standard in order to ensure the proper level of flight safety and the participation of Ukraine in international aviation organizations. It is essential that we vote in favour of this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-22-m1.u275	Dear colleagues, I ask you to determine for the amendment of the 552nd Vasjunika. I reiterate that the committee has supported this amendment and is asking for support. Please make up your mind. [[02:44:03]] For-95 The correction is being rejected. Mrs. Nina, I'd like you to take a 572 note. We're moving on. National MP Bezbach. 372 revisions.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-22-m1.u276	Please explain why you rejected 372 amendments. I don't understand.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-22-m1.u277	Dear Deputy Bezbach, I give you my word.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-22-m1.u278	I'm telling you, I'm already talking and I said it.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-22-m1.u279	Yes, 372 amendments, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-22-m1.u280	I asked you to explain why everyone was rejected. You don't have to vote. I want to know for myself.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-22-m1.u281	I see. Please, Mrs. Nina, 372 amendments apply to the scrap metal, please explain them.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-22-m1.u282	It's an extension of some kind of benefit. We need to open the Tax Code now and see. Item 32. We can move on, and I'll find this pill and explain. Why are you doing this? Now, now, let's find out, hold on, in section 2, paragraph 23.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-22-m1.u283	Thank you. You did not insist on voting, you heard the explanation. We're moving on. 393, National Deputy Krulco. That's his amendment. Mr. John, it was rejected. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-22-m1.u284	Ivan Krulko, "The Fatherland" faction. Dear colleagues and those who are looking at us right now, I would like to welcome all the fans of electric cars, those who are in favor of environmentalism, in green energy, with the fact that we have finally managed to get those who want to buy an electric car to do so without excise duties, or customs, or even VAT. This is a very important breakthrough and I want to welcome all those who plan to do so to buy themselves an electric car. But I want to say about the Tax Code. We had to put this code into effect one single law, the Transfer Price Act. And then you didn't have to go to the IMF with your hand out. Enter this law and force the oligarchs to pay their taxes honestly in the budget from what they draw and sell through offshore. Thank you. That's when it's really going to be the Tax Code for which Fatherland is going to vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-22-m1.u285	Thank you. You're not insisting on 393 amendments, you're just sounding your position. Please, National Deputy Rybchin. He doesn't insist on voting either, but he wants to hear 423 and 430 amendments. May I have Rybchin's word?
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-22-m1.u286	Alexy Rybchin, "Fatherland" faction, Donetsk. I would also like to thank the committees and those deputies who applied for the support of electric cars. If this law is voted on, for 3 years the car will have extended VAT benefits. And this will allow you to develop not only electric transport, but also charging infrastructure, and this is a sector that is now growing in Ukraine. We have a bunch of companies that produce charging stations, these are Ukrainian Aitish, Ukrainian engineers that install those charging stations. And as long as we don't support a comprehensive bill that will allow for the creation of electric infrastructure here in Ukraine, it will develop, well, let's say, a market path at the expense of this benefit, which I hope the Supreme Council will give to people. So thank you all for the help. And I'm asking you to put 423 amendments to the vote because it also cancels the excise on an electric car, which unfortunately has not been canceled.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-22-m1.u287	What amendment? Four.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-22-m1.u288	423rd.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-22-m1.u289	This is your amendment that was not accepted by the committee. I'd like to make a statement on 423 amendments. [[02:48:21]] Z-62 The correction is being rejected. Please, the People's Deputies of Galasjuk. 414th and 439th Amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-22-m1.u290	Victor Halasyuk, Oleg Lachka Radical Party. We insist on taking into account our 414 amendment with Oleg Valeriovich, which we propose to renew for five years the income tax for Ukrainian polygraph companies, for bookmakers, in order to contribute significantly to the publication of the Ukrainian book. You look at the language quota laws we passed in Parliament, they work and work effectively. Thus, this mistake, once made by the authorities, needs to be corrected today and given to the Ukrainian bookkeepers the income tax benefits. For the budget, it's not a huge cost, but for these bookmakers, it's going to be a great incentive to develop their activities in Ukraine, to publish books in Ukrainian, and I think it's right not just from an economic point of view, but in terms of the development strategy of the state of Ukraine. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-22-m1.u291	Please identify yourself by amendment 414, which was rejected by the committee. [[02:49:52]] Z-70. The correction is being rejected. The next 439th, the Galasyuk is the same. Please. Victor Halasyuk. Victor Halasyuk 439.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-22-m1.u292	What's the number?
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-22-m1.u293	439.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-22-m1.u294	439. Dear colleagues, this again applies to the environmental tax. An increase of 70 times the environmental tax for industrial enterprises. It's minus a few billion dollars that could be channeled by these enterprises just to improve the environment, to energy efficiency, to actually solve these problems, not to preserve them. And they're taking money into the budget, and without a target, without a target. This means that the problem is not solved, in enterprises less money for modernization, less money for wage increases. That's not right. And that's actually the wrong approach to this tax legislation. Raise taxes for industry, for ordinary people, instead of giving powerful investment tax incentives to develop new productions in Ukraine. So Oleg Lášk and I insist on taking into account our amendment 439. We support Ukrainian.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-22-m1.u295	Please identify yourself for 439 amendments. The committee turned her down. [[02:51:23]] For-54 The correction is being rejected. Amendment 541, People’s Deputy Ostrkova. Mrs. Ostrikak, this is your amendment, which is rejected. You're the one who's putting it on confirmation. Now. Please, Mrs. Ostrick's microphone, 541.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-22-m1.u296	Dear colleagues, I would like to place on confirmation 541 amendments to the Musak People's Deputies, which actually removes the rations from certain objects on social infrastructure. And I think that since it only cleans up from certain objects here, it creates discrimination against one kind of business in front of another. We either have to cancel this rations contribution by giving compensation to local councils or by not giving aid to any other area of the economy and type of building. That's why I'm asking for confirmation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-22-m1.u297	Musak as the author of the amendment, will you take the word? People's deputy Musak has left. Please identify yourself for amendment 541. The committee's asking her to support it. Colleagues, please identify yourself. [[02:52:47]] For-48 The correction is being rejected. Then I give my word to the People's Deputy Pinzenik, two minutes. But the language will go, I beg you, Mrs. Nina, to listen to you very carefully. Mr. Pinzenik insists that he wants to bet on confirming the amendment from 384 to 401. Please, two minutes, Mr. Pinzenik's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-22-m1.u298	Dear National Deputies! Although it's 18 rights, but they apply to the same standard, they apply to electric cars. First, I will read to you the rules of the law, which is called the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, article 116. "Proposals and amendments to a bill prepared for second reading may only be made to a text which has been accepted as a basis." The text of the law adopted in the first reading does not refer to electric cars. I would ask my colleagues once again not to remind society that there is no law written for MPs. The regulation is the law. And now, essentially. The VAT is just a formula by which our citizens participate in financing education, medicine, defense. Buying bread, citizens' doctors, teachers, pensioners pay for the maintenance of our military, for medicine, for education. We've chosen the poorest category of people who buy electric cars, and we're releasing them from VAT. What is the moral of this decision? I'm asking you to place all of these checks on confirmation.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-22-m1.u299	Mrs. Nina, will you comment? Because it's about 18 amendments. Please, first of all, the authors of the amendments, Mrs. Ostrikav. And then Mrs. Nina Yuzanin. Mrs. Ostrikova, one minute, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-22-m1.u300	Dear colleagues! My 385th amendment, which proposes to extend the tax benefit to the added value for electric cars, is counted by the committee. We've been doing this for three years. And since we have no incentive for today to stimulate less fuel consumption, which is mainly imported, there is no, we decided for 3 years, and we don't produce electric cars in Ukraine, we decided for 3 years to continue the import of electric cars to reduce fuel consumption and to move on to more environmentally efficient and more environmentally friendly modes of transport. And that's why it's very important right now to get in touch with each other, and to support exactly 385 amendments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-22-m1.u301	Dear colleagues, please, Mrs Nina, Nina Petrovna, 384 and 401 amendments to the committee's comment.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-22-m1.u302	You know, we were going to consider two more bills today based on electric cars, and you and I were saying that we wouldn't bring in 9260 in the first reading just because we wanted to consider a comprehensive bill today. In view of the fact that we have not had enough time and yet that we have adopted bills to import used cars in order to stimulate the import of more environmentally friendly cars, we should abandon this standard. The fact is, all the factions had to be amended, so we had to account for, literally, all the factions.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-22-m1.u303	Dear Mr. Pinzenik, have you been satisfied with your explanation? No, we're not satisfied. Colleagues, I'm betting on confirmation of the 18 successive amendments that the committee has supported, please identify yourself. 384th. Please be sure, the committee supported it, it's for confirmation. And it's about electric cars. [[2:56:49]] For 128 The correction is being rejected. 385th. I'd like to make a statement. [[2:57:06]] For-119 386. I'd like to make a statement. [[02:57:23]] For the 110. 387. I'd like to make a statement. Colleagues, the request is not to balance the bill that the committee has been working on for so long. [[02:57:39]] For 113 The correction is being rejected. 388th. I'd like to make a statement. [[02:57:56]] For 115 389th. I'd like to make a statement. [[02:58:12]] For 109 390. I'd like to make a statement. All previous amendments were rejected from 384 to 390. [[02:58:30]] For 109 The correction is being rejected. 391. I'd like to make a statement. Mr. Dubnevich, I'm going to the Rules. [[2:58:49]] For a hundred and The correction is being rejected. 392. I'd like to make up my mind. [[2:59:06]] For the 180. The correction is being rejected. 393. I'd like to make a statement. [[02:59:23]] For the 180. The correction is being rejected. 394. I'd like to make a statement. [[02:59:39]] For 113 395th. I'd like to make a statement. This amendment was rejected just now. [[2:59:55]] For 115 The correction is being rejected. 396. I'd like to make a statement. [[3:00:11]] For a-117. Correction Rejected 397, please be sure. 397. [[03:00:25]] For 115 The correction is being rejected. 398th, please identify yourself. [[03:00:42]] For-119 Edit declines. 400 amendments, please. [[03:01:00]] For 124 The correction is being rejected. 401, please. I'd like to make a statement. Please be determined by 401 amendments. [[3:01:22]] For 114 The correction is being rejected. Next amendment 500. Now, 561s. Please turn on the Captain microphone. This is Janicko's amendment. Mrs. Nina, it's all right, I'm sorry. Yeah, right now. 575th, please turn on Captain's microphone. Colleagues, 575 repairs.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-22-m1.u304	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Captain Olena, Self-Help faction. The 575th amendment and I'm asking for confirmation to put 151th, they're linked. I'm sorry we have to jump back and forth on the table, but in half an hour, I'm sorry to read all the things that the committee has given us right now, it's very difficult, and we're catching, in fact, blitz in this law. All of these changes are related to electronic playgrounds where individuals can make a living. Now they want to tie notaries to these electronic sites so that, I take it, they pay extra to these people. So I find it unacceptable, first of all, to put at risk, once again, the reform of transparent purchases, and secondly, to impose an additional yoke on notaries in the form of additional supplements. That's why 151th and 575th are for confirmation.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-22-m1.u305	Colleagues, therefore, at the request of the Stotnik People's Deputies, we now place two amendments that the committee has taken into account and now ask for support. Please specify 575 revisions. [[03:03:23]] For-66 And that's a negative, 66 in favor. And 151 amendments please be made, and the committee has supported it. [[3 :03:43]] Z-71 The correction is being rejected. Yes, go on, People's Deputy Dove, please 504 revisions.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-22-m1.u306	Thank you. Dear Chairman! People's deputy pigeon, 197th constituency, Cherkaschina. My next four revisions are 504, 507, 509, 510, and I'd like to do it on a case-by-case basis, in terms of licensing, fuel storage. Nina Petrovna, I'd like you to hear me. See, there are enough companies that use fuel for their own needs, they don't implement fuel to third parties, so there's no absolute logic in licensing this activity. So let's, well, you're still very pervasive, not creating one. pressure on business. That's why I'm proposing that we remove from the activities that are licensed, this is the storage of fuel that is used, I emphasize, exclusively for the needs of the enterprises concerned. Thank you. I'd like to support you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-22-m1.u307	Please be determined by 504 amendments. My colleagues, we have literally five amendments that we insist on. Please return to the session room, while we are working on the amendments of the People’s Deputies of the Pigeon. I can see everyone and remember everything. 504 revisions. Please. The committee turned her down. [[3 :05:25]] For-82 The correction is being rejected. Next, dove, 507, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-22-m1.u308	Nina Petrovna, come on. I'd like to re-emphasize one simple thing. Look, there's a lot of agrarian companies, other companies that use fuel for their own purposes, so I don't understand why license fuel warehouses that are used in the future for their own purposes in the agrarian sector in another sector. So one more time. I understand that there's a way to fill the budget, so let's license everyone in a row. Let's license each of our performances, so we can basically license them. That's why when you don't use fuel for third parties, which is to store, I don't understand the logic of getting a storage license. That's what this is all about. Thank you. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-22-m1.u309	Please determine 507 amendments. The committee turned her down. Well, I'm just stressing to my colleagues that this is about a rejected amendment, not a confirmation. I'd like to make a statement. [[B in m in s a l in]] Friends, don't quarrel over repairs, it's not worth it. [[03:06:54]] For-83 Correction rejected, 83 votes in favour. Next up, 509th. Please, the Blue Word. Let's just vote, it's also about the issue that our esteemed colleague Dove has raised. I'd like to make a statement, colleagues. 509 repairs. Very. [[B in m in s a l in]] Colleagues, don't exchange favors. Please. Well, that's a good one. [[03:07:26]] For-80 She was supported by 80 deputies. 510 revisions. I'd like to make a statement. Guys, we have two adjustments left. I am. Two of them, and one of them is you, Mr. Levchenko, dear and honorable. [[3 :07:45]] For-76 The correction is being rejected. It was a 510 amendment, Mrs. Nina, which the committee rejected and the hall was now rejected. We have two amendments that colleagues ask us to make for confirmation. One of them is 301, Deputy Lewchenko demanding confirmation. And the second is 134th, and it's called for Sidorchuk's confirmation. And that concludes the discussion. At first, Mr. Levchenk’s 301 - amendment microphone was accepted by the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-22-m1.u310	Lewchenko, Freedom, 223 District, Kiev City. Now, during the analysis of this table, which we got two minutes before we started reviewing the bill, the table on four hundred pages noticed an interesting amendment, 301. The amendment tells us that uranium useful fossils extracted during the geological exploration phase of industrial exploration, based on special permits from January 1, 18th, are not to be paid rent on these mines for useful fossils. Well, interestingly enough, why isn't this going to pay rent on Uranium Mines all of a sudden? Interesting amendment, yes, oligarchic. And maybe it's because Cononenko, Granowski's mixed up and they'll get hundreds of millions out of it, right? Maybe that's the point, right? So I demand that this amendment be made to confirm as completely absurd oligarchic and against social justice. You say you don't have money in your budget. But with these adjustments, there's no money in the budget. So bet on confirmation.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-22-m1.u311	I ask you to vote now on the amendment. The author? Please, Maxim Chicken's word for this amendment. That's what we're talking about right now, colleagues, 301 amendments.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-22-m1.u312	Dear colleagues, dear Mr. Levchenko, there is no sensation in this direction. It's my job, I'm her author. And I'm very calmly and reasonably explaining that it's not about exemption from uranium ore taxation, it's about exemption from tax at the intelligence stage, it's logical. And it's proposed to pay rent only during the industrial production phase. That'll be right. Let's not scare the investors, let them come in. Ukraine is famous for its nadrama. But the thing is, since 91, no new birthplaces have been invented in Ukraine. And that's a shame, because there's no secret to anyone that nuclear power is the cheapest and affordable for citizens. It's a matter of state energy security. It is imperative that we take this into account and ask very careful consideration of Mr. Levchenk. Thank you. We vote yes.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-22-m1.u313	Mr. Levchenko, Mr. Levchenko, I think there was a convincing explanation. Mr. Levchenko was not convinced. I'm betting on his request, colleagues, 301 amendments for confirmation. Who has come to the attention of our respected author, Mr. Maxime Chicken Explaining, please support me, colleagues. My colleagues, we still have one amendment, I thought, but we do have Mrs. Ostrov, and she's reluctant to improve the bill, which has made two amendments. [[3 :11:03]] For-65 This one's deflecting. Then, please, the national deputy Sidoruk, who requires the approval of 134 amendments that have been taken into account by the committee. Sidorchuk, I'm sorry, my friends, Sidorchuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-22-m1.u314	Sidorchuk Vadim, People's Front. Although this is a 134 - year amendment on agricultural exporters, additional taxes are included, but this tax will primarily be translated into seasonal berries, grass, or seasonal counterfeiting of natural persons. That is, an additional tax will be paid by individuals themselves. The Uksadprom Association is of the opinion that if approved, the above projects would create additional obstacles to the legal export of native berries, nuts, without addressing the main stated objective of the project, namely, the detinization of exports. This will lead to the extra payment of taxes by natural persons. Thank you. For confirmation.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-22-m1.u315	Thank you. Colleagues, I'm asking you to identify 134 amendments. The committee supported her and asked her to support the amendment. Please. [[3 :12:31]] For-75 This is 134th, Mrs. Nina. It was 134 amendments that the committee accepted. But at the request of the deputies, we put her on the stand, and she's not confirmed. Colleagues, two last revisions, all of it. Indeed, the last two amendments that were adopted by the committee were the amendments of the People's Deputy Alexia Musak, 554th and 551st. But Mrs. Ostrikova needs confirmation. Please, Mrs. Ostrich's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-22-m1.u316	Dear colleagues, the 551 amendment of the Musak People's Deputy to something in the Tax Code proposes to amend the Law on the One Congregation, which is managed at the crossing points across the state border of Ukraine. And to determine there that the only congregation includes the cost of the costs associated with: the rehabilitation of motor roads and the exercise of authorized authorities at the points of entry through the state border of Ukraine of phytosanitary, veterinary and other state control. But I want to remind Mr. Musak that we passed the 7010 Act recently on the "one window," where we removed all kinds of controls from the checkpoints. So these efforts to get officials and controllers back there must be thrown out of the Tax Code. And that's why I'm asking you to reject amendment 551. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-22-m1.u317	Thank you. Please, Mr. Muschak, do you have a desire to give a decent answer? Please, you have a microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-22-m1.u318	Good day or good night, good fellows! There are no questions. In fact, what I was looking at in the printing press was that these adjustments were rejected. In fact, however determined the hall is, so be it. There's no problem. And Mrs. Ostrikovi is a productive committee work, fruitful work for the state, and all the best, positive and good. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-22-m1.u319	Mrs. Ostrikova, after that, do you insist? That's brilliant. Guys, this is where we're done discussing the amendments to the key bill. I want to thank the hall and the committee for their extremely constructive work. Ms. Nina Yuzanin, we will now ask you to sum up the discussion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-22-m1.u320	Thank you. So, colleagues, there will be a final report by the head of the Southern Nina Petrovna Committee. In three minutes, we will proceed to the vote. Nina Petrovna should point out what adjustments we should return to if necessary. But right now I'm asking all the factions to invite MPs into the hall. Three minutes later, we move on to the decision-making process. I'm asking everyone to come into the hall. Please, Nina Petrovna. Nina Petrovno, report.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-22-m1.u321	Dear colleagues, I'd like to say very briefly about the electronic fuel administration system -- the system that we've already started with you all year, which we've been working on, and it's become more violent. The questions we just asked about licensing are what we called licensing, and it's actually an electronic register of all places from the manufacturer to the final consumer of all oil products. Now we've gone on Europe's experience: all the movements of all types of fuel will be fixed immediately and in advance before moving into the online administration system on the DFS server. Therefore, no link can be excluded from this bar. And if the agrarian has a warehouse that it spends on its own production, it's going to be assigned an electronic code, and everything that comes in there on the cost scale is going to be fixed as spent fuel on production. That's it. Seven hundred and eight dollars a year costs a license! It's a purely symbolic electronic registration. This will not allow the use of a left-hand, twisted VAT, which is now widely used and reimbursed from the budget, and these amounts are billions, tens of billions of dollars today. So I'm asking you not to twist anything, to take it seriously, the more that we and the agrarians have spoken this question, and they're happy that they're finally going to disappear, and they're going to be blamed. So let's do it.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-22-m1.u322	Colleagues, let's add two more minutes to explain. Please, Nina Petrovna, two more minutes and please come into the hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-22-m1.u323	In fact, this system is very hard, and we have the biggest problem with the factories that produce these products right now. And now that they're all trapped in the same system, they have a problem with the fact that technology bar spenders can't be established because factories were built in the 1960s, and in order to do that, we have to make big investments. We've heard our colleagues speaking out here with a broad front to undo this norm at all. We can't do that. And I'm proposing such a compromise for those factories that haven't invested money and can't do that since January 1st or since January 1st.07. So I want to read this. This proposal for a general application, the factories stay at the SERP, but as for the daily registration of the volume of transmissions, they will pass, and within the factory cycles, because we call each storage site a separate warehouse, we will defer to put them there for one year. So the next text is proposed. To establish that the requirements for the equipment of metered-off domestic enterprises for the processing of oil, gas condensate, natural gas and its mixture with the aim of removing target components of raw materials, which provides for a complete technological cycle of their conversion into ready-made production (fuel) and the requirements for the day-to-day formation of data on the daily actual quantity of fuel implemented, as well as the responsibility for breaching such requirements, shall apply from 1 January 2020. And the second point. Set the ratio to size.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-22-m1.u324	Please give us some repairs. One minute, mark by repair.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-22-m1.u325	It's very important, because then we don't have to go through a lot of adjustments. And the second point. Set the ratio of 1.2 to the amount of overdraft in the electronic fuel management system because we're going to take these volumes away from them every day from their current volume. Now for the amendments. I very much ask you to pay attention. We have Amendment 52, which applies to e - mails. Are you insisting that we re-vote it or are we working on it and putting it into the next draft of the law? Let's work. Then I'm asking for confirmation of the amendment: 152th, 303rd, 562th, 561th, 572th, 541th, 384th, we're going to go, 151th, 575th, 577th, 301th.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-22-m1.u326	So you're not finished? Please, just give me a minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-22-m1.u327	I'm calling it repairs again. Please listen carefully. 152-a, 303-a, 562-a, 561-a, 572-a, 541-a, 384-a, 385-a, 151-a, 575-a, 577-a and 301-a. These are all the amendments that we have associated with the following points that are supported and that can change the content of this law.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-22-m1.u328	So, colleagues, there's a sound proposal for a committee. I'm asking everyone to take up jobs.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-22-m1.u329	And those compromises that I said on the SERP.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-22-m1.u330	So, colleagues, please come into the hall. Please take up your jobs. No, I see them coming in. So, colleagues, I'm putting to the vote the first sentence: to go back to the consideration of the rights that Nina Petrovna Jujanina has heard. Please vote. Please be supportive. Vote. Please be supportive. Vote. [[03:23:06]] For 203 Guys, I'll put it back on, I'll put it back on. Please invite people into the hall. Colleagues, 30 seconds, Nina Petrovna. Invite the deputies to the hall. Please, Nina Petrovna, a compromise position, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-22-m1.u331	Dear colleagues! I understand you're concerned about one amendment, it's 572. 562nd? [[B in m in s a l in]] First. What are we going to do? 561 repairs.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-22-m1.u332	Please come into the hall, take up jobs.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-22-m1.u333	Dear colleagues! Let me call again the amendments that I ask you to vote on and the compromise decision. 152th, 303rd, 562nd, 572nd, 541th, 384th, 385th, 151th, 575th, 577th, 301th.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-22-m1.u334	Colleagues, right? So I'm voting on the proposal to go back to the amendments that have just been announced by the head of the committee under the transcript. I'm asking everyone to take their seats, please prepare for the vote, and I'm asking you, colleagues, to support the return to those rights that the committee chairman has sounded. Please vote and please support. We vote, colleagues, please support, vote, vote. [[3:25:16]] For 199 Less votes. Colleagues, I'll do it. Attention, Nina Petrovna, I address you as head of the committee, do you suggest we go back to each other? For each individual, yes, fine. So I'm going to call you by memory, colleagues, and you're going to name it. Nina Petrovna, I don't remember all the lines, call each one, each one.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-22-m1.u335	152nd.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-22-m1.u336	Who's to go back to the 152, please vote, please support, vote. [[03:26:08]] For 165 165. Next, Nina Petrovna, carefully, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-22-m1.u337	303rd.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-22-m1.u338	Who's in favour of going back to 303, please vote, please support 303. Please vote. [[03:26:35]] For 204 Nina Petrovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-22-m1.u339	562nd.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-22-m1.u340	Who's for going back to 562, please vote and please support. Please vote, please support. [[03:27:03]] For-152. Next.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-22-m1.u341	572.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-22-m1.u342	Who's to go back to Amendment 572, please vote. Please vote. [[03:27:33]] For-174 Next.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-22-m1.u343	541.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-22-m1.u344	Who's to go back to Amendment 541, please vote. Please be supportive. Vote. [[03:27:56]] For-198
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-22-m1.u345	Next.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-22-m1.u346	384th.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-22-m1.u347	Who's to go back to Amendment 384, please vote. Please be supportive. Vote. [[03:28:22]] For 212 Next.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-22-m1.u348	385th.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-22-m1.u349	Who's in favour of returning to Amendment 385, please vote and please support. Vote. [[03:28:46]] For 208 Next.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-22-m1.u350	The 151st.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-22-m1.u351	Who's in favour of returning to the 151st Amendment, please vote. Please be supportive. Please vote. [[3:29:11]] For-141 Next.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-22-m1.u352	575th.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-22-m1.u353	Who's in favour of coming back to the 575, please vote and please support. Vote. [[03:29:35]] For 139 And Nina Petrovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-22-m1.u354	301.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-22-m1.u355	Who's in favour of going back to 301, please vote and please support. [[03:30:03]] For-126 And the last one?
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-22-m1.u356	577. She accidentally walked into the hall as she was turned away, and she was supported. Please vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-22-m1.u357	577th, please vote back. 577th, please vote, please support. Vote. [[03:30:35]] For 169 What should we do, Nina Petrovna? [[B in m in s a l in]] So, colleagues, pay attention! I want everyone's attention. The chairman of the committee claims that by not going back to the right, we were simply balancing the law. I'm asking you, colleagues, all of you now. I'm going to run a rating vote. Colleagues, rating vote. I'm conducting a rating vote. Who's in favour of supporting the Ukrainian Tax Code, changes, no amendments, no amendments to the state as it is now? So I'm voting on draft Law 9260. Ratings without those rights, no rights. Rating vote, please vote, please support. Please, a rating vote. [[03:32:26]] For 196 Dear colleagues, I ask the heads of factions to approach the head of the committee. If we do so, the head of the committee claims that the law will be completely balanced. I ask you to approach the committee heads. Heads of factions to the head of the committee, colleagues, to be able to accept, identify those changes that are fundamentally and critically important. Please. At that time, Mrs. Irina will read out the statements after the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-22-m1.u358	Dear colleagues, several statements were made by Ukrainian national deputies that did not work during the vote. In particular, National Deputy Zagorius points out that his credit card did not work during the vote for the appointment of Minister of Finance, Oksana Markarov. Similarly, National Deputy Kirsch points out that his card did not work when voting the amendments to the Constitution on the introduction of a rule on Euro-Atlantic integration and asks that his vote be taken into account as a "yes" vote. Thank you, colleagues. Please use the "Council" system carefully to get the cards to work during the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-22-m1.u359	So, colleagues, I'm asking you to take up jobs, we're moving now. I'm going to use the rating vote to determine which of the options has the most support. I'm begging you, colleagues, now. I'm stressing that none of the right-handers have been returned to her. I'm asking everyone to take up jobs. We're close to compromise now, colleagues. I'd like to wait 30 seconds. So, colleagues, I want to emphasize, I see that not everyone understood what I was voting for. Please, Nina Petrovna, colleagues, attention. I put up a rating vote without all those rights that were named without them. Just listen carefully to the Head of the Supreme Council. We didn't go back to them, we didn't go back to them. I conducted a rating vote for the draft law that came out of our discussion without these rights. Now I'm going to re-vote so everyone can understand. I'm asking you, colleagues, to take up jobs. I ask you to return to your posts, prepare for the vote. I'm stressing to you, I'm currently conducting a no-bar rating vote that the committee head suggested. And I remind you, now in factions, given the block of Peter Dustenka 92, the People's Front 63. My colleagues, I'll put it back in place. The rating vote without the rights that the committee asked to put on the return – no. I ask, colleagues, all to vote and ask for the support of the draft Law on Amendments to the Tax Code without Rights, which has been read by the committee head. Please vote, please support. Vote, colleagues, every voice. The rating vote. Please vote, please support. Vote, vote, please. [[3:39:12]] For 185 By factions, please, according to factions: "Clock of Petra Poshenko" – 83, "National Front" – 67, "Resistance Block" – 0, "self-help" – 10, Radical Party – 1, "Fatherhood" – 0, "Will of the People" – 14, "Party of Rebirth" – 0. Nina Petrovna, make an offer, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-22-m1.u360	Colleagues, pay attention! Attention! Nina Petrovna, they say there's a 577th principle for many, 577th. Please help me.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-22-m1.u361	I called her.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-22-m1.u362	We've been called.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-22-m1.u363	Colleagues, you may not have been informed, 577th, it's supported. Oh, no, we have to go back to her, right? So, colleagues, I'm going to put it up. Nina Petrovna! Colleagues, I'm going to put the 577, right? 577. So, colleagues, take up jobs. Prepare to vote. So I'm voting on the proposal to go back to the 577. I'm saying that this return will give us enough votes. I'm asking you, colleagues, to support the return to the 577. Please vote and please support the return to number 577. Please vote, please support each vote. Please be supportive. Please be supportive. [[03:42:55]] For 185 183. The factions, please. "Block of Petra Poshenko" – 97, "National Front" – 66, "Opposition Block" – 0, "self-help" – 0, Radical Party – 1, "Fathership" – 0, "will of the people" – 14, "Party of Rebirth" – 0, non-fractional – 7. Nina Petrovna, do you have any suggestions from the committee? Are there any adjustments that can unite the hall? Turn on Nina Petrovna's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-22-m1.u364	Let's try another 384 repairs, electric cars.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-22-m1.u365	574th, right?
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-22-m1.u366	384th.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-22-m1.u367	So, colleagues, I'm asking you to get ready. I'm voting on the proposal to go back to 384. 384th, please vote. Please support your return to version 384. Vote, please. [[03:44:08]] For 239. There is a law that has united the hall. What are some other suggestions? Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-22-m1.u368	385.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-22-m1.u369	385, colleagues. So I'm voting on the proposal to go back to 385. Please vote. Please be supportive. For. Come back, please. [[03:44:42]] For 212 Can I put it again? 212. Nina Petrovno?
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-22-m1.u370	You can't bet.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-22-m1.u371	Don't bet, yeah. Okay. Is there anything else?
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-22-m1.u372	Look, we don't have very few amendments that aren't included. Let's go back to them again. Well, not as usual -- we always have 20-30s, we literally don't have 7 amendments. And then we're going to vote in the end in the second reading and in the whole. We're just wasting our time. Indeed, early morning and early morning meetings are to be opened. [[B in m in s a l in]] Can I name the amendment again? Listen to them. Colleagues, especially those who made some adjustments there, I don't call them. Watch, please. 152nd. I think so. [[B in m in s a l in]] Listen to me, please. Nephrodhos, please explain to your colleagues that you're all upset. 152nd has no relation to the ProZorro system. Please calm down and stop saying, well, you don't call those things your names. Next comes the 303rd, 562nd, 572nd, 541th, 151th, 577th, 301th and 550th. [[B in m in s a l in]] What's wrong? [[B in m in s a l in]] With these amendments.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-22-m1.u373	So, colleagues, I'm going to put the committee back on the vote. Who's in favour of returning to those rights that have just been issued by the head of the Southern Committee, please vote, please support. Vote. [[03:46:53]] For-182
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-22-m1.u374	Nina Petrovna, can you please tell me, and maybe you can choose one, two, three more that can unite?
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-22-m1.u375	What is the remedy? Who doesn't want to vote for what amendment, can you make a sound?
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-22-m1.u376	So the chairman of the committee is now clarifying what adjustments can unite the hall. We'll wait for them to hold a brief meeting. Colleagues, Nina Yuzanin will now come up with a compromise position. Colleagues, we're close to breaking the budget process. So I'm asking that proposal called Nina Petrovna to support the colleague she's going to sound. A committee that has worked for many hours offers its general offer. I'm asking them to support us so we don't disrupt the budget process, colleagues. I ask everyone to support the offer made by Nina Petrovn Jujanin. All right, everybody, let's go. Please return to your seats and prepare for the vote. Everyone please take up their jobs. Please, Nina Petrovna, sound.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-22-m1.u377	Dear colleagues, we've found a compromise on 301 amendments to put it in such an order. 252.4. 9 "Uranium useful fossils extracted from the geological study stage," that is, non-industry mining, like all other useful fossils. Rent. [[B in m in s a l in]] Chicken. We're clear. U.S.A. or U.S.A. intelligence in Ukraine has not been available for more than 10 years. A new investor came in who wants the same standard as all other natural resources. Talk to Bilkova, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-22-m1.u378	Come in, Nina Petrovna. Nina Petrovna! Give me all the suggestions. Nina Petrovna, tell us all the adjustments that are being made.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-22-m1.u379	Please come to the Hen, call you an investor. I don't know. Please name an investor.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-22-m1.u380	Nina Petrovna, please call the amendments that are being proposed.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-22-m1.u381	I'm calling it repairs again. 152th, 303rd, 541th.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-22-m1.u382	Colleagues, don't interfere with the report, please. Please, Nina Petrovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-22-m1.u383	Maxim, please give me a call.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-22-m1.u384	Dear colleagues! Dear colleagues! Questions.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-22-m1.u385	Attention! I didn't give you my word! Nina Petrovna, please report.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-22-m1.u386	Dear colleagues, back to the amendments. 152th, 303rd, 541th, 151th, 577th, 301th and 550th. These are all, in total, all of the issues that have been corrected. Please vote against these amendments.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-22-m1.u387	So, colleagues, I'm asking you to take your jobs, I'm asking you to take your jobs and get ready to vote. Please prepare for the vote. I put to the vote the proposal that the head of the Committee on Tax and Customs Policy, Nina Petrovna, made under the transcript. Please vote, please support the proposal of the South American, please vote, please support. [[03:55:42]] For 212 We're not there yet. I'll put it up again, colleagues. I'm asking you to take your seats. I put to the vote the proposal made by the chairman of the committee, Nina Petrovna, to vote in favour of the return of the amendments she has made. Please take your seats, please vote and please support. Let's vote, colleagues. Please vote. [[03:56:18]] For 201 Lowered voices, lowered voices. Please, Prime Minister, two minutes. Please give the floor to Prime Minister Vladimir Borisovich Groisman of Ukraine, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-22-m1.u388	Ladies and gentlemen, allow me to take a few minutes of your time. Attention! You know, what's going on right now, I don't think it can lead to constructive decisions. First. Today we are looking at an extremely important package of laws -- the Tax Code and the National Budget for 2019. I might say that this question is so serious that it is simply impossible to overestimate. And I'd like to ask each of you today to put the interests of the state above any amendments. Because when we start dealing with repairs, we have problems that can lead to serious crises. We've prepared a normal draft of the Tax Code law, which we've sent to the committee, you've further elaborated it, is the committee's decision. Let's take it as a solution to the committee's decision, just as it was worked out, and put a dot on it. If you have any questions, pass new bills, ask new questions, and then we will consider them. If there are any amendments that are non-conflict right now, let's add them to our bill. But please don't mix some little mercantile interest with national interest, so you can't do that. And I'd like us to go to the final budget vote today. I think you should all realize that the lack of a budget today will lead to a country's deep financial crisis. If the budget is approved, I don't see today any serious threats to the end of 2018 and the end of the difficult 2019, in which we will see, including huge external debt costs, it's over 400 billion. Today the proportion of millions, tens of millions of Ukrainian citizens, is being decided. And that's why I'd like to ask.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-22-m1.u389	Could you pass the time, please?
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-22-m1.u390	Wait a minute. And so I would very much like to get out of this position. Please, let us unite, make a decision, go to the budget, and ensure stability and normal economic growth. Thank you for your understanding.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-22-m1.u391	So, colleagues, I'm asking everyone to take responsibility. And I want to stress that all the amendments in any other law we can adopt and we can discuss them. Let us now go around those for whom there is unification. We have a merger around 384. And I'm going to put it on the ratings vote now, so that we can get whoever supports the draft Amendments to the Tax Code, taking into account the 384th, without all the others who discussed it. Colleagues, please, just give me the votes. [[B in m in s a l in]] I know I'm betting on a rating vote, you vote. So I'm running a rating vote with no licenses, just 384 -- electric cars. I'm asking you, colleagues, to unite. I'm asking you to back me up. Vote, rating vote. Keep up, it'll be wise, it'll be very wise. Support me. Please vote, please support. Vote. Please support with the electric cars. [[04:00:35]] For-200 Support me. The factions, please. Peter Poshenko's Block – 85, People's Front – 70, Block Opposition – 0, Self-help – 9. Radical Party One, Fatherland Zero. "The will of the people" is 15, "The Rebirth Party" is 2, "The Postfaction Party" is 18. Colleagues, we don't go through any paperwork or without a license. Colleagues, pay attention! A principle adjustment for part 577. Attention! If it's not very conflicting for you, I'll put it with 384 and 577. Guys, it's not easy for me right now. Please help me. So, colleagues, I'm asking for your attention right now! I'm putting a rating vote on the draft Law amending the Ukrainian Tax Code, taking into account regulation 384 -- these are electric cars and 577. I'm asking you guys to back up, this is going to be the right thing to do, this is going to be the state's position. Everyone, stand by. Please vote, rating vote. Please support 577 and 384. Please vote, please support. We vote, we vote, we vote. [[04:02:49]] For-195 The factions, please. Peter Poshenko Block 95, People's Front 65, Opposition Block 0, Self-help 1, Parenthood 0, Will of the People 16, Rebirth Party 0. So, colleagues. I, my colleagues, ask the committee head to assist, to advise us on what adjustments can unite us. So, colleagues, pay attention. I invite you to speak to Nina Yuzanin. Now we've found two revisions, which in general seem to be supported by everyone. This is 384th and 577th. Nina Petrovna, please take the floor.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-22-m1.u392	..with the fact that we've already supported the 384 amendment. So we don't go back to her anymore, she's supported.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-22-m1.u393	No, we just got back to her, Nina Petrovna, we just got back, we haven't supported her yet.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-22-m1.u394	We've got it, we've got it! So we already have the basis of the law. Now we want to. We're talking about 577th and 550th. One option: we vote 577th, 550th. If you need an explanation, please come up and there is an absolute logical amendment to the electronic administration system. And second, we vote in favour of amendment 151, 152 and 541. Oh, no? Then determine if you do not.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-22-m1.u395	So, colleagues, I'm going to put to the vote these proposals that Nina Petrovna made. But I have a very big request to return to my seats. And to those who oppose certain amendments, they vote when yours is taken into account. Vote, not passively participate in the session. So, colleagues, listen carefully. This is our big chance right now, this is a big chance, colleagues. Now I'm going to put to the vote, on the ratings, on the draft law amending the Ukrainian Tax Code, including 384th, 577th and 550th, with three rights, colleagues. I feel like we can put together if we all vote if we act responsibly if we support it. Because otherwise, we're going to go to a different version that Nina Petrovyn gave. Every remaining voice now -- it's not a reality, it's going to be a reality, it's going to be the next one. So concentrate, every voice matters right now. Please take up your jobs. So I'm voting for the amendment to the Ukrainian Tax Code, as amended by 384, 577 and 550. Every voice. Please vote. Please be supportive. Please vote. Ratings. Three revisions, only three revisions, only three revisions. Please vote. Please be supportive. Please vote. Ratings. [[04:09:48]] For-198 Here's the next offer. Nina Petrovna, announce your next offer. Nina Petrovna, announce your next offer.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-22-m1.u396	Now the proposal for amendments 151, 152, 541 and 301 has been clarified. Who supports the return of these amendments?
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-22-m1.u397	So, colleagues, now I'm proposing to go back to the rights of 151st, 152nd, 541st and 301st. Whoever supports this proposal, please vote. [[04:10:43]] For 171 Nina Petrovna calls it another option. Please, Nina Petrovna. Let's hear it.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-22-m1.u398	Well, it doesn't work together. Let's do this one more time. 151th, 152nd, 541th, 301th, 303rd.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-22-m1.u399	We just put her to a vote. Colleagues and I ask the apparatus to turn off voting by Vick's deputy card as far as possible. So, colleagues, please, I'm going to put the rating vote again. And once again, it's 577.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-22-m1.u400	No, it's not.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-22-m1.u401	550. What's that? Sound, beep.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-22-m1.u402	151, 152, 541, 301 and 303.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-22-m1.u403	We just voted them, Nina Petrovna, we just did.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-22-m1.u404	No, it's not.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-22-m1.u405	Okay. Who's in favour of this proposal, please vote. Who's in favour of this proposal, please vote. A NOISE IN ZALI [[04:13:09]] For-191 So, colleagues, I see the only chance. So, colleagues, now I'm going to do 577 and 550 again. And, colleagues, I ask you to vote for it. Non-voting in this option makes it impossible to vote in favour of the Tax Code. Think carefully. Think about it, colleagues. Think about it, colleagues. I ask you to prepare for the vote now and take up your jobs. So, colleagues, I'm asking everyone to take up jobs. Colleagues, let's face it, it won't last forever. If we don't vote now, I'll call it a morning. I'm not gonna play here forever. [[B in m in s a l in]] It's harassment! I mean, until tomorrow, until tomorrow. This play cannot last indefinitely, fellow workers. Now I'm going to put 577 and 550 to the rating vote. And I'm asking everyone to support this option. I ask you, colleagues, to unite now and vote in favour. This was the largest voter. I'm asking you to back him up now. Please take up your jobs. I'm voting on the draft Act amending the Tax Code, 384, 577 and 550. In this option, I ask everyone to vote and I ask for your support. Vote! Please vote. Vote. [[04:15:54]] For 202 The factions, please. The factions. "Peter Prashenko" – 108, "The People's Front" – 69, "The Opposition Block" – 0, "The Self-Help" – 1, "The Fatherhood" – 0, "The Will of the People" – 13, "The Rebirth Party" – 0. So, colleagues, we're going to add 303 to the 577 and 550 to the right. Nina Petrovna! So, colleagues, now I'm making a proposal, a 303-right vote. 557th, 550th and 303rd, right? So I'm going to vote 577th, 550th and 303rd. Please vote and please support. Vote. I'd like your support, colleagues. Support me. [[04:17:28]] For 204 The factions, please. 105, 65. So, colleagues, colleagues, me. Nina Petrovna, please give me another name. If it doesn't, I'll call it a break. Please, Nina Petrovna. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-22-m1.u406	151th, 152nd, 303rd, 541th, 550th, 577th and 301th with adjustment.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-22-m1.u407	So, colleagues, please take up jobs. Please be prepared. I am conducting a rating vote on the draft Law amending the Tax Code with the rights that the head of the Southern Committee, Nina Petrovna, has just sounded. Please vote, please support. We're voting on the rating vote. [[04:19:39]] For 212 My colleagues, I'm going to put it back on the ratings vote. I'm asking you to re-vote in that right-wing configuration. Please vote, please support. Vote. Please vote on the rating vote. [[04:20:12]] For 203 So, colleagues, we're going to make one last chance. I invite the factions to my office. I have the right to announce at any stage of the break. I'll call it a break for 10 minutes. Heads of factions please come to my office for 10 minutes, for 10 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-22-m1.u408	Dear colleagues, I would like to make an extremely important announcement while there is a meeting at the head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. That today, at 3 p.m., there will be a meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, a special session dedicated to the celebration of the memory of the victims of Holodomor in 1932-1933 in Ukraine. Please ask the Ukrainian National Deputies to take part in this important session and to honor together the memory of the millions murdered by Stalin and the Soviet regime, the Ukrainians.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-22-m1.u409	I'm asking you to come into the hall. As if they had found a compromise decision that takes into account all man’s claims. Please enter the hall, prepare for the vote. So, colleagues, please come into the hall and take up jobs. I ask now all the heads of factions to invite all the deputies to the hall. Without discussion, we will go straight to the vote. I'm asking you to let everyone know, colleagues. Please come into the hall. Nina Petrovna, please announce a general compromise position. Let's get this show on the table. Let's not vote yet. As long as they're getting together. Please, Nina Petrovna, two minutes. And please come into the hall, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-22-m1.u410	Let's go back to the amendments. I'm calling the numbers again. 151, 152, 541, 301 (specified), 303, 577 and 550. Please return to these amendments and then vote in favour of the law.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-22-m1.u411	So I'm inviting MPs. Nina Petrovna sounded the general position, colleagues. I ask the heads of the factions to invite the deputies into the hall and ask the secretariat to invite the deputies who are in the towers. Please come in and take your jobs. Colleagues, we're going to count every vote, every vote. Look who's not around, call me back, phone me. So, colleagues, I would like to point out once again that without the adoption of the Tax Code, we will not be able to accept the budget, it can have very difficult consequences for the state, for the country as a whole, for all of its citizens. I was just saying that without the adoption of the macroeconomic aid budget, we can have very difficult economic consequences. So I have all the questions and requests to stop playing political games. I ask everyone, colleagues, to vote responsibly, and that we stop this vote. It's a matter of responsibility for the country. When a person wants to break the budget, he will not benefit anyone and the country in the first place. That's why I, my colleagues, ask everyone to vote responsibly. I'm asking you to take up your jobs and come into the hall. I'll just wait a minute. So, colleagues, I want to remind you that I'm going to put the rating vote on the proposal that Nina Petrovna Jujanin made, namely, to vote on the bill of 151st, 152nd, 301th, 303rd, 541th, 577th and 550th. So everyone can hear it carefully, and we'll count it. The electric cars are already in the body. Electromobiles are already in the body of the law, it's a 384 amendment, and we've agreed on it. It's already in the body of the law, it doesn't have to be separately confirmed, it's already in the body. And, colleagues, if this set is supported, then we'll move on to the whole law. Now I, my colleagues, want to emphasize that I'm putting up a rating vote. And I ask everyone to take up their jobs, please come back from their beds and government and guesthouses. Please come in, take your places. I remind you that we are conducting the first rating vote. And I ask, colleagues, all to take up jobs, prepare for the vote. We've tried a few different options, none of them have given 226 votes, this one can and should give 226 votes. I ask everyone to return to their jobs. Oleg! So we can vote now, right? So, colleagues, I emphasize, I'm voting on the draft Law on Amendments to the Tax Code (9260) with rights of 151, 152, 541, 301 (specified), 303rd, 577th and 550th. Rating vote, please vote, please support. It's a rating vote. Please vote, please support. Vote, please. Please be supportive. Vote. Please be supportive. [[04:43:36]] For 215 Indeed, this proposal will garner the largest number of votes. My colleagues, but there are still 10 votes missing. I'm asking you to come into the hall. So, colleagues, I see it's good. Colleagues! I'm asking you to show me the factions. Peter Poshenko's Block – 100, People's Front – 65, People's Will – 16, Rebirth Party – 19, non-fractional – 15. We are missing literally a few votes in this culmination, literally a few votes. I know we haven't all arrived yet. Please come and call those who don't have one. All right, guys, let's do it again. Three other deputies have arrived. Yes. Come here, once. So, colleagues, pay attention! Colleagues, I'm going to re-set the ratings to see if there are any votes, and then I'm going back and I'm going to confirm. I'm asking you, colleagues, during the vote to be everyone in the workplace, because it'll take another hour or two. At the time of the vote, everyone should be in place and not running to the card, but be near his seat when the vote takes place. I am now conducting a rating vote with the same proposal as that made by Eugene, the draft Law on Amendments to the Code of Taxation with seven rights, which were issued by Eugene. If the rating vote shows the potential, then we'll go back. So I'm asking everyone, colleagues, to be in the workplace right now. We're already going to the vote, the rating vote. And I'm asking you all to hold back, don't play now, colleagues. Each voice has a weight and has a meaning. I'm asking you, colleagues, to vote for this proposal that was made by the chairman of the committee. I'm asking you to support this rating vote. Please vote and please support. We vote, we vote, we vote. Vote, please. [[04:47:08]] For 226 This one did. I'm asking you, colleagues, it was a rating vote. I'm asking you to secure a personal vote. I'm asking you to ensure the personal voting of the factions' heads. Please provide a personal vote. So, colleagues, I'm asking you to take jobs and I'm stressing once again, we have a voice, every voice, every colleague, and that's why we're all in jobs, because that's going to take another two or three hours. Everyone's gonna be on the job during the vote. So I'm going to put the proposal first, and I'm going to put that proposal right now. The first offer to return to the right handrails that Nina Petrovna Jujanina gave to the stenographer. Please vote for the return of those rights. Please, every voice. Please be supportive. Please vote. I vote for the return. Vote. Every voice. Let's vote, colleagues. Please be supportive. Vote. Vote. Please be supportive. Vote. [[04:48:24]] For 237 Colleagues, I ask you to stop the non-personal voting. Please stop, non-personal vote. Now I'm voting for the confirmation of those rights that were called Nina Peter's Jujanina. Please vote. Please be supportive. Personal vote, please. Please be supportive. Vote. Please be supportive. Vote. [[04:48:57]] For 221 Four votes. [[B in m in s a l in]] Four votes. Four votes, colleagues. The factions, please. Fellows, I'll put it back on the table first. I ask colleagues to be in the workplace, and I ask colleagues to vote during the vote. I am returning to the amendments Nina Petrovna had called. Everyone already knows them by heart, so I don’t count them. Please vote. Please support the return. Please vote for the return. Please be supportive. Vote. Please be supportive. Vote. [[04:50:01]] For 223 Colleagues, I ask you to ensure the personal vote of all deputies. Colleagues, take up jobs, we're missing literally a few votes. So, colleagues, please prepare. Indeed, the head of the committee left a card here. Please, colleagues, prepare for the vote. And I'm voting on the proposal to go back to the rights that Nina Petrovna Jujanina called. Please vote and please support. Vote, colleagues, please support, we vote for the return. Please be supportive. Vote, please support, please support. Let's vote, colleagues. Please be responsible for each voice. [[04:51:25]] For 223 I just see them playing, taking out cards and sticking cards when they vote. [[B in m in s a l in]] Colleagues, I see cards appear and then they disappear. It just goes like this, you know, political, when the votes are enough, quickly pull out the card. It's unfair and irresponsible, it's unfair and irresponsible. So, colleagues, I'm asking everyone to be in the workplace. I'll put it back on now. I ask you to support the return to the right handrails that Nina Petrovna Jujanina gave us. Please vote and please support. Every voice, every colleague, responsible, every colleague, we vote. Each voice, please support, please vote. Vote, please. Return, return to the right. Well, you don't get it, do you? How many times? We vote in favour of the return to the right handrails that Eugene called. Vote. [[04:52:46]] For 229 We're back. Now I'm betting on the confirmation of the seven rights that Nina Petrovn Jujanin gave to the stenographer. Please be supportive. I ask for a draft Act amending the Ukrainian Tax Code and some other legislative acts of Ukraine (9,260) to be adopted in a second reading, confirming the proposals that Nina Petrovna made under the transcript, the seven rights that she has heard. Please vote on technical law. Please vote and please support. Every voice, colleagues. Vote. Every voice. We're backing it up. Let's vote, colleagues. Please be supportive. Vote. In the second and in general with technical law. With those wiretaps. [[04:53:40]] For 236 Decision taken, colleagues. Now, pay attention! The law is passed. Now, attention, colleagues, before you go to the budget. [[B in m in s a l in]] I already said, as amended, colleagues. By factions, please, by factions. "Peter Prashenko" – 109, "The People's Front" – 73, "The Will of the People" – 16, "The Rebirth Party" – 20. Colleagues, now, pay attention, don't walk away from me. Before I go to the budget, I want to report that I have been asked by the Committee on Legal Policy to clarify, and there has been some technical difficulty in adopting the Criminal Offences Act. For 131 articles, we can correct all inaccuracies. I'm asking Anton Heraszczenko to sound them.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-22-m1.u412	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank you for adopting today's important Criminal Offences Act. It's an important law for our country, but it's very complicated, and at the time it was adopted, there were some little technical laws. So now I'm going to read them under the transcript. It'll take no more than 1.5-2 minutes. And please support them. This will unite our hall. In part forty-nine, in article 49 of the Criminal Code, in part one of paragraphs 2 and 3, the following wording is added: “Paragraph 2. Three years is the time when a criminal offence is punishable by a restriction of will or a nonviolent crime for which a penalty of no more than two years is imposed. Item 3. Five years is in the event of a non-problem crime, except for the case envisaged in paragraph 2 of this section." And in part three, put it this way: "The passage of time shall be suspended if, until the end of the period marked in part one and in part two of this article, a person commits a new crime, except for a non-problem crime for which a penalty of no more than two years has been imposed." These technical regulations are legal. This law enters into force only on January 1, 2020. I ask all factions, without exception, to support this in order for the law to serve the people of Ukraine. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-22-m1.u413	Colleagues, there was a very great law. It's just a clarification. And in accordance with Rule 131 of the Supreme Council Rules, on the proposal of the Committee, I put to the vote the proposals that have been announced to you regarding the elimination of disagreements in the text of the adopted Ukrainian Law on Amendments to certain Ukrainian legislation on the Simplification of the Judicial Investigation of Certain Categories of Criminal Offences (7279-d). Please vote and please support. Carefully, every voice I ask you to support. Vote. Please be supportive. Voting, voting. Let's support the committee, they've been working on this bill for a long time. [[04:56:51]] For 248 Decision taken. Please align the preparation of the law with the proposals just supported by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. And so, colleagues, we're moving to the draft National Budget Act of Ukraine for 2019. In accordance with the Rules, the following order. Presentation by Oksana Markarov, Minister of Finance of Ukraine. Then three minutes of answers to questions. Then a report by the deputy head of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Sergio Ivanovich Melnik. Then he spoke from factions, from deputies, and from voting. I ask everyone to make the most of it so that we can get to the vote as quickly as possible. And I invite you to the report of Ukraine's Finance Minister, Oxana Sergiyevna Markarov. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-22-m1.u414	Dear colleagues, thank you so much for supporting the Tax Code. And we can go to the voting and discussion of the budget of Ukraine, which we worked with you after a month ago we submitted a bill to the first reading, and you supported it. The document was realistic, presented before the first reading, and balanced, each of its expenditures was backed up by real income. And thanks to the vote that has just taken place, we have also been able to keep it realistic and balanced. As a result of our work with the profile committee, we worked on it: a 12 billion-dollar increase in income, generally including a special fund, increased by 18. Our priorities remained constant. The budget remains balanced and realistic. Deficit within 2.3 percent. Request to support the bill as a whole with those rights that have been taken into account by the committee. This will give us the opportunity, really, to end 2018 by financing all the expenditures completely and confidently enter 2019. Thank you very much and ask for your support.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-22-m1.u415	So, colleagues, please, three minutes of questions.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-22-m1.u416	Please ask Mr. Semenha. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-22-m1.u417	Please give the word to Irina Sisoyenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-22-m1.u418	Who? Oh, please, Mrs. Sisoyenko. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-22-m1.u419	I have a question for the Minister of Finance. Please tell me, why is the third year the government is ignoring the requirement of the Self-Help faction for raising medical tariff charges? Why in Ukraine alone do medical workers receive the lowest wages of all budgeters? Why is the annual humiliation of those on whom the life and health of our citizens depend, why the chronic underfunding of medical and educational subsidies?
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-22-m1.u420	Please answer, Your Honor, Mr. Oksan.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-22-m1.u421	Both health and medicine are key priorities for our government. I mean, in this budget, 95.7 billion is allocated to medicine, and to second reading, we added 3.4 to different programs. Education, including transfers, has a budget of 126.9 billion. In terms of education, the percentage of GDP in Ukraine in this budget is already higher than the average ISD standard in countries. Yes, we would like to give more to health and medical care, but we have significantly increased expenditures in both areas, and in 2019 we will be able to both reform health and fund many important educational programs.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-22-m1.u422	Thank you, Mrs. Oksana. And please, this is a question from the National MP, if I understand correctly, Melnika. Right? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-22-m1.u423	Oksana Sergiyevna, we have an unresolved issue of literally 16 united territorial communities, two of them, one Krasilov city, the Hmelnicka region, which made decisions in literally 16th. And we also have the Mukatov City, a united territorial community. But you know the district council didn't take it. has not approved a forward-looking plan. We would still ask that, when we distribute a stabilising grant, we settle these issues so that we don't now balance and make any changes to the corresponding supplements.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-22-m1.u424	Please comment, Mrs. Oksana.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-22-m1.u425	Yes, the draft budget for the second reading includes all the territorial communities that are approved by the state at the last meeting of the Cabinet of Ministers, we are ready to include them in the commission. We are prepared to include in a commission that, I understand, and there is a proposal from the committee to include a commission so that we can also consider and react quickly over the course of the year and include those communities that will form.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-22-m1.u426	I can't break the rules. My colleagues, thank you, have completed their questions to the distinguished minister. Who else will have questions during your speeches, factions, and sound them. I think the Minister will be able to sum up after our discussion and give you the answers to your questions. Mrs. Oksana, please return to your workplace. And the word for the co-report is given to the representative of the Budget Committee, Mr. Melnik. Dear Mr. Melnik, you're reporting from the committee. I'm inviting you to the rostrum. A word for the report, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-22-m1.u427	Honourable National Deputies, invited, the Committee on Budget Affairs, with the participation of the Ministry of Finance and the Court of Auditors, reviewed the draft State Budget Bill 2019, which was further elaborated by the Cabinet of Ministers for the second reading. Considering that such a document was submitted by the government two weeks later, the committee was limited in time for a thorough analysis. At the same time, in view of the need for timely approval of the State Budget, the committee has practically kept working on the bill for two years. First of all, the state of government accounting for the budgetary conclusions of the Supreme Council, namely, chapter I of the budget conclusions: out of 92 proposals, 65 were included, 5 were taken into account, and 22 proposals were not included. Chapter III of the budget conclusions: Of the 99 assignments, 26 are included, 7 are included, and 66 are not included. In particular, there are suggestions for addressing a number of such acute issues. Medical expenses have been increased, especially for the treatment of citizens abroad, the treatment of chronic renal insufficiency, diabetes and cardiovascular and cancer patients. Financial security from the State Budget for Colleges and Technicians without the status of legal persons in institutions has been saved, more so, increased to these ends. The amount of support for the forest sector and conservation measures has been increased. Additional costs are provided for the safety of arsenals and military forces — 1 billion. Direct inter-budget relations have been established in addition to 147 new unified communities. During the drafting of the bill's committee, it is proposed to clarify its individual positions in order to ensure compliance with and amendments to the budget code in Bill 9084. Increase expenditure on the State Regional Development Fund and strengthen parliamentary control over the implementation of the State Budget next year. According to a review of the amended bill, the committee adopted a decision. To recommend to the Supreme Council an amended bill of 9000 to be adopted in second reading and in general as a law that takes into account the budget proposals made by the Committee on Budgets regarding changes to this bill, agreed with the Ministry of Finance, which are listed in the Committee's letter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-22-m1.u428	Thank you. Colleagues, I'm asking you to sign up for a question to a co-conspirator. Then there will be discussions from factions. Ukrainian national deputies who have not been able to sign up for the question of whether they have had enough time. I call once again for questions, perhaps during speeches and discussions by deputies and factions. And the minister will sum it up during his final speech. Please, the People's Deputy of Semimenah, your question.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-22-m1.u429	Please give the word to Irina Sisoyenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-22-m1.u430	Irina Sisoyenko, Self-Help faction. Please tell me, why wasn't an amendment to the Self-Help faction taken into account in order to finance all areas of Ukraine with funds for emergency medical care? Why the budget committee does not point out that funding only 5 areas of Ukraine and spending on emergency medical care is a direct discrimination. And the citizens of our country, which will be quickly assisted in five areas of Ukraine, and in the other 19 areas, the ambulance next year may not come. This is the same as discrimination with regard to medical personnel, who in 5 areas of Ukraine will raise wages and 19 areas of Ukraine will receive a minimum wage of 3,700. Why such discrimination and why the budget committee did not support the amendment of the Self - Help Unit.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-22-m1.u431	Please, your answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-22-m1.u432	In fact, there were several different political factions of proposals not to separate specific areas, but the position of the Ministry of Public Health in order to make certain areas meet certain requirements has been created by the call center. So it's a complex question, so it's this one. In particular, for example, I can say that the hop area has also met all the requirements, but it is not included in this list. In principle, we believe that some minimum needs to be provided for all, and where the requirements are met, we need to go to a different level of medical care.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-22-m1.u433	Please ask the next question, Rephat Chubarov.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-22-m1.u434	Dear Sergey Ivanovich, first of all, I would like to thank you, members of the Committee on Budgets for supporting my proposals, for providing financial support to the Crimecatar Canal "ATR", for strengthening the material and technical base of educational institutions, for the reconstruction of water supply networks in places of compact residence of deported persons and so forth. But my mistake seems to have been that we calculated very carefully and we gave real needs, we took and cut it into two, and we put that amount, we smeared it, you know. Sergey Ivanovich, who is able to vote, perhaps by protocol, to increase this article's code 2501120, there's 45 million, how do you increase it, at least close to 75-80 million?
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-22-m1.u435	Please answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-22-m1.u436	I think it's better not to be balanced now, because any small change requires changes to all expenses. I think there's going to be some clarification and we're going to try to work things out.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-22-m1.u437	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we've run out of questions for the reporter. Thank you very much. We honor our time. It's 5:09, and we're on our way to the important time of discussion from factions. Please sign up. And during your speeches, I ask you, there was a dissatisfaction that you were not able to ask questions, make them up, Mrs. Markarov will answer during her final speech. Please, Maxim Chicken, give me your word. Please, Mr. Maxime. Maxim Chicken, please give your statement from the Peter Dusty Block. Please turn on the microphone to Maxim Chicken, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-22-m1.u438	All right, thank you, thank you. Good morning, dear colleagues! We have a very lively discussion tonight, but it's ultimately productive, and we need to adopt a basic financial document. The consultations are still ongoing, and after another consultation, I was asked to make such suggestions. We propose to include and complete with the following text the Act on the State Budget for 2019. That is, to redistribute the expenditure of the general fund under the budget programme for the activities of the Ukrainian Institute of Bookkeeping and the promotion of Ukrainian literature in the world, code 1801560, which is to increase development costs by 90 million dollars and reduce consumption costs by that amount. The other one. In the draft Ukrainian National Memory Act, "On the National Budget for Ukraine for 2019", increase the spending of the Ukrainian Institute of National Memory to a total of 22017.3,000 dollars, including by KPCW 1809010 "Leading and managing in the area of national memory" to 11908.8 thousand dollars, to be created. The five inter-regional regional bodies of the Ukrainian Institute of National Memory since January 1, 2019. In KPCC 1809020 "Actions to Implement State Policy in the Field of Restoration and Conservation of National Memory" to ensure the activities of the "National Memorial Complex of the Heroes of the Celestial 100 – Museum of the Revolution of Dignity" and the branch of the National Institute of National Memory at the sum of 10108,5 000 bracelets for the permanent operation of the Museum of the Revolution of Dignity". This is our direct responsibility. Third. Redistribute the expenditure of the Ukrainian Cultural Fund, namely, the budget programme "Providing the Functioning of the Ukrainian Cultural Fund, project support, production (creation) and distribution of patriotic films" code 1801140, increase the cost of work by 10756.4 thousand dollars and anticipate development costs of 13130 thousand dollars for a reduction of 2380.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-22-m1.u439	Please finish the minute. Please finish the minute. Everybody's gonna be done for a minute, we're talking about a budget. The budget is the moment to finish. Microphone, please turn on the National Deputy Chicken for a minute. It's a diversion. It's a diversion.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-22-m1.u440	As a result of a decrease of 23886.4 thousand dollars in other consumption costs. Four. Increase development expenditure by 50 million dollars under budget programme 2201120 "Providing the National Centre for the Small Academy of Sciences of Ukraine", providing extra-school education by state non-school institutions, out-of-school work, financing work on the creation of the Museum of Science in Kiev". In doing so, reduce development expenditure under budget programme 2121230 "The State Budget Grant to Local Budgets to provide quality modern and affordable general secondary education "New Ukrainian School" by 50 million dollars. Fifth. To complete the section "Final Positions" of the text section with a new paragraph of the following content, namely, to entrust the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine with a monthly period of recognition of Mukatsov City as a united territorial community within the territorial communities of Mukachevo.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-22-m1.u441	Thank you, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-22-m1.u442	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-22-m1.u443	How much? Please let me finish for two minutes. Please read faster. Colleagues, well, then I'll have claims from other factions.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-22-m1.u444	To entrust the Cabinet of Ministers with a monthly period of recognition of the capable town of Mukachev, a united territorial community consisting of the territorial communities of Mukacheva and the villages of Lavka, Pachno, Shenborn, Lower Koropec, the new Davidkovo Mukatsov district of Zacarpathia, while clarifying the volume of inter-budget transfers in Appendix No. 6 to the Ukrainian State Budget Act 2019, as a result of the accession in 2018. Six. To complete the section "Final Positions" of the text section with a new paragraph of the following content: The Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine to foresee, in the form of a special fund of the State Budget for 2019, the financing of measures for the implementation of State policy in the areas of maritime and river transport, commercial shipping, inland navigation, new hydrographic security for navigation and maritime and river transport, in addition to safety, navigation, vessels, fishing industry. Seven. Article 18 after the words "food" add to the words "and contracts for the purchase of food by catalogue." Eight. Paragraph 1 of article 6, paragraph 1 after the words “4 hydroaggregates” should be added to the words “only if at least 70 per cent of the specified funding is used for the purchase of equipment, equipment and/or kits originating in Ukraine. Nine. The following changes will be made to the expenditure of the National Budget Project for 2019 from the corresponding changes to Appendix 3 to the bill: increase development expenditure by the general fund under the budget programme "State security measures and activities of the Ukrainian Security Service" code 562,101010 by 100 million dollars and reduce development expenditure by the general fund under the State Regional Development Fund code 276,1070.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-22-m1.u445	Are you done? One more minute. Colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-22-m1.u446	Section III, paragraphs 25 and 26, of the Budget Committee’s conclusions, delete the second reading. 11th, last one. In addition to the general State Development Fund, the National Academy of Medical Sciences (NAD) code 6561060 is specialized in consultative clinical assistance to the scientific research institutes of the National Academy of Medical Sciences in Ukraine by 3 million dollars for the corresponding reduction of development expenditure under the National Budget Program for Local Budgets (SEC) to take action on the socio-economic development of specific areas of code 3511210. We vote with these rights and we support them unanimously. And to the end. Foresee expenditures of 20 million dollars to the Ministry of Economic Development and Trade of Ukraine under KPCPC 1201070 "Research applied, scientific and technological development. Performing work on government-issued programs and government procurement. Training scientific personnel. Financial support for the development of scientific infrastructure in the field of economic development." Vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-22-m1.u447	Thank you for your position on the Peter Dusty Block. Please, Rebirth Group, Mr. Bondar. I'd like a word with you, Mr. Victor.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-22-m1.u448	Thank you. Dear colleagues, of course, are now considering the most important document that will shape the principles of life throughout the country for the following year. I mean, I guess. The country has not seen a more cynical document regarding Ukrainians in the last 20 years. We are asked to raise tariffs, and at the same time, at the expense of raising these tariffs, it is also proposed that we get 9 billion dollars in Ukraine's budget at the expense of Ukraine's citizens again. These are the amounts that they predict as part of the profit of Naftogazu Ukraine as a result of the increase in these tariffs. So the tariffs want to raise, and the extra money in the budget is going to get from our same payment. The other one. This budget has absolutely no priorities. There's no priority industrial recovery, no strong government orders, no economy, no energy saving programs that actually cut gas, no electricity, and allow Ukrainians not to raise any more tariffs, but rather to cut those tariffs. We had to put to the vote the six factions decree on the cancellation of tariffs on gas and the review of all tariffs for the conduct of energy audits of tariffs. We demanded that the budget be recalculated to take into account the cost of Ukrainian gas, which is four times cheaper than we're offered today from Naftogazu Ukraine, as if the import gas plus ours. That's completely wrong logic, and the budget could be completely shaped by another economic model. Unfortunately, the government is not involved in this, the government is most engaged in serving the International Monetary Fund. And the top priority for the next year is how to service, get credit, and how to pay off past loans. Where's the Ukrainians, where's the Ukrainian industry, where's the rebirth of the Ukrainian economy? And they don't have the answer to that question. They have the main task of getting to March of the month, of going through this electoral period, of getting to the fall somehow, and whatever it may be. It's not our policy, and Parliament, if it has common sense, should stop this process and put it back on track. Unfortunately, no one can hear us. I think today's vote is going to be on the upper conscience of those who vote. Because you're offering to raise tariffs and at the same time raise pensions per year by just $3. You're proposing to raise a living minimum of only $1 a year. This is the policy of today’s real government. So we want this budget still to be reviewed and not to vote as blindly as we are offered today. I will vote precisely against this budget and urge you to support this decision, as well as to vote against and allow the government to work out and return face to face. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-22-m1.u449	Please make a statement from the Fatherland faction, Vadim Ivchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-22-m1.u450	Vadim Yvchenko, "The Fatherland" faction. Dear colleagues, you know, Fatherland won't vote in favour of the proposed budget. "Paternity" is not going to legitimize those dragon tariffs that are actually in this budget, it's 8,000 500 per cubic metre of gas. "Paternity" will not vote in favour of reducing the number of subsidies and subsidies, i.e. people who are actually seeking help from the state. "Paternality" will not vote for the budget, where the expenditure on the force organs increases. Fatherland won't vote in favour of a budget where there's such a novelty when we put in the President's fund and give him exactly 1 billion to bribe before the election. "Paternity" will not vote in favour of a budget where the National Security and Defence Act is not implemented, where, in fact, less than 3 per cent of the defence is given. But at the same time, I want to contact the Minister of Finance. And we ask you to just save science, save agrarian science today. We had a heartwarming mistake when we were taken from agrarian science and handed over nearly 200 million to other areas. I mean, the agrarian sector can't work effectively when it doesn't have much of a strong foundation for agrarian science. The Academy of Agricultural Sciences today tests 500 to 600 varieties each year. Only the Wheat Institute registers 300 varieties of wheat. Think about it, 300 varieties of wheat. I'm not talking about the Institute of Pigry, which produces 88 percent of all the genotypes that consume the internal market. Colleagues, 20 years for the Academy, the state has done nothing. They, we gave them only land, but they didn't give them the opportunity to rent this land, they didn't give them credit, and the main thing is they didn't give them the opportunity to officially sell those research, the genetics, the planting and seed materials that are actually produced at the Academy of Agricultural Sciences. My colleagues, I want to say that 200 million today, compared to the cost that the academy generates as taxes, and last year it's 1 billion 100 million dollars, actually two and a half times that budgeted. So we ask paragraph 77 of the comparative table and point of the budget conclusions 1.18.54, where the removal of the fundamental research into the construction of 200 million pools was envisaged for confirmation. Let's support, after all, science, in our context, agrarian science. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-22-m1.u451	Dear colleagues, next performance, please. Please, 20 seconds. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-22-m1.u452	Thank you, Mrs. Irina. And my colleagues, I would like to say, here are the signatures of more than 70 deputies of different factions. Most of them represent today’s coalition. These are MPs who have signed and are asking the government today, asking the Ministry of Finance to return 200 million dollars to agrarian science.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-22-m1.u453	Thank you. Please make the next statement. The Ostrikak People's Deputy presents the position of Self-Help.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-22-m1.u454	Dear colleagues, dear Ukrainians! We believe that the 19th year budget is not for the Ukrainians or for their own benefit. It is made up by the government with one goal: to get the International Monetary Fund tranche as soon as possible in order to avoid default. Because this power has been vexed. I want to ask the government today, the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Economics, if we still have, of course, what sectors of economics will be our drivers in 2019, and they'll give us an increase in GDP, and they'll get us out of the debt pit? And most importantly, what did the government in this budget offer to these sectors of the economy? If you're going to tell me about the agrarians, you robbed them first! You took a billion from them on the budget committee and the money saved this year, and they also took it. The programs you're proposing are ineffective. And you know that money doesn't go to real farmers, it's sitting in the pockets of financial and industrial groups. Next. The government has a huge resource under its feet, which is more than the IMF tranche, which is the introduction of a tax on the capital outlay, which is plus at least 1 percent of the additional GDP growth every year, and this is the overlap between the most common spending schemes in low-tax jurisdiction. But the authorities have overrun the entire Ukrainian business, and since this year this tax has not been implemented. There are also no funds in the budget from the termination of customs schemes that the Prime Minister has promised us here in the summer. Anti-offshore legislation. Even those steps that we were about to adopt by the end of this year have unfortunately been rejected by my amendments to the Tax Code. And because of the waste of these resources, unfortunately, the authorities can't guarantee a decent rise in social standards. And if you look at what the government is redistributing these costs, I want to give you a few digits: 83.1 billion -- the IMF, 9.5 billion -- the BSS. This is without the amendments that a colleague from Peter Dustenk's Block just made, which are literally for 10 minutes, covering up for the Institute of National Memory and Medicine, actually hidden funding for equipment and increased funding for the U.S.S.A. The Attorney General's Office is 7.3 billion dollars. The cost of all these law enforcement officers together exceeds the cost of the army. Colleagues, let's be honest with ourselves, do people feel safe on the street today, or do we have a better criminogenic environment? What are some reasons why we should increase the funding of law enforcement agencies in general? Because they serve their patrons honestly. There's an increase in funding for the President's fund in everyone's mouth. I want to ask you, since when do we have the taxpayers' money -- 1 billion dollars -- to be called the President's fund? Next. It's a 40 percent underfunding. When we ask for medical expenses for 270 million dollars, we don't have them. And then suddenly there's 100 million, which is.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-22-m1.u455	Please, 30 seconds. Yes, yes, yes, one minute, of course, and even one and a half. I talked, I talked mechanically. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-22-m1.u456	So when we ask for medical expenses, there are no medical bills, and suddenly there are an additional 100 million who were not available to finance the ambulance on the night of the budget after the tax redistribution. And that's also an interesting question. Three billion to fill the statutory capital of Ucrobronprom. I want to ask you a question today, if we want to support our army, maybe we'd be more comfortable with these 3 billion purchases of weapons and we'd be handing them over now to the front, and we don't know what to hide under the secret, the whole secret, the secret, and so on. And the biggest problem with this year's budget is debt, because 417 billion dollars is 34 percent of all government spending this year on debt repayment and service. In fact, this means that the government can only lend in order to pay. Borrow new debts in order to pay off the old. And this is a threat to the national economy. So we find this budget incompetent, this is the last budget of this power that we remember as an example of incompetence. And Self-Help doesn't vote for him and urges you not to vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-22-m1.u457	Please, from the Opposition Block, the People's MP, Wilkul, will be speaking. Please. Then the People's Front and the Radical Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-22-m1.u458	Dear people of Ukraine, today is the most important day for many overpowered people's deputies and authorities in general, because it is the day of the debasing state budget, the last debasing debas. And we have the pro-European government, we have the pro-European coalition, we have all the Europeans, and it's probably a new good European tradition that exists in all of us, without exception, in Europe, to adopt a budget at 6 a.m., so that no one can see it under the cover of darkness. The Opposition Block faction is taking a sharp stand against the government's development of the State Budget for 2019, which is another budget for poverty and the destruction of the country. Those who are in power now realize that they will no longer be chosen and want to steal the national money for the last time. But the budget is not rubber. Whom will they save to earn more money but, more faithfully, steal? On the people. They cut social benefits, for example, reduce the financing of housing subsidies and raise tariffs. We vote against the red buttons. What does the authorities really suggest? A modest wage increase of 15 dollars per day and a pension of 4 dollars per day, which has already been eaten by rising food prices and rising utility prices. Further increases in tariffs and prices for everything. Obtaining industry, agriculture, medicine, and education through shameful social experiments that the authorities sometimes call reforms. I underline that the government's proposed State Budget for 2019 is far from reaching the 2013 figures. For example, the minimum pension in 2013 is $118, and we're now offered $55. The minimum subsistence minimum of $147 in 2013 is now 68. At the same time, GPI, IMF, and other funding forces are increasing again in 2019, although it has increased almost fourfold since 2013. The salaries of officials of the state-owned companies Naftogazu, Skrošta, Skruzlądnica are calculated by millions of dollars, and the premiums by billions, by the people's billions. We've submitted a package of rights to the State Budget for 2019, but they're not accepted. We insist that the budget be filled with money from the working economy, not from the people's money.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-22-m1.u459	One minute, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-22-m1.u460	By raising municipal tariffs and loans with IMF. We understand what loans are. Our authority sells some part of our independence again, and it is given a billion dollars each. However, the authorities did not accept any of our proposals to protect people and get the country out of the crisis. We're going to win the next election, and we're going to review the country's strategy of movement. Instead of taking credit, as they do now, we're going to make sure that the economy develops, that we're going to create jobs. This will ensure a real wage increase, a pension, a return to confidence tomorrow. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-22-m1.u461	Thank you. And from the People's Front, please, Sergey Pashinsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-22-m1.u462	The People's Front faction will support the budget not only because it responds to the challenges of socio-economic development, but also because it's our defense budget. 102 billion dollars is only in the Armed Forces of Ukraine. We raise the average wage of our soldiers by 30 percent. I know someone doesn't like it, but we'll do it. With a view to optimizing the budget in the area of defence, the Defence and Security Committee will read out the committee’s secretary. I'm asking him to put it under the transcript of "The End of Positions."
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-22-m1.u463	Please, Mr. Winnick, give you the word of Pashinski's national deputy. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-22-m1.u464	In 2017, the Office of the Attorney-General, under the leadership of Lucenka, withdrew Janukovic's money into the State Budget, which remains until the end of this year, and we propose not to lose this surplus, we propose to transfer the content of article 34 of the Ukrainian Law on the State Budget for Ukraine for 2018 to the draft State Budget Act for 2019, with the corresponding numbering, which reads as follows: "Set as an exception to the provision of article 57 of the Ukrainian Budget Code, which is an unallocated balance of funds, which in 2018 was the source of the proceeds of the confiscation of funds and funds received from the implementation of property, confiscated by the Court of Justice for the conduct of corruption and related to corruption, held in the accounts of the Special Treasury Fund of the State and referred to the implementation of the Russian operations for the maintenance of security measures, the maintenance of the Antirist system, the administrative process of the State Treasury in 2017. To specify the name of the management of state-owned property in the defence-industrial complex within the budget programme 1201590 (this is what the self-help faction referred to in the case of Ucrobanprom), to complement the statutory capital of the authorized economic operator for the management of state-owned property in the defence-industrial complex, the volume and expenses of which are provided in the amount of 2 billion 820 million dollars, and to provide for the Ministry of Economic Development and trade to distribute and channel the budgetary resources provided for in the programme, in agreement with the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Committee on National Security and Defence. Increase the amount of expenditure foreseen by the special fund of the Ministry of Defence by 524 million dollars by approving a separate budget programme for the provision of military commissions, territorial centres of staff and social support and their comprehensive provision. In the Cabinet of Ministers, it is the order to allow the Ministry of Defence of Ukraine to direct the funds provided for by the programme, to finance the provision of military commissions, territorial centres of staff and social support and their comprehensive provision of inter-budgetary transfers, namely subsidies from the State Budget to local budgets, to local communities with communal property, which are based on the premises of the military commissioners, the territorial centres of staffing and social support. The source of funding for this program is to determine the proceeds of confiscated funds and funds derived from inventory of property confiscated by the court for committing corruption and corruption-related offences and/or coming from the implementation of excessive military and special equipment, the immobility of the military assets of the Ukrainian Armed Forces, and the costs of estrangement of land on which objects of immovable military property are subject to implementation, and the land that is being liberated in the process of reforming the Ukrainian Armed Forces.” To complete the section on "The Final Provisions" with a new paragraph which is identical to paragraph 16 of the Ukrainian Act on the State Budget for 2018 with the aim of simplifying the procedures for starting construction and surrendering objects to the next content. "To establish that in 2019 the construction, reconstruction, restoration, capital repair of general government residential and utility buildings is being designed."
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-22-m1.u465	One minute, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-22-m1.u466	".the engineering networks and facilities are well-functioning, which are used directly in the territory of military units, institutions, organizations, the Ukrainian Armed Forces and other entities, in accordance with the laws of Ukraine, military formations, as well as defence and special-purpose objects used directly in the land used in the use or right of ownership of active enterprises with which a state contract for the defence of the performance of the defence assignment is made without the provision of construction conditions and restrictions. Work on reconstruction, restoration, and capital repair of objects defined in this paragraph, which by the consequence class belong to objects with minor SS1 effects, does not require documents that give the right to execute them and that do not allow the object to be put into service. Such work should be carried out in compliance with the conditions of legislation, building standards, standards, and rules. The Cabinet of Ministers should ensure that changes are made to its legal and regulatory acts and regulations of the Ministry of Regional Development, the Ministry of Housing and Utilities of Ukraine on the simplification of the order of construction, reconstruction, restoration, capital repair, as defined in paragraph 2 of this paragraph, for the period of implementation of national security and defence measures."
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-22-m1.u467	15 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-22-m1.u468	".offspring and deterring the armed aggression of the Russian Federation in Donetsk, Lugansk and/or the operation of the United Forces. Increase the expenditure under the budget programme on measures to protect and ensure the rights and interests of social rehabilitation. "
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-22-m1.u469	Please, 30 seconds and a dot.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-22-m1.u470	".deprived of liberty by illegal weapons formations, occupational administrations and/or the authorities of the Russian Federation in the temporarily occupied territories of Ukraine and/or territories of the Russian Federation in connection with the public or political activity of the persons concerned, as well as the support of the persons and members of their families, including compensation for the expenses associated with the visit, the granting of persons deprived of their personal liberty and their families of legal assistance, medical and social services, as well as other bribery measures. The payment of a state scholarship for the name of Levak Lukyanenka. ”
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-22-m1.u471	Thank you. Payment of the Levik Lukyanenka scholarship, have you finished? Please let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-22-m1.u472	Code 1601020 by 30 million dollars, reducing by the same amount the general fund development expenditure of the National Regional Development Fund, programme code 2761070. To entrust the Cabinet of Ministers with the provision of funding, infrastructure for military units located on the island of Snakes. Thank you. Please support the transcript.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-22-m1.u473	Thank you. This was the position of the People's Front faction and the National Security and Defence Committee. And the last performance by the factions. Please, Oleg Lazko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-22-m1.u474	Dear colleagues! Our team will not vote for the 2019 budget. I'll explain to you and the Ukrainians why. First. Poor wages, meager pensions. The government raised gas tariffs by 25 percent, up to 70 percent in total, and wages raised by only 15. And the 19th year's pension raise is 60 bucks. Inflation, price increases, and slow price increases will eat up these cash increases in one week. So bullying people, giving them 60 bucks a year for the 19th raise, would be better off than humiliating people like that. And when you talk about raising your salary, a 15 percent raise in salary against a 50 percent increase in gas tariffs is the same abuse. So do not demean people with poverty and gifts. The budget should not be adopted for the International Monetary Fund’s loans. The budget should be adopted: for economic development, for the promotion of its own national producer, for the improvement of the well - being of every Ukrainian family. Instead, you give people begging, poverty, humiliation, and addiction. That's what you're doing. Instead of investment incentives, you're giving tax hikes. Because neither President Poshenko nor the parliamentary majority nor today’s authorities have economic policies. Their policies are loans and loans, loans and loans. Instead of encouraging a national producer, giving available credit resources, giving jobs to Ukrainians and a quarter to raise wages, giving wages to people to get people out of earnings abroad. Because neither the President nor the parliamentary majority sees a global problem that is now emerging from the Ukrainian economy and production is a labour shortage. Because when you pay people cash wages and you lower them with pennies, they're going to leave here because they don't have the ability to realize themselves. That's why we're not voting for this budget. But I'll tell you, dear colleagues and dear Ukrainians, what we will do. After the presidential election, the first thing I'm going to do is we're going to radically review the budget. We will increase wages radically for teachers, doctors, investment in education, and health care to ensure that Ukraine is successful. We will radically increase pensions for millions of Ukrainian pensioners who are now begging for this power. And we will force the budget to work for economic recovery and for the well - being of every Ukrainian family.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-22-m1.u475	Colleagues, I'd like to inform you that it's now six minutes before we speak from the National Deputies and we're moving on to the vote. So I'm asking, colleagues, in six minutes, all the national deputies to come to the hall so that we don't put a lot of votes on the table so that everyone can be there in six or seven minutes. I'm asking you to record a statement from the Ukrainian National Deputies, 6 minutes, please. The fisherman Sergey Viktorovich. Silantiyev's giving the word, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-22-m1.u476	Silantiev, faction of the Radical Party of Oleg Lášk. I propose when voting for the 2019 budget to take into account the next proposal, by the way, which was also supported by the Budget Committee, namely, the appointment of the budget programme under code 34. 112.10. Put it in the next line. Subsidy from the state budget to local budgets for the construction of new, renovated, and capital repairs of existing sports 50 - foot - and - 20 - foot - long [50 - m] swimming pools Please support, fellow believers, this will allow an increase in the number of sports objects to which funds may be directed from this program. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-22-m1.u477	Marezuk Oleg Romanovich gives the floor to Oleni Babak.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-22-m1.u478	Alona Babak, Self Help Union. Dear National Deputies! I'm addressing you with the fact that we've all had this kind of benefit deal for some of you today. And we haven't accepted the Ukrainian Tax Code in a long time. And until someone found himself in this Tax Code, the law for Ukrainians was not adopted. At the same time in this room everyone, virtually everyone, went out and beat himself in the chest, as he protects young people, what programs we should have for young people, how we should support those young people who still see themselves in this state and do not plan to leave. How many times have we talked about how much we need housing insurance programs? These are dollars compared to the benefits that many of you have received today because of the adoption of the Tax Code. But the government of Ukraine has done nothing to give young people home loans. The government has done nothing for the people for whom we have passed the laws of the dormitory. People who have been living in shacks since the 1990s and cannot improve their lives because the government doesn't give 70 million dollars to the Surfs program. What's going on in this room? What? Why we don't see what it takes for a decent person to make a decent living, and we've set up a trade here for one share, another share, some electronic site to make one, some uranium gains to make with some kind of benefits. What's going on in this room? And the government does nothing to change the situation. We've been raising the price again for gas since May. Can you please tell me when the energy efficiency fund is fully operational? So you have the opportunity to negotiate with the International Monetary Fund and to say that until full credit for energy efficiency and energy efficiency in the home works, you can't raise any amount of gas. You don't trade for Ukrainians. Therefore, to the Ukrainians, "The Self-Help Union" will not support the budget created by the fund called Peter Prashenko at the expense of taxpayers, and to them, without giving anything but a name, Peter Poroshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-22-m1.u479	Pavlov Constantine Yuriovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-22-m1.u480	Constantine Pavlov, "The Opposition Block", the city of Krivi Rig. Dear people of Ukraine, surely most of you will watch this night’s Sabbath in the morning. But I want you to look very carefully at those who vote for this shameful document, which is called the budget, because it's these people who support and today press the button for this budget -- and there's the funeral brigade of the state of Ukraine. And it is these people who are doing everything they can to keep Ukrainians out of retirement, and they are doing everything they can to make young people run abroad, so that our children can grow up to serve the European slag. As representatives of the Opposition Block, we will not support such a disgraceful document. And an experiment on our nation and on the people of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-22-m1.u481	And the closing act, one minute left. Grandmaster Mikola gives the floor to Michael Bondar, one minute. And I'd like everyone to come into the hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-22-m1.u482	Bondar Mikhailo, 119 constituency. Today, the Ministry of Energy held a meeting on the creation of the National Coal Company. But the figures in the budget don't exactly stimulate the development of that National Coal Company. It's a dead child. Once again in 19 we're going to adopt laws that will still cover the debt on the wages of miners. I'm going to the Ministry of Fuel and Energy again, to finance. Please review the budget and find these sources of funding for the coal sector to ensure that it is properly financed. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-22-m1.u483	So the speeches by the national deputies have been completed. I invite all the national deputies to the Assembly Hall to prepare for the vote. I'm asking you, colleagues, to come into the hall. I know. I now give the floor to the deputy chairman of the committee, Sergey Ivanovich Melnik. Then from the government of Volodymyr Borisovich Groissman, and we move on to the vote. I'm asking everyone to come into the hall. Two closing words and a vote. Please, Sergey Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-22-m1.u484	Dear colleagues, we've had additional suggestions, this is Deputy Chicken, Deputy Winnick, and the member of the changing language, Silanti, after changing the layout of the distribution program into two pools. That's why. And the proposal for the restoration of the financing of the agrarian academy, but it can't vote in this way, because it was included in the first reading and supported in the second reading, so it can only be viewed as a proposal for how to increase the funding back to the academy and decrease in this. So I'd like to give a moment's notice to the minister in terms of whether he supports the Ministry of Finance on these proposals. They are, in principle, three suggestions of the Chicken, Silantiev and Vinnika are balanced and they are both textual and textual.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-22-m1.u485	Is the Minister of Finance supporting? Please, Markar's Oksana.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-22-m1.u486	Yes, I can confirm that, according to the committee's consultation, the changes that are being made by the People's MP, they're unbalanced, they've, they've redistributed them inside and refined them into a number of programs. Similarly to the remarks made and proposed by Deputy Winnik, there are details of the name, as well as a number of assignments and the End Positions also within and without change. And the proposal, which was made by MP Silantyev, is also a switch between the two programs.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-22-m1.u487	So, colleagues, we can go to the vote. I'm asking you, colleagues, all to take up jobs. And I invite you to speak to Prime Minister Vladimir Borisovich Groysman of Ukraine, a colleague. And in two minutes, there will be a vote. Everyone, please be seated. Vladimir Borisovich, please. Everyone, please take your seats. Look who's not around and invite you to the hall. So that we don't wait and vote. Invite everyone into the hall. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-22-m1.u488	Dear Mr. Head! Dear fellow national MPs! First of all, I want to thank you for your previous decisions in the budget process. In fact, maybe it's different with the 19th year budget. It's absolutely natural when opposition says it's not like that. But there's always a time when opposition comes to power and then it starts to protect the budget, and another opposition starts to criticize them. It's a normal process. But most of all, what we have today is our duty to ensure stability and development in the country. We started many processes, reforms, and transformations. And the country's budget is an absolutely key tool for these tasks. In fact, we're saving in the 19th year budget all those programs that we started with you a few years ago. Security and defense are record over 210 billion dollars. We're saving money on funding a new Ukrainian school, on changing vocational and technical education, on raising salaries for science and teaching staff. We're increasing the minimum wage within the possibilities that the economy is giving us today. Yeah, I'd like her to be taller. But what we're starting to think about is that we need to stop inflation from reaching macro-financial stability in economic growth. And I would also like to remind you that since January 1st we're going to have to do a recalculation of pensions for the military pensioners, that's 500,000 people, and from March 1st we're going to do the most extensive recalculation of pensions, that's almost 11.5 million pensioners in terms of recalculation and increase of pensions. We're going to be building roads and spending on record 55 billion. We have also created some incentives for economic development, including support for the agricultural sector, which forms 17 percent of our country's gross product. We have a lot to do with you, but the main thing in the 19th year, the year of political turbulence, is to ensure stability in the country. So I would like to ask you today to support this budget and to assure you that we will do everything we can to make the country grow and grow. And what I'd like to say is that there are still huge challenges, these are mistakes in the past, when the country has more than 50 billion accumulated dollars of debt, and this is one budget of the country that we are now counting on. It's 417 billion that could be targeted at new education, at kindergartens, at infrastructure, at stimulating the economy, at rising.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-22-m1.u489	Please finish the minute. And come into the hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-22-m1.u490	to raise wages and other goals that would serve people's interests. And now we have to pay these debts. But you and I can handle this if we're responsible. So I would very much ask everyone -- both opposition and coalition, and all non-fractional MPs -- to support this budget, this is not the budget of Groysman, this is the budget of our Ukrainian state. And we have to do everything we can to become strong and to resist the enemy who is standing on the border and who has already entered our territory. We just have to wash it out of here. And in this budget, the President's initiative is 10,000 dollars the minimum wage since January 1, 19 for our military, today it's 7. So we've done everything that will enable us to grow and maintain the situation and to build up in the future. I count on your support very much, and don't forget, the candidates for the Presidents and the Parliament, in this budget, the costs of funding the elections. And I think it's everyone's duty to vote for it. Thank you and wish us success, and thank you for your support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-22-m1.u491	Thank you, colleagues. And we're moving on to making a decision. I want to remind you that two votes will be: first for adoption in the second reading and then for adoption in general. This is what the Rules provide. So one after the other, there's going to be two votes. I ask everyone to prepare for the decision and return to their jobs. And I'm betting. We're done here, we're moving on to a decision. Do not move away from your jobs so that the cards are ready for voting. In accordance with article 158 of the Ukrainian Supreme Council Rules, I am voting for the second reading of the draft Ukrainian Law on the National Budget for 2019 with proposals that have been presented under the transcript by the national deputies Vinnik, Chicken, Silantiyev (registration number 9000), please vote, please support, colleagues, each vote. Vote. Please be supportive. We'll support the Ukrainian military. We'll support the Ukrainian army. Vote. Please be supportive. Vote. We'll support it, colleagues. [[06:01:11]] For 239. Decision taken. And according to the article. Two votes, colleagues, two, don't go! I'm betting on a draft Ukrainian Act on Ukraine's National Budget for 2019 for adoption as a whole. Please vote, please support. Total budget. We're voting on Vinick, Chicken, Silantiev. Vote. And technical law. Please vote, please support. [[06:01:46]] For 240 Ukraine's budget is accepted. The U.S. National Budget for 2019 was also adopted. Colleagues, tomorrow we won't cancel. Colleagues, it's been a rough day. Tomorrow we will consider decrees to reject the laws adopted today. Sadly, many deputies have made such decisions, and we need to consider them. Today, today, yes. So, colleagues, I now declare the evening session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine closed. Thank you all for your hard work. Tomorrow we will meet in the hall to continue our work. Today, today. Today we are meeting in the hall to continue our work. Today at 10 o'clock we meet in the hall and continue our work, colleagues. We'll have a short meeting tomorrow with everyone's consent. We'll have a short meeting tomorrow. Today. We'll do it tonight.
