ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-06-m0.u1	Good morning, dear fellows! Please enter the hall, prepare for registration. Colleagues ready for registration? I see not everyone is still at work. So I'd like you to run the registration. [[10:04:09]] 329 national deputies registered. The morning plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Today is the birthday of the national deputy of Ukraine, Ivan Mikolaiovich Mirnoj. Welcome to your birthday! [[Applause]] And also, colleagues, despite the violent discussions in this room, I want to remind you of the main thing. Four years ago Kramatorski and Slovenski were released on these days. It was a turning point in Ukraine's struggle for independence. When the first troops entered the National Guard, the Kulczytsky battalion, they raised the Ukrainian flag there. And that showed the strength and spirit of the Ukrainian army. I warmly welcome today both the inhabitants of Slovenia and the inhabitants of Kramatorska with the release of these beautiful cities, with the anniversary of liberation, and this is an example of our duty to free all occupied territories, to free Ukrainian invaders from the freeing of Ukrainian cities, Ukrainian citizens. Welcome! Ukraine will win! Glory to Ukraine! Colleagues, there have been two announcements of a break that the factions are ready to replace. The first is from the faction of Peter Prashenko and the will of the people. And I invite you to Arthur Gerasimov's performance. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-06-m0.u2	Thank you. Dear Andrew Volodymyrovich, distinguished colleagues, distinguished voters! What happened yesterday in the Ukrainian Parliament? Very simple: those who did not vote in favour of the renewal of the Central Electoral Commission broke their promises to the electorate and assumed political responsibility for the preservation of the old KVC of Janukovic times. Because there is no procedural obstacle to this update. [[B in m in s a l in]] And the renewal of the commission is expected by the Ukrainian people, and this is what the public is demanding, and this is what our international partners are stressing. It is unacceptable when certain political forces, especially those that call themselves democratic, put at risk the preparation and conduct of transparent and honest presidential and national elections, their legitimacy and recognition in the world, deliberately endangering the reform of decentralization and the election in the newly created OTG. Two years ago, the President of Ukraine submitted a report on the election of new members to the Centre for the Implementation of Constitutional Standards. At the request of individual political forces, he made a second submission. The Peter Prashenko Party faction supported the President's initiatives every time. However, the vote on this issue was constantly delayed. As a result, those assigned to Yanukovic continue to serve in the CLTC. Yesterday, the entire Ukrainian society saw the real position of the political forces of the Ukrainian Parliament and saw the difference between promises and their fulfillment. The intentional reasons against the renewal of the CLTC are open manipulation. This is evidence of the representation of all democratic factions and groups in the submission of the President of Ukraine, which caused no complaints until the time of consideration in the session room. The faction of the Party of Peter Prashenka actually stressed the need to update the CBC. This process must take place not only to uphold the letter of the law but also to protect the interests of Ukrainians who do not trust the acting members of the commission assigned to Yanukovic. The faction of the Party of Peter Prashenko addresses the Head of the Supreme Council as one of the first questions for the next sessional week is the update of the Central Election Commission. We also need to consider the removal of parliamentary immunity and the completion of an anti-corruption court in Ukraine as soon as possible. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-06-m0.u3	Thank you. The next statement for a break from two factions is the People's Front and the Radical Party. Welcome to Maxim Burbak's words. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-06-m0.u4	Dear colleagues, welcome to the hall! And I'm grateful to our coalition brothers that they're on the job today, that yesterday was lonely without you. But it can be said that I am convinced that next week we will form a viable CBC in a democratic European way, and we will finally expel representatives who have been appointed by the Yanukovich regime, even with new orders. But I'd like to talk about the next one. I would like to address the Prime Minister, the President of Ukraine, in connection with the shameful events that took place yesterday in the Lomachian Rural Council of the Sokirian region. On April 1st, 14, Vladimir Borisovich, you and I made a revolutionary decision about the beginning of the process of decentralization in Ukraine and the creation of united territorial communities. So yesterday a village council meeting was held, which used the draft law on preunification, and now the New Year’s OTG will be established. This is the same O.G. where this criminal C.V.C.C. of this call, unannounced, has already refused to hold a new election to the O.T.G. And they're going to be done because next week we're going to vote for the composition of the new CBC, and they're going to make the only right legal decision, and the New Year's OTG is going to work. Interestingly, though, local land latifundists have done their utmost to resist the rural head of Natalia Mikhaylovna Petrik, who with the deputies has decided to make this decision in a legitimate way and to unite in New Year’s Eve. Regrettably, his head, the local Reichsaw, did nothing or even came to these congregations. By four o’clock in the morning, the people who had been torn down by local Latifundists were not allowed out of the session hall, either to the village head or to the village deputies or representatives of the Local Self - Government Development Centre or to ODA Gostuk’s deputy head, who is responsible for decentralization or even to the media, journalists. I am grateful to Minister of Internal Affairs Arsen Avakov, because the authorities of HUNP in the Chernivecki region, the National Police have done everything they can to avoid bloodshed. So I'm going to the President's Administration, and I'm going to ask the Prime Minister of Ukraine to verify the facts. If local reservists confirm that they have done nothing and willfully inhibit the process of decentralization, then we must finally draw human resources conclusions on the Montenegrin region. Decentralisation will be implemented in the Sokirian region and in the Chernivite region.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-06-m0.u5	Thank you. I remind you, colleagues, today we have an hour of questions to the government. I would like to welcome to our meeting the Prime Minister of Ukraine Vladimir Borisovich Groysman and the Cabinet of Ministers. Welcome! I'll remind you, first there'll be a speech from the government, then there'll be questions from the factions, then there'll be questions from the national MPs. And I invite you to speak from the government of the Minister of Education and Science of Ukraine, Mr. Greenevich, Lilia Mikhailnovna. Mrs. Lila, please. Allow the minister to pass.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-06-m0.u6	Honorable Head of the Supreme Council, distinguished national deputies! On July 4th, the government adopted a decree that we want to inform you about, because it relates to the implementation of the laws that were passed here in Parliament. This is the decision that envisions the establishment of the National Fund for Research in Ukraine and approves the position of this fund and initiates its work. The creation of this fund is an extremely important decision, because the main part of the reform that is part of the Science and Technology Act, which was adopted by Parliament in 2015, is the change in the distribution of science financing on clear, transparent criteria. And make this funding available to better scientists and better scientific groups. It is also very important for us that this funding is used in the interests of the country's society and economy, and therefore the priorities of this funding will be determined. The fund is expected to be one of the key elements of the new system of funding for Ukraine's science, and this task has entered into the mid-term plan for the government by 2020. According to the report of Horizon 2020, which we received in Ukraine, it is clear that reforms should first be based on the clear intention of the authorities to increase the funding of science, and here we should work together on the 2019 budget. And in this part of funding, competitive financing should be about 40 percent and only 60 percent is already funding rates, houses and everything. We now have 90 percent of our left-wing funding goes only as basic funding and only 10 percent is grant funding. We also fulfill our obligation to increase the financing of science. It is gradually moving, but it is still far from ideal expectations. Over the period 2017-2018, the amount of budgetary funding for science increased by 69 per cent. We pushed back in 2016 from 0.16 percent of GDP from the government budget, and now we've brought it to 0.24 percent of GDP. Our goal is to double in two years, an ambitious goal for the Ukrainian budget, but not enough for a breakthrough in science. It's very important to say that we have problems with the distribution of funding for science. We have a system in Ukraine where budget resources are distributed in this way. Please take a look at this diagram. We have many executives who have this money. If you look at it, out of 6 billion, about 174 million dollars of financial funding for science; 72.5 percent, or 4.5 billion, is funding for the National Academy of Sciences; 20 percent, 1.2 billion, are expenditures of the Ministry of Education and Science; and 7.5 percent are investing in industry. So you see, as a central authority, we only have 20 percent of the funding for science. And now it's important that these costs are primarily focused on the transparent distribution of the competition through the National Research Fund. The mentioned artificial segmentation of the scientific sphere limits not only scientific competition but also the possibilities of interdisciplinary cooperation. Because as a ministry, we can't fund the National Academy of Sciences just as much as the National Academy can't fund anything for joint work at universities. This, in fact, violates a very important thing: the relationship between universities and science. In all developed countries, there are grant institutions that are tasked with supporting, on a grant basis, the best research and development projects under open competitive selection. Foreign experts are involved. And that's what we did to identify the National Council of the Scientific Committee by involving foreign experts, and that's what we're going to do with the National Fund. Today, the fund must have a maximum of 60 people. It's formed as a non-profit budgetary institution. Its main task will be to support fundamental and applied scientific research, scientific and technical experimental development. The Fund’s activities are directed at Kabmin. The fund’s costs are based on the cost of the budget, voluntary contributions, such as foreign donors, and not prohibited by law. The size of the Fund's budget will be determined by a separate line of budget. And to determine this amount of funding will be based on proposals made by the Prime Minister of the National Science and Technology Council, which has a powerful scientific committee. And these are not positions, people with positions, and there are scientists on the scientific committee who are recognized, Ukrainian, at the world level. Next. What are some types of grant support? There are several of them. And it's made, at last, comfortable for scientists, as they require. First of all, we're not just going to give institutional grants for the first time, we're going to give individual and collective and institutional grants. So a talented group of scientists from different institutions can come together to work on one topic, and they will have a chance to get a grant, even if they are not attached to a specific institution. Next. There are ways of grant support not only for scientific development and research, there will be grants and for scientific mobility, for the development of a material and technical base of scientific research and development, and for the creation of research infrastructure. Because we have to. In fact, the lack of this infrastructure with expensive equipment does not allow us to do a lot of research here today, Ukrainian scientists have to go abroad to do these research on this equipment. Next. What authorities? For us, it is vital that this body is not corrupted. And that's why we're creating a counterbalance, and we're ensuring that there's no conflict of interest. The Fund’s governing body is the Supervisory Board of the Foundation, whose function under the law is entrusted to this scientific committee of the Nacrada, the one chosen on clear criteria by internationally recognized Ukrainian scientists nominated by foreign scientists. Next. The Scientific Council of the Foundation on Competitive Principles elects the Executive Director of the Fund and its deputies. This scientific council is nominated by the Supervisory Board. I mean this one. The science and technology committee of the Nacradia. The personal composition of the scientific council for competitive selection, because they have to go through a very tough competition with the criteria, is appointed by the government. It's like a seemingly complex structure gives us an opportunity to avoid conflicts of interest and balance decisions. Now it's very important to us, the idea that we can make the best structure, if we don't fill it with finance, it won't work. And it's very important for us to be able to achieve this fund plan. Clearly, the fund is not the dominant source of funding for science in any country. This means that there must be basic funding, but there must be some real indicators. At present, the government's medium-term plan by 2020 is designed to increase the amount of budgetary funding for science, up to 0.5 per cent of the budget. It hasn't been like this for many, many years. We hope that the Ukrainian economy, the measures that the government is doing today after the detinction of funds, especially what is happening at customs and other sources, will be able to help with your and your support, the distinguished people's deputies, and your help to increase this funding practically. Now it's 0.24, it's 0.16, now it's 0.24, and then it's double to 0.5. That's not the limit, because the law has another indicator that we should come to and move forward gradually. Now, the same plan states that 10 to 15 percent of the budget for science should be channelled through a tenance fund, which is essentially one and a half billion dollars. It's very important. So I'd like to finish my speech by what we're going to do as a government, we're going to do a transparent system that's going to work, and it's very difficult to try to make any corrupt decisions. But we have a very important synergy with the Supreme Council for that. With the budget committee of the Supreme Council, with the national deputies who, when they make a budget, have very many other priorities to remember, let us provide the National Research Fund with adequate funding. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-06-m0.u7	Thank you very much, Lilia Mikhailna. Now it's a faction question. I'm asking you to prepare for the faction and group enrollment, and I'm asking you to record. Please. From "The Rebirth Party" by Razwadowski Viktor Josephovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-06-m0.u8	Thank you, Mr. Head. Please pass the word to Vladimir Mikhailovich Litvina.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-06-m0.u9	Dear Vladimir Borisovich, an epepoch of pollution from the Rivers of Svet i Chomor has been in existence for two years. For all the appeals, especially the last time the discard was more than all the previous periods, there was a meeting of the appropriate committees of the Žitomir and Hmelni district under the direction of two heads of the district government. They made a decision, which word for word except one paragraph repeats the recommendations of the previous year. I have a question: When will real, radical measures be taken to stop this enterprise from poisoning people and nature? Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-06-m0.u10	So the Prime Minister will answer. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-06-m0.u11	Thank you, Reverend Mr. Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Honorary Fellows of the People's Deputies, Vladimir Mihajlovich. It is with this information that the Ministry of Ecology has referred to the court in this matter, and the details of the process can be reported by the Minister of Ecology of Ostap Semerak. Please, Ostap Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-06-m0.u12	Thank you, Vladimir Borisovich. Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich, for being interested in this matter, controlling it and helping the Ministry of Ecology and local self-government to work to protect the environment. Indeed, several environmental inspections have been initiated by the pollution that has occurred on the river, which has set up environmental laws and environmental damage for businesses that work. According to the Ukrainian legislation, environmental inspection and the Ministry of Ecology appealed to the court to stop the business. Unfortunately, so far, trials are under way, and pollution companies are working. The Ministry of Ecology has repeatedly addressed the Supreme Council, which obviously needs to review Ukrainian legislation, which is too liberal for environmental pollutants that have a negative impact on the lives and health of Ukrainian citizens, people living in these areas. I hope that together we will be able to correct such problems with Ukrainian legislation and bring our country’s territory in order. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-06-m0.u13	Thank you. From the Opposition Block, Sažko Sergei.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-06-m0.u14	Good afternoon! SergeySazko, 59th constituency. Dear Vladimir Borisovich, I have a question for Energy Minister Nasalik Igor Stepanović. In view of the situation that has now taken place in the coal sector, when miners have three months to pay their wages, what concrete steps will the ministry take after the crisis? Yesterday, the sailors asked the question that the money that had been allocated would close the wages. debt for April-month only. By flying holes like this, we'll never get a branch out of the crisis. The sailors return here on Tuesday for a drink. What are we going to tell them? How are we going to close this question? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-06-m0.u15	Thank you, Your Honor. Thank you for being present at the general meeting yesterday with the miners with the Supreme Council deputies, where I was present, and we were discussing concrete steps: what it takes to get the payroll off. Well, the first thing that's done, and now I've got confirmation that it's almost finished with a passport worth 324 million, and yesterday I dropped both you and Yooff, and the representatives of the coal collectives, the allocations that we're closing at pay. I understand that this is a partial closure, and that's why the Supreme Council of Ukraine has the law of Bondar Mikhail Leontijovich, which allows this process to be completed virtually by the New Year. We talked about the resource that we're going to get, 1 billion 400, we've practically found in this law. I think we'll finish it by the time it's accepted. But there's a little nuance. This morning, miners led me with Mr. Wolinz, and we talked to them in the middle of the morning. It is sad that some miners have come to drink. What is more, I asked for the appropriate authorities to come and take off the show. Turns out, they asked the minister to pass these tests, the minister passed these tests, and people refused. Then I would very much ask the trade unions not to come with a drunken upper hand, I apologize for the word.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-06-m0.u16	Thank you. Please, Vladimir Borisovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-06-m0.u17	Let me. Thank you for your question, in terms of problems that are chronic to the coal sector. Unfortunately, the state of affairs in the field today is unsatisfactory, it doesn't set up miners, and it doesn't set me up as Prime Minister. I've told this to the minister of profile on a number of occasions, that we need to systematically restructure mines, upgrades, upgrades, increase coal mining and so on. Today, there is a difference between the value of coal and the price of coal. This difference is not in favor of government mines. And that's why we're doing every tonne of coal today, and this grant over the year is 3 billion dollars. Unfortunately, these 3 billion dollars have to be found in the government budget to compensate for the difference, usually pay. But I've set up a clear task for both the profile minister and the finance minister of Ukraine: to find opportunities within the budget to predict by the end of the year to pay off wages rhythmically without creating additional debts. But this is too small, we need a completely new policy in the coal sector. And that's the job under the Ministry. I believe it is the personal responsibility of Minister Nasalik. But I also stress that this question will now be in my day - to - day schedule every day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-06-m0.u18	Thank you. From Peter Dustenka's Block, Keith Andry Bogdanovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-06-m0.u19	Dear Vladimir Borisovich, I have a question concerning the state and educational subsidies in Ukraine. We have a very well-designed subsidy system for cities, but it does not fully reflect the need for rural areas in many parts of Ukraine. Let me give you an example. In the district, I have the largest community in Lviv district to fund a state education subsidy of 50 percent of the total amount of education subsidy. So the whole community budget that's supposed to go to socio-economic development is going to go to government subsidy funding on the basis of incomplete schools. And so I ask very much that we anticipate this year's funding in those rural areas of the state subsidy, where it is necessary and we provide a mechanism for differentiation of subsidies depending on whether there are cities or rural areas.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-06-m0.u20	Thank you for asking. In fact, it is. And there's differentiation. And in principle, the formula provides for the same, equal approach to the formation of these expenses. But it's clear that we're constantly looking for optimal formulas because we started financial decentralization. And in financial decentralization, more than 50 percent of the resources are already in place. Now, right now, they have to be balanced from the point of view of expenditure. And the main priority is, of course, financing education, health care, other issues related to protected articles. So your information, I took it into account. I'll assign an extra minister of finance and a minister of education to work, see. Maybe we should adjust something. But for these purposes, we have foreseen a stupendation that is now in the state budget in order to smooth out possible inconsistencies that may arise in specific areas. That's why we do it. And the Ministry of Finance is doing this fairly substantively. We'll adjust if necessary. Thank you for asking.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-06-m0.u21	Thank you. From the Self-Help faction, Opanasenko Alexander Valeriyovich. He's handing Taras the Shepherd. You haven't answered yet, have you? I'm sorry. The answer has not yet been completed. You can identify who will ask questions. From the government who? Lilia Mihailovna, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-06-m0.u22	I want to add to the formula. In fact, the formula provides for coefficients that relate to different areas of population density. But there is such a problem in many areas that, for example, those who referred to themselves as cities of district importance actually have population density such as in the village, and they have a very inefficient network. And for example, they divide classes of 14 into 15 children. That's the result. So, of course, we'll take that into account. And I thank the Prime Minister that we are now discussing the priority of this issue, but next year we should think about how we will define it in the formula when we call ourselves cities, and the density of the population, like in rural areas. So we also need to work on the network, on the quality of education, and on the territorial division itself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-06-m0.u23	Thank you. So, who will ask the questions? You're a tough guy, aren't you? So, Opanasenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-06-m0.u24	Shepherd's word, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-06-m0.u25	Dear Vladimir Borisovich, Vladimir Borisovich, I simply don't know if you've been informed or not, but today we've had another mine break in the range, and as a result of three of our other soldiers not on the line of separation, not on the front line, and in the plain area, three of our boys have been killed, nine have been injured. And this is a question that doesn't happen for the first time in Parliament because our boys are dying on the ranges of that weapon that we're paying for from the government budget, the Ukrainian weapons. And we're reminded that there's probably no reason to ask questions to the Ministry right now, because there's no decision in the Ministry where to buy and who to buy. You and I have repeatedly raised questions about the Ucroborprom concert, where neither the previous government nor your government, unfortunately, have spoken on more than one occasion, cannot bring two members to the Supervisory Board in order to make sure that this work does not.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-06-m0.u26	30 seconds, please. Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-06-m0.u27	For the concert to work, not to perform certain structures, but to work for the country. When can you perform the function of giving these two members to the government? And please take control of these events that are taking place in the Armed Forces and in the investigation. I understand what you can say, you can call the prosecution, the law enforcement, but it's our responsibility with you, we've been chosen by people, and we have to answer people.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-06-m0.u28	Thank you, Mr. Taras, for your question. The first thing I'd like to do is express my sympathy to the families of the dead, it's a shame that we lost our soldiers far from the front, and it's a huge loss. Of course, there will be investigations and results. By the way, well, I think we need to look at a case like this in the past on the results of the investigation, and I figured it out. And as for control, you're right, I'm working on it right now, and I'm going to make suggestions in the near future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-06-m0.u29	Thank you. Next question from the "Fatherland" faction. Please, people's deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-06-m0.u30	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Sergeyevtushka, the "Fatherland" faction. I have a question for Prime Minister Vladimir Groysman. Vladimir Borisovich, literally a few weeks later, a large number of precipitation fell into high-rise locations, and we saw from the media how much damage has been done to both homes and other institutions, buildings and everything else. Please tell us what steps have been taken by the government, and what steps have been taken to bring an order there and help people? And we have the plenary next week, maybe instead of having some factions of demarches set up here, put it in the agenda, you have the legislative initiative, the bills that will improve life there in those high-rise locations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-06-m0.u31	Thank you for asking. In fact, as soon as the overcrowding started and the phenomena that you said were natural, DDSN, in my opinion, worked well enough and professionally. We have the State Department of Emergency Situations fully secured. And I can tell you that a few, at least three times a day, and I got a report from the manager about the state of affairs that's been going on these days. This issue is now being addressed by the authorities, who determine how they might need help. As they turn to us for help, we will consider what is in our capabilities. But I emphasize that the emergency ministry worked 24 hours a day and decided, helped residents, worked with residents, and protected their own buildings. Well, as always. That is why we will consider your request. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-06-m0.u32	Thank you. From the People's Front faction, please, People's Deputy of Logwinsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-06-m0.u33	Dear Vladimir Borisovich, welcome! GeorgiyLogwinsky, faction of the People's Front, the head of an inter-parliamentary group with the State of Israel. In our group of 140 deputies, we are one of the largest groups in this Parliament. And by comparison, for example, the entire Knesset of the State of Israel is 120 deputies. And a third of Parliament is part of this group because Israel is one of the best world examples for building relationships. We've had a lot in common lately. We've ratified a lot of agreements. Meanwhile, arrangements for free trade await an agreement for the granting of pensions to our citizens living in Israel. That is why we were asked to support these questions, to inform us. I would also like to point out that Mr. Eliav Belotzerkowski, Ambassador of the State of Israel present in the hall, has completed his cadet. I think we, as a parliament, should thank Mr. Eliav for his very important work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-06-m0.u34	Thank you for asking. So I understand that you've prepared a worthy replacement: 140 by 120. Well, when there's a holiday in Knesset, you can go for reinforcements and adopt a couple of laws. Well, I was joking. Smile. Dear colleagues, we have finally finished our work on the free trade zone with the State of Israel. In fact, interparliamentary ties and interstate ties are quite serious. All matters relating to the pension settlement can be considered only when we have completed the formation of a comprehensive pension system, including for military officials at the level of legislation. And then we'll move on to the following questions. And that's actually the answer. Thank you for asking.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-06-m0.u35	Thank you. And the last question from the Radical Party. I'd like to give the floor to the national deputy Oleg Laszko.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-06-m0.u36	Dear Mr. Prime Minister! I'm sure you know that Ukraine's biggest problem today is mass poverty. When people do not have basic incomes to feed their families. Eight hundred bracelets for a month's care of a child. How can you feed your child? Copiers are helping with the birth of a child. There are no housing programs for young people, and as a result, children are not born. Therefore, our team calls on the government to make changes to the budget to Parliament and to review wages. Salaries have to be raised. Those who receive Ukrainians today provoke mass labour migration and the lack of economic growth. We demand an increase in wages, a recalculation of pensions, especially for the shopkeepers. Because on the eve of the heating season, when is the government going to raise gas prices, where people take money to pay the utility and those space gas prices? So instead of raising gas prices, it's increasing wages and pensions.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-06-m0.u37	Thank you. I mean, Reverend Oleg Valeriovich, but I'm not. I think that the things you're talking about today are very important not only to talk to each other, but to Ukrainian citizens. And I think that there are enough thinkers in this room who are convinced that we should both raise social standards and pay and solve a lot of problems. But let's face it, over the years it's been difficult for our state to take steps to answer every question that you've asked, and more specifically, not even you've set up, but it's the Ukrainian society: both the wages and the recalculation of pensions. But the main issue is the growth of the national economy. So you're saying you have to make some changes to the budget, and I'm both hands to make some changes to the budget. One-and-a-half billion people need to make budget changes in order to provide more miners, we need tens of billions, tens of billions to make pensions. That's tens of billions. And it's all going to be the product of the national economy, and we're doing it today. And finally, we have to say thank you to Parliament for a number of laws that you've passed, and in this plenary week, so this is a matter of constant priority. The question is, there's no question for me as for the Prime Minister, I'm one of the most interested people to live better, to make them take a positive view of the situation in the state and so on, I think you understand that. So it's a task. By the way, it's about birth. We've recently taken a number of initiatives, maybe they're not very big steps, but they're very clear. So the support of children at birth is now going to be the corresponding sets there that cost over 5,000 dollars from September 1st. We're introducing, well, for the baby, so that at first everything is provided for the birth. Second position. We've been implementing since January 1st, and we're going to ask for your support, it's such a service as "municipal nanny," so that we can have a nanny in three years for whom we're going to pay.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-06-m0.u38	Please let me finish 30 seconds, one minute, finish 30 seconds. One minute, give me a minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-06-m0.u39	Wait a minute. We will help children to have someone to raise when their parents go to work. And it's also a question of employment and wages and so on. So in our economic growth plan and everything that the economy makes, we're going to give to people. It's fundamentally important, and I don't think we're going to have any differences. Thank you for asking.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-06-m0.u40	Thank you. We're moving on to questions from the national MPs. People's deputies would like to prepare to participate in the recording. Please hold the recording. Please, National Deputy Opanasenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-06-m0.u41	Dear Vladimir Borisovich! Dear Prime Minister! Vladimir Borisovich! Vladimir Borisovich! Thank you. Vladimir Borisovich, two months ago, was such a disgraceful situation when, in fact, a child from a foster home was taken out of court. We've investigated, we've written a lot of references to the Henprosecutor's Office, directly to the Ministry of Internal Affairs, to you as well. And we examined that question and found that we actually, your government, our government, two years ago, July 22nd, adopted Order No. 458 and established a legal coalition, actually added additional liabilities to the foster family, and now they're on the stretcher. On the one hand, they have the priority right to adopt, on the other hand, by this decision you have made additional commitments to them. I'm sending you an official request. I ask you whether to stop the action of 458 decrees, or whether to stop in the part that contradicts, first, the Constitution and the rights of the adoptive parents. Please get yourself out of this.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-06-m0.u42	Ten seconds, please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-06-m0.u43	We've explored this question, and now it's mass in nature. More than 20 children just get out of foster homes, and the organs of care -- they don't use them, they don't stand up.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-06-m0.u44	Thank you for asking. I'll take him, I'll take him to work. Because, I stress, you know the politics of our government: there are no foreign children. And everything about Ukrainian children is the most important priority for us. We will now learn what needs to be changed, if necessary, we will do so and correct it. Thank you for your question and for drawing attention to such an important question, children's questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-06-m0.u45	Thank you. And I invite you to the floor of the People's Deputy Kodolu.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-06-m0.u46	Alexander Kodola, Montenegro, 209 constituency. I have a question for the Prime Minister. Dear Vladimir Borisovich, I represent Montenegro and the Varvinsky region, which is my constituency, on the verge of a social explosion. Because it's closing down a state-owned company called the Gdynic Gas Processing Plant, which has more than 1,000 people working on it. The business is profitable, and in the past year alone, the net profit is 300 million dollars. And today, people in despair have been fighting for almost a year and do not understand what the situation is. So I ask you to intervene immediately. The business that today brings golden eggs, which in fact brings income to the state, simply wants to close. I think it's wrong and it's just a shame. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-06-m0.u47	Thank you for asking. On the basis of your request, I give the order to the First Deputy Prime Minister, please share this matter with him. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-06-m0.u48	Thank you. Welcome to the speech of the People's Deputy Lapin. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-06-m0.u49	Hello, I have a question for Mr. Prime Minister. You and I have failed a very good reform -- decentralization, you and I are working on the "No Strange Children" project, and we are voting on the very right laws for the state. Today, however, there are cases where social services centers for families, children, and young people are being eliminated under conditions of decentralization and new OTG, and there is virtually no one to be accompanied by social assistance, since paragraph 7 of the 564 of the Decree of 26.04 hinders. 2002. So there's a request for the government to make changes to this decree so that the OTG specialists who have been trained can carry out such an escort. And then we're going to do all of these functions on schedule that we're going to have to do on this side because today we're going to have a collapse right over here in this point 7 of the regulation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-06-m0.u50	Thank you, Mr. Igor. I'm giving the order to Deputy Prime Minister Zubka, who's responsible for these questions, he's going to study. If any changes are to be made, we will be happy to do so. Questions of family, children, young people are for real priority, and there should be structures at the local level that govern and strengthen these areas. So we don't have any differences here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-06-m0.u51	Thank you. Welcome to the speech of the People's Deputy Krivenka. Please. Again.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-06-m0.u52	Victor Krivenko, National Movement of Ukraine. Dear Mr. Prime Minister! Vladimir Borisovich, you're right to say that the economy needs to be developed, but unfortunately, the actions speak backwards: export credit agencies are not created, industrial parks are not supported. And it's the same with reforming the management of the enterprise. But now we're asking a little bit about something else, the issue of animal subsidies. Last year, one company got 1 billion 200, one big company. We don't mind supporting big companies, but let's be honest about it. This year, with a subsidy of 2.3 billion (1 billion 200 -- compensation for a share of the cost and 1 billion 100 -- compensation for interest rates), it is also prescribed that they will actually go back to large companies. The commission is created exclusively by the Ministry of Agricultural Policy, without involving a wide range of associations, international representatives, and so prescribed positions, so prescribed all the criteria that will be again only for large companies. I urge you, first of all, to reduce the amount of support to 5, up to 10 million per company. This will allow you to create 460 new businesses: 2.3 billion by 5 million to distribute – 460 new companies. And the second is to set up a project selection commission with the involvement of our international partners.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-06-m0.u53	Thank you for asking. I think that our actions are designed to ensure economic growth. And one of the programs that you just called is actually called to increase the domestic production of agrarian products in Ukraine. And I strongly believe that you are not properly informed or misinformed. We're not asking about the size of companies, we're talking about 25-30 percent of the value of farm construction, milk and freight complexes, all of the things about manufacturing, we're compensating it, just like we're compensating 25 percent -- 25 percent -- of the value of the agricultural industry. And let small companies buy it, though large, but everything that will be done in Ukrainian hands and purchased in Ukrainian manufacturers will be compensated by 25 percent of us. But if it's a small farmer, attention, we're compensating not 25 percent, but 40 percent of the cost of agri-industrial technology that's produced in Ukraine. What's more, if you plant landing material, it doesn't matter to me either, it's big companies or small ones, plant gardens, and you get 80 percent of the cost of landing material. It's all developing the economy. But there's one billion separately to support Ukrainian farming, just like farming, which is the foundation of our agro-industrial complex. And there's one percent credit for them, there's compensation for a lot of other things, including minibars, including seed materials and so on and so forth. So this program is balanced, it's public and it's open and you can take the right, you have the right by law to participate in these committees. When this decision was worked out by committees and government, we all worked together to make quality support programs. In Ukraine, I need to produce a WBS to grow, an animal complex to develop, and this is fundamentally important, berries, gardening, and so on. And we're doing this, but the main thing is to support Ukrainian farming. As far as "eko" is concerned.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-06-m0.u54	How much will you give, Mr. Prime Minister? 30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-06-m0.u55	As for "eko," "eko" works. And I think we've been building this structure for the first time in the fall. But what I'm trying to say is, I'm supporting the Industrial Parks Act in Ukraine. And I call on a colleague in parliament today to support him, too, even next week, if that's possible there on Tuesday, I don't know how you're going to work. But I'd take that matter a priority, and I'd decide to create mechanisms for additional investment. But the elements of technology parks, industrial parks are already working. We're upset.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-06-m0.u56	30 more seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-06-m0.u57	We've been able to spend 24 months -- transporting equipment and so on, there are compensation programs, we're just going to develop that. So we don't have different views here either. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-06-m0.u58	Thank you. I'd like to invite you to the floor of the People's Deputy. Please, People's Deputy Golovko.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-06-m0.u59	Thank you for the word of Jacob Bezbach. National MP Mikhailo Golovko, All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. Dear Vladimir Borisovich, you say you don't have the funds to raise your pension to pay the salaries of teachers and doctors. There is a lack of social spending and payment to miners. So we offered you where to take the money. Vote our law, return control of the state to the lottery, and that's tens of billions to the budget. Vote our package of anti-oligarchi laws, return funds from offshore, and that's hundreds of billions to the budget. Take the bonuses to Koboljeva, Vitrenka, that's one and a half billion dollars almost, and it'll just be enough for miners to pay their wages. I have a question for you. Why do you cover those criminals, not bring them to justice, not eliminate this NAC Naftogazu supervisory council, which sent you three letters, practically refused to consider the return of those bonuses, and yet you will not put them in place, the affaires and the criminals who robbed the Ukrainian state, the Ukrainian people and the pensioners? Immediately punish them for their responsibility. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-06-m0.u60	That's on account of what you said you sent them. As they sent, everything will return to the old woman. Do you hear me? Old man. Dear colleagues, me. You know, I'm in favour of adopting the right laws that make Ukraine stronger, so it's a parliamentary process, but I'm willing to support the demonopolization initiatives, on many other things that can add additional resources to the national budget. And I don't have any other thoughts here either. Please, give me the laws, let's work on them. Put them in government, we'll do expert legal expertise, because sometimes laws have a good name, but it's rotten content. Therefore, we need to make a good name for laws and a good point. And then I think that Parliament will support all of this. But they have to be real. As far as offshore is concerned, I'm two-handed in favour. We have to vote. The lottery business that is now is not a business, in my opinion, and it's just shadow schemes, and we have to get to that. We're getting to the contraband now, and we're getting to the lotteries where the shadow streams are just walking around, I understand. They all need to be put into the state budget. So there are issues that we need to work on, not just in these areas. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-06-m0.u61	Thank you. I'd like to invite you to the floor of the Shurma People's Deputies.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-06-m0.u62	Dear Volodymyr Borisovich, good afternoon! Dear Vladimir Borisovich, there was a joint meeting of two committees — social policy and health. The meeting was attended by a report from the Ministry of Health on the implementation of the reform. Too bad, so-called. There was no minister. It is understandable that this day was the day of independence in the United States, and she was there as a person who did not give up her citizenship. Well, God be with him. But no deputy from the Ministry came to this meeting. A man was sent there in May to serve in line with reforms. And you know what was interesting, she said, this is your assessment of the government, Vladimir Borisovich, that the ministry doesn't have the concept of the development of the national health system today, they're doing the transformation. As long as it takes, it's up to you. And we have a specific question, concrete and very short. When will you run for office as Minister of Health, who would be personally responsible for the state of health in Ukraine? When you are.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-06-m0.u63	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-06-m0.u64	I want to say that your performances may soon be re-singing. There's such a song as "And she is, and she is.".. You always start with that. As far as I'm concerned, I know about the incident, the committee meeting. This was solely related to the absence of a minister at the time. And believe me, there is full respect for the committee and for your thoughts. Moreover, the work is constantly being done with the subcommittee, and I am open to making the right decisions. So in this question, I wouldn't ask you to take it in some way as not wanting to cooperate with the ministries with the profile committee, it's unacceptable. We cooperate, and there are no questions. As far as introduction is concerned, we certainly need to agree on two factions of the coalition's candidature. Discussions are under way. Once the decisions are made, as soon as the decision is made by the candidate, I will definitely do so, and I will take advantage of my right. Thank you for applauding me, I have answered your question.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-06-m0.u65	Thank you. I'd like to invite you to the floor of the national deputy Jurinec.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-06-m0.u66	OxanaJurinec, 117 constituency, city of Lviv. Vladimir Borisovich, knowing you as a person who fully supports Ukraine's European integration and does everything in that direction, here I want you as such an arbitrator between the Ministry of Economics and the Ministry of Finance to understand the situation. For the first time in history, when a separate line for cross - border cooperation appeared in the budget. For the first time, we agreed on everything very clearly and quickly all the cross-border cooperation programs. One of these programs is the Border Cooperation Program. Today, at the beginning of the treaty, all visas were made by the Ministry of Finance. It's late today for Minfin to do this. In fact, if we switch it from one ministry to another, we won't get that money by the end of the year. I very much ask you to intervene in this situation and to clarify it. Because it looks very bad when Ukraine agrees to the agreement, signs an intergovernmental agreement, and then fails to do so. This is a huge resource that can get our respective areas, and this is Lvivska, Ivano-Frankivska, Chernivetska and Zakarpatska. So we want to go forward with the strategy that the Alps have today, which is the Alpine strategy that is the Danube strategy.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-06-m0.u67	Thank you for your question. I fully support European integration, and cross-border cooperation, many treaties have already been signed by our government in this direction. I've just assigned you, Stepan IvanovichKubeva and Oksani Markarova. We don't have any, there won't be any contradictions between ministries, there won't be any football. And here we're going to work out, everything we need to do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-06-m0.u68	Thank you. I'd like to invite you to the floor of the People's Deputy Dolzhenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-06-m0.u69	Thank you. Dear members of the government, Mr. Prime Minister! I don't have a different question than the questions I asked last time, but the clear answer is, unfortunately, I didn't hear from you personally. The question is, at what stage is the government now in the form of natural gas tariffs. Because this is a key requirement of the Ministry. IMF with regard to the granting of a new loan. And right now, in the media, there's a very large amount of information about the development of a population gas price formula. This story, as you know, is already coming after the signing of the Association Agreement of the 14th Year, according to which population tariffs are set at the same level as industrial consumers. And now there's information about a possible increase. I do have questions, and it's not just about me, it's about millions of citizens. What formula do you now use with the International Monetary Fund for setting natural gas tariffs for the population? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-06-m0.u70	Thank you for asking. You've formulated everything very clearly in terms of price for the population as a requirement of the same price as for industry. Industrial price is higher. Since 2017, it has been due to happen since summer. I didn't let that happen, that promotion. Now we're working with the International Monetary Fund, that's true, with our partners, and we're discussing possible approaches to resolving this issue. As soon as I have information about what we have accomplished, I will definitely tell you. You want my personal opinion, my personal opinion. I don't want to raise any prices in the country at all, I want to lower them. But what's the question today, for example, when they say, well, of course, there's opposition and power, in what you said and, in principle, you've forgotten, and I have to say, do, people pay, retire, serve external debt, that's what we have to do today, and develop an economy. And that's why we need the support of international partners, and you know it. So I still call for responsible policy and, well, at least, solidarity in difficult moments for the country. I believe that if there is a position of political leadership, it should be the same. And if there is a position of criticism, I can tell you that I don't think there's anyone in this position who can win. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-06-m0.u71	Thank you. And one last question. Please, National Deputy Galasuk. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-06-m0.u72	Victor Galasuk, Oleg Lachka Radical Party. Dear Vladimir Borisovich, let us finally cure Ukraine from unemployment, unemployment, mass emigration, and artificial dependence on IMF loans. We're asking you to support not only the Industrial Park Bills but other components of the Industrial Reform Package proposed by the Radical Party Team. Free networking, Bill 6671, which received the approval of the Committee on Prompolitics, the Main Committee, is the authors of more than 30 national deputies from all factions and parliamentary groups without exception. It removes bureaucracy, corruption, and investment barriers to the real economy. Vladimir Borisovich, please support "Buy Ukrainian, Pay Ukrainians" on the second reading so that we can accept it as quickly as possible to give priority to Ukrainian products in public procurement. It's a shame when foreign inequities, expensive products play by the Ukrainians, us. They don't get orders from Ukrainian manufacturers and go bankrupt.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-06-m0.u73	Please, Mr. Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-06-m0.u74	Thank you for asking. I'd like to draw your attention to the following. At the beginning of this session, we went out with you, formed one package of economic laws out of 35 laws, including the authorship of all factions. This, I think, is the right approach when we don't start, there, dividing someone into someone, and when we combine better initiatives into one pack and we all vote for it together. And in fact, out of 35 laws, colleagues of distinguished national MPs, there are 26, i.e. 9 laws, 9 laws that have been passed by the Ukrainian Parliament. We just need to accelerate the pace, and there are a lot of right things that affect the economy itself, the financial system of the country. And that's going to move on. We can continue to discuss other laws. I've formed my position on industrial parks, and I think it's perfectly normal. And we're going to move to make this package. We have to finish this year so that this package is 100 percent voted by the Ukrainian Parliament. And I will thank you for your unity and for your support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-06-m0.u75	Thank you. We've finished "the hour of questions to the government." I'll give you two minutes, please, for the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-06-m0.u76	1 hour 2 minutes. I'm kidding. Dear fellow national MPs! Dear Oksana Ivanovna! I want to thank you, in particular, for the fact that this plenary week has also passed a number of laws that I have just mentioned, from our economic package, it is very important. A change of laws is an important basis for a more successful government. So thank you so much for that. Of course, next week is also plenary and final, and I would very much ask you to consider all the key, important laws that allow us to work and not stop. In this context, I think the key issue next week is to complete the formation of an anti-corruption court. And I'm asking you to consider this question responsibly, to vote, to support and to move on. And I would also like to say that parliamentary voting shows that Parliament's potential is enormous, which can allow for the adoption of fast-track laws and decisions. And I am sad to see that there is some kind of disunity or misunderstanding. I want today to be the Prime Minister of the country, as your colleague, as the head of the coalition government, to ask everyone to unite around justice, around an unconditional democratic balance, otherwise it simply cannot, and around you, to make decisions under your leadership of the Ukrainian Parliament, that really will strengthen the country, make it stronger. Today, I was approached by deputies, and we also talked about the fight against smuggling. I want you to just know that, and you know, I think. I think you know I have a word. And if I give it to you, I always follow it. So let me tell you, my task of combating smuggling with colleagues from the government is only one thing: I want to consolidate the funds into the national budget. I want this budget to get bigger and we can give people what they own today. It's a matter of our honor. And believe me, this fight is very difficult. And we feel that a lot of dirty tools are being used against them. But in this room I'd like to say that I'm not going to stop, I'm going to go.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-06-m0.u77	Please, just a minute. Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-06-m0.u78	I'm not going to stop, and I'm going to go to victory in the elimination of any corruption schemes, shadow schemes that are due to an increase in the law enforcement system. I'm asking for your support in public, open. I am absolutely honest about my position. And I need your support, I need your solidarity. And I would like you to use your knowledge and skills to cover up all the schemes, the schematics, the names of things, and we will definitely get through it. And that's not another area in which to put the order in, and that's going to make Ukraine richer. To that end, we need to consolidate ourselves today and stand very hard on the interests of the Ukrainian state and Ukrainians. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-06-m0.u79	Thank you, Mr. Prime Minister. Thank you to the government for working in Parliament. Dear colleagues, we continue our work. Next thing we know, we have questions from the national deputies. Then we'll also consider the answers to the questions that we'll be able to answer in 12 hours. And at 12:30, we'll go back to the hall to work at the "Variance" section.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-06-m0.u80	Asked by the following Ukrainian national deputies: Viktor Razwadowski to the Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Regional Development, Construction and Housing of Ukraine, on the allocation of funds from the State budget of the Głóczycka Rural Council of the Žitomir Region, Žitomir Region for the implementation of the infrastructure project for the reconstruction of the rural council. Viktor Razwadowski to the temporary duty of Minister of Health of Ukraine, head of the Zitomir District Administration for the allocation of funds for the rapid intervention and replacement of the ball joint of Libezi Viktor Mihajlovich, resident of the village of Piska in the Zitomir district of the Zitomir region. Julius Tymoshenko, head of the National Stock Exchange Company Naftogaz Ukraine, to provide information on the loan that is planned to receive the NAC "Naftogaz Ukraine" from the syndicate of American banks. Victor Yelensky, head of the Kyiv City State Administration, for the inappropriate response to the MP’s request regarding the order of KMDA No. 823 of 1505. 2018 "On refusal of registration of the Statute of the Religious Society of the Church of the United" in the Obolonsk district of Kiev". Jacob Besbach to the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Health, the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Budget, the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, the Ministry of Finance of Ukraine, the Ministry of Health of Ukraine on the provision of funding for the State Institute of Pediatrics, Obstetrics and Gynaecology of the name of the Academy of Sciences of Helen Lukyanova NAM Ukraine. Victor Ostapchuk to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for failure to carry out the mandate of Prime Minister VladimirGroysman as Minister of Social Policy of Ukraine Andrey Revo. Michael Bondar to the head of the Lviv District Council, Head of the Lviv Road Service in the Lviv Region, Head of the Lviv District State Administration on the critical state of the road’s emergency, the regional significance of O141602 Sokal Stoyans in the Lviv region. Michael Bondar to the Minister of Culture of Ukraine, head of the Lviv District State Administration for the rescue of St. Joseph’s temple in the village of Padua of the Bródí district of Lviv. Igorya Shurma to the executive responsibility of the head of the National Fiscal Service of Ukraine regarding the compliance of Ukrainian legislation with the temporary duty of Minister of Health of Ukraine Suprun Ulyana to contribute to the financial institutions of another state. Ruslana Solvar to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Regional Development, Construction and Housing of Ukraine, Head of the Kyiv District State Administration for the Opening of the Children's Garden in the village of Malutyanka Kyivo-Swiatoshin region of Kyiv Region. RuslanaSolvara to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, First Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Economic Development and Trade of Ukraine, Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Regional Development, Construction and Housing of Ukraine, Head of the Kyiv District State Administration for the allocation of funds for the construction of the Pashkov School of Public Education (I-II). Sergia Kiwalova to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the verification of the validity of the increase in tariffs for services from centralised supply of cold water and their non-installation to Odessa consumers. Sergia Kiwalova to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the use of measures necessary for the development and approval of the state-wide target programme "Social Programme for the Support of Families, Children and Youth" until 2028. Groups of National Deputies (Herachenko, Ionova and others, only 4 deputies) to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the verification and monitoring of public social benefits to individual categories of the population. Groups of National Deputies (Herachenko, Ionova and others, only 4 deputies) to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the elimination of violations of the rights of internally displaced persons to pension and to receive social benefits. Sergey Rybalka to the prosecutor of the Cherka district on the inaction of a pre-trial investigation into criminal conduct by the Cherka district police department of the CERNP Police Department in the Cherkas region. Mustafa MassiNayem to the Minister of Interior of Ukraine for Optimization of Police Commissions. Mustafa MassiNayem to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the reconciliation of the list of local authorities. Igora Moisiyczuk to the Minister of Interior of Ukraine, Attorney General of Ukraine, on the improper investigation of criminal conduct No12015073003596. Victor Krivenk to the Kyiv District Department of the Antimonopoly Committee of Ukraine for Evidence of Competitive Competitive Action During Procurement. Olesia Long to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine regarding the unforeseeable spending of citizens on counting. Olesia Long to the National Commission, which regulates national energy and utilities expenditure. Igorya Shurma to the head of the Chamber of Accounts of Ukraine on the non-target use of the World Bank's funds for the implementation of the State Objective Programme "Restoration and Peace Development in Eastern Ukraine" and "Strategy for the Integration of Internally Moved Persons and for the conduct of long-term decisions on internal displacement until 2020" by the Ministry on the issues of temporarily occupied territories and internally displaced persons. Alexander Gehrega and Andrija Shinkovič, until the temporary duty of Ukraine’s Minister of Health, Minister of Youth and Sports, to remove the premeditations that threaten the development of children’s sports. Jurija Miroshničnka and Yuri Pavlenko to the Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Regional Development, Construction and Housing of Ukraine, Prime Minister of Ukraine, for the reconstruction of the Youth Centre building in the city of Novograd-Volinski Žitomirsk. Tetjana Bachevi and Yuri Pavlenko to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Defence of Ukraine for the restoration of the activities of the military hospital in the city of Novograd-Volinski Žitomirsk. Groups of National Deputies (Dunyeva, Boyka, Pavlunka) to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the financing of state social programmes in the city of Novograd-Volinski Žitomirsk. Anatoly of Denisenka to the Minister of Education and Science of Ukraine on the settlement of the issue of counting a child into the first class. Anatoly of Denisenka to the Minister of Social Policy of Ukraine for making changes to the current order of granting subsidies. Natalia Novak to the head of the National Architectural and Construction Inspectorate of Ukraine for an inappropriate review of the parliamentary appeal of May 3, 2018 No. 301 on the construction of its own works in the Postal Square in the district of the city of Kiev. Natalia Novak is headed by the National Architectural and Construction Inspectorate of Ukraine on the use of State architectural and building supervision measures regarding the legality of the issuance of construction conditions and restrictions on the construction of land in the Postal Square of the city of Kiev. ArtemaIlyuka to the Authorized Supreme Council of Ukraine of Human Rights for the conduct of a personal data check on the owner of the personal data (Micholai City Council residential and utility) issue of the Authorized Requirement for the Prohibition of the Provision (transfer) of Personal Data by Consumers to Third Persons and for the use of other measures to attract guilty persons to administrative responsibility. ArtemaIlyuka to the head of the South Office of the Derjaudit Service for the conduct of an out-of-plan screening of the Mikolai Town Council housing and utility company (ERDF code 32884814) for the purpose of using the local budget funds of Mr. Mikolayev, the purchase checks, the achievement of the budget economy and the efficiency of budget managers, as well as other measures that are part of the mandate of the Ukrainian Derjaudit Service. Dmitra Dobrodomova to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Social Policy of Ukraine on the non-abuse of current legislation in the part of the assignment of housing subsidies to the population of social workers and the improvement of the order of assignment of housing subsidies approved by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine Decree No. 848 of 21 October 1995 (in the Order of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine dated 27 April 2018). No 329). DmitraDomova to the Minister of Agriculture and Food of Ukraine for the development of a state programme funded by the State Budget of Ukraine for Forest and Hunting, for the protection and protection of the forests of the Hersonian region, with a view to resolving the situation in state forestry enterprises. Jacob Besbach to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, Ministry of Social Policy of Ukraine, Ministry of Defence of Ukraine, Commissioner of the Supreme Council of Ukraine for Human Rights, Attorney-General of Ukraine, Dnipropetrov district government administration for the long-term investigation into the criminal investigation of the murder of military officer Taras Goodima in the military area of A-0264 of the city of Chernivci. RomanaMazoli to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, temporarily acting as Minister of Health of Ukraine, head of the Hmelna District State Administration, head of the Hmelnica District Council for the granting of an additional subsidy to provide insulin to patients with diabetes mellitus in the Shepetov region of the Hmelni district. Romana Matzoli to the head of the National Police Department in the Hmelnicki district, the procurator of the Hmelnicki district, for the objective judicial investigation of criminal conduct. VadimaPidbraznaka to the Ministry of Environment and Natural Resources of Ukraine, the State Service of Ukraine on Geodesy, Cartography and Cadastra on Land Relations in respect of Coastal Lands and Lands of the Mikolai Region Water Fund. Irina Konstankevich to the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, head of the Volin District State Administration for the activities of law enforcement agencies to combat the trade in illicit alcoholic beverages. Irini Konstankevich to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, head of the Volin District State Administration for blocking the transfer of agricultural land to the municipal property of the Prilysnian United Territorial Society. Vladislav Buhareva to the head of the Committee of the Supreme Council on Freedom of Speech and Information Policy, Prime Minister of Ukraine, on the need to provide assistance with the implementation of the project for the development of the local small-scale FM-speaking "Radio Communities" in the city of Lebedin and the region of Lebedin in the region of Sumi. Vladislav Buhareva to the head of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Budget, Prime Minister of Ukraine, on the need to allocate additional funds from the State Budget of Ukraine for 2018 for the capital repair of the road of state importance of Lebedin Suma. LjubomirZubada to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the gross violation of the methodology of the establishment of a hospital district in the Lviv region and ignoring the appeals of the Ukrainian National Deputy. Vladimir Aresonkova to the Prime Minister of Ukraine to review the order for the recalculation of pensions to former prosecutors. Vladimir Aresonkova to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for compensation for lost immovable property. Jury Bublika to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the dangerous situation that arose in the Poltava region because of the mass poisoning of bees by farmers in the processing of soybeans by chemical substances, the disruption of the procedures for carrying out these tasks and the inaction of the authorities regarding the use of measures against guilty persons and compensation for damages. Jury Bublika to the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, the Attorney General of Ukraine, on a long-term trial of criminal prosecution, which was discovered by the fact that the budget funds provided by the Poltava City Council for the capital rehabilitation of underground crossings were seized, and corruption was evident among individual officials of the self-government body and subcontractors. Vadim Krivenk to the head of the Zitomir district government regarding the state of the roads of local and state importance in the Gitomir region. Victor Krivenk to the head of Montenegro’s district government on the need to finance the work of creating, developing a school of robotics in the city of Priluka, Montenegro. Paul Rizanenka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, First Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Economic Development and Trade of Ukraine, acting as Head of the National Property Fund of Ukraine for the use of measures to prevent Lapin Evgen Vasilovich from being appointed as temporary Head of the T.O.T. Paul Rizanenka to the Brovarsky City Head, the head of the Brovarsky District Laboratory Research Department of the State Department of the Kyiv Regional Laboratory Centre of the MoZ Ukraine, on the use of appropriate response measures aimed at the operational elimination of the consequences of the fire of a multi-family building on Gagarin Street, 16 in the city of Brovary Kyiv district. Alexander Dombrovski’s temporary responsibility as Ukrainian Minister of Health to improve the quality of medical diagnostics and treat children with diabetes, introduce innovative medical technologies. Alexander Dombrovski to the Minister of Defense of Ukraine for the presentation to the prize of Gusková Vitalia Pavlovich by order of Bogdan Hmelnicki III. (Death). Groups of National Deputies (Peterovka, Lunchenko, Gorvata) to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the increase in hydrometeorological expenditure. SergiaLabazuka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Regional Development, Construction and Housing of Ukraine, Minister of Social Policy of Ukraine, Head of the Hmelna District Government Administration, Head of the Hmelna District Council for the Allocation of Income. Igora Lucenka to the head of the Kyiv City State Administration for a copy of the investment agreement of April 17, 2013, relating to illegal construction in the Postal Square in connection with considerable social interest. Igora Lucenka to the Head of the National Bank of Ukraine for the provision of copies of certain decrees of the Government of the National Bank of Ukraine adopted for the purpose of overseeing the operation of the PAT "Bank of Finance and Credit". Antonakisse to the head of the National Police of Ukraine, Head of the State Audit Service of Ukraine, Prosecutor General of Ukraine on the quality test of the current minor repair of the road in general use of the general value of T-16-27 CAT "Serpneuve" - Tarutine - Arciz - Tatarbunari (on the outskirts of Tarutina, the border of the Arctic Region). Antonakisse to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the capital repair of the roads of general use of the state value T-1608 Bolgrad-Red Army-Arciz-Sarat (Bulgrad-Red Army) and T-1632 CAT New Trojan-Red Army-Basilovka-Camyanka-/M-15/" (in the area of CAT New Trojan-Red Army). Vitalia Gudzenka to the head of the Kyiv District State Administration for the allocation of funds in 2018 for the capital repair of the Uzin Substation for emergency medical care. VitaliaGudzenka to the Minister of Ecology and Natural Resources of Ukraine, temporarily acting as head of the State Environmental Inspectorate of Ukraine, head of the State Fisheries Agency of Ukraine for State Oversight (Control) to comply with the requirements of Ukrainian legislation on the protection, rational use of water and the use of water resources in the use of the land of the water fund within the administrative boundaries of the Skuri City Council of Kiev. Alexander Kodola to the Ukrainian Defence Minister for the violation of the rights of demobilized military personnel to social protection. Alexander Kodola to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Education and Science of Ukraine, for the provision in 2018 of full funding of the education sector in the town of Nizhin for educational subsidies. Andrija Illenka to head the Right District in Kiev State Administration, head of the Kyiv City Public Administration for the restoration of well-being in the areas of the emergency riots of Pat Kiyevenergo for the petitions of the people of the Right District. Andrea Illenka is under the temporary responsibility of the Ukrainian Minister of Health for the establishment of an effective national regulation of Obigukodeinowous drugs. MaximaBurbaka to the Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine - Minister of Regional Development, Construction and Housing of Ukraine to prevent the implementation of decentralization reform in the Montenegrin region. Andrija Lopushanski and Mikhail Doubenk to the First Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Economic Development and Trade of Ukraine, acting as Head of the State Property Fund of Ukraine, Head of the National Shareholder Company Naftogaz Ukraine, Minister of Energy and Coal Industry of Ukraine, on the issue of transfer to municipal property of public housing assets, which accounts for the balance of NAC Naftogaz Ukraine's enterprises. Groups of National Deputies (Dubinina, Didic and others) A total of 7 deputies) to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the illegal lease of the DP "Croobpropromised supply", which has resulted in negative consequences for the water supply state of the region. Sergey Melnika to the Hmelnicki City Head for the definition of Proskurovska's Managing Municipal Company as head of the Gagarin Street Building, 1 of Hmielnicki City and a higher price for service from management. Tetjani Čornovol to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the illegal reduction of the share of the PAT "Cherkasigaz" shares, which was left in state ownership from 51 percent to 9.97 percent, which resulted not only in damage to the state but also in the loss of control over the activity of the listed society. Anna Romanov to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the resolution of the situation of mass violations of tourist rights. Anna Romanov to Minister of Foreign Affairs of Ukraine on visa liberalisation in Ukraine with developed countries of the world. Alexia Lensky to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the use of response measures aimed at eliminating social injustice as a result of the legislative coalition and amending the Ukrainian Law on the Status and Social Protection of Citizens affected by the Chernobyl disaster, with the aim of giving children living in the area of radioactive pollution and belonging to victims of the Chernobyl disaster and visiting the nearest school in the clean zone the right to free food. Alexia Lensky to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the allocation of funds for the acquisition of fire vehicles for the twentieth state fire rescue part of the city of Korastišy Zitomir district with the aim of fully carrying out the basic tasks of the DNS. Mikhail Golka to the Minister of Interior of Ukraine, Attorney General of Ukraine, on the investigation into the death of Lieutenant Beregov's Police Department of the National Police Department in Zakartat County of KaterinaKarnauhova. Mikhail Golka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Defence of Ukraine, Director General of the Ucroborprom State Concert for the provision of information on the provision of military equipment to the Ukrainian Armed Forces. Jury Pavlenko to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Education and Science of Ukraine, Head of the Regional District Administration for the Prevention of Closure of Schools and Other Social Objects in the Village of the City OTW Novograd-Volinsky Region of the Žitomir Region and the underfinancing of educational subsidies. Jury Pavlenko to the head of the Ukrainian President's Administration on the report on the activities of the President-in-Office of Ukraine from the rights of the child in 2015-17. JuriyaTimoshenka to the Attorney General of Ukraine to investigate the possible misconduct of law enforcement officials. Mikoli Skorka to the head of the National Police of Ukraine, the Attorney General of Ukraine, for the investigation of crimes committed by a group of individuals in the Ishmael district of Odessa, particularly the attack on the Odessa district council of Anatolia Czerdchenka. Alexandra Companion to the Kiev City Head on another inappropriate examination of the MP’s appeal. Alexandre Co-partner to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the improper examination of the parliamentary request for the need to bring legal acts in the area of housing and utilities into line with the requirements of the Ukrainian Housing and Utilities Act. RuslanaDemczak to the Minister of Social Policy of Ukraine on the provision of disabled persons and children with disabilities of the Orativsky, Pogrubishtski, Illinetsk, Lipovetsk and Nemiriv region of the Vinni district with wheelchairs. RuslanaDemczak to the head of the Vinnick district administration for the repair of R-17. OlegKulinic to the head of the National Police Department in the Poltava region on the activities of the Yareskow Joint Undertaking. Alexander Opanasenka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the annulment of the Ukrainian Cabinet of Ministers decision of 22 July 2016 No. 458 on the amendment of the Family-type Children's House and the Family-Friendly Regulations. SergijaLyvočina to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on increasing the problem of the accumulation of debt from the payment of wages. Jurya Boyka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the urgent intervention and implementation of effective measures to implement the state and local authorities established by the current Ukrainian legislation on social security for Afghan veterans (internationalist soldiers). Jurya Boyka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the provision of shelter for veterans and pensioners of the State Service for the state emergency situation of Ukrainian residents on the street of the Military Builders, 3 in the town of Slavotic Kyivsk district. Mr. Dmitra Kolesnikov to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Social Policy of Ukraine, on the ineffective use of public budget funds to provide individual categories of the population with technical and other means of rehabilitation. Dmitra Kolesnikov to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on raising the minimum wage. Igor Popova to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the harmonization of the pay system for civil servants and employees of state-owned enterprises. Igor Popova to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine for possible signs of corruption in the distribution of the 10M Grant of the Global Fund. Sergio Leschchenka to the head of the National Police of Ukraine for the protection of the rights of national minorities in Ukraine, particularly the representative of the Roma ethnic group. Sergey Lechchenka to head the Kyiv City State Administration for construction work at Michael Boychuk Street (Kikwidze), 1/2 in the Pecher district of Kyiv. Alexander Marchenka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the removal of commitments from entrepreneurs to establish natural gas nodes by means of remote data transmissions that consume less than 100,000 cubic metres per year at their own expense. SergijaVlastenka to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the apparent political corruption of the Ukrainian Presidential Administration and the possible involvement of President Peter Prashenko in the criminal effort to influence the formation of the Central Electoral Commission with the aim of controlling and subordination it. Roman Semenha to the head of the National Commission, which regulates national energy and utilities regulations to amend the Gas Disposal Systems Code to prevent potential abuses by the Gas Distribution Operators in complex infringements. Romana Semenha is under the executive responsibility of the Head of the National Property Fund of Ukraine for the justification of including a number of enterprises in the list of major privatizations for 2018. Oleg Petrenk to the Minister of Education and Science of Ukraine, Scientific Council of the Cherka National University of Bogdan Hmelnický, on reports of official investigations into the unlawful actions of the Rector regarding the refusal of the contract to continue. GrigoryTimisa to the executive responsibility of the Head of the Directorate-General of the DFS in the Cherniewec Region for the provision of information on the list of land users in the section of each of the settlements of the Herceivsky, Glubick and Novoselic regions and the amount of taxes they have paid for the period from January 17th to June 18th. Leonidas Hamtsa to the head of the Kyiv City State Administration, the head of the Pechersky District in Kiev, the State Administration for the improper maintenance of the residence and the instigation area at Barbus Street, 32 in the Pecher district of Kiev, and the inaction of officials of local authorities. Anatolia Kuzmenka to the Attorney General of Ukraine, Minister of Justice of Ukraine, Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine for the continuation of the raid in the agrarian sector and the examination of the illegal takeover and capture of the AGR AF "Mariampolska" in the Kirovograd region. Vasil Guljava to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on guarantees for investors to ensure the social rights of employees of the State Enterprise Sea Trade Port Black Sea, to guarantee and fulfil their investment obligations in carrying out business activities in the port. Vasil Guljava to the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine for the attempted raid of the TOV "KOLOS", located in the villageGradenice of the Biliai district of Odessa. John Melniczuk to the Minister of Education and Science of Ukraine, head of the Bar Council, Head of the General Administration of the State Food Service in the Vinnitsky region, on the organization of the feeding of pupils in the Bari district’s general secondary education facilities. John Melniczuk to the Attorney General of Ukraine to ensure that a well-founded decision is taken in criminal proceedings. ConstantineJarynica until the temporary duty of the Minister of Health of Ukraine to regulate the conditions of payment of health workers who act in an organizational and legal manner as temporary and municipal non-commercial enterprises. ConstantineJarinica to the temporary duty of the Ukrainian Minister of Health to take measures aimed at transferring the property complex of the Specialized Medical and Health Unit No. 17 to the municipal property of the Smolin Joint Territorial Society of the Kyrovograd Region according to the current legislation of Ukraine. Vasilyanicki to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Head of the National Bank of Ukraine, Head of the National Commission for State Regulation in the Field of Financial Services Markets, Acting Minister of Finance of Ukraine for the Use of Measures for the Proper Functioning and Service of the Savings Office in the village of Snivodovich of the Rivnni district. Vasilyanicki to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Environment and Natural Resources of Ukraine, Head of the State Agency for Water Resources of Ukraine for the Equitable Distribution of Established Units in the Reorganization of the Rokitnów Department of Water Management of the Rokitniv Region. Borislav Bereza to the head of the Kiev City State Administration for the illegal operation of gas fillings in Kiev. Borislava Bereza to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the establishment of the territory of the national natural park "Golosiowski". Sergey Rudik to the Acting Head of the Smilian District State Administration, the head of the Cherkas District State Administration, the head of the Kamyan District State Administration of the Cherkas region on the status of implementation within the region of Czerkas region, Kamyan and Cherkas region, with the financial support of farmers. Sergei Rudik to the Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Regional Development, Construction and Housing of Ukraine, Head of the Cerkas District State Administration for Construction in 2018 of football fields within Kamyan, Smiljanski and the population of 198 constituencies of the constituency within the Cherkas region at the expense of the budget programme "Building of football fields with artificial coverage in Ukraine". Jaroslava Markevich to the Attorney General of Ukraine on official investigation. Jaroslava Marcchewich to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the closure of criminal conduct. Oleg Osukhovsky, head of the Ukrainian Presidential Administration, Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine, Viacheslav Kirilenko, Head of the Ukrainian National Migration Service, National Security and Defence Council, Head of the Ukrainian Security Service, Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, Prosecutor General of Ukraine for statements by Bishop Gideon, which have signs of undermining Ukraine's national security and statehood. OlegaOsukhovsky to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, the Secretary of the National Security and Defence Council of Ukraine, the Chief of Administration of the President of Ukraine, the Head of the Ukrainian Security Service, the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, the Attorney General of Ukraine, the failure of prosecutors of the local prosecutor's office No. 10 of Kiev and the Kyiv District Attorney's Office. Irina Lucenko to the head of the government of the Public Shareholders Association Žitomirgaz to provide information and copies of documents. Jury of Derevyanka to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, head of the Ivano-Frankov District State Administration on the need to take steps to repair the road to the general use of the local value of S090901 Superbistrica in the Outlying Region of Johno-Frankiv region. Jury of Derevyanka to the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the need for an immediate introduction to the Supreme Council of Ukraine of the draft Decision on the lifting of the decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the adoption of the Act on the Amendments to the Criminal and Criminal Procedural Codes of Ukraine on the establishment of responsibility for violations of legislation in the field of conformity, manufacture, manufacture, manufacture, implementation, acquisition of production, work and services in the military sphere, taking into account the proposals of the President of Ukraine, and on the unblocking of the Act on the amendment of the Criminal and Criminal Procedure Codes of Ukraine on the establishment of responsibility for violations of legislation in the field of conformity, manufacture, manufacture, implementation, production, production, employment and service of military spheres. Groups of National Deputies (Shinkovich, Gerega, Macola) to the Executive Director of the State Architectural Inspection Department in the Hmelnicki district for carrying out an objective audit of the construction of the Theophilus District Cultural Building. Andrija Šinkoviča and Alexander Gerega go to the Minister of Education and Science of Ukraine, the Hmelnicki Urban Head, the Director of the Department of Education and Science of the Hmelnicki District State Administration for the Protection of Housing Rights in the Ternopilska Street, 40, the city of Hmeljnickýk. Alexander Wiekula to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Social Policy of Ukraine, on the urgent payment of "frozen" pensions to internally displaced persons, and on the imposition of regulations of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine on June 8, 16th, No. 365 "Some Issues of Social Payments to Internally Moved Persons" in accordance with the Constitution of Ukraine and the Law of Ukraine "On General Compulsory State Pension Insurance". Alexander Wielkula and Constantine Pavlov to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Energy and Coal Industry of Ukraine, on the immediate and full repayment of the debt on the salaries of employees of state coal enterprises, which will amount to 1 billion by the end of July. 100 million dollars and 10 years for the approval of the coal development programme. Taras Pastuh to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the review of the activities of officials of the Prosecutor's Office of the Ternopil district regarding violations of Ukrainian legislation during the conduct of judicial and judicial investigations into criminal conduct in relation to Vitaly Sorkolit. Victor Wolfe to the head of the National Police of Ukraine, the Attorney General of Ukraine, for the impartial, objective and politically neutral investigation of gross violations of environmental legislation by agroholdings engaged in bird farming and cultivation. Vladimir Litvina to Prime Minister of Ukraine, temporarily acting as Minister of Health of Ukraine for the provision of foreign treatment to the patient at the expense of budgetary resources. Vladimir Litvina to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, President of the National Academy of Medical Sciences of Ukraine, temporarily acting as Minister of Health of Ukraine, head of the Žitomir District State Administration for the promotion of rapid intervention and post-operational treatment of a child in the Romodanova Institute of Neurosurgery of the National Academy of Medical Sciences of Ukraine for budgetary expenses. Sergia Kaplina to the Minister of Interior of Ukraine on the verification of violations of road traffic legislation by the City Council of Montenegro. Edward Matwiychuk to the Odessa City Council, Odessa District State Administration, for the reexamination of the collective appeal for the signatures of more than fifty residents of House 57 on the street of the Academy of Sciences in the Odessa district of Odessa regarding the need for work on the warming of the building on the side of the sea and on the timely well - being of the dwelling, taking into account the possibility of doing such warming work, taking into account the seasonality factor. Edward Matwijczuk to Odessa District State Administration, Odessa City Council, for the re-examination of the collective appeal for the benefit of more than five thousand residents of the Kyiv district of Odessa, who live on the streets of the Academy of Sciences, Williams, Architectors, the Royal Academy, the Lustdorf Road on the need for a multi-functional sports field to develop sport and create conditions for access to a healthy lifestyle for the community of the region. Alexander Kugel to the Minister of Defense of Ukraine for failure to execute a court order. JurijaLevchenka to the Authorized Supreme Council of Ukraine for Human Rights, Prime Minister of Ukraine on the use of urgent measures to respond to the inaction of the Kyiv City State Administration regarding the relocation of the people of the emergency and uninhabitable house No. 46/2 on Podrenk Street in Kiev, which could lead to severe consequences, the removal of threats to the life and health of residents living in an emergency house. Igor Alekseyev to the director of the Institute of Legislation of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on improving issues of court-expert activity. Igor Alekseyev to the Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Regional Development, Construction and Housing of Ukraine, the Poltava City Head for the Capital Repair of Housing Facilities. Oksana Bilozer to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Permanent Representative of the President of Ukraine to the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, Minister for Temporaryly Occupied Territories and Internally Moved Persons of Ukraine on the use of measures to compensate for the value of professional legal assistance to protect the rights and interests of persons deprived of personal liberty as a result of illegal armed formations. Igor Moisiyczuk to the Attorney General of Ukraine on improper pretrial investigation. TarasaBathenka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for not allowing the construction of a factory for the processing of solid household waste in the territory of the Split State Mining and Chemical Company Sirka located in the Mikolai district of Lviv district and for conducting independent expertise in the area. Groups of National Deputies (Tsumaka, Novak and others, only 16 deputies) to the prosecutor of Kiev for the use of prosecutorial measures regarding the illegal construction of the Postal Square in the city of Kiev. PaulDublika to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the increase in medical subsidies in the second half of 2018. Yurya Berezi to Prime Minister of Ukraine on the allocation of funds for the repair of the road cover of road T 0419 in the area of road Petahtka-Ordo-Vasilovka and road T 0434 in the area of road Ordo-Vasilovka-Cruvy Rig, Dnipropetrovska District. Jurya Bereza to Prime Minister of Ukraine on the allocation of funds for the repair of the road covering the international M 04 international road M 04 in the area of the village of Jóvte (Petihatské district), Svetlogirské village (Kriničan district) Dnipropetrov region. RobertaGorvati to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the inactivity of the Ministry of Health of Ukraine in the development of draft legal acts in the area of water of natural mineral and the order of the definition of water of natural mineral food. Groups of National Deputies (Gorva, Petovka, Lunchenka) to the executive responsibility of the head of the Government of the Public Shareholders' Association "Ukrainian Railway" to launch the Intersity express train through the Beskid Tunnel. We finished reading the MP's questions. There are a number of appeals made by national deputies in connection with their dissatisfaction with the answers that have come to their attention. And now we're going to hear their speeches. May I have the floor of the People's Deputy Hannu Gopko, please?
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-06-m0.u81	Good afternoon, dear fellows! I want to say that on May 25, we, along with OksanaJurinec, Veličković, Guzem, Kishkar, Oksana, were asked by the Ministry of Education and Science of Ukraine about the need for unconditional compliance with the Ukrainian Education Act on the Ukrainian language of education process, the establishment of an active system for detecting and eliminating violations of citizens' rights to education in the state language. And today we were talking to Mrs. Lilia Greenevich, our minister of education. We're waiting for an answer to our question, and we're actually going to see that there's going to be a response to a situation where some school principals are publicly asking the parents of the first graders to write some request for instruction in Ukrainian, or even when it was publicly required by Odessa City Education Manager Olena Bujnevich. Therefore, we ask the minister to explain to the educational institutions and bodies that the Ukrainian language is by definition the language of the educational process according to the law, and all applicants should be provided with education in classes with Ukrainian language without any premeditation. And the first class of Russian alongside the national language can only be according to statements made by representatives of the Russian national minority. And we also very much want to, I have no doubt, that the Ministry of Education will ensure that the education process is carried out with regard to the state language, by introducing a hot line where parents can look for facts about illegal ruse, as well as a system for monitoring the implementation of the law in part of the Ukrainian language of the educational process. That's why I also think that Ukrainian authorities, the Supreme Council -- we finally have to adopt the Law on National Ukrainian Language, which clearly spells out the rights, obligations and mechanisms of control in part of the protection of Ukrainians' rights to their language, both in education and in other spheres of social life. And it is our constitutional duty to adopt a bill of 5670 on national language supported by the Committee. On the other hand, I would really like to thank Lilia Greenevich for the efforts she is trying to make to ensure that the national language is protected and that all national minorities have the opportunity to learn their native languages, the difficult negotiations with the Hungarian side, to thank for all the efforts and the promotion of our national interests. And also, colleagues, I would like to say that in the course of the Year of God’s Word in Ukraine, Bible reading is now taking place, and several fellow members of the national deputies, particularly in Sofia Square yesterday, joined in a joint Bible reading campaign. I think it is extremely important right now to pray for peace, to pray for our soldiers, to pray for unity in power. So I would like to thank the Bible Society for organizing various arrangements in the framework of God’s Word in Ukraine in 2018. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-06-m0.u82	Thank you. I invite you to the speech of the national deputy Shurma.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-06-m0.u83	Dear citizens of Ukraine, I would like to address you once again from the rostrum of the Supreme Council. I can honestly tell you, as a national MP, I don't know who to turn to. This may have to do with the fact that you have no respect for the Supreme Council, which you may have reason to believe, but there is nothing in the government’s Chamber of Deputies. And it's very strange that he presides over all of this, probably the person who presided over the Supreme Council and took the principle of positioning the Supreme Council in his control function. What's the matter? I'll ask one question again, thirdly. I don't have personal claims, I want the law to be the same for everyone -- both for officials and for people. On March 2nd and May 18th, I asked the Prime Minister of Ukraine to provide the original documents that were accepted at the time of the appointment of the First Deputy Minister of Suprun, and today she is the so-called Deputy Minister of Suprun. Minister. I have a legal requirement: please give me an order. The original of the President's decree to grant citizenship -- once and twice -- the original of higher education -- two. Regrettably, the answer to this question, which, in accordance with an article in the Ukrainian Law on the National Deputy, is given in an orderly manner and directly to that authority of the State to which a request for a request has been sent. So Prime Minister Groissman is obliged to give me an answer. What we have in exchange is he's sending information to Suprun, and this one gives me the answer to that. By relying on the fact that it can't be done by law. On another occasion, Suprun refused to provide copies of the original documents on education and citizenship, saying that it was confidential. I point out to the citizens of Ukraine that it is once again violated, firstly, by the deadlines for responding to a parliamentary request that violates part of article 15, paragraph 5, of the Ukrainian Law on the Status of the People's Deputy, article 17 and article 19 which states that a national deputy has the right to receive information on matters related to the exercise of his authority, from the authorities of the State that are obliged to provide him with such information, and that the national deputy has the right to know any confidential and secret information. And no one has the right to restrict the authority of a national MP. Moreover, according to the Constitutional Court’s decision, the resolution states that only the information is confidential, with the exception of the information provided by law concerning the execution of a person in charge of the performance of the functions of the State. Confidential information, personal data relating to such a person in office, is not considered confidential. Once again, I demand the presentation of papers on education and citizenship. Please consider your address to the Prime Minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-06-m0.u84	Thank you. I invite you to the floor of the People's Deputy Najema.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-06-m0.u85	Dear colleagues, I would like to talk today about the so-called "municipal watches" that are now being created in many of our countries. Not everyone seems to know that in many cities city councils are creating utility companies that are given protection services or law enforcement services. So we already have these organs in Odessa, Kiev, Winnice, Dniper, Kharkiv, Kamyanz, Lutak, Irpen, Chernigov, Kriveh Rose, Kamyanec Podilski, White Church, Lviv, Ivano-Frankivsky, Suma and Hmelnick. In all of these cities, utilities are provided with law enforcement functions that are contrary to the law. So, for example, employees of these utilities have the right to apply power to citizens, to protect public order, to apply special means, to protect property, and to protect individuals. And in fact, all of these functions that they're given, they're directed at just one -- all these small utilities are small armies of these cities. We know the situation in Dniper, we know the situation in Odessa. In Odessa, in general, we've purchased equipment for this utility more than there are employees, more than two thousand. Please tell me, why would a utility need two thousand units of special equipment? All these fellow workers, who violate human rights by breaking the law, apply force and actually protect the local mayor or the local little prince. In doing so, as a tribute to the National Police, which closes their eyes on these things, there is an enumeration of money from the City Council or from the Village Council to the National Police Department or the National Police Department. And unfortunately, the biggest problem is for the National Police. Because very often in the left-hand section, all of these workers are walking in the same form as the National Guard or the National Police, without any sign of being aware, that is, without running, but the form is the same. And when these people use force or are beaten or detained, everyone thinks it's the National Police or the National Guard. Criminal cases against them are not violated, criminal conduct is not investigated, because the local National Police are dependent on local councils, because they're listed as money, it's an official story, it's not hidden. And in fact, there's only one way to stop all of this. First, the Ministry of Internal Affairs can stop granting such utilities a security license. Secondly, the Ministry of Justice can stop automatically registering the statutes of these utilities. I ask that my speech now be counted as a parliamentary appeal to the Minister of Justice and the Minister of Internal Affairs to stop this practice of creating small armies throughout the country, which will be beaten in the back by our boys, the police and the National Guard when they're guarding.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-06-m0.u86	Thank you. We also completed the presentations by the deputies who had the intention. who were dissatisfied with the outcome of their consideration of their petitions. The next thing we know, it's "Crazy." But we agreed that we're going to start at 12:30. That's why I'm calling for a break at 12:30. And we'll get back to work.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-06-m0.u87	Good afternoon, colleagues. We're continuing our meeting. And I am addressing all the Ukrainian national deputies who are now in the towers to return to the session hall, because in literally one minute, the entry will begin traditionally for Friday in the column of the national MPs. Please come back. Now. Dear colleagues, Mrs. Oksana and I are announcing the record of the Ukrainian National Deputies under the heading "Rizzne". Please sign up. Please welcome national MP John Sporish.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-06-m0.u88	Ivan Sporish, Peter Dusty Block, 15th District, Winnitzkin. Of course, the recording is very good, and I do it first every time. So I'm happy to be the first to speak. But at the same time, I wanted to say that this week, and we have an extreme week where we should show our faces where we should show our voters. Because we're going to the electorate, and we really have to tell you that we're wiping our pants here in the Supreme Council today. Because the issue of the C.V.C.C., which we couldn't accept yesterday, is very painful and painful. And I would very much like to now, when we come to the session on Tuesday, to continue with this subject, and we would still accept it because. and the inviolability of the people's deputies, because the electorates expect us to do so. And now we're going to go to a meeting, and they're the first thing we're going to be asking the mojos, asking questions, is that "what you did," or we've done everything we can to make decisions about the C.V.C.C., about the integrity and all that. On Wednesday, our committee conducted quite an important work. We held committee hearings to protect the children of Donetsk and Luhansk. And you know, it's nice that we think for children today, we're doing everything we can for those kids who are in Donetsk and Lugansk today to be able to study in our colleges so that they can learn in our higher education institutions. Because the notebooks they give them in DNR and LNR, they don't fit in so that they can go to our units in Ukraine. And that's why I think protecting children is a question number one for both our committee and all of us. But that's not why I wanted to say it today. It's really painful for me that today we have this in the countryside, it's what started the harvest. And our farmers are all waiting to feed Ukraine and sell grain for export. And to get the right amount of money for that grain. We know perfectly well that the prices, which will be again this year, will be low. I understand the market. I understand that the market decides everything today. But still, the minimum prices should be. Not less than 5,000 200, 5,000 300. Let him decide the market there. Because today's very poor for peasants, it's very common for them to sell their products and want the traders to understand our peasants. They understood and did everything they could so that the villagers could do today and sell their grain, and buy technology, and continue to work for the benefit of Ukraine. So I think we should all do our best to work for the benefit of our country for the last week. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-06-m0.u89	Thank you. And I invite you to the speech of the People's Deputies.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-06-m0.u90	Good afternoon, citizens of Ukraine! Last day, yesterday, Parliament supported the Order on the Creation of a Historical Museum on the site of historical excavations, on the Post Square, on the site of the unique excavations of the Kiev Russia, which unfortunately the city authorities can so easily put on commercial closures. But at a time when we as a parliament are focusing on such symbolic things, on such symbolic forgetfulness, many small forgets are taking place all over Ukraine, including in Kiev, where our ministry, our executive authority, our Kiev City Authority, unfortunately, is not taking action to stop them. So I want to tell you about a building from this rostrum. I was approached by the inhabitants of the Shevchenkov district of Kiev about the construction that takes place in the area of Saxegan and Žiljanska Street, where, as you know, there are famous museums: the forests of Ukraine, Lysenka, Saxegan and Staricko. The area that's in line with the master plan actually has a category two and a category three, which means that commercial construction is not possible there. Sadly, though, the area was recently paved with fences, and construction began there. According to activist residents, they found not only the presence of a fence, but also partially the fence was mounted on the wall of the Forest Museum of Ukraine and captured some 144 meters of the museum's territory. At the time, the Ministry of Culture, which I sent in May, May 31st, their request, which was read from the Supreme Council's rostrum, they went to the basics, that they actually didn't give permission to build this commercial. This time. And secondly, they didn't physically reveal any signs of any construction work going on there, which is actually a lie. In accordance with the decision of the Kyiv City Council, they allocated this land to a limited company called Restin, which had already begun construction work there. So I want to go from this rostrum to the Ministry of Culture so that they, like the ministry that is actually responsible for the implementation of these buildings, are not allowed to take measures to stop these construction works. As a Parliament, we certainly do not have the capacity to pay attention to all historical forgetfulness. But this is a symbolic place that we will not allow to be built. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-06-m0.u91	Thank you. I invite you to the speech of the National Deputy Bondar, he. He was given the word "deputy Veliczovich" and his own time, six minutes in a row.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-06-m0.u92	Thank you very much, Mrs. Oksana. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to address the Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine and the Minister for Regional Development and Construction of Mr. Zubek and the Head of the Lviv State Administration, Mr.Synutci. I was approached by the head of the District Radio Bus district, Mr. Head Bogdan, about the problem of the completion of the Western Corps’s reconstruction project and of the energy-saving activities of the Buzak State Department, Grade I-III, in Buska, 15 of the Lviv Region. This object in the 17th year was supposed to be transitional and financed in the 17th and 18th years. Costs that were allocated in the 17th year were purchased materials, work was done. And in order to complete this object, there's not enough 300,000 that were just going to be allocated in the 18th year. Unfortunately, those funds have not been paid in six months. In general, it took $326,000, and 26,000 of the district budget was funded. And I'm asking the Deputy Prime Minister and the head of the Lviv government again to deal with the fact that they've funded this object, because since September 1st, children would like to come to this school, see an updated body, new premises, beautiful, open and adequately able to learn from them. And the second question, traditionally, as the head of the coal industry subcommittee, would be on the issue of Law 8362, which unfortunately this week we were unable to accept because the Ministry of Finance said that there was no source of funding. By this law, I'll remind you that it was planned to acquire equipment for clean-up and pass-through discharges, stationary equipment and also a pay-the-work fund, because the debt at the end of July would be more than a billion dollars. In part, this was offset by the decision of the Cabinet of Ministers to transfer money from other sources. And literally today at the "hour of questions to the government" you heard the Prime Minister and Minister Nasalik's answers. After that, I, Bondar Mikhailo, as head of the coal industry subcommittee, Victor Turmanov, as head of the trade union, together with Deputy Minister Korzun Anatoly and acting as Secretary-General of Markar Oksana, met with the Prime Minister, where they were just discussing how to solve the problems that had accumulated in the coal sector. The prime minister was instructed by the Ministry of Finance on Monday and Tuesday to provide a clear explanation of where, from which sources can be financed not only by the payment of wages to miners, but also by the costs that will go towards modernization, I stress, state-owned coal companies, state-owned enterprises. Because it's already on the air saying that it's going to go to private mines, including Ahmtova, the Child, and so on. I emphasize that this law will finance only state-owned coal companies. So I hope that by Monday and Tuesday this source of funding will be found. Or this Law 8362, which I'm going to call for colleagues to vote in the session hall, or by order, or by decree of the Cabinet of Ministers, the funds will be directed towards solving the problems that have accumulated in the coal sector. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-06-m0.u93	Thank you. I invite you to the speech of the People's Deputy Laishka. He was given his time by national deputies Ammelchenko and Skuratovsky. Rules - 6 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-06-m0.u94	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Dear Ukrainians, yesterday because of President Dustenk's pathological greed, who tried to break parliament across the knee in order to contradict the controlled composition of the Central Electoral Commission, there was actually a new political crisis. President Prashenko has not changed the composition of the Central Electoral Commission for one reason for four years because he has no other way of winning the election than by forging. That is why, in abusing the office and authority of the President of Ukraine, Peter Poroshenko, contrary to the requirements of the Constitution of Ukraine, introduced the application to the new composition of the CWC, where in fact 10 out of 15 candidates will be profiled, dependent on it, and thus will be able to falsify the results of the elections. The Radical Party team did everything they could to prevent this plan from going through in Parliament yesterday, because the majority of the President's majority in the Central Electoral Commission is a direct road to forging elections, until the Ukrainians, as before, in 2004 and other years, will simply steal the right to choose, the most holy right, the right to vote and the right to choose. We didn't give Dustenk the opportunity to usurp power in the CBC. We have protected Parliament and protected the right of Ukrainians to hold fair elections so that ballots can be placed in boxes so that no one can paint them, draw them, or steal them. But that is not enough, for the political crisis that arose yesterday requires a solution. We can't stop, today is the opportunity to make tectonic advances in politics in order to create a situation for economic growth, so that Ukrainians can believe in power, so that Ukrainians can control power. And all of this will enable not only the reinvigoration of power, but, above all, economic growth as the main basis for human well-being. The Radical Party team is proposing for the next parliamentary week, which is the last one in this session, a plan of action that will allow Ukrainians to see that power is controlled and dependent on people, not on the outside or on corruption. We demand that the President bring a new application to Parliament for the new composition of the Central Electoral Commission, where all the political parties represented in Parliament will be represented, so that there is no balance and that there is no possibility for anyone to abuse the influence of the Central Electoral Commission. The key to fighting corruption is changing the political electoral system, because when they buy votes in elections, they come to parliament and rob Ukrainians. We insist that next week Parliament review the new Law on the Elections for a Proportional System, open lists to cancel the corrupt marauder and not be able to engage in corruption. In 2015, my team and I registered laws on the procedure of impeachment of the President of Ukraine and on the provisional commissions of the Supreme Council. We urge Parliament to consider these two, very important laws next week in order for everyone to be under the law, all to be accountable to the people, and that Parliament be given supervisory powers when the executive authority misuses to be held accountable. The most urgent and important issue is the lifting of parliamentary immunity. We know plans to pick up the next session on this issue, we don't see the need to collect the next session. You can cancel the parliamentary immunity next week. This is our package of global, tectonic changes in Ukrainian politics, the new and uninvolved composition of the CEVC, the new Electoral Law, the Law on the Impeachment Procedure of the President of Ukraine, the Law on the Interim Investigations Commissions of the Supreme Council, the amendment of the Constitution to the abolition of parliamentary immunity, this is the plan of the Laška to overcome corruption, the establishment of the responsibility of the authorities to the people, the economic growth of the country and the restoration of Ukraine, the powerless, controlled people of government will not be Ukraine's future, without economic development will not be sufficient in Ukrainian families, the fish will rot in the head. We propose to cut off this rotten head and bring the order in power, make the President, the MPs, the government from top to bottom, accountable to the people who are equal before the law and before conscience. And whoever has no conscience will be in prison for abuse. The government is trying to make the next week inactive, they say, no votes, they've already taken a trip and so on, so on. Yesterday we showed that even without the faction of BPT, Parliament was able to make decisions. I address all other factions of Parliament, do not stop at what has been achieved, delaying death like this. As a famous classic once said, it was late yesterday. Today is the moment when Parliament is able to make decisions that will change the country that will force power to be responsible. Which will take away the real ground for corruption, not the simulation of the creation of explosive so-called anti-corruption bodies with billions of budgets that have actually become instruments in the political struggle. We need a real reconstruction of the country, we need a real increase in the income of Ukrainians. To this end, economic growth, the restoration of power, iron discipline, orderliness, the adoption of tools so that everyone from the President to a regular ordinary person is equal and accountable to the law. This is a plan for Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-06-m0.u95	Thank you. I'd like to invite you to the floor of the People's Deputy Barna.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-06-m0.u96	Praise Jesus Christ! As a citizen of Ukraine, I was deeply concerned by yesterday's popular statement by Julia Volodymyrovna Timoshenko, accusing the President of allegedly wanting to solve the great war. This accusation is nothing more than a baseless application, an unconscionable application of the darknesses of flint propaganda. This is true blasphemy and contempt for the memory of more than 10,000 dead Ukrainians in this war. Because even though Timoshenko does not notice or wants to acknowledge this fact that war is already coming, every moment of this war is killing our people, but more than that, she does not want to notice that Russia has begun this war, and Russia has already attacked Ukraine, and Ukraine is now obliged to defend itself. And even Timoshenko should not forget that the President of Ukraine organized a fight against the aggressor and began mass rebuilding the Ukrainian army, which was destroyed because of its activities in the government, when the army was underfunded, less than 1 percent (now above 5 percent). It was Peter Poroshenko who led the diplomatic front, where Russia suffered significant losses both in diplomacy, politics, and economics, thanks to sanctions against Russia, the unification of the world against. We destroyed our country's economy by sanctioning Russia, not by betraying the country's interests under the gas agreements. And under these agreements in 2009, in Timoshenko, Russia received an annual surplus of more than $10 billion, for which it rearmed the Russian army, Putin, who now attacked Ukraine. It is the President of Ukraine who has reached the liberation of several thousand hostages and now demands the release at the level of the unification of the world community of every Ukrainian. And it is our President who hides his own ambitions and goes to any negotiation with the "blood dwarf," including by telephone, to free every Ukrainian, either a prisoner of war or a prisoner of war. Because it is the task of every president and it is the honor of every Ukrainian to protect his people. So the faction of the Peter Prashenko bloc requires immediate apologies to the families of thousands of Ukrainian soldiers killed in this Russian aggression, which is not exactly what Julia Volodymyryn wants to see because of her pink glasses. And before making such statements, we urge Timoshenko to go to the front for once and see how our defensive soldiers fight and free at least one of our prisoners of war. So remember and start thinking about the people and the country, not your presidency. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-06-m0.u97	Thank you. And I would like to invite you to the floor of the People's Deputy Rudik.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-06-m0.u98	Dear TV setters, Ukrainians, my voters! I address you because you can see that on Fridays, the most patriotic national deputies are traditionally the ones who are involved in what is happening in the country. A few minutes ago, Oleg Lazyko spoke profusely about the fact that fish rots from their heads. Yes, fish rot from their heads. But from where the fish rots, it's a secondary question. The key question is where it rots. And our Ukrainian fish rots in our rivers polluted by fecalities, chemical wastes, other disgusting things that make the once huge, large and today magnificent in the minds of the Ukrainians of the Dnipro River. Tomorrow the whole country will celebrate Dniper Day, like every Saturday, the second Saturday of July. Remember the words of Shewchenk, "Reve and groaning Dniper wide"? He's no longer groaning, he's dying. Every year in Dnipro, where water is consumed 35,000. million. 35, excuse me, millions of Ukrainians, 50,000 tons of nitrogen fertilizer, 40,000 tons of phosphate, 20,000 tons of potassium, iron, zinc and many other impurities today we are forced to consume through the taps of our cities, villages, where there is central water supply. Of course, there is much to be said about this. The state had adopted, in 2012, even the entire Dnipro River Renewal Program, its salvation, let's call it that. How are they saved? And I'll tell you how. And, speaking to you, distinguished TV viewers, tomorrow, on Dnipra Day, please find an hour or two, especially those who live next to the throat of Dniper or his tributaries, whether in the north or in the south, and come to the river, take with you a large pack of garbage. And for starters, let's clean up at least our slopes to the river. And whoever's the bravest and still lives in the cities where this river really turned into dirt, and not just Dnipro, and Chermos, and Prut, and Right, and many, many rivers, and Tashmin in the Cherkas region. Take the water in a bag and take it into these once great Ukrainian rivers, and bring it to the government, bring it to Parliament, and bring it to the Ministry of Environment and Natural Resources, and show these chemical compounds. Also, bring it to the local authorities who have obtained the right to govern their territory after decentralization, but they do not take advantage of it.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-06-m0.u99	Thank you. Welcome to the speech of the People's Deputy of Teteruk.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-06-m0.u100	Dear Madam Chairman, distinguished colleagues of the national MPs, the distinguished Ukrainian people! As the head of the inter-fractional MPs' union, "Ukraine is a space state," I want to inform you of our steps in controlling the activities of the Ukrainian government. This is about our space sector, namely, a catastrophic state with planning and implementation of the space program. In fact, the situation is very bad that the Fifth Space Program, which was adopted as a law, and from 2012 to 18, has not yet been implemented. But worse than that, in the 17th year, the leadership of our space agency was unable to prepare the program for the next five years, to submit it to Parliament for approval and to receive real funding for its implementation. And for today, I'm sorry, but it's the second half, and we don't have a certified space program for five years, we have a strategy, we don't have a program. And today we've met with the Prime Minister, the National Deputies, and we've received a promise that there's going to be a meeting next week, and we're going to be monitoring how the leadership of the National Space Agency is going to report on how the Fifth Program has been implemented, what the planning state of the Sixth and what we need to do with the space industry, because, in fact, without a plan to implement such ambitious projects that we could implement, it's virtually impossible. And it can be about both non-professionalism and sabotage and other forms, let's say, discrediting our space industry. Therefore, we will not allow such a shameful situation to continue in any way. We will require the government to take decisive steps towards order in the space field. We have to do everything we can to make sure that all the potentials we have are clearly implemented, in time and clearly controlled. All planned programs should be properly funded and, above all, executed with clear responsible persons. That's when we can expect Ukraine to remain in the club of space states, because the situation today, as it doesn't sound, Ukraine, although it's considered a space state, but I can say with sadness that we don't even have a satellite in a geostationary orbit. Instead, the Congo has long been launched and used to strengthen its countries. That's why this situation is very difficult, but I'm confident that under our control, under the rule of government, we'll bring order in this area and do our utmost to remain a space state with perspectives and succeed as we deserve. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-06-m0.u101	Thank you. I'd like to invite you to the floor of the People's Deputy Ostrikov.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-06-m0.u102	Tetjana Ostrova, Self-help faction. For the last three weeks, we've been watching headlines from the media that are full of reports of a violent struggle, a simpleepic battle of government in customs and smuggling schemes. And we welcome such a determined attack by the government to combat smuggling. But these repeated instructions. And we have repeatedly pointed out to the government that, in fact, past the customs office, flying through almost another state budget. According to research by the Institute of Economic and Social Transformation in 2017 alone, fiscal losses from customs schemes amount to 75 billion dollars, and there are not yet the amounts that come to us from non-EU countries, such as China or Turkey. And the question then arises: Why did the government accidentally see through just the third year of its stay in power? Is it not caused by this frenzy of smuggling by the fact that the first half of the year does not have the income part of the budget, and the government is now working on filling the budget holes? Then we welcome this idea as a whole, and we fear that these four billion dollars that have been wiretaped by the government will not be accidentally drawn from conscientious entrepreneurs -- from those who do import and export operations. Because business on a regular basis, business associations on a regular basis believed the Prime Minister of Ukraine in the fact that he really had good intentions to remove the T-shirts and those who organize schemes from customs. In doing so, the white business is concerned that the adjustment and raising of the customs value will not be the expense of the white business itself. If we have a minister of the interior who has calculated the four billion-dollar fiscal losses that he plans to make only by the end of this year, let him also answer the question of who put these funds in his pocket in the past year and in the past year, and where criminal cases on these organizers of schemes, there are only 5-6 clans, and they are all known. And why don't we see the loud stuff right now on top of it? There are four effective recipes to combat smuggling throughout the civilized world. It's a strong, independent customs administration. This is an automated efficient exchange of information on the customs value of goods with foreign customs. It's an active customs post-control with a sum of the customs payments of a woe importer who misdeclared or avoided their payment at import. And this is the inability to realize the black imported goods inside the country. Unfortunately, there are none of these four things in Ukraine. So we urge the government today not to engage in point changes, not to imitate the fight, but to systematically implement measures aimed at.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-06-m0.u103	30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-06-m0.u104	a to carry out systemic measures aimed at the implementation of State customs policy to build an independent customs administration as a body that must combat customs violations and prevent such violent budget losses. The fewer law enforcement officers today will be on duty, the more money will come into the state budget, not in the pockets of corrupt law enforcement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-06-m0.u105	Thank you. Welcome to the speech of the People's Deputy Golovka.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-06-m0.u106	Mikhail Golovko, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. Dear Ukrainians, fellow countrymen! Today, in the "hour of questions to the government" there were many questions to Prime Minister Vladimir Graysman, who complained that in the state, our budget was very short of social pay, pensions, salaries, teachers' payments, doctors' payments, to pay off the wages owed to miners. And we, of course, have been the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union for several years now, and we've been proposing where to get the money for the Ukrainian budget, how to get our economy out of the shadows. This is primarily the adoption of an anti-oligarchy package of laws. Unfortunately, I'm sorry it's been the fourth year, but these laws are not being introduced into the session hall, the parliament doesn't want to look at them, it doesn't want to fight the oligarchs, it doesn't want to return those stolen billions from the offshore. And you realize that every year, more than $10 billion is officially exported from Ukraine, and in recent years, that amount has amounted to $154 billion. I don't understand why there's no desire in the government today to really become an "on the tail" of the oligarchs, "budge them oxygen," to bring back the looted, which is the key to getting the economy out of the shadows. The same is true of lotteries -- a business that sits in the pocket of a bunch of oligarchs and loses the state for tens of billions. They're the same offshores, they're hundreds of billions. And then there'll be money on both the pension and the salary and everything. But I'm most outraged by the fact that when a country is at war, when we have such a sharp deficit in finance, there's no cost on the line, today there's a billion premiums paid by the poor. In fact, the 46 million dollars that Naftogazu Nak managed Kobolev and Vitrenko paid off is almost a billion and a half dollars. This would be enough to extinguish the debt to all miners. I am outraged by the fact that the quality of rail transport is falling today, and Kravtsov’s salary has been paid 1.2 million dollars. These millions of wages, these billions of dollars! Not even a dollar or a cent had been returned according to Stockholm Courts ’ decisions, but they had already paid in advance. Not even the bracelets have increased in the state budget, but the money has already been stolen and mutilated. What can we call it? Where is the government? Why does no one react? Mr. Groissman asked the NAC Naftogazu Supervisory Board to review the premium payments. He was sent in three letters, they said they weren't going to do it. Where is the government’s response? Why isn't it formed, why hasn't the NAC Naftogazu oversight board been launched to this day? Why isn't Kobolev released? Why Not Draw to Responsibility? It's a pleasure that the Attorney General's office has finally filed a criminal case for this fact. And it is believed that they have enough spirit to bring it to its end and to hold corrupters accountable. And finally to understand that in times of war, in times of crisis, billions of dollars is a crime against the nation, it's a robbery, it's blasphemy, it's a disregard for the entire Ukrainian society, the Ukrainian people. "Freedom" requires punishing the guilty for this crime. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-06-m0.u107	Thank you, Your Honor. And once again, our colleague, the reverend Barna, who is given the right to speak by OksanaJurinec, is invited to the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-06-m0.u108	Praise Jesus Christ! Yesterday after dinner at the evening meeting, during the evening session, I came down with a glow and learned that I had some supernatural abilities of teleportation, thanks to individual MPs in the hall who had already played themselves. They were able to discuss the European values of parliamentaryism with their buttoning, you know, even my card. Well, science is united Chechtov, I look at it, it's not good, but they've adopted it: what the wise person should be ashamed of, the fools are bragging about it. I ask you very much to see that this teaching of Chechtov does not go out of your way and end up in the same way as he did in the Lithuanians. What's more, the teleportation also turns out to be the head of the Motherland Party that was out there at the time. Well, the supernatural is in this Supreme Council Hall. But I want to go back to all the deputies. If we stand for European values, for people and for the state, I ask you first to think about your conscience and your responsibility. And what happened yesterday, once again, confirms that it is a corrupt, selling and oligartic election system that is party, namely, from the people that is only a major, where people will know who to choose and who to ask and who to chase. And this is an example -- the United States, this is an example of England and other civilized countries, where, by the way, the party election system is highly developed and party responsibility. And we've got a long way to go. Let us, therefore, be united with our consciences, morals, and responsibilities, and build Ukraine up for the sake of the country. For the sake of the people, we must do our utmost to bring about reforms in Ukraine to protect the army. The idea is, we try to protect the country in the east, rebuild the interior, rebuild the army, and there are critics who bombed and bludgeoned it at the direction of the Kremlin, who now dream of becoming President of the blood of all the Ukrainian people, leading negotiations like no other in Trampa’s toilets, through the Kremlin. Therefore, Your Honor, we make our political, please note that orientation is correct.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-06-m0.u109	Please give the next speech. People's MP Krivenko will take the floor.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-06-m0.u110	Please consider this statement and conduct an investigation into who voted.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-06-m0.u111	Thank you. Please conduct an investigation into the identity of the person who stole the card from and voted in his place. Please, National Deputy Krivenko is invited to speak.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-06-m0.u112	Victor Krivenko, National Movement of Ukraine. I strongly disagree with Mr. Oleg Barna, who should be a senior. A major is the root of evil, it's the root of corruption. Yes, there are 5 percent of honest MPs in major districts, but most of the time only the Prime Minister, the President, is changing, they are becoming the foundation of the majority, and they are running right to him. We have to rebuild the political culture. People need to know who they voted for and take responsibility for their vote. Including today we're talking about financial decentralization, we're talking about transfer of funds to places, and now we're seeing how consumer culture increases. And everyone who went to Parliament promised open lists. So maybe you didn't have to run if you didn't agree with the party program you were running from. And now that some of the majors are starting to say they're majors, I think it's kind of an unfair position at least. And in this respect, we certainly need the fall, the September months, the consolidation of everyone and the change to the electoral system, and this is where the rebirth of the Ukrainian state begins. Because the next Supreme Council, if she's going to go with the Mayor, they're going to buy everything. We see people being led to poverty. We see how people have nothing to eat, how to pay for utilities. And there will be the same cases that are mass-going in the respective territorial communities today. That's the first one. The second part of the performance. Today I addressed the Prime Minister. One thing is good to say, the other thing to do. First. I thank him for another promise that the Export Credit Agency will be operational in the fall. Oh, my God. The other one. Thank you for the promise of industrial parks. Third. I asked very simply. Why are you giving 2.3 billion to agrarian oligarchs again in general efforts to support animals, where there are good things to do? By that year, a billion 200 had already been given to our fish. This year, there were such conditions that, in fact, none of the small businesses received this support. Up to 150 million dollars of the project’s amount have been put in support for one object. Half a billion dollars is the maximum cost of an object, and 30 percent can be obtained. I called on the Prime Minister, because by criticizing, propose: please reduce the maximum amount of support to 5 million dollars. 2.3 billion dollars of 5 million dollars is the support of 460 real businesses, each village will have its own owner. Not one great latifundist who sits in a village where there's both a school and a hospital, because he was born there and he lives there, and all the other villages die, because there's not even any business there, just hired workers. 460 new productions can be made. Create a commission with the involvement of international partners, our international organizations, the EBRD, well, we have a lot of them, with the involvement of the Quartet, they'd be happy to give their experts, industry associations. Not as you did exclusively within the Ministry of Agricultural Policy, which the Minister himself is shaping, that is, he is forming a commission that will distribute this support. Here's a concrete action that can be taken.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-06-m0.u113	30 seconds to complete, please. 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-06-m0.u114	This is a very specific action. The respectable head of the union, “Ukraine is space. ” Now, Mr. Oleg Lazko has done a lot to support "Yushmasha," many deputies in this room, just now they're gone, so I won't call them, help them. But really, there's no space program, there's no vision. The Northman, my family, where I worked for five years, is dying. The tails close and the holes close in a Brazilian project where people just have to plant for the 700 million dollars of government money that's actually thrown into nowhere. And there are many questions to the government of Groysman. And it's a big request not to pay for social money, social budgets on all boards and all the media. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-06-m0.u115	Please welcome IgorShurma to the floor, a distinguished colleague.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-06-m0.u116	Dear Ukrainian citizens, I'm not going to talk about medicine right now, it's already been talked about, and there's no reaction from the government, I'm talking about something else. There are no deputies in this room and outside of this room who do not want prosperity and a good life in Ukraine. Under what conditions might this be? One requirement today from our experience: There must be peace. And there is no peace for today. There will be no good in Ukraine until, from one part, death, fear, there is no life there, on the other hand, weddings, dances and all. It's a hybrid, we don't understand each other, we don't hear each other. Just as often in this room we appeal to the government, the government tells us, we raise our problems. Today, he was able to communicate with one of the ministers of the Colombian government who took the most active part in eliminating their conflict. They had a civil war, an internal confrontation of 52 years. It's the resistance of generations, the conflicts in the world are not the same, there is, but we need to look for a positive experience that helps us get out of this situation. What can I do for myself from this meeting? You know what I understand: first of all, there must be a desire and the will of peace. Who Wants Peace Most Today? I don't have statistics, but I can definitely say that those who live on Donbassa today, where the bullets whistle, where the bullying goes, where the marauding goes. Who doesn't want a war? He doesn't want a war if he doesn't want to compromise. We need to understand one thing, the compromise of understanding the accession on both sides, on the three sides, is the only chance we have of achieving peace. Under what circumstances can this happen? But for those who are now in power, let us, for the sake of the representative power, the legislative authority such as we are, show an example that we can join one another today and for the sake of a higher purpose, for the sake of Ukraine to go beyond our political ambitions, because of our own administrative desires, even through religious mouths for the sake of another. Imagine what people are looking at today. There are 50 people in this room right now, and I guarantee you that there are hundreds of thousands of older people around the TV set waiting for a better life, and today we have to stop the fighting. And I urge everyone to stop pointing left at each other, stop pointing right at the others, there's no other way. If we don't show the example of consolidation and understanding today, we're not going to be helped by any programs, nothing. People have to see an example and it's going to be the first step towards a civil connection, otherwise there's going to be a war here, and there's going to be big risks, ending a political project called "Ukraine."
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-06-m0.u117	Thank you. Please welcome national MP VictorGalasuk. Please, colleague, let me speak to you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-06-m0.u118	Victor Galasuk, Oleg Lachka Radical Party. Dear Ukrainians! The economic policy of today’s authorities is absolutely flawed. This is obvious to every citizen, coming out of his own income, coming out of the store prices, depending on how much the medicine costs and how much the gasoline costs. Today, this becomes clear even to members of the ruling majority. Economic policy does not meet the main challenges: mass unemployment in the country, nearly 2 million unemployed, unemployment, mass, multimillion - dollar emigration of talented and hardworking Ukrainians abroad, industrial decline, dependence on International Monetary Fund loans abroad. The government does not respond to these challenges. But the Radical Party program and the anti-crisis economic plan proposed by the Radical Party led by Oleg Ljashk provide such answers. We proposed this anti-crisis plan to the President, Prime Minister and Parliament over a year ago. It's not just a country modernization and economic development strategy, it's not just a new ideology for Ukraine's development and real European integration, when Ukrainians' incomes are approaching European levels, it's a completely clear, instrumental, progressive plan that contains specific legislative initiatives that have already been introduced to Parliament, many of them adopted in the first reading, and we insist on their immediate adoption in Parliament as a whole. Export credit agency. We passed this law, it's not yet implemented by the Ministry of Economics and Government. And it has to be done, it's going to spend loans on Ukrainian producers, and it's going to allow them to win competition abroad and pay more wages in Ukraine, which means they're going to increase pensions. Industrial Parks Law. We are pleased that today the Prime Minister has supported twice from the rostrum of Parliament, and next week we should consider and adopt these extremely important industrial laws. They provide attractive conditions for new production in Ukraine, because of these laws we will be able to win competition for investment, jobs and markets in other countries. The Free Networking Act, initiated by us and Oleg Lášk, is supported by more than 30 fellow national deputies from all factions and parliamentary groups without exception, removes barriers to entry into the Ukrainian economy. And finally, "Buy Ukrainian, pay Ukrainians." How much are we going to feed foreign producers, foreign companies, foreign competitors? Let's buy Ukrainian factories, and they'll raise Ukrainian wages. This will lead to an increase in prosperity.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-06-m0.u119	Thank you. Please welcome Yuri Derevyanco, a national deputy. Please, Mr. Yuri, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-06-m0.u120	Yuri Derevyanko, "The Movement of New Forces". Dear Ukrainians, dear colleagues, last night, about 23 p.m., Peter Tabazek was severely beaten -- this is the assistant manager of the Solomons district organization "The Movement of New Forces" Eugene Fuzik -- under his house. The strangers approached his car, said he had a flat tire. The man went outside, got hit in the head, a concussion, broken ribs, knees, legs. That's what the authorities are doing right now. Little did the attackers say "Hello New Forces Movement," "Hello and all of you" and "You don't go there." I have a question: where don't these guys go? They don't go down there when they're trying to enforce the law and the court's decision when they're trying not to illegally build the house of Solo House on the street of Jaroslav Galana, 32a in Kiev? Don't these guys go down there and we all go down there together when we stop President Dustenk's U.S.U.U. when he wants to usurp the Central Electoral Commission when he wants to take control of the entire election system in Ukraine, when he wants to put Parliament on its knees here today, putting the national deputies under his button here to dance and do everything? Where aren't we going? I want all Ukrainian citizens to know very well that "The Movement of New Forces" and I, including myself, have also initiated investigations into all possible crimes in Peter Prashenko regarding "Rotterdam Plus" regarding the illegal supply of technology to the army through his factories, where he owns 12 different cases of possible corruption or crimes by Peter Alexiyovich Prashenko. And we started collecting signatures here in Parliament, because only Parliament is capable and can start this investigation, only Parliament, by collecting 226 signatures, can provide this procedure, constitutionally, regulatoryly, and only Parliament can do that. 65 worthy deputies signed this application today, we have 65 signatures of the required 226, everyone else is hiding their eyes, everyone else is pretending that nothing is happening, they call it anything -- and pear action, and everyone else instead of putting their signatures, giving them the opportunity to investigate all these possible crimes and give them a chance. Give a powerful signal to a society that doesn't matter which president, whoever committed the crime -- whether today or the future -- he's going to be punished. And Parliament must stand firm in this position. That's why we're asking the Attorney General's Office, we're asking the Minister of Internal Affairs of Habakkuk to investigate the beating of activist Peter Tabazek, we're also asking that, and we're asking all national deputies not to hide their heads, but to sign a letter and start investigating possible crimes of Peter Prashenko. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-06-m0.u121	Please make the next speech, Mrs. Zarztko's National MP. Oh, I'm sorry. I'm sorry, National Deputy Kirsch. Please. Please, my dear colleague. I'm sorry. At first there was Lazko, who gives the word Mrs.Zarko, and then there was Mr. Kirsch. Mr. Kirsch, I'm sorry, my mistake. Mrs. Zarovka, I'd like to invite you to the rostrum. And I apologize to my colleagues for the little confusion. Please, Mrs. Valeria.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-06-m0.u122	ValeriaZarztko, faction of the Radical Party of Oleg Lašek. Good afternoon, citizens of Ukraine, good afternoon, fellows of honor! Yesterday, under the walls of the Supreme Council, there was another protest by miners. The miners of the state-owned company Selidivwowiel, who have not received a salary for several months, have been joined by colleagues from other areas: Lviv, Lugansk, Volinsk. This suggests a deepening of the economic crisis in Ukraine. It was a pleasure to hear from the profile minister today that the debt would finally be repaid in front of the miners. We hear it all the time, but unfortunately it doesn't happen. But I have a very simple question: Why not solve this problem in a fundamental way? Why not overcome this crisis? The Radical Party has repeatedly talked about the need to fundamentally address the issue of buying Ukrainian coal and paying wages to Ukrainian miners, not to buy coal abroad, but to buy coal here in Ukraine, in Lugansk, in Donecko, in Lviv, in Volinsk, in Volinsk, in order for people to have a job, to have a decent salary, so that they can get a retirement allowance so that they can have a social insurance opportunity to feed their families, to raise their children and support their parents. Why does this not happen? The Radical Party has proposed an economic package of radical reforms that will help Ukraine’s economy get out of a deep crisis at last, supporting its own industry, particularly the coal industry. Because we are confident that the coal industry needs real reform, real modernization and renewal, real improvement in the lives of miners. We have to stop labour migration today because skilled personnel, including miners, leave the country and have to go to Poland or elsewhere to earn a living. Because they feel that they are not needed by the State because the State does not care about them. I'm stressing that it's about employees of state enterprises, and they're in very difficult conditions, and they feel like they're slaves. And it was very sad for me and my colleagues yesterday to hear that it was as if we had no moral right to consider other issues than the issue of CLTC. We demand that Bill 8362 be put to the vote in the honourable Hall of the Supreme Council, co-sponsored by the deputy of the Radical Party, Oleg Láška, who will finally be able to resolve the issue of the carbon economy of Ukraine, return the Ukrainian miners to work and a decent wage in order to return their families to their harmony at last and well - being.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-06-m0.u123	Now, please, let the national deputy Kirsch be invited to the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-06-m0.u124	Ladies and gentlemen, there's a tragedy in the country again, there's not enough insulin. The same problem that was already settled last year, but even now, Harkians receive only 30 percent of the drugs they need, and insulin is the same kind of medicine that dies when they're gone. Their patients are replaced by analogues, but if they are treated with 30 percent insulin and 70 percent analogues, you can understand the quality of such treatment. I am very much asking that this issue be addressed personally by the Prime Minister of Ukraine, because we have already heard from the Ministry of Health that those with cancer should not be treated at all, and that diabetics are afraid that they should not be treated either. That's why there's not enough insulin, please intervene with the government, please intervene with the Prime Minister. The second problem is that it's about the Chernobyls. This is a disgraceful situation at all. As reported to me by Kharkiv, the lost documents concerning the issuance of certificates to participants in the liquidation of accidents at the Chernobyl AES in 1987. So they're being replaced by duplicates, but they're not analogs, because in these duplicates there's a very different category. And it turns out that when people who saved the country in their time try to find this information, they just say, "That's the category that you have, and it's still there, because the documents on the other category are already lost." I have a question. This is done only in Kharkiv when the lost documents about the real Chernobyl category are done in all of Ukraine? What can you do to those black people who don't really get their category? Whom should they turn to? And I'm asking you to settle this matter with the Ministry of Social Policy and the Kharkiv District State Administration. Because there can't be an official answer to the Chernobyl question: we note that there is no information on the issue of certificates to the department's participants in the liquidation of the accident. What do you mean, gone? Lost? Who is responsible, who is responsible? So you can't answer that, just missing and everything, because what your duplicate is, what category is, what category do you use. I'm asking you a lot of attention, this is not just a question of Kharkiv, this is a general Ukrainian question. And I'm asking you to do something to make sure that it doesn't work out that when there was a need, the Chernobyls saved the country, and now they just forgot about it. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-06-m0.u125	Thank you. Please allow me to speak with the national deputy wolf, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-06-m0.u126	Victor Wolf, the Radical Party of Oleg Lachka. Dear citizens, the last few weeks of the world's attention are being drawn to President Tramp's meeting with the leaders of aggressive rematch regimes that undermine international peace and seek to review world order, the President of Russia Putin and North Korean dictator Kim Chen-in. Meetings in Helsinki and Singapore are different, but they are of mutual importance to Ukraine and contain both certain hopes and high risks. The June 12 meeting of Singapore, dedicated to the problem of nonproliferation of nuclear weapons in the world, gave some hope for nuclear disarmament on the Korean peninsula, although it ended without concrete plans and deadlines and demonstrated that the process would be unforgivable and long. The radical party, Oleg Ljaska, claims that the problem of nuclear proliferation on the planet cannot be solved without taking into account the lessons learned from Ukraine’s nuclear disarmament and the fulfilment of the commitments and assurances given in our country’s time. Oleg Láška's team is the only political force in Ukraine that has consistently and tirelessly stressed all international forums and negotiations on the need to produce and apply specific mechanisms to implement Ukraine's safeguards under the Budapest Memorandum. [[Applause]] And the President of Ukraine should not cry all over the world and call on others to learn from our mistakes, but to fight and squeeze the maximum of what we have. However, the Budapest Memorandum is the only international legal document in the history of an independent Ukraine signed by the President of the United States. And in that too is its meaning and its power. Clearly, then, nuclear disarmament in the world requires taking into account the legitimate rights and interests of Ukraine. The future meeting of the presidents of the United States and Russia in Helsinki on July 16 is even more stressful for the international community. Putinically, he sees the Russian-American summit as the first step towards a new Yalta-2-style world, as a step of the imperial rematch of Russia, where there is no place for an independent Ukraine. The radical party of Oleg Láska warns the President of the United States of America against the unwary advances of the roadside blackmail. The attempt to appease Putin is a road to the chasm. A world in which the right to a strong, not a force of law will prevail, is doomed to be plunged into a new European and global war. Ukrainians will never agree to solve international problems at our expense. Restoring peace, international law and order in Ukraine and the world and preserving them for future generations is the responsibility of responsible world leaders. That's what we call President Tramp.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-06-m0.u127	Next performance. National Deputy Lechchenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-06-m0.u128	Good afternoon, Ukraine! I'm sorry, I haven't been able to ask questions from the government this morning. I was at the town hall, at the Klitschka. The question was being solved both in the kindergarten on the left bank and in the Podil district, and in the building on Pechersk in the so-called "jam". And so now, taking this opportunity, I'm going to say that no matter how many people are in the room, not so many, but as an MP, I'm actively working and acting for the benefit of the citizens. But another example that I want to hear from this rostrum is that of people from all over Ukraine. Today we are presenting a lawsuit that was filed in connection with the increase in electricity tariffs that was approved at the energy regulator's meeting at the end of last year, when all officials left Kiev on vacations, I went to the NCRECR meeting and saw for myself what was happening when they decided to increase by 15, well, by nearly 16 percent of the electricity tariffs according to the Rotterdam Plus scheme. And in total, the price of coal is already 2.5 thousand dollars per tonne in the energy tariff. For your information, that's 130 percent higher, that's more than two times higher than the price that these same regulators called acceptable. Why does this increase take place? Why do they go into the pockets of every citizen? Because all of us who use electricity, even now you're watching television, you're listening on the radio, on the Internet, we're all paying for electricity, and this money goes to Ahmetov and his supporters at the highest levels of Ukrainian power, because there's a conspiracy, because there's payments that are then shared in shadow between these oligarchs who took power in Ukraine. And that's why we're trying, we're all trying to make sure that these tariffs are cancelled. Because this has already led to the fact that we have a heat generation. Fully monopolized in the hands of one oligarch and the heat generation tariffs are the highest in Europe today. And this has already resulted in cold and hot water tariffs rising in almost half a hundred cities, electricity already increasing in value in large district centers and food products, and all of the popular consumption products that use electricity, they're all working at these tariffs. And then in the second round, we pay as consumers, that is, when we pay for electricity, and when we pay for products or services that we get from both private and state institutions. That is why we demand that this increase in tariffs that was approved at the NCREKP meeting, which was adopted, I repeat, by officials appointed in manual mode, because these were temporary members who were specifically appointed by President Poroshenko to raise these tariffs. Similarly, we demand that these 15 billion dollars be returned to the economy of Ukraine, so that they work for all Ukrainian citizens, in all fields, not just for another clan, which then injects this money into politics, and sits in Parliament by the political forces that represent its interests in our legislative body. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-06-m0.u129	Dear colleagues, the national deputy of Silantiev is invited to the floor. Yes, please, Mr. Silantiev. Please. It's not the parties that are coming, it's not the factions, it's just the national MPs, I didn't represent any. Dear, distinguished Mr. Denis Silantiev, National MP. S'ilvousspiait, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-06-m0.u130	Dennis Silantiev, faction of the Radical Party of Oleg Lášk. Dear citizens of Ukraine! Dear colleagues! Not for the first time in the media is the issue of a high level of mortality in Ukraine. According to some independent estimates, more than 200,000 people die each year than are born. Imagine that every year in Ukraine, one city, such as Lutsk or the White Church, is getting smaller. The last census took place 17 years later. Why don't you think it's happening now? But because the authorities are afraid to do this census, because the results that they're going to do are going to be scary and terrible. You know, whatever government officials tell us, there's a difficult situation, an economic, social, there's no reason to lower the mortality rate or raise the birth rate in our country, because these are strategically important things. If this is not done, no one will soon be able to protect Ukraine from aggression, not to build an economy in the state, not even to help older people, grandparents in the village to do something about it, because there will be no people physically. But to say that everything is bad is very easy, but to offer something concrete, something that's active is another thing, it's different. So the Radical Party is proposing concrete actions to overcome the crisis in politics, in the economy, in the humanitarian sphere. What should be done in this case? We need to preserve and develop social infrastructure, namely sports infrastructure, so that both children and adults can engage in physical culture and sports. Well, there is nothing better in the world today, no alternative to strengthening human health than physical activity. The Radical Party faction led by Oleg Lášk will not sit quietly and watch as, with each year, Ukrainians become hundreds of thousands less. So we're asking the government to budget next year for the development of sport infrastructure. That's the first one. The other one. We have already registered Bill 6487 on the moratorium on the change of destination of land for the purpose of preserving physical and sports objects so as not to destroy those physical objects and sports courses that remain in Ukraine. Next. Bill 5643, which will encourage business, invest money in the development of sports infrastructure, health and culture, and many other initiatives that will enable both Ukraine and Ukraine to be strong and successful. So, dear Ukrainians, the Radical Party team will do everything possible to stop that genocide policy and the abuse it carries. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-06-m0.u131	Next speech, Your Honor, Egor Sobolje from Self-Help, please. Yeah, I don't call it a faction. Just Yegor Sobolev, Ukrainian national deputy. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-06-m0.u132	I want to remind all of us that in the last week of the vote that remains, it is very important to do one thing: get out of the misery that the President has turned us all into. You will recall that after two years of parliamentary struggle, the Anticorruption Court Act was passed by Parliament. Honor to all who voted for him. But after the vote, there was trouble. When the law was signed, primarily with the participation of the speaker and the president, an article of the law was corrected. And it's fixed so that all cases of the Anti-Corruption Office and the Anti-Corruption Prosecutor's Office that are already investigated and transferred or transferred to ordinary courts will remain there. That when Ukraine creates real justice, when an anti-corruption court is chosen for the participation of our international partners, and that was the main idea of this project, still people like Ohendowski, Martinenko, Avakov, whose family is suspected of top-corruption with taxpayers' money, so that they can continue to negotiate with today's courts, which are very often corrupt and dependent on top-corruption. This falsification needs to be corrected. This falsification has not been recognized by our international partners. Both the International Monetary Fund and the World Bank, which support the creation of Ukraine's justice, the fight against top-corruptioners in real terms, said they would not give a cent to today's leadership until this article was approved by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. I repeat, these are very important investigations that are simply dying in today’s courts. Today, for example, the Court of Delhi adjourned its hearings on the case of Dmitr Sous, an investigator at the Attorney General’s Office, who himself admitted that he was involved in political repression and business destruction. He's accused by the Anti-Corruption Bureau and the Anti-Corruption Prosecutor's Office of lying about the declaration of possession of things and money that were taken from suspects during searches. But there is no room in the Court of Delhi for justice. That's why it's very important for us to create an anti-corruption court, which is why it's very important for us to have as much legislation as possible. And Parliament has to correct the forgery that unfortunately took place after the vote in favour of the law, of the will of the President of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-06-m0.u133	Dear colleagues, we have two final speeches left. Please, Andrew Illenko would like to take the floor. Please, Mr. Andrey.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-06-m0.u134	Andrew Illenko, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union, the city of Kiev. Today, actually, I would like to turn to the Chinese, because whoever doesn't already know, we're not all looking forward to a very pleasant situation, and I think that's what all the people in Kiev are talking about. That is, from July 14 to July 14 there will be a double price increase for public transport in Kiev, up to the 8th anniversary. There's going to be a lot of talk about what hasn't been promoted in a long time, what needs to be done on economic grounds, what the city authorities are going to say. But I'd like to say the next thing. First of all, if we're talking about any increase, we have to start with an audit of the real state of affairs in the public transport of Kiev, namely in Kyivpastrans and in the Kiev metropolis, and those huge debts, the multibillion that are there now. And as a result, what corrupt city policy has resulted? We should ask the question first. Secondly, the Kiev Freedom requires that we do so, we need to do a moratorium on the price hike until the only electronic ticket for public transport is introduced in Kiev. Because what's going to happen now after this promotion is going to be the same thing as the whole time before this, which is everything going to go through cash, this cash is not going to do anything, and then the bags are going to be carried to certain officials in the form of bribes. And that's what's happening right now. And they want to do it now, just by raising the price for the sneezes. In fact, on July 12, the next week, there will be a session of Kyivradya, where the last chance will be to stop this increase. And so we urge all the Chinese to approach the Kiev City Council on July 12th and demand that the necessary audit be carried out so that the necessary policy analysis is carried out, and only then can we talk in principle about any change in tariffs. To this day, it will be just another robbery of Kiev, because they can see that they lack illegal oblivion, they lack theft and corruption, and so they decided to make another way for them to get into each of the kyans' pockets. And by the way, since yesterday the Supreme Council of Ukraine adopted an appropriate decision regarding the Postal Square and obliged the Cabinet of Ministers to make the necessary decisions to have a medieval city museum there and there was an opportunity to preserve these unique historical monuments, not to build another shopping and entertainment centre there, it is now the same task of Parliament, to control this decision so that it will not be forgotten again and in a few months they will not rebuild the construction of this disgraceful shopping and entertainment centre there (by the way, on the basis of a very large suspicion, on the stolen money of the Yanukovich clan there) in order to preserve Kiev and make corruption impossible in it. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-06-m0.u135	Thank you. And I'd like to invite you to your final address for today, Madam Secretary. Please. Oh, I'm sorry, Mrs. Cochley. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-06-m0.u136	AlonaKošeljeva, faction of the Radical Party of Oleg Lášk. Madam Chairman, fellow national MPs, dear Ukrainians! This week, many media outlets have announced an increase in pensions, and these changes will affect only Ukrainians who receive a minimum pension, or 300,000. But in practice, we get that if a man worked for 25 years and a woman for 20 years, the maximum pension for them is 1 thousand 434 bracelets per month. So the rise is marginal and it's an average of 60 dollars. What about the other 11 million pensioners? Why is 90,000 social pensioners who receive only 30 percent of the minimum pension left out of consideration, since they do not even have the minimum necessary job to account for the pension? And often these are the cases where people worked without putting their hands on their state, and they just didn't have time to properly count their insurance. According to the current law of January 1, 2019, the insurance is planned to be recalculated. is planned to recalculate contributions to the savings fund in the pension scheme. Yes, following the adoption last October of the pension reform, to which, by the faction of the Radical Party, Oleg Láška was most noted, the Cabinet of Ministers was tasked by July 1, 2018 to ensure the creation of institutional components for the functioning of the cumulative system of pension insurance. Colleagues, has anyone seen these institutional components? Statistics show that in 2017 the State Register of Financial Institutions contains information about 64 non-state pension funds and 22 administrators of non-state pension funds. And they're territorially located in only eight regions of our country. No wonder the population trust rate for these institutions is only 13 percent. Moreover, Ukraine’s current pension system is disastrous for young people. After all, while working on wages in Italy, Poland, Spain, Portugal, and the shadow sector, young people have no employment and registration and will thus be deprived of pension insurance in the future. The interlinked issues of raising minimum wages are extremely relevant. I would like to point out that it was with the firm insistence of the Radical Party faction led by our leader, Oleg Ljashk, that a decision was made to raise the minimum wage to three thousand 200 dollars and then to 3,000 723 dollars. The economy of the country has to work at a radically new course. More production, more quality intellectual domestic product -- that's what real economic growth and the source of the well-being of the economically active population and our important pensioners are all about.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-06-m0.u137	30 seconds to complete, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-06-m0.u138	They need jobs and decent working conditions. The Iron Faction Team of the Radical Party has a clear plan to implement this radical course in the development of the domestic economy, and together with our extremely hardworking intelligent people, we will put this into practice. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-06-m0.u139	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to remind the national deputies of Ukraine and journalists and Ukrainians that next week is also a sessional one. The next plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine will take place on Tuesday, July 10, and this will be the last sessional week of today’s session. So it's very important that it be effective so that we can still vote positively for the renewal of the Central Electoral Commission, for removing the parliamentary integrity and other laws that the Ukrainian community expects. I wish everyone a good day. I'll say good-bye to you by 10 July. And I declare the morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine closed.
