ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-22-m0.u1	Good morning, dear fellows! Please enter the hall, take up jobs, prepare for registration. Colleagues ready for registration? People's deputies please register. Please take part in the registration. [[10:03:41]] 353 national deputies registered. The morning plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. I remind you, on Tuesday, we have a performance from factions and groups. Please prepare the factions and groups for the performance. And please record it, please. From "the will of the people" to "the word" comes Labazuk Sergey Petrovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-22-m0.u2	Dear Mr. Head, colleagues, dear Ukrainian people! Today is a day in order, no exaggeration, a day in total for both all agrarians and our state. For six months, the agrarian environment is boiling through the discussion of soybeans. In order to restore justice, the agrarians developed Bill 7403-2. This document was supported by 15 district councils, all profile associations, our foreign partners and a large number of national deputies present in this room today. But we're still pounding water in our feet. I keep in touch with the agrarian environment, farmers are quite determined, they say, if MPs don't support their proposals and there's no return on VAT in the export of oil crops, the protests will be restored throughout our country. So it is time to abandon the so - called practice of shock therapy and support the bill today. Colleagues, an equally important subject for us, are the raiders' delights. Today, the key big agrostructures are talking about what they're attracted to, and I'm not talking about small farms anymore, the so-called kolglosses that are calling out to us to protect them. I'll give you an answer as to why this happened. Today, we have this opportunity through legislative gaps. And when investors come to Ukraine, unfortunately, it's no longer the key to making money, but it's the key to keeping what they've come to us with. The absence of fair courts and clear rules of the game leads to a raid. Agrarian raiding is one of the manifestations of the absence of a celebration of the law and guarantees of property rights. The very lack of the ability to protect ourselves today does not give us the benefit of developing the country’s investment attraction. The state must intervene in this situation and protect investors from raids. The right of ownership must be holy and unbreakable. In order to counter the registration of the commission under the chairmanship of the First Vice Prime Minister, to which I am included, together with the Ministry of the Ministry of Justice, the Ministry of Justice, the professional associations and the Public Organization of Business Watch, Bill 8121 was drafted. Today this bill was supposed to be in order of the day. And I want to believe that we will be looking at it soon. We've already taken action at the Hmmelničina, and today we have the opportunity to say that hop farming is protected. And last but not least, today is the creation of a High Anti-Corruption Court. The People's will MPs are calling for parliament to finally take this important step and come to the common denominator. We understand that until then, the establishment of an anti-corruption court had been a hostage of political parties.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-22-m0.u3	Please give me 30 seconds to finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-22-m0.u4	A similar fate with a vote for the new composition of the CLTC. Many claims, but more populism. And so far, unfortunately, no action. Today’s Central Election Commission can be compared with the second freshness. Let's keep asking questions about her upgrades. We urge other factions to change endless consultations to a successful vote. Enough with the translation.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-22-m0.u5	Thank you, Your Honor. And the leader of the Opposition Block faction, Yuri Boyko, is invited to the floor. Mr. Yuri, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-22-m0.u6	Madam Chairman, honourable national deputies, Ukraine is in crisis, and the main destabilizing factor is the conflict on Donbassa. According to surveys, most Ukrainians want peace and stability. So let's do what our citizens want. Ukraine needs peace. But mistakes in foreign and domestic politics remove Ukraine from the order of the world’s day society, provoke irritation and discourage us, even our neighbors: Poland, Hungary, Romania, Belarus. The interest in Ukraine only increases when there are extraordinary situations or manifestations of xenophobia and racial hatred. This is all the responsibility of this anti-national authority — the poverty of the population, the anti-national reforms, and the economic collapse. The government continues to methodically acquire liquid industrial enterprises, leading them to bankruptcy in order to sell them for cash. Among them are aerospace plants, Odeski Portal, Turboat and others. So in a crisis in the economy and currency depletion, we demand that we cancel the robbery privatization for no price to be paid to our people. We demand, and I personally insist, on the government's immediate report on this cheap sale of government assets. And separately, we need to report on tariff policies in the current year. There is no secret that Ukrainians are preparing for a further increase in gas prices and utilities, a significant reduction in the number of recipients of subsidies. In fact, this will lead to another impoverished population. I drive all over the country and people everywhere ask the same question: What does the government do? In the last month alone: the poisoning of children in Cherkas and in Dniproperty, the fire in the Kharkiv area, the increasing crime in the streets of the country, where the number of casualties is already higher than the casualties. Together with the med reformation, Ukrainians seem to have two options: to die or to emigrate from the country. Dear National Deputies! Today Parliament has a historic choice: either to help the President and the government finally destroy the country and the people, or to give Ukraine a chance for development and prosperity. I'll remind you that we live in a parliamentary-presidential republic. It's up to you. The people will make their choice. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-22-m0.u7	Next talk from the Radical Party faction, please. That's what I understand, Oleg Lazy.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-22-m0.u8	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Naftogaz decided yesterday to increase the cost of gas for industrial producers by 20 percent. This means that our production is becoming more expensive. Instead of getting higher wages, Ukrainians will cut jobs. The Kiev authorities want to raise the cost of public transportation between 6 and 8 dollars. The Cruise Station, instead of providing working escalators and elevators for citizens, they want to raise the cost of passenger transport by 30 percent. The government has already agreed with the International Monetary Fund and has pledged to raise up to 11,000 dollars a thousand cubic metres of gas for Ukrainian citizens. Instead, the International Monetary Fund requires us not to raise wages, not to raise pensions. I have a simple question: How can Ukrainians survive when there are absolutely no prices for medicines, food, even public transportation and utilities that will also increase as gas prices rise? This is a policy that actually leads to the destruction of the Ukrainian economy, until Ukraine exports even more labour, raw materials instead of developing its own economy and creating jobs for its own citizens in its own country. The government is running, and the government, the President, is pursuing a policy that deprives Ukrainians of the future. Price hikes, galloping inflation, tariff hikes, can be found in the pockets of millions of Ukrainians. For a million and a half thousand dollars of pension, for two or three thousand dollars of salary, you don't enjoy much. This remains only to be paid for the utility, and even for bread without butter is no longer enough. Our team is proposing a different policy. We demand that the government refuse to increase gas prices and increase tariffs, on the contrary, to pursue policies to increase own gas production, energy-efficient energy, and consequently lower tariffs. We demand that the authorities reinstate the government's regulation of the prices of essential products, medicines, limit the cost-effectiveness of drug sales, cancel VAT, expand the list of medicines, including oncology, free of charge, antibiotics to get Ukrainians free of charge, and introduce criminal strict liability for the falsification of drugs. We're asking the government to limit Naftogazu's appetites, Crushing, which at the expense of robbing Ukrainians make 300 percent of their profits, driving the Ukrainian industry into damage and leaving Ukrainians unemployed. If you don't stop robbing the Ukrainians, we'll take you all to the villas. We will not allow Ukraine to become a ruin, a ruin, where.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-22-m0.u9	30 seconds, please let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-22-m0.u10	Where there will be no village, no city, no working man. We're asking the authorities, the Parliamentary Coalition to support our initiatives, to make changes to the Constitution on support for agriculture, restoration of livestock, creation of jobs in Ukraine. The only right policy is to restore the economy, increase the wealth of Ukrainians, their salaries and pensions.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-22-m0.u11	The next performance is the head of the Fatherland faction, Julia Timoshenko. Please, Julia Volodymyr.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-22-m0.u12	Many generations of Ukrainians have sacrificed themselves to gain Ukraine’s right to be an independent, sovereign, powerful country that can rule its own people. And now it looks totally demeaning when in the boom of democracy in Ukraine, when the democratic forces came to power, part of the sovereignty that is directed at managing all processes in our country, is passed on to the external forces that represent part of the global financial oligarchy. I recently gave clear evidence that the National Bank of Ukraine is in a system of illegal and completely harmful to Ukraine's external administration. Now I want to give an example that the same forces and the same people are involved in a public health system that buys drugs for Ukrainians. You know how hard it is to get any money out of the budget today. A total of 30 percent of the need is spent on health care, but even these coins are used in such a way that they do not reach the real needs of the Ukrainians, either for medicine or for money. I now have an official letter from the head of the Supreme Council Committee on Health Care, Mrs. Oli Bogolitz. And what I want to say, by referring to her numbers, is that from 2015 on, drug brokers have been making purchases for government money, not just horrible and criminally, but deliberately, so that Ukrainians have no right to be treated. Imagine, from 2015 to 2017, it's all been paid 12 billion dollars by subscription. For years, drugs were not available. For years! And now, for this moment, they're still intact in the 17th year, 15th, 16th, 17th, 6.7 billion dollars. Yet, in early 2018, they still paid nearly 6 billion subscriptions. We don't treat sick children, we don't treat people who are sick, we don't treat people who are sick, we don't treat people who are sick, we don't treat people who are really in need of help today. But the drugs that are supplied, even with such a delay for years, are partly obsolete, partly as unfit. Medicinal products for cancerous children have been partially eliminated because they do not treat children. And that's why I am.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-22-m0.u13	Please let me finish for 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-22-m0.u14	That this policy is a policy of exterminating Ukrainians. We insist, and the House of Auditors has agreed to conduct a full audit at the 15th, 16th, 17th, 18th, at the state expense. And secondly, we now demand that we review those laws that without competition allow fraud to manipulate billions of dollars of budget money.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-22-m0.u15	Thank you. Please, the head of the People's Front faction, Maxim Burbak. Please, Mr. Maxime.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-22-m0.u16	Good afternoon, colleagues! The People's Front faction has consistently supported the establishment of an anti-corruption court, and we have to adopt this law as soon as possible. The creation of the court is the next stage in the introduction of unprecedented anti-corruption reforms in the history of Ukraine, and the first government of Arsenija Yatsenuk has started. In this room, everyone remembers Prime Minister Arsenij Yatzenuk introducing a package of anticorruption bills and from this rostrum urged Parliament to adopt them. Today, it can be said with confidence that in four years in Ukraine, the government and parliament have done more than over 20 years, and above all, it has to do with the fight against corruption. Yeah, we haven't gotten the desired results yet, but we're going the right way and on the line to create a High Anti-Corruption Court, really anti-corruption and really independent, and to create legislative guarantees for his honest and transparent work. This court will deal exclusively with criminal conduct relating to the jurisdiction of the NABU. Finally, Parliament should begin its consideration of the Anti-Corruption Court Bill and adopt it. This law must be in line with the recommendations of the Venice Commission, this is a clear, consistent public position of the People's Front faction. We also believe that the International Council of Experts should have the right to vote decisively at the selection stage of the judges. They're going to test the candidates in court for integrity on the basis of the conversion criteria, namely, the candidate's declarations and his relatives, the conformity of the declaration's assets, the absence of criminal conduct. The International Council of Experts may include international organizations with which Ukraine has exclusively contractual relations – the Council of Europe, the OSCE, GRECO. These experts should have the experience of working in international courts for at least five years. An anticorruption court should not only be made on paper but also be permanent, efficient. We must ensure that all legislative decisions necessary for the full start of the anti-corruption court are made as soon as the bill is passed. The creation of an anti-corruption court alone will not be enough for a full anti-corruption system. We need to assign an audience to the NABU as soon as possible, and this is already a matter for the profile committee, so that the candidates will finally be introduced into the hall and that the room will decide by vote, because, I remind you, we don't have an NAB audit for the 16th, the 17th, soon to end 18 years. These questions need to be approved as soon as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-22-m0.u17	Thank you. I invite you to the speech of National Deputy Bondar from the Rebirth Party. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-22-m0.u18	Thank you. Dear friends! I think there's been a lot lately. The whole country listens to the story of how difficult it is and where the anti-corruption court is born in Ukraine, the Central Election Commission, something else. And it's hard to be born because, in fact, it doesn't need power today, it doesn't need parliament, it needs government and power just to get another loan. For the sake of credit, they're willing to do anything. The IMF, the World Bank, imposes conditions on them. Sell the land, they say, "Yes." Put the industry down, they say, "Yes." Raise the tariffs, they say, "Yes." And every day we see how (the last places in particular) are going to raise tariffs, raise industrial problems, and the banking sector is broken down in debris -- also to meet the demands of our external creditors. Financing today gets, loans get practically no industry. And if he gets it, it's between 20 and 25 percent of the year's. This tells us that in fact, the government today is not dealing with how to develop a country, and the government is not doing strategically where and how Ukraine will earn money, which is what it's essentially doing, as drug addicts, is following up on other tranches around the world with outstretched hands and not offering an alternative approach to Ukraine's economy at all. We're talking to the authorities today: guys, come on, get down. This situation will lead you to virtually ruin Ukraine, leading you to deprive Ukrainians of prospects for the future. You're leading to the social and migration that millions of people are going abroad today. You have caused the situation that today only 58 children are born for 100 people who die. This tells us that Ukraine is being transformed into a crude addition to the West, thanks to your political, governmental and dominant policy. You do everything for credit, you do nothing for Ukraine. That's why we urge you to go back to the issues that we're raising, our bills: support for the Ukrainian industry, where there are dozens of mechanisms, how to enable Ukrainian enterprises to get on their feet; support the energy conservation programme that we're proposing, which allows Ukraine to save gas, electricity, Ukrainians to warm houses, change windows, boilers and so on. These are programs that work. Energy-supporting programs, on the rise of the transport sector, powerful road construction programs, not by 3,000 kilometers a year, but by 10,000 to 15,000 kilometers, and then by 5 to 7 years you can rebuild roads in Ukraine. Take credits, cheap loans, but don't eat them, send them to the road industry, to the bridges. And this is going to be an active program for the exit of the Ukrainian economy from the crisis. This is our program that we've registered in Parliament, our bills, but listen to what I'm saying. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-22-m0.u19	Thank you. And I'd like to invite you to the floor of National Deputy Arthur Gerasimov of the "Peter Prashenko Block."
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-22-m0.u20	Dear Madam Chairman, distinguished colleagues, distinguished voters! As you know, on May 19 the President of Ukraine signed a decree on the final exit of our nation from the SND. This historic decision confirmed once again: Ukraine has taken an irreversible course toward the western democratic world. During the last century, Ukrainians have proved their loyalty to fundamental democratic principles, fought for the freedom and sovereignty of their state. The totalitarian Soviet regime has left painful wounds in Ukraine’s history, millions of Ukrainians have paid for their own lives for the right to live in a free independent Ukraine. On Sunday, May 20, we honored the memory of victims of political repression. So far historians cannot appreciate the magnitude of the tragedy caused by the Kremlin’s criminals. However, with the joint efforts of the State and society, a colossal effort has been made to restore national memory and strengthen Ukrainian identity. We can now say that our country is becoming an integral and full part of the European community. And a major role in the Euro-Integration process is the legislative security that embodies the democratic forces of Parliament led by the faction of the Party of Peter Poroshenko, supporting the legislative initiatives of the President of Ukraine. In particular, this week we need to consider and adopt a series of bills that are important for Ukraine aimed at strengthening the fight against corruption, strengthening the security of the state and stimulating economic development. Of course, the most important of these is the bill on the Supreme Anti-Corruption Court. We must make sure that this law is passed as soon as possible. The importance of creating this court in Ukraine goes beyond our country and is important to the whole world. At the same time, it is overwhelming that the Anti-Corruption Court Act cannot violate the Constitution of Ukraine and in any way restrict the sovereignty of our state. Our task is also to create a profile body and overcome systemic threats in the area of public finances, the National Bureau of Financial Security. The Bureau will do analytical work, not force labor. The proposed approach will significantly limit the pressure on business from the power structures. It has to be stressed that every day there is an increase in the number of business associations that support the adoption of this law. Among them is the American Chamber of Commerce, and the Ukrainian Chamber of Commerce, and many others. Next. We ask Parliament to adopt the bill of service with the proposals of the President of Ukraine as soon as possible. Let me remind you that today's diplomatic front is no less important than the front in eastern Ukraine. It is also necessary to include in the agenda and to consider as soon as possible the presidential edition of Bill 8265, which improves the procedure for public procurement of ProZorro. The electronic purchasing system has proven itself to be a reliable mechanism for saving and transparent use of budget funds. Our faction also looks forward to considering an important initiative to protect Ukraine's national interests and security, Bill 6697. It's about protecting Ukrainian defense companies. 30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-22-m0.u21	30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-22-m0.u22	It's about protecting Ukrainian defenses. From any interference with the work of the legal persons of the aggressor state. And in the end, the faction of the Party of Peter Prashenko calls for the closure of parliamentary personnel debts. This is an update to the Central Electoral Commission, and the election of the NABU auditor, and the election of the judges of the Constitutional Court. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-22-m0.u23	Thank you. And the final speech from the Self-Help Union, Roman Semenha, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-22-m0.u24	Semenha Roman, "The Self-Help Union" faction. Dear colleagues, Madam Chairman! The main thing you can hear at every meeting with people is total infidelity and a desire for justice. Finally, people want one law to be for all so that the courts will cease to be the centers of lawlessness. Only 10 percent of Ukrainians trust the judicial authority, according to the Center of Razumkov, conducted in 2017. Moreover, more than 80 percent of our citizens believe that the fight against corruption has failed. In fact, colleagues, it's a sentence, it's a sentence for all of us, it's a verdict for the President of the country who speaks publicly of us being updated and new people have been brought to the Supreme Court. But how come most of the judges of the new Supreme Court are old people from the old system with a questionable reputation? This is a sentence for the Attorney General, who publicly informs us of the detention of petty bribes, while the Attorney General's Office cannot provide evidence for Interpol to detain and punish the immediate surroundings of Yanukovic. The absence of a fair trial, a colleague, is a threat to the country's number one. And today, create a truly independent, and the Supreme Anti-Corruption Court may be the only way out to prevent disaster. The result of not accepting such a High Anti-Corruption Court will be not only a further mistrust of people, but also a first-hand financial and economic crisis. I'm talking to the Ukrainians, I want you to hear these numbers. This year, Ukraine is to pay a record of over 300 billion dollars, of which 170 billion dollars — body repayment — is close to 130 billion dollars — per cent. This is more than all health, education, and defence expenses combined. What strategy in government to repay these debts? Regrettably, the strategy is very primitive — thanks to new loans that are earmarked to finance the government’s budget for over 230 billion dollars. In the first quarter of this year, we received only 50.5 billion dollars, instead of paying off 57 billion dollars in debt, that is to say, payments are already higher than loans. The galloping inflation that results in the first quarter is nearly twice the annual planned rate. The first quarter of the government ended with a fiscal breakup of over 20 billion dollars. And that's just for the 1st quarter, and the crazy debts. This is the reality that degrades the bracelet and continues to affect the income of every Ukrainian. Therefore, honourable colleagues, without the approval of the Higher Anti-Corruption Court Act, will be closed not only by cooperation with the IMF but also with other organizations that provide macro-financial assistance to Ukraine. But I'm also addressing you, Ukrainians, you need to know that if the government doesn't accept, there are only three scenarios left: turn on the printing machine and print the bracelet with all the resulting consequences; spend the gold reserves or go to third markets for borrowing much higher.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-22-m0.u25	Please, 30 seconds. Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-22-m0.u26	But counting on such negligence, criminal negligence, will be ordinary Ukrainians. So the Self-Help faction calls on colleagues not to be the authors of the future financial crisis and to adopt this week a truly independent anti-corruption court that will restore trust and financial stability. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-22-m0.u27	Thank you, Your Honor. We've heard statements by leaders and representatives of factions that most of us support, we understand, a position on the need for an urgent vote for an anti-corruption court. And that inspires us to have a successful vote. Dear colleagues, we've finished speaking to the leaders of factions and groups in the traditional Tuesday's "advertisement, statements, messages, proposals from MP factions and groups" section, and we're moving to the agenda. The first question in order today is, I remind you, we have a block of agrarian issues, agrarian politics. And the first bill that we have to consider according to the approved agenda is the first reading of Bill 7060. Draft Act amending Ukraine's Land Code and some Ukrainian legislation on the promotion and development of family farms and the cessation of corruption in the management of state and municipal property. This is the bill of the national MP Yvchenka. We've got a full day's work. Colleagues, I ask you very much to support this bill's proposal for a simplified procedure. I'm asking you to back me up. Please. [[10:34:44]] For-96 As far as I can tell, we just haven't met a colleague in the session room yet. I would like to ask all members of the National People's Party to return from the towers to the session room. We will now put once again to the vote, to support the proposal to consider this bill with a reduced procedure. Colleagues, please return to the session room. Absolute justice was suggested that today the subject of the day could be considered in a second reading of the Anticorruption Court Act. And so I'm asking very, very much that we make effective use of today's work day. Colleagues, once again, with your permission, I'm going to make a motion to review Bill 7060 on short notice, at the request of the author. Please, colleagues, support the reduced procedure. Vote. [[10:35:54]] For a hundred and
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-22-m0.u28	Dear colleagues, I ask you to come into the hall. I want to explain again the logic of today, which was foretold. Attention, colleagues! The first is the block of agrarian politics. I would like to point out that all the issues on which both the committee and the factions insisted were included. This block now has four questions. Then there is the issue of national security and defence. I think we're all interested in effectively conducting these issues. I also want to tell you that we have intensive negotiations with the International Monetary Fund and the Venice Commission on the Anti-Corruption Court Act. Colleagues, I'd like you to come into the hall and take your places of voting while I give you the information. Three stages of the negotiations were held yesterday. During these negotiations, we were able to reconcile most of the positions presented by the Venice Commission, thirteen out of fourteen. And I want to give due here to the Committee on Legal Policy and Justice, the committee immediately met during the negotiations, and most of these positions were supported by the committee. But it remains a key debate, but perhaps the most important position is to empower the Public Council of International Experts. We had a negotiation phase in the morning, we'll have lunch and we'll have dinner tonight. I'm counting on the committee to come together as soon as we reach an agreement, and right in those positions, the last position, to make a decision so that we can get to the issue of the anti-corruption court. But, at the same time, we need to deal effectively with matters that are on the order of the day. And that's why I'm counting on the work done so that we can start the Anti-Corruption Court Act tomorrow morning, tops. And so I'm asking everyone to back up the short procedure so that we can get through the agrarian cluster quickly, because if we go into the hour of discussion, it's going to take too much time and we just can't get through the questions that are right in the daytime. So I ask everyone to take part in the vote and to support the consideration of the reduced procedure. Do we have a deal? I'll put it to the vote again. So I'm voting on the proposal that the draft Law amending the Ukrainian Code of Land (7060) should be considered in a simplified procedure. Please vote and please support, colleagues, please vote, vote. [[10:38:58]] For a hundred and I'll do it again, finale. If there aren't any votes, we're going to go through with it. But, colleagues, I urge everyone to vote responsibly, because it might just look like an artificial time delay. I ask both the committee and the committee members to negotiate with the factions, as the committee said, all issues are agreed, all issues are agreed. Colleagues, take your seats, I'll put it to a final vote. Don't leave the hall. So, colleagues, I'm re-voting the proposal that we consider draft Law 7060 as a reduced procedure. I ask everyone to take part in the vote and ask everyone to support this proposal from the committee. Please vote, colleagues, every vote. Heads of factions, please support. Vote. Please vote. [[10:40:14]] For-138 138-yes. There is no room for consideration of the reduced procedure, and so are we. Will you vote like that? Colleagues, the faction has made a decision to support it, so I'm going to demand it again. Colleagues, take up jobs. My colleagues, please, I'm going to ask you to take your jobs again. So, please prepare for the vote and the heads of factions, I ask you to convince the deputies in the hall to be in places during the vote. So once again, I'm going to suggest that the draft Law 7060 was discussed by a reduced procedure. And I'm asking you to back me up. If you'll excuse me, I'd like to vote. So, please vote, please support. Vote. Please be supportive. [[10:41:47]] For-147 147. Colleagues, let's move on to full procedure. I invite you to report to the National MP. [[B in m in s a l in]] A few cards didn't work out, colleagues. But my point is, the only question is to get to the workplace on time so that we can vote on time. In view of the statements made by several deputies that did not work on the card, I will re-vote the proposal for a reduced procedure. And, colleagues, I'm asking everyone to be seated. And the card works when you hold the button for a few seconds, not one second. Then it works. Please vote, please support. Vote! Please be supportive. Please be supportive. [[10:42:58]] For-143 No voices. So the Ukrainian national deputy Ivchenko Vadim Evgenovich. Please report.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-22-m0.u29	Vadim Yvchenko, "The Fatherland" faction. Dear colleagues, you know, the foundation of the new agricultural course should be family, family, and rural development. Agrarian associations have initiated the signing of a memorandum with many political powers, including our own, on how to develop a village today, how to develop family farming. I want to thank the drafters of the bill: Kulinich, Kirilenko, Bakumenko, Lunchenko, Didic, Miroshnichenko, Vadaturski, Kozachenko – that we have drafted a global bill that speaks of the following. Today we have almost 4.5 million people of single farms. How do they work? These people don't have the status of a farmer today, these people. In fact, they produce products, they don't have the status of a farmer. These are the people who are making us food kits; these are the people who are making mostly vegetable products today; these are the people who are mostly doing gardening today, half of animal production, 80 percent of milk. They don't have a status. These people don't pay taxes properly, they don't fill local budgets. These people are actually outside the agrarian product, which is actually being disposed of where they can, their agrarian products. These people don't have budget support, in fact it doesn't extend to those who don't have the status of a manufacturer. These people can't take credit. That's why we've proposed a comprehensive approach, and it's in several bills. The first one, the framework one, we voted: to stimulate the creation of family farms. Two more bills that will allow them to unlock their creation, to move into the legal sector of the economy. The first one, of course, is the one that allows us to make changes to the Tax Code, where we are in the fourth group of taxes just for the farmers we are starting group B, because today we have only legal persons in the fourth group. These people will never immediately become legal persons. So we start directly with the fact that in the fourth group of taxation there will be natural persons entrepreneurs, family farmers who will then be budgeted to support the development of family farms and will receive budgetary support directly from the state budget, will receive loans, will receive interest payments on loans or compensation for the acquisition of equipment. And the next law that is proposed today is 7060, and it allows these family farmers to access the land. We offered a French model: if you take the land as a family farmer today, rent it, work on this land, you can privatize it in seven years, but not two hectares, but by five. We're canceling the existing corruption model of free land privatization. We are implementing this free privatization exclusively to the social workers of the village, as well as to the veterans of the ATO and the Dignity Revolution. To prevent speculation with land, we give free of charge, including the OSH, and we record it in a register, and we make it impossible to resell it, to change the target assignment to third parties. Only this can take place after seven years of rent and, in fact, after they have privatized not two but five acres [five ha]. We're allowing us first to participate in auctions, because today, actually, everyone can participate in auctions, whether it's a manufacturer who lives in rural areas, or whether it's a manufacturer who's actually from another area. We're giving you the first opportunity to participate in those who process up to 20 hectares. They're first. And which are registered directly at the location of this land area. We give them the first opportunity to get this land and then privatize it. The area of leased land may be 5 hectares with further privatization. For many years of planting, we have offered a mechanism when these leases are at least 25 years old because of long-term investment. For meliorated lands, 10, but it's already settled in our Earth Code. The total area of the agricultural reserves, which will be on the appropriate rural councils, can be distributed: 50 percent goes to auction, which will be directly carried out by all producers registered throughout the country, but 50 percent, as I said, is actually for those producers who process less than 20 hectares and who are registered in the relevant rural, rural council. Land use requirements are being introduced. The land is used exclusively for the cultivation of long - term crops, livestock, vegetables, organic products, storage, and processing of agricultural products. The land is used exclusively in household farming, and such restrictions will be in the register of property rights. At the end of the lease period, citizens have the right to receive land for free up to 5 hectares, to continue rent without auctioning or to buy the land for 20 years. We're improving the procedure for auctioning because we have a lot of auctions going on, and then either the price goes down, or we're actually giving up the price offered by the winner. Now there's an increased guarantee contribution from 5 to 50 percent, and that's a compromise that we found along with agrarian associations and on the committee. My colleagues, I have to tell you that the analysis of agricultural development in Eastern, Western Europe speaks of the following. Bulgaria, it has the value of land today -- there is a market for land -- twice as much, for example, as in Poland. Why? Because there are only 4,000 producers in Bulgaria and two and a half million family farmers in Poland. In fact, competition in Poland is two and a half hectares higher, so the cost of land in Poland is two and a half times higher. I'm not talking about Romania anymore, there's even more value in Romania, because there's three and a half million producers working the land. There must be competition. And in fact, by this legislation, we're introducing competition, we're introducing part of it into the legal sector, those who are able to produce commercially powerful products. Not all singles will be, but a million single farms are actually four million people involved in agriculture. Today, only 480,000 people are officially employed in official statistics, and this product is actually produced by four and a half million people. They don't pay taxes, they don't get credit, and so on, so actually legalizing this sector and introducing budget support, introducing credit, and the main thing is making access to land and land will allow us to diversify what's called agrarian production. We're diversifying our exports a lot because these family farmers, in the future, we're going to run them through co-operation, they're going to produce goods and they're going to go out into the markets. And these bills are ready, the agrarian committee has already considered and is offering us an offer. Colleagues, asking us to approach with balance, and today, in the first reading, we have voted on some very important bills to transform the country's agricultural system, to fill local budgets, to access small family farmers to land, to loans, to budget programs. The new agrarian course should be introduced by the fact that budget support should go to those who really need it. Budget support should go to those who will be involved in the processing of this product, who will be involved in organic farming. And this is our work. Once again, I would like to thank the colleagues who signed the laws. Name again: Kirilenko, Kulinich, Bakumenko, Lunchenko, Didic, Miroshnichenko, Vadaturski, Kozachenko are all those who have worked and are the authors of this bill. Colleagues, ask for your support. And let's keep working. We now have important laws on the Tax Code regarding the actual provision of support to families of farmers. We have important anti-rider bills. Important laws on the transfer of land to the territorial communities. Today's agrarian day, agrarians today also require Bill 7403-2 on VAT compensation for certain cultures, including soy. Colleagues, let's support those who are filling the budget today, and that's 32 percent of GDP going into the agricultural sector.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-22-m0.u30	Thank you. Please record the question to the reporter. However, please turn on the microphone, Ostap.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-22-m0.u31	Mr. Reporter, I thank you very much for reporting on a 10-minute report of such an important law. But I have a systemic question about family farming. How can workers who have earned a few tens of thousands of dollars abroad come to Ukraine, decided to do farming, how can they buy the land that is essential to farming? A land where they can grow either nuts or some fruity crops or something where they can see what's favourable. Not where grandma has any pies, she was once 20-25 years old, but where they want to work, in that village they like. How can they buy land now? And why do we not consider the first issue of the development of the land market and the cancellation of the moratorium on the sale of agricultural land? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-22-m0.u32	Thank you, sir. You know, I asked my colleague, Butchik district, the Ternopil district, there was an agrarian committee meeting. The family who had worked their entire life in Italy made money came directly to the village. She bought six cows and two hectares of food they had there. For 6 cows today, the average income of this family is up to 30,000 dollars. They bought ordinary refrigeration equipment, they bought dairy appliances -- 30,000 bucks. Family: two adults, two children Tell me, is that enough money for the countryside? It's just six, and believe me, if we give him access to the land, and I said that this law is in place, 50 percent goes to auction, and 50 percent only for the purpose of family farmers, exclusively those who will do organics, animals and so on, who can take up to five hectares and rent, create their own agriculture and so on.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-22-m0.u33	Thank you. Sergey Volodymyrovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-22-m0.u34	Klan Sergey Volodymyrovich, constituency 185, Hersonish. First, I would like to thank the rapporteur for a fairly detailed report and ask: and if a citizen wants to do farming and does not live in a rural area, would these standards be discriminatory for him, because the standard of free privatization of two hectares for private farming, and would it not affect such people? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-22-m0.u35	Thank you. Free privatization is not invalidated. I want to say again, it's reduced to one hectare of those who want to do a lot of farming. But so far the copyright team has decided that we will not change this norm, it is and it will be. It's said that those who want to rent, get 2 hectares and rent, they're going to do that, but those who actually want to build a family farm and work will be able to have no more than 2 hectares of land, that is, 2 hectares of land, actually, after privatization, and 3 to ransom up to 20 years. We provide such incentives in the land for those who, after renting 7 years of taxes, paying local taxes and correspondingly developing their own family farm, will receive a little more land, because in fact for agriculture, land is the main source of, say, profit. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-22-m0.u36	Thank you. And a final question. Monsieur Igor Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-22-m0.u37	Mr. Reporter, our leader, Oleg Lazko, our team of the Radical Party is constantly insisting on the need to make changes to the Constitution, which would secure agriculture as a social system, an agricultural system in the country. At the same time, I have a question for you as a member of the profile committee. Why has the changes we have made to the Constitution not yet been considered? That's a great question. Because we understand that the world's financial glytes are trying to take over the greatest treasure of the Ukrainian nation, the Ukrainian land. And the only way to protect Ukrainian land, the only way to help farmers is to make changes to the Constitution and forever to secure rights for farmers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-22-m0.u38	Thank you. I thank you for your initiative, and I will tell you frankly that it is not. profile should look at these changes in the agrarian committee, but you're right. It is the development of the farm movement that will create strong competition for each hectare. The more vendors compete for land, the more the rent will be paid to people who rent accordingly. And what I'm going to tell you is that today, the main problem in the agricultural sector is the total orientation of public policy on latifundists. We have to change that. And believe me, we are the ones who will purposefully develop the farm movement, the family farming, and the relevant laws, where you are all co-authors, are presented to you today.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-22-m0.u39	Thank you. I invite you to report to the deputy head of the Agrarian Policy and Land Relations Committee, Mr. Bakumenko Aleksandra Borisovich. Please, Mr. Alexander.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-22-m0.u40	Dear Andrey Volodymyrovich! Dear colleagues! The Agrarian Policy and Land Relations Committee, at its meeting on 21 September 2017, reviewed the draft Law on Amendments to Ukraine's Land Code and certain Ukrainian legislation on the promotion and development of family farms, and decided to recommend that the Supreme Council of Ukraine accept it as a basis. The bill proposes changes aimed at simplifying the access of Ukrainian citizens who have shown their intention to create or expand family farming to agricultural land for state and municipal property. The adoption of the draft law will allow for an increase in the number of family farms and their farms, contribute to the creation of new jobs, the reduction of land-related corruption, the further development of agriculture and agricultural cooperation with the participation of family farms. Please support the committee's decision and accept the bill as a basis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-22-m0.u41	Thank you. Please remain in the rostrum. Colleagues, I'm asking you to sign up for a question to a co-conspirator. Please have a question from Mr. Sporish. Please, John Sporish.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-22-m0.u42	Ivan Sporish, Peter Dusty Block, Winniechkin. Of course, a two-pronged bill, and we understand it, and we will support it. The main thing, as has already been said, is the favourable conditions for citizens of Ukraine to acquire land. But the main thing that I'd like to ask, and here, probably everyone, everybody is concerned today, is abuse, it's corruption. Now, what I'd like you to say is, what else can you do to make sure that there are no corruption schemes here and that sort of thing? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-22-m0.u43	I'll give you an answer. We have a bill of 8121, an anti-residence bill that we worked with the minister of justice, the minister of agrarian politics, the geocadastrom, all national associations that deal with all issues of corruption in the agricultural sphere. There's a double registration of the leases that will be removed, the issue of the raiding of agricultural land, in this bill that the committee and the entire community have been working on, all the conditions for this disgraceful phenomenon not to be in Ukraine. Thank you for asking.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-22-m0.u44	Next question from the national deputy Chlanya. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-22-m0.u45	Clan Sergei, 185 constituency, Hersonian. I have a question for the reporter. Please tell me if the bill will stop the abuse in the land and will it restrict access to those who are actually speculating with the land of state ownership and give priority to the transfer of land to those who will work on this land, who will create family farms, who will create jobs, or will it help such people? Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-22-m0.u46	This bill solves the question, 50 percent we pay for the auction, we provide the opportunity, and 50 percent is for the manufacturer who works there, on the ground, the family farm. It's the first one, too, because of the auctions. And second of all, I would like to stress once again, Bill 8121, which solves in the complex all the questions of registration and all the questions of double-entry of the land. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-22-m0.u47	And the final question from the national deputy John Melniczuk, please. Please pass the word to the National MP Melnik. Sly, I'm sorry, colleagues. People's MP, they're handing over the word.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-22-m0.u48	Alexander Borisovich, first of all as Head of the Agrarian Committee, thank you for bringing this bill to the session room, which I think is an extremely important and extremely powerful bill today. I just want to ask that market transformation means change. And these changes, of course, are, especially in increasing land and acquiring ownership rights, then, which comes after the lease. Tell me, is this right being enshrined in other documents? And won't that be a contradiction? Because some of us have rights and rents, and others have a right, as you can see, after the lease on privatization. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-22-m0.u49	Only after the lease can it be privatized. But what's more, what I'd like to say in this bill is that we're creating conditions for small family farms to produce products that will generate economic gains, more valuable crops. We will give this land and people will produce both vegetables and fruits and berries and animal production, organics. This is too much for us to allow people to earn money and to be able to work on their land.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-22-m0.u50	Thank you. You can go back to your workplace. And, honourable colleagues, I ask that you sign up for representatives of MP groups and factions to discuss this bill. Please, Julia Volodymyr. Aah! John Grigorovich Kirilenko is given the word. Please, Mr. Kirilenko, to the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-22-m0.u51	Dear colleagues, the Fatherland faction, John Kirilenko. First of all, one of the few reforms that will benefit people and that can be said to be successful is the rural agricultural reform. I deliberately call the first word "selian," because for the first time in history, it's not just Ukraine's independence, it's probably because of our conscious history that we put man first. Unfortunately, tens of years old and old, hopes, trailers, tons, kilometers, hectares, and around the end were the social development of the village, and around which they said "for the peasant". Now the peasant's been asked to speak. Finally! So reform can be successful if we go along the way in Ukraine, a completely different arrangement in the country -- the peasant-farming system. The other one. That's the way the whole world goes, that's the world's experience. Two and a half billion acres [2.5 billion ha] of land remained in the world. Until recently, there were 3 billion. And they're shrinking, they're shrinking. This area is cultivated by 570 million farmers, 500 million of whom are a family farm. Divide 2.5 billion by 500 million, you get 5 hectares per brother. Five acres! Latifunds, agroholdings, it doesn't smell! Friends, but what is written in the law is not enough. Almost! The next step is where to get the land for family farms. See, Poland's experience: 2.6 million farms - up to 10 hectares of average size. Where did they get the land? The land in Poland is in the municipalities. They passed it on to the community. Crowds rule the earth. The next step is the law that we wrote in the number of the first ones in this summons all together, but to which the hands do not reach or reach only slightly from the side: the land outside the community’s population! And communities on competitive grounds pass the land to family farms, they live there, they know who to hand over. And that's not enough, the next step is lending below 2-3 percent of the year's, as in the whole world. To do that, you have to create a village bank and not distribute it left-hand, right-hand, because it smells stupid, subsidies, and the capitalization of a land bank to borrow family farms under 2-3 percent of the year-olds, which is not enough. And insurance -- and like around the world, half the insurance risks are taken by the state. Friends, it's all basic things, people have long gone and prospered. Six million of our countrymen are enslaved in Poland, Portugal, Italy, France, and are engaged in a common practice for our nation.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-22-m0.u52	Please give me 30 seconds to finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-22-m0.u53	They're doing the usual thing for our nation, agriculture. So let's let him take care of himself at home. We have a beautiful nation, a beautiful land, let's make these steps basic, at least the only reform that will succeed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-22-m0.u54	Thank you, Sir John Grigorovich. And a national MP, Lazko, who presents, is invited to the floor. Oleg Lazko presents the position of the Radical Party of his faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-22-m0.u55	Dear Ukrainians, dear colleagues! For those of you who don't understand, I'm going to explain a very simple thing. Fighting in the next presidential election is not about the President's chair, it's about fighting for the Ukrainian land. Today, international financial glytes, the International Monetary Fund, are trying to impose on us the policy of selling land. Because the land is the only wealth left in the possession of the Ukrainian people. There's nothing left, everything's torn apart, everything's stretched out, there's land left -- land that can feed millions, hundreds of millions of people at the right approach. And the simple question is: Who will this earth belong to, and who will make a profit from the fact that this earth will feed hundreds of millions of people around the world? The Radical Party policy and my personal one: the country in Ukraine should belong to Ukrainians, Ukrainian peasants. The policy of today's government, the International Monetary Fund, the world's international Gliths and our so-called donors is another: the dispossession of Ukrainian peasants, the deprivation of the Ukrainian nation of the only wealth we have left, our land. This is where we are discussing the future development of the country. Or we will be a country that will feed not only its peasants and their children on earth, but we will be able to make money instead of walking around the world, or we will be doomed for life to poverty, to begging, to get credit, and we will sit on this needle with a junkie credit card by the end of our lives. I'm proposing a policy that protects Ukrainians from this drug-related future, and I'm proposing a policy of protecting national sovereignty, restoring the village, and protecting Ukrainian peasants. We registered almost two years ago changes to the Constitution of Ukraine to record that agriculture is the basis of the agricultural system of Ukraine. Today's authorities are blocking the adoption of these changes according to the direction of the world's Glytes, for which it's like an autumn klick of kurdalak, because when we write in the Constitution that Ukrainian land belongs to a Ukrainian farmer, a Ukrainian peasant, no one can ever change that. They deliberately do not grant subsidies for the restoration of animal production; they deliberately poison people and our children with palm trees. They deliberately pursue politics to get the villagers out of the village in order to take the land away from them and so that no one will stop them from doing so. I'm talking to the Ukrainians. Fighting in the presidential election is not a struggle for a chair, it's a struggle for land, a struggle for a vector for Ukraine's development, a struggle.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-22-m0.u56	Please, from Rebirth Group, Oleg Kulinic will be speaking. From Rebirth Group Oleg Kulinich. I invite you to my word.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-22-m0.u57	Oleg Kulinic, 147th constituency, Poltavščina. Dear colleagues, I have taken an active part in drafting this bill and I would like to point out the following and draw your attention. What's happening now with the system of free land privatization, nothing but disorder, I can't call it. The land areas that social workers, the ATOs, should receive, they don't get them. They are constantly denied access to such land. Instead, the same ATOs are constantly being used in various corruption schemes to ensure that some not entirely decent companies fill their land banks. And that's why it has to be done a long time ago. And we support those restrictions that are proposed for the commission and replacement of targeted land areas that are free of charge or leased without auctions. It's the right thing to do, and it's long overdue. Under these circumstances, we believe that the risks of corruption will be much lower. And I would also like to point out that the very important money in this bill is that we are increasing the guaranteed contribution to the participants in the land trade. Now there are a lot of cases, including in Poltavska and in my 147 constituency, there are a lot of signals when auctioneers offer a cloudy price, win these auctions, and then simply refuse to pay the rent of this land. This is a specific example recently, the Zynkovsky region, the village of the Father. The village head personally informed me that the auctioneer had won the auction, offered a cloudy price, but refused to pay. And what is the fact? In fact, land is processed, used, and the village council receives absolutely nothing. So these innovations, when we raise the guaranteed contribution, I think these corrupt schemes, they're going to stop. So I'm talking to all my colleagues, to all the MPs and groups, to support the bill in the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-22-m0.u58	Thank you. From the Self-Help faction, Ivan Miroshnichenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-22-m0.u59	Good afternoon. First of all, I want to thank my colleague, Vadim Yvchenk, for the detailed presentation of the bill. Secondly, I think that among the economic bills, and especially in the agrarian field, the legislation that we have developed with you over the last three years is signistic, fundamental and fairly positive and is related to family farms. I think that's the kind of sphere that we'll be able to be proud of when we're done with the cadence. All these three years we've done basic bills, which is we've legalized the family farms themselves, the concept. So we all know that millions of our citizens are working in the village, producing a lot of production, and here and there they were never legalized. That's why we've been working on this legislation all these years. This bill, as we agreed with our colleagues, is a bill that begins to fill the substance and content of legislation related to family farms. We talked to you, legalizing it's all good, but the next step should be. What are the social, financial, and preferential benefits that family farms can offer? And this is the first bill that has anything to do with this. We all know that in the private sector we are still producing a significant amount of milk -- that's over 60 percent; fruit, vegetables over 70 percent. So de facto and de jure, we have a family farm, and there's not enough, it feeds the whole country. This bill, as has already been said, gives us access to land. I think the following bills should give the family farm access to funds, to money, to loans. This has already been said quite a bit. And for that, our people have a wonderful tool as their own land. So today, a million of our citizens, sorry, almost 7 million of our citizens own pies, own Ukrainian land. But the state and I have not been able to provide them with the funds to create this family farm, to create a warm farm, a dairy farm, to produce raw materials, organic products, fruits, vegetables. So I think the next challenge is to fill not only with social guarantees and state aid, but also with competitive access to credit resources and high-quality competitive projects where the family farm had the right to life and development. And by setting up economics, we're going to create these family farms. So they won't be created unless there's economic content and economics, they say, preferences and basics. That's why we're going to support, we're going to be in the co-sponsors of the bill and.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-22-m0.u60	Thank you. Please, National Deputy Labazük of the People's Will, give me your word.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-22-m0.u61	Hello! 188th Precinct, Hmelnichtina, Labazuk Sergey. In fact, it's very important for us today that there are a number of drafts of our own, agrarian committee, agrarian industry in the daytime and so-called agrarian day, I think it should be productive. This bill was actually worked on by the committee, there was a lot of discussion, and together we came up with this text of the bill. Unfortunately, though, he will not be able to work if we do not adopt a number of other bills in conjunction with him in the complex, namely the transfer to land use outside the populated areas for the united territorial communities. Today, the strong factor is that for more than a year now, it has been promised to the united territorial communities -- communities as a whole -- that the land will be returned to them, and they will be able to determine on the spot how to manage these lands, whether to rent or distribute between them, including family farms. We realize that this year there is a pretty good support for the agricultural sector, which is 4.3 billion that have been allocated, but most of them, here, these people, the family farmers, the farmers, they can't benefit from this support from the state, because they don't have the legal capacity to legitimize their rights and get this land. So today, our committee insists on putting an entire package of bills into the agenda of the day that will enable this problem to be addressed and enable the Ukrainian village to develop, to conquer its new markets. We clearly understand that it is wrong to place a farmer and an agrarian branch on behalf of individual latifundists or under the requirements of the International Monetary Fund, which dictates to us that we and how we should develop. I support the position of my fellow agricultural committee. And the People's Will Group will support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-22-m0.u62	Thank you. Please, Yuri Solovay. He's presenting the position of "Peter Prashenko's Block."
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-22-m0.u63	Yuri Solovay, 89 constituency, Gutzulščina, and Pocust. Dear colleagues, a respected Ukrainian society, it is clear that this bill needs to be supported. But will this bill and a few of the next ones that relate to the development of agriculture allow for the development of farming in Ukraine? Well, let's face it, let's face it. Because any farm or family farm, it's based on a basic basic unit -- it's on the right to own, use and manage its land, which is not available in Ukraine today. Unfortunately, we have 26 years operating in Ukraine for the sale of agricultural land, and this is the main anchor that will halt the development of small farms. I'm being approached as a major MP today by a lot of people who are working hard and saying, "We are willing to invest in Ukraine. We're ready to buy 10, 20, 30 acres of land and plant a garden or start a little animal farm." But do these people have that opportunity today? No, it's not. Because existing legislation prohibits the purchase of this small amount of land in Ukraine and the start of its small farming. And I am very sorry for this Supreme Council of Ukraine, including, unfortunately, in four years of our work, we have not resolved a key issue that could be a driver of not only agriculture but a driver of the development of the Ukrainian economy in general. It removes the moratorium on the sale of agricultural land and enables Ukrainian citizens to buy, develop, build their land and build farms. That's why, as long as we don't adopt laws to support agriculture here, I want to make it clear that every Ukrainian citizen in Ukraine will not be able to buy this land until every Ukrainian citizen and every Ukrainian employee working abroad today will be able to put this land into a bank to get agricultural technology, we'll have no agricultural development until then. And so if we want to address this issue in a comprehensive way, we should eventually acquire political capacity and introduce into Parliament a bill on the lifting of the moratorium and the introduction of free circulation of land in our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-22-m0.u64	Thank you. Colleagues, we've had a discussion of the MP factions and groups of performances. And I'm asking you to enroll the national MPs to discuss this bill right now. According to the 9 minute rule, we're going to have an appointment to discuss the national MPs. Eutusek, please, passes the word to Yvchenk. Please, three minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-22-m0.u65	Vadim Yvchenko faction of Fatherland. Dear colleagues, once again, I want to say to everyone that a complex and systematic solution to the question of the construction of a suitable farming system has already been worked out. Worked by factions, worked by the copyright team, worked by parties, worked on an agrarian committee. What should we do? The first law we have passed is a formal incentive for the development of family farms. Second law. We have to get them into the legal tax field and give them immediate internships, give them immediate support at the expense of the EU, give them easy accounting and so on. So they actually have to feel that the state is giving them some benefits to come to the legal market and produce their products legally. And this is our commitment to the European Union and the free trade zone. Third. We have to give access to the ground. Because they're going to start developing their own business, they're going to start developing their own production, they're going to get loans, they're going to use them to buy new technology, they're going to buy new equipment. But there is no land, and they need access. And this law, it provides virtually access: (a) to a local manufacturer who lives in an appropriate united local community. It gives access to family farming by appropriate categories, where vegetables are organic and so forth. After renting seven years, they can actually take a free lease and privatize not two, but five hectares, and continue to work on this land. We're leaving 2 hectares, and we said it right to colleagues, specifically those in the social sphere of the village, the workers or, say, pensioners of appropriate state enterprises, as well as participants, namely, the ATO veterans, the Dignity Revolution. And that's fundamental to taking away corruption in the land. And then, believe me, the world experience, once again, shows that if there's competition, competition on one hectare, and people are actually going to take the land, and actually fight for those to give as much price as possible, then believe me, it's going to be our discussion on further steps, on appropriate circulation or corresponding, let's say, land relations in Ukraine, but it's going to be a discussion with farmers, producers, professionals and so on. So let's systematically do what's already done. We had two years between the first and the second laws. Today the relevant two laws for the development of family farming stand, this is the first one today, now 7060 and the next 6490. Colleagues, please support, develop, and in the village, believe me, there will be funding for appropriate infrastructure projects, you will not be able to.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-22-m0.u66	Thank you. Please give the next speech to Olena Babak. Alona Babak. Dear Alona Babak, your performance. There was a wiretap.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-22-m0.u67	Yvchenko, please pass the word to Yvchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-22-m0.u68	Sure. Please, Mr. Yvchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-22-m0.u69	Vadim Yvchenko, "The Fatherland" faction. I won't waste time, I'll say two things. First. Earth’s value varies from country to country, and it depends on the kind of competition on earth. Let's create competition on Ukrainian land and introduce legal circulation of our agricultural products, let's give all the strong ones a chance to register as family farms, we give them budgetary support, and believe me, in a few years, you won't recognize our agricultural sector, you won't recognize our producer. Not only will they produce corn, soybeans, and technical crops, they will be engaged in cultivation, animal production, and deep processing. In general, they will try to produce organic products or organic farming on their own earth. Thank you. And please support this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-22-m0.u70	And the last. It's the last time you'll ever hear it. National MP Mishchenko Sergei, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-22-m0.u71	Sergei Mishchenko, Kyivščina. Dear colleagues! Dear citizens of Ukraine! One way is that if reforms are being implemented in the West or in developing countries, they produce results. Why have our reforms for decades brought about only corruption in one form or another? This is happening in any area with favorite reforms: medical, pensionable with these taxes, including agrarians. I'm going to outline the main problems that exist today, and this law is needed, but it doesn't solve the fundamentals. As far as farmers are concerned, we know that there are farmers who have received up to 50 acres [50 ha] of land, but one of the family farmers dies — the family cannot continue the family business. Nor can those peasants who have received pies and want to cultivate the land themselves continue their business, simply physically not allowing them to do so. Because there's no earth inventory, there's no output in nature, there's no land somewhere in the middle of this field, they're just not physically allowed in there. That's not settled either. As far as taxes are concerned, we know VAT from the return of agricultural products, we know that most farmers are now in the shadows. But there is a major problem that the land market is open. Anyone who doesn't talk about what a moratorium is is is not true. Because this time that now exists, the main players in the land market are buying land by different schemes. Because those contracts that are now offering farmers to make their agricultural products, their rations, which are largely on the basis of a standard rate of money: who is 7 and who is 8 and who is 11 percent of the standard rate of money. But if you read these contracts, there's nothing there about indexing every year, about the fact that this legal-money estimate changes every year, and in five or seven years it's already a penny for peasants. And they require a peasant to sign a commission to have him run their land. And it gives the originals of its documents, and they're actually waiting when this moratorium is over to take this land. This corrupt scheme works. This still applies to pastures, cattle. There'll be no cows. And that's why. It's all good!
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-22-m0.u72	30 seconds, please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-22-m0.u73	I mean that Milk Prices Act that exists before the second reading, where we are the authors, there are many who are the authors, but the pastures are all taken away, there is no where to feed them. So today, no one will say that there is no such thing as land reform corruption in this country.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-22-m0.u74	Last performance in this block. Please, National MP Andrew Keith joins the discussion. And I'm going to ask everyone to go back to the session room, because there's going to be a vote in three minutes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-22-m0.u75	Dear colleagues! Andrew Keith, St., Jewish. You know, I'm glad we're moving forward gradually from small and medium-sized business in the country. I would like to remind everyone that it has been very difficult for us to start financing the agricultural movement in Ukraine last year. For the first time in history, I think Ukraine for this year, thanks to our joint work and the support of the government, we have more. We have a billion dollars to develop a real small business in the village, to develop the farm movement. It is just as important to show small farmers that the state is on their side and that they have nothing to fear from the state. We have a small farmer who refers to the most vulnerable types of the population, who is afraid to show off his income, who is not sure that he will not come to tax tomorrow and will not close it. And so gradually we need to take more and more steps to make them feel protected in our country. Obviously, the next step that we need to take is to give farmers the opportunity to take the land. Because there is no secret to anyone that a simple farmer of land in Ukraine cannot take. The auctions that were before. Which we've actually been working on before, they've actually put in unequal conditions large holdings that can diversify the interest rate on land rent with a farmer who can't pay such a disproportionate wage to enter the land. We must give farmers the opportunity to take the land. Let me give you a little example from the district. I have a row of farmers who just can't legalize and can't rent land because of the auction in the way it now exists, it's impossible. We can declare a great deal of what we are doing. we're helping farmers financially, but if we don't create a mechanism for them physically, they can physically gain land -- we don't have a chance of developing small and medium-sized production in the country. Bill 7060 we worked together, and I think it's a move forward to give our farmers the opportunity to do so, I'm happy that we've come to that. And I ask the Hall to support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-22-m0.u76	Thank you. So, colleagues, the discussion is over. I'm asking everyone to come into the hall, take jobs. In fact, in the course of the discussion, we saw that all the political forces in the hall were in favor of the adoption of this law. I would like to remind you that the committee is only proposing to vote as a basis. That's why I'm asking for full mobilization. I ask the factions to invite the deputies to the Hall, and I ask the secretariat of the Supreme Council to invite the deputies to the Hall. We're going to be able to consider the next law before we break at 12 o'clock, so I'm counting on a positive vote for this law to be followed by a reduced procedure. And I'm asking everyone to take a responsible vote, take jobs so we don't have to go back to voting. So I want to ask the faction heads if they're ready to vote. Ready. Everybody's in place, right? Everybody in place? So let's move on to making a decision. Committee, help people mobilize. And I am voting on a bill amending the Ukrainian Land Code and some Ukrainian legislation on the promotion and development of family farms and the cessation of corruption in the management of state and municipal property (No. 7060). At the suggestion of the committee, I put the proposal to the vote as a basis. Based on the base. Please vote. Please support 7060 as a base. We vote please back up. Vote. [[11:38:40]] For 230 Decision taken. I want to do a productive job for my second reading. I'm now putting to the vote the proposal that the next 6049-d law should be considered in a simplified procedure. Please vote and please support. We'll get to the break. We vote yes. Please support the reduced procedure. Please be supportive. Vote. [[11:39:19]] For-167 Decision taken. And I'm going to look at Bill 6049-d: to amend some of the Ukrainian legislation on the issue of collective land ownership, to improve land use rules in agricultural land, to prevent raiding and to stimulate irrigation in Ukraine. And I invite you to the report of the National Deputy of Ukraine, Kulinic Oleg Ivanovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-22-m0.u77	Thank you, Andry Volodymyrovich. Dear colleagues, the bill that you are proposing is designed to set civil rules for farming in agricultural land and to remove corruption and the level of raiding. We are now in a situation where virtually every field rents land one or two tenants, or even three, and there is a steady increase in the number of singles who plan to own themselves. As a result, there are virtually a large number of so-called "shachmats" in each field. This situation causes enormous difficulties and conflicts between tenants within the same field. In practice, tenants may agree verbally on the exchange, but it is legal to take over the land. I mean, at least it's an administrative offense, maybe a crime. Thus, the bill offers fair management conditions for owners and tenants in one field. If the land plots of one tenant are located in different locations, they will be able to bring it all together. The criteria for the equivalence of land areas are clearly laid down in order to ensure that rights are not violated in the consolidation process. Once again, within one field. And this bill also solves a huge problem, it's a matter of collective property land, which we now have 1.5 million hectares that are not actually owned by anyone because they're used in the shadows. Rural communities get absolutely nothing. And that's why it's a long time ago. We took into account almost all the comments made by the authors of the alternative bill by Vadim Yvchenk and worked together on the agreed text. We held a series of round tables with experts from Germany and Poland and took into account the experience of advanced European countries. So it's not some know-how, it's a clear European experience. So I'm asking all my colleagues to support this bill as a basis and allow us to manage farmers, singles, agriculture and the field. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-22-m0.u78	Thank you. Welcome to Bakumenka's report, Alexander Borisovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-22-m0.u79	Dear Andrew Volodymyrovich, distinguished colleagues! The Agrarian Policy and Land Relations Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, since November 14, 2017, No. 2202 prepared for re-reading a draft Act amending certain Ukrainian legislation on collective ownership of land, improving land use rules in agricultural lands, preventing raiding and stimulating irrigation in Ukraine (registration No. 6049-d). The draft bill was based on the bill (registration number 6049-1), as well as on the proposals and warnings made by the Ukrainian national deputies, which were made during the consideration of the bills (registration number 6049 and 6049-1) in the first reading. As a result of the drafting of the bill, it is proposed, inter alia, to create an effective mechanism for the use of agricultural land with the aim of preventing logging and stimulating irrigation, determining the legal status of land under the roads, excluding the possibility of changing the area of land in the process of inventorying the arrays. However, to establish rules under which the terms of the sub-contracts entered into in the exchange of land use rights should be no worse than the terms of the lease agreement. As a result of the consideration of the draft, the Committee decided at its meeting on 5 December 2017 to submit a draft draft for re-reading. So, honourable colleagues, please support the bill prepared by the committee (registration number 6049-d) and accept it as a basis. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-22-m0.u80	Thank you. Please record: two in, two in. Ishtenko Valeriy Alexanderovich to Kaplin. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-22-m0.u81	Respectable compatriots! Dear colleagues! We certainly support any innovative ideas on the development of the agricultural and industrial complex, especially in the area of protection of agriculture, small farming and wanted to highlight key priorities. The first is the battle against raiding, because we know that throughout the country there has been a whole wave of land grabbing that is now being handled, especially by small farmers. The second is the opening up of opportunities for microfinance and short-term financing of agricultural farms. Farmers and agriculture today need money as air. This is a problem number one, they have to plan for the development of their farms in the medium term and thus increase the competitiveness of Ukrainian agriculture. The third important issue is, of course, farming self-government and very serious, new and quality, and a parity dialogue between government, coalition, parliament and farmers' associations. We have to gradually and extremely actively develop in order to improve modern legislation that regulates land circulation, development and support for small farms. We're both hands behind this bill, we're going to support the previous bill, and we're going to do everything we can to protect a simple farmer, he's an example of a small folk enterprise. And separately, I would like to stress the need to create a ministry of protection for the village. The topic of this issue has been discussed, discussed in associations, in associations of farmers' associations in villages where we are systematically visiting with our colleague Sugonako, and in the village people are supporting the creation of a new government institution that is supposed to care for a human being.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-22-m0.u82	From Self-Help, Romanov Anna Anatoliyevna gives Roman Semensi the word. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-22-m0.u83	Semenha Roman, "The Self-Help Union" faction. Dear colleagues, the controversial method of privately owned land burning, the unregulated rental market, has led to many, many raids. And during the 17th year alone, agrarian raiding continues to take turns. More than 700 of these cases have been reported. Moreover, law enforcement authorities have identified several dozen organized raiders. And as soon as a businessman goes beyond 2 hectares, he immediately enters the risk zone. So let's face it, big business has learned to protect itself, and that's why small and medium-sized businesses are at risk. And it exacerbated the situation, in particular, that some legislative initiatives - the register of ownership rights - have gained access to more people, including private notaries. And the replacement of the owner in the register, unfortunately, has become a popular logging mechanism. And the so-called anti-rider law improved, but it didn't fix the situation. We should thank the members of the committee who developed this law in the first reading, and in particular, there are proposals for self-help, and I want to stand on them again. That is, the bill introduces rules that, for sub-contracts, establish conditions no worse than for leases. Inventory makes it impossible to change the area. Inventory establishes mandatory approval by rural, rural, and city councils of an updated monetary valuation of the land. The forests that border the agricultural land are protected at the legislative level from destruction. And the delimited status of the field roads inside the array and those limiting the array is determined that only those inside the array can be transferred to the lease, while others remain the roads of general use. We urge our colleagues to support this bill. This is a real step in protecting medium and small businesses. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-22-m0.u84	Thank you. From Rebirth Group Kucher. From the site or.? Puppy. I said turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-22-m0.u85	I'm out of here. Dear colleagues, I urge everyone to support this extremely important bill. It is important for both renters and landowners and executive authorities on site. I think that this bill deals with land consolidation issues, it deals with the field roads, the logging sector, and it deals with those companies that rent 75 percent or more of the land in one field. I think it solves the problems of collective property. Because we have a lot of land today, still in collective ownership, and these lands have to be fed up and distributed to the workers working in this village. And of course, it solves a lot of issues that are considered important and extremely important for today’s landowners and renters. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-22-m0.u86	Thank you. Ivchenko Vadim Evgenovich. Mr. Vadim! Passing the word to whom? Hustle up, Hustle up. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-22-m0.u87	Clan Sergei, 185 constituency, Hersonian. Dear colleagues! The bill proposes an important change for agrarians who rent land and use irrigation in agricultural production. Today, so - called field chess has forced some agrarians to blackmail those who use irrigation and irrigation machines. So called, in quotes, "rentars", which often have land within the arrays, block these processes, block the development of irrigation, block agricultural production in general on such arrays. This bill regulates the issue. And very often, the contracts of the servitude, which are provided for by valid land legislation, do not work. This bill regulates all of this, and allows you to develop irrigation, allowing you to develop irrigation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-22-m0.u88	So, colleagues, right now, those who didn't sign up for factions. From the People's Front, Ivanchuk, Labazuk, from the will of the people. And then we go to the vote. Yeah? No more? The first one is Labazuk. Okay. Two minutes, turn on the microphone, from the will of the people, Labazuk, and then Ivanchuk. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-22-m0.u89	Labazuk Sergey, People's Will Group, 188 district, Hmelnichtina. What do we have today? It has become a practice that most landowners do not use the land themselves, do not process it, but rent it. So the roads that were cut to these land areas are being processed today, but they're not being paid a penny of money or rent or taxes, and that's the first thing they can get into local budgets. And so-called chessboard, which makes it impossible for agrarians to process their land in modern technology. Of course, this leads to so - called and unhealthy competition, and the raider’s admiration, when individuals, having no desire to enter into negotiations, arrangements for land processing, simply create problems and fail to do so. So this bill regulates the possibilities for both sides and for the other and for the renter. And it's also very important today that in our country irrigation is starting to develop, and in fact, in order to apply technology to the fields, we need to regulate the possibility of moving into one array of land areas. In this bill, we have balanced as much as possible the agricultural sector's demand and we propose to support the bill today.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-22-m0.u90	Thank you. Colleagues, this is the closing act. Two minutes later, we move on to making a decision. And I'm asking all the factions to invite the deputies into the hall, and I'm asking the secretariat to invite the deputies into the hall. From the People's Front, Ivanchuk Andry Volodymyrovich, two minutes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-22-m0.u91	Dear Mr. Head, distinguished national MPs! Well, there's a lot of talk about this law, but it's very hard to understand that, in fact, what they want to decide, the drafters of the bill. Dear friends, this law and I are three years late, it must be one of the first decisions of our Parliament. There are fields and racketeers that don't allow our agrarian companies to develop, take patches in the middle of this field, and thereby block the development of agriculture in Ukraine. Irrigation. Everyone knows that today, without investment in irrigation in the south of Ukraine, there will be no agricultural development. Again, the same bandits and racketeers blackmail our agribusinesses with these patches of land and prevent them from developing. So the People's Front faction asks all parliamentary factions and groups to vote for the bill, not on the first reading, but on the basis of it as a whole. And put a dot in this banditism and racketeering in the agrarian sector. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-22-m0.u92	Thank you, colleagues. So I'm asking everyone to take up jobs, colleagues, we're going to have a voice. I'm asking everyone to come into the hall, and I can see there are other deputies coming in. Kulinich asked the authors for one minute. No, it's not. So, colleagues, please prepare for the vote. I ask you to return from your bed and prepare for the vote. The heads of the faction, everyone who has voted in favour of the bill, mobilize as much as possible and invite the deputies to the Hall. And we're moving on to making a decision. And I'm voting on a draft Act amending some of the Ukrainian legislation on collective land ownership, improving land use rules in agricultural land, preventing logging and stimulating irrigation in Ukraine (No. 6049-d) on the basis of a committee proposal. I ask you, colleagues, take your seats and I ask you to vote and support the committee: 6049-d is the basis. Please vote, please support. Vote. Vote, colleagues, support. [[11:56:06]] For 251 251 – yes. Decision taken. If the committee suggests as a whole, I'll set it up if the committee says so. There's a denial, no, everything, there's a denial. There's a committee decision. So, colleagues, we have five minutes to go before we get to the next question, but we can. [[B in m in s a l in]] Colleagues, pay attention! Please, the head of the committee, have a word. Turn on Buckumenko's microphone!
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-22-m0.u93	Andrey Volodymyrovich, the committee also supports the foundation as a whole, if that is the case.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-22-m0.u94	Thank you. But the two factions said they were denying it, and we're just not going to get a vote. We're just going to show a failed vote. Colleagues, these few minutes, we have a high concentration in the hall. Let's maybe put a few questions into the agenda of the day session. My colleagues, listen to me very carefully. It's only a matter of minutes. Let's try it. Let's try to put the day session in order. We have three minutes, we won't be able to enter the law. Let's try it if we can, right? We're not gonna make it. So I'm betting we can get through. The first is the inclusion in the agenda of the day session, I emphasize. This chapter that we have here, I can put it at any stage, maybe we'll get through. First. 8265 is a bill amending the Ukrainian Public Procurement Act and some other Ukrainian legislation. The rating vote. If you'll excuse me, I'd like to vote. Integrating the agenda of the session, colleagues. Please vote, please support. Vote! If you'll excuse me, I'd like to vote. I'd like your support, colleagues. [[11:58:20]] For 204 No, I see, colleagues, it's gonna be hard right now. Let's do it as it is in the daytime order, and we'll do it after the next two questions -- agrarian policy issues. So, colleagues, now I want to make another announcement. Attention! Now, at 12 o'clock in the towers of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the third floor, there will be a solemn opening of the first Georgian Democratic Republic photo exhibition, dedicated to the 100th anniversary of the First Democratic Republic, as well as the 100th anniversary of the establishment of diplomatic relations between Ukraine and Georgia 100 years ago. We have an ancient brotherly history, we fought together against a Russian aggressor 100 years ago, and together today we stand for our independence. I invite everyone wishing at 12 o'clock to take part in the opening of this photo exhibition on the third floor. And according to the Rules, I now announce a 30-minute recess. At 12:30, everyone please return to the hall to continue our work. Let me remind you, the next question from the agrarian policy cluster is 6490, 6490. Please be there so that we can get to the point immediately after the break. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-22-m0.u95	Colleagues, break time is over. I remind you, we're looking at the block of agrarian politics. Before the break, we discussed two questions, both of which made a positive decision, and hopefully we will continue to have the same dynamic. The next issue is the bill amending the Ukrainian Tax Code and some Ukrainian legislation on the promotion of the creation and activities of family farms (6490, 6490-d). And I'm voting on the proposal to consider it as a reduced procedure. Please vote. Please be supportive. Vote. [[12:35:37]] Z-70. 70-yes. This is too big a gap to the 150 votes we want, so we're going to go over the full procedure. I ask you to prepare yourself for a speech by a group of co-authors of the national deputy Yvchenka and also the head of the Committee on Tax and Customs Policy of Southerne Nina Petrovna. Is there a room in Nina Petrovna? Colleagues, find Ichchenka, please, so that he can go to the report. Nina Petrovna, committee bill, please. Yes. But first from the authors and then from the committee. So I invite you to the report of the co-author of the national deputy Ivchenka Vadim Evgenovich. Please, Mr. Vadim. We're looking at it as a whole. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-22-m0.u96	Vadim Yvchenko, "The Fatherland" faction. Dear colleagues, first of all, I want to thank each and every one of you for the previous agrarian-day bills, especially 7060. This enabled family farmers to gain access to the land. Bill 6490 allows them to enter the legal tax field. This bill envisions the creation of a fourth group, where there are agricultural producers, where there were legal persons, the creation of subgroup B, so-called family farmers' physiosies, who will have a simplified tax system, which will have a directly simplified accounting and accounting account once a year. And I also want to remind you that any tax system has to be driven by incentives, not coercion, but incentives. I've already said that we have one-person farming outside of the actual agrarian production. We can't tax self-employed people, so we don't create incentives for them. The bill proposes incentives, it is proposed that for ten years, those singles who register as a family farm will receive: (a) income tax, i.e. it will actually be like a physical person-entrepreneur in any city. Two: they're actually going to be reporting in a number of years after, let's say, sending through e-mail to the State Fiscal Service. Third, they'll have a much easier accounting. Fourth, they are immediately granted the status of a farmer. Fifth, they get an internship of 10 years. Over the course of 10 years, the state has gradually begun to pay their only social contribution. You know that today, after the pension reform, you joined the internship in paying the only social contribution. It's an incentive, it's the direct support of the state when you register, the first year the state pays you 10 percent, 90 percent, and you pay 10 percent as a family farm; the second year the state pays you 80 percent, the third year 70. And that means that every year you gradually grow your business, you develop your family farm, you buy your equipment. This is direct support in the form of EU payments. I want to remind you that these bills, thanks to our colleagues, including the majority in the Chernigiv region, have been discussed in this agrarian community since the 13th year. We took the experience in fact of France, which thus motivated these self-employed people to move into the agrarian sector, into the legal agricultural sector of circulation. In fact, this bill was developed with our partners. Gradually, because of the incentives of the strongest ones, the strongest people working in agriculture, just as self-employed people, we're going to join the agricultural sector. This, of course, will also result in taxes. Taxes on local budgets. Since they will already be (a) registered, the corresponding taxes will partially enter the local budgets. Accordingly, they will develop their own businesses, create jobs, and so forth. The first law gave them land. It had to be the other way around, but that's how it's done. This law gives them tax incentives. My colleagues, I also want to say that the status is getting normalized, I want to say again, the farmer, and that's what makes it possible for a volunteer, once again, to register for a simplified system. State support is provided. For 10 years, the EU’s head and members of the family farm have paid off the debt order. Establishing this credit for agricultural land, animals, technology, equipment, construction of manufacturing facilities, and buildings. The provision of free educational, advisory, information and advisory services for registration and accounting. Criteria are set for identifying family farms. Of course, it will be a family farm that has a volume that does not exceed one and a half million dollars a year. The area of such a family farm should not exceed 20 acres [20 ha]. It does not use the work of hired persons, just the work of the family, the exclusive list of Quebecs to which the family farm will be distributed. Well, it doesn't make sense to do a family farm that's going to do, there, grain crops. It's actually going to be fertilization, reprocessing, it's actually going to be organic production, animal production, dairy and so on, it's actually going to be those labor-intensive, say, industries, agriculture or parts of agriculture that are going to be involved in the family farms themselves. Tax incentives and preferences are established for state registration, payment of half the single tax rate at 2 hectares. Simplification of calculation, I've already said, and submission once a year. Temporary release from inspection by control authorities. Colleagues, for five years, are offered to completely free such farms from, for example, family farms from, say, the arrival of these state inspectors, including the State Fiscal Service. Colleagues, as a result of the adoption of a series of bills, including this, will be the growth of prosperity: (a) rural families; money will appear and demand for neighbouring industries; citizens will receive pensions and social protection; the economic well - being of the communities will be increased; and infrastructure will develop accordingly; Ukrainian quality and affordable goods will emerge; and food security will be provided accordingly. The main thing is that these products are going to be monitored, why, in principle, we signed under the Association Agreement; the export of the processed product will increase and will be. Well, I'm not talking about raising birth rates and people who are, well, actually we see today that people are leaving the village, they're actually going to stay because they're going to have a work mission. You've got a work mission, you've got land, you've got state support. We're going to introduce the "Affordable Housing" programs right in the rural area, where loans are going to be uninterested, there, up to 500,000 dollars just for the construction of new buildings or for the acquisition of others. We're going to directly introduce the possibility of State support for infrastructure projects in terms of, for example, supply points, cooperatives and equipment, because this is actually the future of the village. The future of the village when you have a job in the village from your land and the corresponding production you do, and the corresponding cooperation. We will continue to propose these bills to Parliament, and we will continue to suggest that we continue to support all of them with the same zeal. At present, colleagues, Bill 6490 is proposed to you. I want to immediately thank the sponsors of these bills. These are national deputies: Davidenko, Ostrikova, Gudzenko, Miroshnichenko, Melnichenko, Bakumenko, Shinković, Jurczin, Kulinich, Hlan, Mazola, Labazük, Lušnjak, Kirilenko, Vadaturski, Bilkova, Himoj, Odarchenko and Bogdan. Colleagues, it's a bill continuing what we've done with you, we've already voted, actually, on the first reading. It's a tax bill. I thank the tax committee for supporting this bill and ask everyone to settle down because it's important enough. After the bill two years ago, which we adopted, the framework for the creation of these family farms, we have to start them now, create them in the village, and continue to anticipate support through the budget, when we accept the very farms that will be created, which will need this support. My colleagues, thank you. And please support this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-22-m0.u97	Thank you. Stay in the rostrum to answer questions. Please sign up for the interview. Please invite me to the floor of the People's Deputy of Mosiyczuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-22-m0.u98	Igor Mosiyczuk, Radical Party. Your Honor, I have a very specific question for you. When we talk about supporting small farming, when we talk about agricultural development in Ukraine, we need to talk first of all about conservation of resources, about preservation of the main treasure of the Ukrainian nation, the land. And before lobbying, I'm not afraid of that word, it's the salt producers. In this regard, two very short questions. First. I would like to hear your position and the position of the committee on the changes that have been initiated by our faction to the Constitution on the definition of agriculture, the agroustura on earth. And a position on the earliest consideration of our bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-22-m0.u99	Ten seconds, please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-22-m0.u100	The Palm Oil Ban Bill, which will be an incentive for the restoration of animal production.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-22-m0.u101	Thank you. A colleague, briefly. You know, Fatherland, not Fatherland, and today the whole room has supported the laws on the prohibition of palm oil, in fact, in the use of food. We're going to be raising responsibility on the committee a lot right now, not just in terms of administrative and criminal responsibility. So thank you for this initiative. And let me tell you again, the future of the agrarian sector for competition. Only farm movement in the country will create competition. The more farmers and, in fact, family farmers are farmers, the more competition will be. And of course, there will be competition for every piece of land, and that will increase a lot of people's rent. Or there will be an immediate, entirely different cost of the corresponding land that is being sold today, for part of the land under the moratorium that is being sold today by various schemes, including those that you have heard in the hall. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-22-m0.u102	Thank you. Welcome to the speech of the People's Deputy Krivenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-22-m0.u103	Victor Krivenko, National Movement of Ukraine. Your Honor, I have a question for you as a representative of the Agrarian Committee. You know, in the Soviet Union, Communists took passports from people, and they wouldn't let them out of the village. And in an independent Ukraine, they took away the right of people to manage their property, imposed a moratorium on the sale of land. They did not introduce moratoriums on the sale of the certificates of enterprises obtained by the people in the city, nor did they introduce moratoriums on the sale of apartments, which allowed the privatisation of those in the city to say that there were some underprivileged people in the village. Individual parties collect signatures on asphalt in cities against the sale of land to those who sold their apartments and who sold their certificates and pies for factories. And now more than a million people who were in slavery who didn't cure their children, didn't see the world, didn't study their children, they're already dead, those who would have the right to at least some money. Say, are these mechanisms designed to limit sales to Ukrainian citizens, limit concentration, all sub-legal acts to the land market? Because today it looks like it's the lobbying of big agroholdings who still own the land.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-22-m0.u104	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-22-m0.u105	Privatization of factories and privatization of property in cities have shown how dangerous privatization can be. The food security of the country depends on the availability of the land and the availability of it to people, in fact, if it is needed to buy it in circulation. In Ukraine there is no buyer, there is no buyer of land. Those 200-acre offers today are going to cost about 10 million, 10 million in a village in a peasant to buy a small farm, no. That's why we need to work: (a) so that there can be no raiding and corresponding raids, and the bill is removed, and we need to vote it out; (b) we need to create appropriate competition and create farmers, give them support so that they can at least buy their assets in the future, and so on. And this is what we need to give budget support to those who need it. Let's get out of here.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-22-m0.u106	Thank you. Thank you for the presentation. Dear colleagues, I would like to inform you, and many of you know that there is a joint bill of 6490-d that has been finalized, and that is, it will now be represented by the head of the Tax and Customs Policy Committee, the national deputy of Nina Yuzanin. In view of what will be presented in the actual text, please give Mrs. Southanini 10 minutes to report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-22-m0.u107	Thank you, Oksana Ivanovna, because we really need to focus now on the amended bill. And you ask, please, all the questions that are in the hall so that we can find out what we are about to propose. I want to report to you that the bill that my colleague just reported, registered back in 2017, was in May. So he has been discussed on a number of occasions on the committee. And since the government's conclusion on this bill: it does not support the government of such a concept, which the author proposed, does not support the Committee and social policy and others, the GNEU's conclusions, including negative ones, we were forced to work on the bill because the idea itself is absolutely necessary. And since it was written by non-specialists, it was reflected in such a way that it was impossible to implement this idea in our legislation. So please focus on the amended bill. First of all, we really want to create which new tool to give to the "cheese" processing of the land and to produce production or to destroy, or to say yes, to eliminate and not allow ourselves to be used by other large companies, which, using the production of very small family farms, solve all their issues, including commercial ones. This can be done only by simple people who work in small numbers, exclusively by a family that has between 2 and 20 acres [2 and 20 ha] of land, and the production produced cannot be officially given anywhere, cannot receive a proper price for its production, and, as the author rightly said, are completely socially insecure. They've been out of state protection all these years. And not only in social terms, but also in support of agriculture, which is provided by every budget every year, are huge amounts. And it is these small farms that receive no support from the state. So we're proposing that family farmers be allowed to register only for a group of certain criteria to register as taxpayers of the simplified tax system of the fourth group. What are these criteria? This activity is exclusively within the framework of farming, registered in accordance with the Act on Farming; the second is exclusively the production, processing and supply of produce; the carrying out of farm activities at the place of tax; the non-use of employment of employed persons (members of the farm holding of such a natural person are only members of the family in the meaning of the Act on. in the meaning of article 3 of the Family Code of Part Two Ukraine); and the area of land owned or used by the Water Fund in the use of farm members is not less than 2 hectares and not more than 20 hectares. People who decide to register have to make an agreement or declaration in accordance with the Law on Farming. We are making a number of changes necessary to enable the State Register to carry out such registrations, i.e. amendments to the Law on State Registration of Legal Persons, Business Persons and Public Forms. We continue to draw the line that in places united territorial communities have to have full information about what is happening to the land in their territory. They need to be fully aware of who owns the earth and does not pay taxes on the earth because they are free at the level. at the central level, i.e. the state benefits, these are pensioners and everyone else; who is renting and who is to be paid by the renter for the income tax of the natural person who is currently paid to the budget in whose territory the renter is registered. And wrong! They don't know where they're going, but does someone pay for the work, rent this land or not? So we have added to this draft law that in any case, the tax on the income of individuals who are paid by renter is paid for the location of such land. And we close the circle to give local communities full ownership of information and to see which land is used in the dark, in cheese that does not pay taxes on legitimate grounds, but where the schemes are used. This is the part of the draft law that we wanted comprehensively, 7363, registered by the President, that we couldn't do in the hall at the time, but now it's represented in torn pieces. it's presented to you here. And that's part of what we wanted to give places to control and have in the budget, in the local budgets, the only forming tax is land tax. This is the biggest tax coming into local budgets. So let's go back to the fourth group. So what's the tax payment going to be? First, the author of the basic bill envisioned a limit on the volume of production for the fourth group, specifically for family farms, and one and a half million dollars. We don't think we should do that. People in the fourth group have to pay taxes like legal persons, only we have to simplify everything else -- no accounting. In addition, we have made many changes that such persons, such farms, are not tax agents for members of their farms. So we're subtracting all that stress from running this farm. They should work on the earth and now care only for what they are doing directly. So what's the big deal? What's the fixed tax? Ninety - five percent of the land’s monetary valuation, of which 0.7 percent go to local communities, goes to the state budget. That's very good, because then the big companies that used to take these lands won't. There's no need to continue to build these diagrams, because all these little ones that are now legally able to produce their products, they can compete fully with even a little bit of their volume, but they already have a legal document that they've grown up and have a certificate, and they can give it all away. Because we already have them in the legal plane and they can work absolutely openly. And the last ingredient is really what the state is going to take care of. What should we do? Can such family members pay for themselves the only social contribution (ESA) in order to provide for themselves in the future with a pension? No, they can't. Now you're all going to say that if they start paying the only tax, maybe it's going to be a lot of pressure for them. And we agreed with all the authorities on how the state can now support this EU pay for the graduation that we just talked about: that, in the first year, the farmer should pay only 10 percent of the mandatory contribution for each member of his family, for the second year, for the third year, for the third year, for the third year, 30 percent and so on. For the 10th year alone, he paid a 100 percent minimum premium, the only social contribution. And for all these years, the state has to support the funds that are being allocated to support agricultural production in Ukraine. That's why we changed the Law on State Support for Agriculture of Ukraine. And so, step by step, we see that now, first: (a) who really wants to get out of the shadows, and this will be appropriate for most people – for most! – because for the first time, they will truly be supported by the state without affecting the process and the method of pensioning them. Because, you know, when a person doesn't pay for everything, he doesn't have the right to a full pension. So we went through another piece of legislation to completely regulate this process and not to frame people who would pay with particles, and then they wouldn't be able to get a full pension. So we've been talking to you since the moment I decide how to register for family farming through a contract or through a declaration, and before I retire these people. So, so this whole set of rules that had to be introduced into all the necessary laws, we're proposing in a revised bill that we're asking you to support and vote on as a basis for moving forward.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-22-m0.u108	Thank you. I ask you to stay where you are, too, so that you can ask questions. People's deputies please record. Welcome to the speech of the national deputy Eutuska.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-22-m0.u109	Sergey Eutuszek, "The Fatherland" faction. Thank you, Mr. Reporter, for the presentation. Please tell me, what is the difference between your bill and the bill of other authors that my colleague, Vadim Yvchenko, reported? And please answer the next question. A general tax system for legal persons to whom you propose to become family farmers but with a changed tax list. Can you describe exactly what you leave out of the general tax system for legal persons for family farmers? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-22-m0.u110	I may not have fully understood you. We have agricultural enterprises that can work on a common tax system that defines the tax base and the rates that we have in the country and as a taxpayer or not a taxpayer. In the fourth group, we have an additional requirement for legal persons who can register only having at least 75 percent of agricultural production in the previous year. We do not impose these requirements on these family farms because in this way we do not allow the family farms to register again in the next two years. Now we're going to have a more declarative way of registering for the fourth group, because we're going to be able to track whether it meets the necessary standards given, well, according to the application, farming only later on.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-22-m0.u111	Thank you. I'd like to invite you to the floor of the People's Deputy Ostrikov. Two minutes. He's giving the word to the national MP, Markevich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-22-m0.u112	Dear colleagues, really, I am very supportive of such an initiative to encourage farmers to register and be legal taxpayers in legal form. The bill proposes that the State grant a single social contribution. The first year, according to Nina Petrovna, is 90 percent. Instead, as we travel and meet farmers today, we hear from them about the real work of the government grant program. What do farmers say today? That the loan can only be compensated by private bank loans and no more than $50,000 of everything. And to do that, you have to form a bunch of documents and hand over to the private bank a property that's much more valuable than those 50,000 dollars. So, of course, in this grant program, where about 6 billion dollars are allocated for today's government budget, we need to get things in order. I think that it is the adoption of this law that will allow us to have a legitimate basis for redistributing those funds in the budget and to send the money needed for the EU grant to make farmers and farmers become legitimate taxpayers. And that's why, Nina Petrovna, I have a question for you. How is it that, following the adoption of this bill, it is envisaged to redistribute to this day an inefficient and corrupt programme of subsidies with the producers approved by the government? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-22-m0.u113	It seems to me that if we accept it in the second reading and in general the draft law in question, they will have to do so on the basis of the applicable rules of the law. Now they have no reason to view their programs. And by the way, dear colleagues, we have very little control over the programs that support agriculture in Ukraine. Because we vote in the budget for one line. And then everything happens at the level of other decisions, other bylaws. Therefore, we need to pay attention now and especially to such support in the law. Then, of course, it will work. And I'd like to say. We found a model, such as, without separating such individuals from others, to entangle them and give them the opportunity to be on a single tax that was not in the previous basic bill. There was no way to design a single form for them, a separate group that was not supported by either the IMF or the Ministry of Finance. So we had to essentially change the whole thing.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-22-m0.u114	Thank you. Madam, thank you for your report. And we're moving on to the discussion. I'm asking the deputies to prepare for the faction record. Please hold the recording. From factions, yes. I'd like to invite you to the floor of the People's Deputy Ostrikov of the Self-Help Union. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-22-m0.u115	Dear colleagues, today we are considering a very important bill that, as the head of the tax committee said, will allow all Ukrainian farmers to obtain legal status, to register with the state registry, and to be accounted for as a taxpayer. We allow family farmers to register and become the payer of the fourth group of single taxes. First of all, to form a farm, it must be a family, it must be a parent of the first degree of relationship. They have to own pies from 2 to 20 hectares. In order to make their registration as simple as possible, the bill proposes that they enter into a notary agreement and that their degree of fertility be checked. And if it's a single farmer, he submits one single document to the state registry -- it's a declaration. And we also make appropriate changes to this bill and to the Law on State Registration of Legal Persons, and to the Law on Farming. In particular, I want to tell you what very painful problems this bill solves. First of all, today the tax authorities are completely misinterpreting the law. And they tax real estate that belongs to natural persons, especially farmers, regardless of the fact that such property is directly exempt from taxes on immovable property. In doing so, the tax authorities point out that the definition of a single tax producer indicates that such a producer is a purely legal person. And in the same way, they create discrimination. If the building is owned by a natural person, it taxes them and even sets tax requirements. And if the same property belongs to a legal person, they are exempt from taxation. This is a totally wrong and discriminatory norm and a misinterpretation of the law. And I want to point out that by this bill, this painful problem is being cleaned up. Because in the definition of an agricultural producer, we assume that it is a business subject, which means that it can be both a natural person and a legal person. And the second is a very important problem that people are addressing today. This settles the point of payment of a person’s income tax on the rent of a pie. Because agroholding may be renting pies, and PDF pays, not for the location of the land, but for the location of its registration. And this is wrong because the budget of the local community in which the land is located is not receiving. We're correcting this situation here, this long-standing, painful problem, and we're noting that the person's income tax is paid for the place where the land is located, both from rent, and from emphytevsis. So I ask you all to support this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-22-m0.u116	Ten seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-22-m0.u117	Please support Bill 6490 with the letter "d", as drafted by the committee. Self-help votes in favour. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-22-m0.u118	Thank you. And I invite you to the words of the People's Deputy Kirilenko from the "Fatherland" union.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-22-m0.u119	Kirilenko, the Fatherland faction. Friends, I want to go back to what I said at the beginning when we started looking at our agricultural laws or our agricultural laws. What is lacking in our legislative work during our years of independence? We adopt many laws, good laws, sometimes even progressive ones, and you see that a huge prospect can be in the execution of this legislation, and everything is in place. Why so? There is no banal, complex approach and systemivity. Now this law will be clearly voted out, it's a beautiful law, either one or the other. Where does the small business that the whole world lives come from? It starts with legal status and then state support. Legal status has been voted, the material base has already begun to speak, the transfer of land, and so on. Support, it starts with taxes, we vote now. But that's not enough for us to do as we did in that saying, "Collch created, send out the collegiates." The next step, logically, is people want start-up capital. Where are we going to get it? The country's state bank, the state capital bank, there shouldn't be money, the population, let's give up what we're predicting for grants, sorry, they smell stupid. Let's put into the capitalization of the village bank and under 2 percent of the annual lending of the family farm, the employment of millions of people. Does it take a lot to start your business on two acres, on three, on five? That's what I need. Hundreds of thousands can start their own without going to Poland for hire. Of course, we will produce many products, and what can we do about them? Guys, here's the question right now, is the Cooperation Act working for us or not? No, because the co-operatives are taxed, they haven't been able to create, they're already paying taxes, they're dead, they need to be looked at. It's a small operation, and obviously we've been reprocessing, and we've had all the processing enterprises, all the infrastructure, nothing in every area until quite recently. We'll charge you hundreds of millions of dollars, you'll be imported, it'll be the protection of the national producer, the economic method, the WTO and the European Union won't have any objections. And of course, I repeat, and risk insurance, or two or five acres. You see, today in the south of the drought, you have to support the peasants, and to do so you have to partially compensate for the fact that they're going to have to insure their crops at the expense of the state budget. Friends, this is called complex, systemic. We're voting today, and tomorrow, I'm going to the agrarian committee, the tax committee: The start-up capital is there for peasants, insurance. Friends, and maybe we can actually reform this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-22-m0.u120	Thank you. And I'd like to invite you to the floor of National Deputy Kulinich, who was handed over to him by the People's Deputy Shipko of the Rebirth Group. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-22-m0.u121	Thank you. Oleg Kulinic, 147th constituency, Poltavščina. Dear colleagues! An extremely important bill. This bill proposes to provide tax incentives for the development of family farms. Today, only farmers registered as legal persons are the payers of the only fourth group tax. At the same time, as early as 2016, we changed the Ukrainian Law on Farming and allowed family farms to be created in the form of FOPs. However, the corresponding changes under the Tax Code have not been made, and we must correct this error. Another important money in this bill, we solve the problem, is benefits for 10 years with a single contribution to compulsory social insurance. Clearly, this will stimulate the creation of family farms. So we're going to support Bill 6490-d as a basis and we're going to give an opportunity and we're going to encourage the creation of family farms in the state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-22-m0.u122	Welcome to the speech of the People's Deputy Davidenka of "Peter Dustenka's Block." Turn on the microphone, please, the national MP.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-22-m0.u123	Dear colleagues! This is a very important bill, and I want to remind you that in 2016 we passed the 1067 Bill, which amended and enabled us to work and create family farms. But there was no further tax incentives, so I want to remind you that today almost every fourth farm in Ukraine or more than 80 percent of its produce is for sale, not for its own consumption. So it's very important that this product doesn't go to organized markets for any price schemes, and that family farmers can sell it legally. So I agree with my colleagues who are calling, and I ask you to support Bill 6490-d, as it was dealt with by the tax committee, and it deals most with all the issues and aspects of paying taxes and the work of family farming. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-22-m0.u124	Thank you. And I invite the people's deputy Mosiyczuk of the Radical Party to the floor.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-22-m0.u125	Igor Mosiyczuk, Oleg Lachka Radical Party It is perhaps symbolic that today, on the anniversary of our father’s burial, Parliament is considering bills designed to support a village that he loved, loved, and sang Taras Grigorovitch. At the same time, you need a complex, software approach. And our leader, Oleg Lazko, our team of the Radical Party is offering a comprehensive program for the restoration of agriculture in Ukraine. Its foundation is to amend the Constitution of Ukraine, which defines agriculture as a rural agricultural system. In addition, we propose to stop the trade, export raw materials abroad, introduce an agrarian export congregation that will stop the export of raw materials from Ukraine and give Ukrainian peasants a job. We propose a ban and we thank Parliament for its support in the first reading of the ban on the use of palm oil products, which will contribute to and stimulate a significant resurgence of our Ukrainian animal production. In the complex, we need to talk about the help that every farmer in the country, regardless of where he's holding the cow, whether in his own agriculture or in his own farm, every cow has to have a government grant of at least 5,000 dollars. In addition, we, the Ukrainian Parliament, have to determine the minimum purchase price for milk, because it is unacceptable that water is more expensive in the store than our Ukrainian milk. Everything in the complex will be able to restore agriculture, allowing Ukrainian peasants to have a job that is worthy of a social security wage. On this stand our team of the Radical Party and our leader Oleg Lazko. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-22-m0.u126	Thank you. And the last performance. From the faction of the Opposition Block, the People's Deputy of Doubenkov, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-22-m0.u127	Dear colleagues, respected citizens of Ukraine! Now we're looking at really this legislative initiative, this bill that's aimed at protecting the interests of small, medium-sized businesses in the agricultural sphere. What is the problem with the agrarian sphere? The problem is that the very low added value is formed in Ukraine. The low added value, it is more energy efficient, it is the least marginal – relatively small tax revenue, significant labour resources and accordingly loses both the owners and the country as a whole. This bill is aimed at supporting very small and medium-sized farmers, family farms that will focus not on producing low-value products, they will specialize in producing more value-added products, it's vegetables, it's farming, it's livestock, and so on. Therefore, the introduction at the legislative level of the necessary changes, namely, tax benefits, by amending the current Code of Taxation. It is the tax benefits that are directed towards the development of the designated institution of the family farm that are necessary to implement it. It's not just to sing, love and talk about how much we love doing this in this plenary room, namely, to introduce and create the necessary conditions for the practical implementation of this institution. In this bill, it is proposed to introduce, allow for individuals who are entrepreneurs who are going to do their farming activities in family farms to become paying the only tax of the fourth group. It is appropriate for them to provide certain benefits for the minimum insurance period, since their activities were reflected, had an impact on the assignment of pensions in the future. The bill in question has a very good standard, according to which all tenants are obliged to pay their income and, accordingly, by acting as tax agents, to receive VAT from the owners of the respective rations, land at the location of the land. There are few people who have talked about it, but it is really a very good medium for local budgets, but unfortunately not local ones, because the decentralization of the PDF does not result in rural or urban councils or rural councils, and the PDF will enter the unified territorial communities. But yes, but it's better than nothing. Since all large tenants had previously paid a considerable tax at the place where they were registered, this was not in line with the principle of social justice and the principles of decentralization. So the Opposition Block faction, of course, supports this legislative initiative, and because it's aimed at real support for farms on the ground. And so I urge everyone to join this decision and support the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-22-m0.u128	Thank you. And we're moving on to a discussion from the National Deputies. Please hold the recording. I would like to invite you to the floor of National Deputy Nina Yuzanin. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-22-m0.u129	Dear colleagues, I thank you for all the discussion we have just heard and for the fact that we really need a comprehensive program and a comprehensive approach to supporting those small farms that need most attention in this regard. I want to say that state support is happening, and we don't know. We don't like that word, as you said, "supply," but right now, under this law, we're going to provide that support for part of the only social contribution that is so necessary. This is the first time. And I want to stress again, this is one of the steps we're taking on the road to completely detinizing the market for production, agriculture and abuse in this area. Because the product actually comes from large agrarian companies that then sell the product, get the financial result, the financial gain, and only pay for the portion of the money that small families, farmers, consider necessary, have actually put all their work into growing or processing some of the products. And there's more. I want to point out that, actually, because by the land tax that comes into the local budget, we still have a lot of gaps, and we still have to look at the benefits that are on the level. At the state level of land tax payment, try to settle through changes in legislation, in the Tax Code, because we need to be clear that all socially vulnerable people really need to benefit from benefits, and those who abuse and rent their land, without paying local budgets or land taxes, which, by the way, and now even after the introduction of this law, will not be paid. It's a hidden part of taxes that are not paid in the budget, not in any budget at all. We need to continue to move with you and organize this issue and empower all united territorial communities to fully control the earth’s processing market in order to finally bring about a system of things. This is our general problem, a task for all factions literally. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-22-m0.u130	Thank you. Welcome to the speech of the People's Deputies of Hlanya.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-22-m0.u131	Sergei Hlan, 185 constituency, Hersonian. Dear colleagues, today we are considering a very important bill on family farm benefits. The first thing we've done, and I want to thank you, is by driving the family farms, just creating the conditions for family farms, is Vadimu Ivchenka. We've made a legal form of family farms, given the opportunity to legally establish family farms. Today we are voting on the possibility of filling out a land bank for family farms. And now we're looking at a bill that will allow us to legalize our work on earth to small and small farmers. We're giving these family farms the possibility of being taxed on income so that they can legally sell their farmed products so they can invest money in gardening, in gardening, in animal farming, in order to clean up the shadow market and land, and in land processing to clean up the shadow market of grains and grain products, because a lot of grains are sold for cash. It is sold for cash because a small farmer cannot legalize his work, legalize his work on earth. So this bill provides incentives, incentives to register family farms, incentives to work in the legal field, pay taxes, and receive from the state the benefits that the State has to give to a small farmer in order to ensure the development of the village. We say very much about the development of the village, but unfortunately, we do very little. And today is a sign day, because the Supreme Council has returned face to face with a small farmer, has returned face to the farmer who creates jobs in the village, who creates jobs in the community, and is adequately taxing them, and is accordingly doing his future and the future of his retirement age. Thank you for your attention and please support this bill. I want to say that I am the co-author of Bill 6490, but please support both one and another bill. Bill 6490-d, it's more sophisticated. And it would be more logical if we supported this bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-22-m0.u132	Thank you. Colleagues, we're about to make a closing statement. Then, if anyone insists. Yeah, okay. And in a few minutes, we'll move on to making a decision. And please invite everyone into the hall. And the heads of the factions, and the apparatus, invite the deputies into the hall. Vadatursky Andry Alexiyovich. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-22-m0.u133	Andrew Vadatursky, 130 constituency. Dear colleagues, we really need to correct a mistake that we made 20 years ago. We gave the land to the people so that they could make some money for themselves. But we did not give them the right to work legally. So, you know, when you speak to people, they ask the same question over and over again: When will the question be resolved with the same person? Why? First of all, because communities don't get the money. The head of the OTG or the head of the district administration or the head of the district council should run and persuade the singles to pay at least some of the costs for the needs of the community. Second of all, these same-persons are forced to go into the shadows today. They can't sell their products legally and they also get 20 percent less than the market price they could get when they're selling their products legally. Thirdly, they break down or are forced to break down a legitimate business that has a certain tax burden and social responsibility. Because when you pay taxes and a socially responsible company, you can’t compete with those who don’t pay anything. And so today we can really systematically approach this issue and correct this mistake. This is the largest offshore, probably in the world, because in southern Ukraine alone there are areas where up to 75 percent of the land is just under singles and each year this number is increasing. That's why we can legalize them today. Second, let them develop peacefully. It's about getting credit, it's about putting money into place processing, it's about creating jobs in places and taxes that are going to stay in communities just to enable communities to build infrastructure, to solve the social issues of the village. And then we can really talk about what we're saving today in the Ukrainian village. We legalize and grant the right to work and to develop a Ukrainian farmer. So today, I am calling on the national MPs to clearly support these bills and to resolve this issue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-22-m0.u134	Please take two minutes of Alexandra Kugel and let's move on to making a decision. I'm asking everyone to come into the hall. Please invite the deputies to the hall. Mrs. Alexander.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-22-m0.u135	The most important slogan in the European Union is: "Every day think about small: small business, small farming." Because any democracy starts in the middle class, there's freedom, there's democracy. I can say as a member of the "Paternity" team, which has not come out of the villages of Ukraine for two and a half years, that we owe so much to the rural population that we should probably take weeks to enact laws that would restore today's prestige of life and rural work. First of all, I would like to thank the Committee on Tax Policy and Personally, I thank you for the professional approach and understanding of this problem. I'm going to personally vote in favour of your amended bill, because it corresponds to the ideology of taxation, it corresponds to today's need for what's in the country. Because it's our fault when we let all the same people say that they're not all unemployed. Then the state went on to say that when subsidies were available, each member of the family had three minimum wages and no one could see the subsidy. And we've done a lot of bad things in the country. And that's why I want to address and thank both Yveschenka and the entire team that raised the subject. But with the committee working on it, it really became a pearl. I very much ask everyone to go and vote this bill and give it to every person who works in such a difficult situation and gives us the opportunity to have food, and they don't stand with their hands stretched out for charity, they work for Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-22-m0.u136	Thank you. So let's move on to making a decision. I'm asking the deputies to come into the hall, please take up jobs. We're moving on to making a decision. So, colleagues, I'm voting on a bill amending the Ukrainian Tax Code and some Ukrainian legislative acts to encourage the creation and operation of family farms on the basis of the proposal of the 6490-d committee. I'm the first to make the proposal made by the committee. So 6490-d is the base. Please vote and please support. Colleagues, every voice. We're voting carefully. Please be supportive. Vote. Please be supportive. [[13:36:28]] For 253 253. Decision taken. I want a fruitful preparation for the second reading. And, colleagues, the next draft of Law 7403-2 and 7403-d. To be able to see it effectively, we need a reduced procedure. Keep it up, fellows. Please. Can we make it? For short, can we make it? After lunch, it will be much harder to vote. For short. Please be supportive. Please vote. Vote. I'm voting for the cut. [[13:37:11]] For 176 I invite you to the report of the Ukrainian national deputy Miroshnichenko Ivan Volodymyrovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-22-m0.u137	Dear Ukrainians! Dear agrarians! Dear colleagues! Now I'm going to go talk to my colleagues, because you're going to make decisions right now. And I want to assure you that hundreds of thousands of agrarians are now looking at what we are going to do with you on this issue. I want to remind you that on December 7, 2017, you and I voted in favour of the amendments to the Tax Code and to the budget, we made decisions, and in a semi-secret way, we made changes to the Tax Code, by which we cancelled the VAT return on oil and technical crops: on sunflower, rape and soybean. That's what we've done to the manufacturer in the equivalent of 14 to 15 billion dollars. The question is very often asked: Where did this amount come from? I'm going to talk to you on a reasoned basis, figures, because you're going to make this decision. Ukraine's Krustat says that in 2017 Ukrainian producers produced 124 billion dollars of oil crops, of which 24 billion were VAT. So if we don't return VAT, then this VAT will automatically be removed from the purchase price, and that's what we're doing to the manufacturer. Why 14-15 billion? I want to remind you that we already had a situation where in the 14th and 15th years we didn't return VAT to grain crops and rape. At the time, the price difference was $100 per tonne of rape. That's two. Third. What's the point? Why does this happen? We're all proud of you in the oil industry, and we're entitled to it. But the truth is that we still have a very low margin of processing. But it doesn't give anyone the right to take the money, the profits from the manufacturer, and solve the problems at their expense to the processor. Why do we have too many? We have the conclusion of the Academy of Agricultural Sciences and the Ukriliaprom.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-22-m0.u138	30 seconds, please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-22-m0.u139	We have 21 million tons of power in the production of 18 million tons of raw materials. Third. You all know how the agrarians responded to that question, they strike, they cover the roads, and we make some changes. That's why this bill just eliminates rape and soy. I would like to add that the bill supports the 28 deputies in this Hall, and 14 polls have expressed support for their decisions in the bill. I just want to say two words about an alternative. There is an opportunity to return VAT to the manufacturer. Sounds very nice, but.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-22-m0.u140	Okay, 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-22-m0.u141	And the truth is, we don't all have small, medium-sized farmers can be exporters. It takes experience, money, people, logistics, and much more. So if we vote for an alternative, it's going to be less evil, and that's still evil: half the agrarians won't get VAT, the processors will get it, they'll have it.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-22-m0.u142	Thank you. The position is clear. I invite you to report to the head of the Tax and Customs Committee of South Carolina's Nina Petrovna. Please, Nina Petrovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-22-m0.u143	Dear colleagues, I won't be explaining the point of this bill for long. The only thing I want to say is that now my colleague represented the position of agrarians, and you're absolutely right, lobbying the interests of agrarians. But our committee was looking at a balanced situation, and it was looking at the producers that were going through it. the processors who have been writing to the committee for three years in order to load their processing capacities and finish, do the full processing in the country, and the added value to leave here. So when we adopted the budget, we told you that we had found a compromise, a temporary rule on VAT non-return, and we were able to finish marketing year for everyone who sowed soy. But you did raise a lot of society -- those who grow this particular product -- out into the street to raise the subject in the hall again. As we look at this issue, we have really worked on a finalized version to allow VAT compensation to only those agricultural producers who directly export their own processed products outside Ukraine. You say it's a half question. And you realize how much fake VAT is going on in the agrarian sector right now because we haven't closed the raw market on production, do you understand?Oh, my God! We'll soon have no way to automatically compensate for VAT. Because the largest exporters are now agrarians and there's a huge amount of billions of VAT, which is either missing twice, or three times, and then being reimbursed from the budget. So I'm asking you, if we're looking for a compromise solution, the committee's proposal to support the bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-22-m0.u144	30 seconds, please let me finish, 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-22-m0.u145	So the committee's proposal to support it as a basis and as a whole in order to remove the hot issue today, Bill 7403-d. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-22-m0.u146	Please record: two in, two in. And I suggest we discuss this more in a more concise way so that we can get to the polls in good time. So, from Peter Dustenka's Block, the Vadatour Andrews. Turn the microphone on to Vadaturs.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-22-m0.u147	Good afternoon! Andrew Vadatursky, 130 constituency. I'm asking you to support 7402, why? Because, first of all, I don't agree with what's going to be a VAT hole, and I need to keep it under control. Let me give you some examples. First of all, manufacturers who buy diesel fuel today also pay VAT, so to blame and not give back VAT on exports of raw materials from Ukraine and blame when they work in the shadows, that's not very true. The main thing here is to support the price for internal processing, because it will be different. will stop growing what you used to grow, what you thought was necessary. And by the way, the way these bills are adopted and adopted just in December, that's not correct, because without discussing such things, without asking the agrarians, to the manufacturers about the future, right? - That's not acceptable. And in general, here we have to support, first legalize this business, and then decide which sector we need to support, on the one hand. And on the other hand, we have several processors that we're constantly protecting. But we ignore the constant interests of those who actually produce the product, not the processing of the product. So let us support those who are working on earth today, not those who are then in the process. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-22-m0.u148	Thank you. From the Radical Party, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-22-m0.u149	Dmitri Linko, Radical Party. Today is a very important agrarian day. We had a lot of good laws, especially on support for family farmers, because it's family farming that is the foundation, these little businesses, they're the foundation of our agrarian sphere, because they, the people who work in the village, who work in their land and live there, they're rebuilding the village today. And that's why the state has to give all the weights, all the support tools for those peasants who stay in the village. Today the villages are dying, today it's very difficult to find a cow, a pig or any other animal in the villages. Therefore, the Radical Party proposes a comprehensive solution to this issue, a strategy, and changes to the Constitution should be at the heart of this strategy. It is unfortunate that today, on this agrarian day, our bill, which has been signed by more than 150 deputies for more than a year, has not been put into the agenda, is a change to the Constitution, which would forever be in the Constitution, which is the basis of the agricultural system in Ukraine. And so we need to push away and form all the other bills. Similarly, we offer to establish a raw congregation. We have to move from raw economics to processing, and to creating extra value here in Ukraine. The introduction of this raw material congregation that will be directed at Jehovah’s Witnesses. Targeted for the restoration of animal life, it will allow for the rebirth of cattle in the village. And the bill that we voted last week on the ban on palm oil raises the price of milk a lot, and it will allow for the restoration of livestock in the countryside. That's why we suggest that we approach the Constitution in a comprehensive way and finally accept changes to the Constitution, and then all the other bills are passed in accordance with the Constitution of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-22-m0.u150	Thank you. I will inform you that without the Committee's decision, no question can be addressed at the session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and cannot be placed in the order of the day's session accordingly -- just for legal information. From the Self-Help faction, Kiral Sergey Ivanovich is handing over to Roman Semensi. Please, Mr. Roman.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-22-m0.u151	Semenha Roman, "The Self-Help Union" faction. Dear colleagues, dear Mr. Head! From this rostrum, there are often talks about the support of agricultural and agricultural industries, but the reality is quite the opposite. Moreover, Parliament's decision actually discriminates against real producers and farmers – it decides not to refund VAT on exports of soybeans and rape. Moreover, the so - called support was called that, unfortunately, Parliament robbed small and medium-sized producers on the budget night of its decision. What happened on December 7 is not just a mistake, it has its price. Only in previous estimates, in the 18th year alone, will the loss of agricultural producers amount to about 18 billion dollars. The effect will be simple: the rich will become richer and the small and the medium will shrink. And that's when it actually happens during the season itself. In fact, our colleagues, our hands, the hands of our deputies have caused damage to 51,000 farmers and farmers. And then the government loudly claims to support the agrarian sector in over 6 billion dollars. Such experiments have already been in the history of the economy of Ukraine, and they have. The effects are known: damages to producers for billions of dollars per year; remittances from producers'pockets to processors; changes in production structure; decreases in exports resulting in a reduction in currency flow and further pressure on national currency. Very often they ask: What is the difference between these two bills? Very simple words, colleagues, let me explain. The "d" bill actually solves the problem for a few dozen processors at the expense of hundreds of thousands of people involved in small and medium-sized farms. The Self-Help faction calls for the support of Bill 7403 (Small) 2, which corrects the criminal error that Parliament made on 7 December last year, because VAT has to be returned to real goods manufacturers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-22-m0.u152	Thank you. From the "Fatherland" faction of Kirilenko Ivan. And once again, I invite you to the flexibility so that we don't drag after the second hour. Because it depends on the number of votes. Please, Mr. Vadim.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-22-m0.u153	Dear colleagues! Dear media, Ukrainians! You know, we got off to a good start today. But when you talk about justice in some speeches, I'll tell you that justice is when you don't introduce VAT compensation on January 1. I'm sure most factions are for us to leave deep processing in Ukraine. Most! And the new agrarian course speaks of the deep processing of produce right in Ukraine. What do the bills say? Bills say that you don't need to when there are certain business processes and business plans to put up or vote for such laws when VAT defaults on January 1st. And then when we got this system, let's say this system. The lines were extended until September 1st. Colleagues, the first bill (which makes a difference) suggests compensation in three years. It's not compensation, it's VAT. It's three years from now. Over the course of three years, prepare for manufacturers, borrow appropriate credits, adjust their processing capacities, and become competitive in the processing market. It's okay. Another bill proposes to compensate VAT for exporting producers is also a step forward. But Fatherland is still trying to propose. We have small, medium-sized farmers today who will not be able to compensate VAT under the second law. If we introduce the concept of cooperatives and their associations, which will also be compensated at the level of the Latifundists and those exporters who will export the soybeans, we will also address small, medium - size farmers. So I propose a committee on the basis, in general, but taking into account the suggestions, whether they will be cooperatives and their unification. Thank you. "Paternity offers it and will support it.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-22-m0.u154	Colleagues, now two minutes is Kulinich, and then Sergey Labazük is one minute. In three minutes, we're going to vote. I ask everyone to come to the hall and prepare for the decision. Please, Kulinich, Rebirth, from the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-22-m0.u155	Dear colleagues, our parliamentary group will support Bill 7403-d in the Tax Committee, because we think it's the right, compromise decision. In fact, the question is much deeper than what we're talking about. We have a long time to determine whether we support the Ukrainian manufacturer, the Ukrainian processor, we create the added cost, we create jobs, we fill local budgets and budgets in general, or whether we're still going to be a raw supplement around the world. We're just doing the first one, because that's right. There is a discussion that small farmers will not be able to export. When it comes to small ones that are not taxpayers at all for added value, it is absolutely not in principle. If it's for those who are not paying the taxes of the fourth group, it's clear again, they don't need it. In fact, there is a situation where most agro-producers work in the shadows, that is to say, in cash, and the processors use it to produce volumes, to export products, and to obtain VAT. So we suggest that we make a radical change in this situation. So this option, it's, I think it's compromised because it allows you to choose the manufacturer: either you produce and export and you get VAT, or please convert it into a processor. We took a three-year analysis, so I want you to know that the price of the same, for example, soy in the port, SRT port plus export VAT, was lower than the price of the internal market. So it's 16 billion -- it's completely invalid numbers, it's just not there. So let's define ourselves. Let's support 7403-d as a committee editor, because this is a course for the restoration of our state. Then we're acting as a Ukrainian manufacturer, as a Ukrainian processor. Let us support the added cost, and let us support the filling of local budgets. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-22-m0.u156	Thank you. Sergei Labazuk, one minute. And Mr. Dudenkov, one minute. And let's go to the vote. Then they'll all come out. After two performances, the vote. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-22-m0.u157	Labazuk Sergey, 188th District, Hmelnichtina. Dear colleagues, what do we have today? Sadly, we again have to correct the mistake we have made. What's the matter? Only the agrarian sector has started to grow and about 60 percent today in the seismic structure -- these are oil crops that have increased the currency in our budget, which has also increased the number of jobs. And in general, we've increased the bulk of agricultural production. But it's only a possibility that we're looking for options like "suffocating this golden chicken that brings us eggs." So today there are two bills that are in the agenda. First. We're going to return to the standard that it was. In fact, that's what agriculture needs. And you didn't have to change anything. The second bill is less evil than my colleague said. But this allows only a large and possibly medium-sized return of VAT. Small, unfortunately too large, to export really physically will not be able to. So "The will of the people" calls for the session room today to support and return to the standard that worked and gave.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-22-m0.u158	Thank you. Debenkov, one minute. And, colleagues, in a minute, we'll move on to the decision-making process. Everyone, please enter the hall. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-22-m0.u159	Dear colleagues, respected citizens of Ukraine! There was a lot of thesis about what was the difference between Bills 7403-2 and 7403-d. The difference is simple. In the interests of protecting small and medium-sized farmers, something was said to protect the interests of traders. So Bill 7403-2 just protects the interests of traders who actually buy the right crops, beans, and export. 7403-d is really a compromise that was made by the Committee to protect a real agricultural producer in order to protect their interests, i.e. one who was producing directly-mentioned agricultural production and creating the necessary preconditions for the development of the agricultural sector in Ukraine, because, as I said before, one of the features of the agricultural sector is low added value. We're going to support 7403-d.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-22-m0.u160	Thank you. The discussion is over. Take up jobs. My colleagues, I want to remind you that after this law we have a block of inclusion in the agenda of the day session. So I'm going to continue the session for 15 minutes. Now I'm asking everyone to prepare for the vote, and I'm going to be the first to make the decision of the 7403-d committee as a basis and as a whole. That's the committee's decision, and I'm going to put this proposal first. So let's move on to making a decision. I am voting on the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Tax Code on certain matters of taxation by adding the cost of export operations outside the customs territory of Ukraine of oil crops. I put the committee first, and then I make other proposals. Colleagues, I've already announced, then I'll put yours. 7403-d as a base and as a whole. Please vote, please support. Vote. Please be supportive. [[13:58:26]] For 225 225. We didn't make it. Colleagues! Attention! We have to go back first. Okay. Colleagues! I'll put the second one in, and then we'll come back. Attention! Attention! I'll bet 7403-2, and then we'll be back. Who supports 7403-2, please vote. And then we'll go back to "d." [[13:59:08]] For the 110. 112. Colleagues, "d" had a better chance. I'm going to go back to "d," and then I'm going to put in a proposal for a committee. So please support the proposal to go back to the draft Law 7403-d. Please vote, please support the return. Vote. Please vote. [[13:59:42]] For 253 253. We're back. Now I'm putting Bill 7403-d's bill on a committee proposal as a basis and as a whole, as the committee put it. Please vote, please support. Vote. Please be supportive. [[14:00:10]] For 249 249, yes. Decision taken. Guys, don't break up. Include in the agenda of the day session. I went on for 15 minutes. Turn-on. Colleagues, stay put. If he goes, we'll vote. So we have the first session of the day, the draft of Act 8264 on the Armed Forces of Ukraine, on the implementation of national security and defence measures (8264). Please support the inclusion of the day session, please vote, please support. Vote. [[14:01:04]] For 172 170. Next: 8362 is a draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on the State Budget for Ukraine for 2018 on adequate financial security for the state coal sector. Please be supportive. Please support the inclusion in the agenda of the day session. Please be supportive. [[14:01:36]] For 165 Next: Draft Law on Public Procurement and some other legislative acts of Ukraine (8265). Please be supportive. Please vote for inclusion in the agenda of the session. Let's vote, colleagues. We support ProZorro and the competition is public procurement. [[2:02:04]] For 180. Colleagues, let's at least support the bill -- draft law amending the Ukrainian Law on State Budget. (8363). Please vote. Please support 8363. Please vote. [[2:02:36]] For-160. Maybe, colleagues, we'll vote on at least what it takes for UEFA. Is Pavelko in the hall? We don't vote. Well, then, colleagues, I'm stopping to bet on it. It just doesn't have a chance right now. But since I've gone on for 15 minutes, I remind you, and I have a statement from two factions, from Peter Poshenko's Block and the People's Front, they're ready to change the break for the performance. And I'm giving three minutes to perform by two factions of Irina Lucenko. Please, three minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-22-m0.u161	Dear colleagues! Dear colleagues! A serious situation has taken place in the last month in the educational field. Today it has been reported that in Kharkiv school, which is the fourth region, some obscure substance has been sprayed on a ruler in the school. With poisoning and dizziness, the children were sent to the hospital. I'm from two factions and from all over Parliament, please, and I'm addressing the Cabinet of Ministers, and I'm asking you to consider this as the appeal of the entire Supreme Council, very carefully and very seriously to this alarming situation. We would very much ask the Cabinet of Ministers to organize a newsgroup, an inter-agency coordination board, to work out a mechanism for responding to such cases. We can't let when we have a few weeks left to the phone lines, to the last calls where all of Ukraine's schools will go out to see this last bell. I'm asking the entire Parliament, the Cabinet of Ministers, the Ministry of Internal Affairs, to organize and develop a mechanism to protect the children of Ukraine from a situation of chaos, panic and poisoning. Thank you and please support everyone.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-22-m0.u162	Thank you. One minute. Gives Irina Heratchenko an ad.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-22-m0.u163	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the National MP, Mikola Lušnjak, approached the presidency and asked to read out his announcement that in the vote for Bill 6490, the card of the honourable MP Lušnjak, who was behind the bill, did not work. Please take this into account and bear in mind that the MP just supported this bill, but the system doesn't always work perfectly for us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-22-m0.u164	Thank you. Colleagues, we've completed the agrarian cluster. All four of the questions proposed by the committee were supported in the hall, which was a successful consideration of the agrarian block. And I thank all the members of the committee and the authors for their very professional training. I want to tell you that after lunch, we'll start by considering draft Law 5512. I would like to ask the head of the committee and the author of Pashinsky to be in the hall at 16 o'clock so that we can get to the hearing. This morning's plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is closed. At 16 o'clock, I'm asking everyone to come to the hall to continue our work. Thank you.
