ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-19-m0.u1	Good morning, fellow countrymen. Good morning! Were they all nice? Did you bring Santa's presents? Everybody was nice, they passed a lot of laws yesterday, and Santa was supposed to bring presents to everyone. Please come in and prepare for registration. Ready? Please prepare to register. So, if you'd like to register, I'd like to conduct a registration. [[10:02:37]] 328 national deputies registered. The morning plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Today is the birthday of our colleagues – Mikoli Olegovich Kadikala. Welcome to Santa's birthday. [[Applause]] And Mary Vasilovna Mathios. Welcome to Mrs. Mary's birthday. [[Applause]] Dear colleagues, yesterday I met with a special representative of the U.S. Department of State Kurt Volker, and we discussed the consequences of Russian aggression in the Kerchen Strait. I have informed our American allies that we cannot allow Russia to declare the Azov Sea its internal sea, and I have called upon the United States to make every effort to free our sailors from Russian captivity. I would also like to inform you that the United States highly appreciated the adoption by the Supreme Council of Ukraine of the Anti-Nuclear Action Act, and we have also spoken with the United States of Ukraine, particularly with regard to the new arms for curbing Russian aggression. According to Kurt Walker, the U.S. intends to maintain Ukraine's security, and in January, the U.S. Congress will consider providing the next $125 million of military assistance to Ukraine. The Allies side by side with us against Russian aggression. And I'm sure we'll win together. So, colleagues, I wanted to remind you that today, Wednesday, we have 30 minutes of national MPs speaking. And I would also like to inform you that this year is as traditional as every year, the canvasses want to give us the Bethlehem Fire, and after the performances, I invite you to the hall, like every year, to serve the Bethlehem Fire. And now, dear colleagues, I ask all those who intend to take part in this discussion to record. And please turn on the recording system. Please. Timis Grigory Ivanovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-19-m0.u2	Dear Ukrainian community! Allow me to welcome the entire Ukrainian society today with St. Nicholas, the baby in the first place waiting for this holiday. Wish everyone happiness, health, success! But my presentation is primarily related to what is happening in the Montenegrin region. And in particular, I'm going to stop at these very important moments for the economy in the region of Chernobyl and in general for the social sphere. For four years, we've been on the ground, you know, and we can't open two very important economics both for Ukraine and for transit, and for the residents who live in those areas, two points of entry. It's first of all "Dekavets-Rakovets" and "Krasnoyls-Vikovo de Sus." In fact, the big titanium work was done three years ago, when this money came into the state fiscal service accounts, and they're not state budget funds, they weren't at the time, they were grants that were provided through the neighborhood and partnership program "Ukraine-Romania-Moldova." We have shown, for our part, a lot of non-economic activity and disrespect for those countries that help us, especially European countries that help us integrate into European society. What I'm saying is that of these 4 million who were given to build up those points of entry, and also to strengthen our border infrastructure, only 300,000 euros were actually acquired, and they were returned to the State Fiscal Service. A construction organization that built 80 percent of the two buildings that would open the road and transit and thus allow residents to use this price imbalance and earn a copy for their family, it did not happen, unfortunately. We've survived two premieres, we'll probably survive a third and a fourth, but if the question stays in place and no one intervenes, then, believe me, people will give us a full assessment. I'm going to the government again. Make this State Fiscal Service work. We're not interested in the people of the Chernobyl area who will be in charge of the fiscal service. We're afraid to hear when you can add 20 million to the money that the European Union has given you and build these points of entry. But in parallel, we read from the newspapers that the State Fiscal Service provides 68 million dollars for the reconstruction and repair of its basement facilities. It's not just spitting in our people's faces, it's just disrespecting the state budget. Listen to us, listen to us -- I'm talking to Kabmin again, to the leadership -- to get this service to work fully. Because it's going to come.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-19-m0.u3	30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-19-m0.u4	In case we don't get the money, the European Union through the Bureau of Cross-border Cooperation, which gives us the next grants for neighbourhood and partnership programmes, they won't put this money on infrastructure projects. And now there's 20 million euros stuck on the border that we're supposed to go to our budgets, and accordingly, we're going to win them, we're going to improve our infrastructure. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-19-m0.u5	Reheva gives the floor to Areshonkov. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-19-m0.u6	Vladimir Aresonkov, 64 constituency, Žitomirščina. Honorable Colleagues and Distinguished Viewers! It's approaching the end of 2018, and we're summarizing some work. And, of course, it has to be acknowledged that one of the priorities that the Supreme Council and the Ukrainian government have been working on this year was the development of an education and science system in Ukraine. It's also about those adopted education laws, a whole series of laws that have to regulate the activity of this, this very important and sensitive, sphere. And I would like to remind you that one of the main issues in defining the challenges in the development of the education and science system was the question of raising the social status of educators, science teachers, teachers, teachers -- everyone who works in the education and science system today. And, of course, it is extremely important to establish a decent salary for teachers. And, of course, we should also welcome the fact that the Education Act separates the issue of regulation of promotion, the establishment of appropriate status and the importance of a decent salary for teachers. Of course, it is also important that the Cabinet of Ministers adopted a decision yesterday that also regulates the raising from 1 January to 20 percent of the salary for higher school staff, for science and education workers, and to a certain extent the raising of wages applies to teachers in general schools. The only thing I'd like to ask is that we need to clearly define and settle from January 1st, April 1st, how much, for which the pay will be raised. Because the state of affairs of today is not clearly defined, although the media are all over the news that such an increase will take place. Another important point that I'd like to stress is that the question of the wages of teachers of children's sports schools is not settled, this category of teachers has fallen out of the Cabinet of Ministers. That's why I'm paying attention today to both the Ministry of Education and the Ministry of the Family, young people: you need to settle this question, you need to bring this category up and raise the salary for the trainers. This is an extremely important way of working with young people.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-19-m0.u7	Thank you. Welcome to the speech of the People's Deputy of Teteruk.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-19-m0.u8	Dear Madam Chairman! Dear colleagues, national MPs! Dear Ukrainian people! First of all, I welcome all the Orthodox with St. Nicholas. May he bring prosperity, peace, and happiness to our homes. About the subject of my speech. As long as the military is holding the front in the east, politicians in Ukraine have to gain courage and rise from the political trench, not be cowards, and not live with a deal with the Fifth Column, to protect the country inside from a rematch. In the corridors of power, bullets do not fly, mortars do not strike, tanks are not fired, so it is good to gain courage and, after five years of the Dignity Revolution, to call the enemy an enemy and firmly reject the threat of Russia’s capture plan through the information hybrid war. We need to be aware that if politicians don't do their jobs here, there may be no return for the Ukrainian soldier to Ukraine. We cannot be cowards, conjunctors, and collaborators when it comes to our own country. In fact, yesterday, on the channels of Putin Medvedchuk, they celebrated "Berkut", who shot people in Midan. Former Colts of Yanukovich cynically demean the Dignity Revolution, calling it a coup d'état, and members of the Dignity Revolution criminals. Either Ukrainian independence will protect itself, or we risk losing the historic chance that God and Ukrainian heroes have given us. The People's Front is initiating the establishment of a temporary commission of inquiry into the facts of interference in the electoral political process and the information space of Ukraine of the Russian Federation and Ukrainian citizens associated with the power of the aggressor State, particularly Agent Putin Medvedczuk. We're looking at all the factions' heads and waiting for proposals for representatives to come to this committee. This will show who is here for the country’s independence and who are supporters of Putin and his proselyte forces. Together to victory! Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-19-m0.u9	Thank you. I invite you to the floor of the People's Deputy Vilkul.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-19-m0.u10	Dear people of Ukraine, Groisman presented his priorities for the year 2019. We're reading at the top of the official Kabmin website: "We need to create an ecosystem for innovation and transfer technological solutions to the real economy." Is that harassment? Yeah, it's a lot like bullying. This is a series of empty slogans at a time when millions of Ukrainians do not know how to pay the utility bill for the next month, how to dress their children, how to buy medicine for their parents. The government lives in a parallel reality. Real life is that, even with official statistics, prices have risen 2.5 times since 2014, and social standards have been indexed by only 70 percent. By inflation, the authorities took at least a thousand dollars from each pensioner. I mean, if the government even indexed pensions, according to statistics that were understated, pensions would have to be 1,000 dollars per month more per person. We're still reading government plans. Another priority is the development of human capital. It's about quality education, and it's about continuing medical reform. In fact, it looks like this: the closing of schools, the closing of schools, the closing of a thousand and a half, the closing of health facilities in the village -- the FAPs and hospitals, and the rhetoric of the authorities about economic victories -- is destroyed by two simple figures: the minimum pension and the minimum subsistence rate in the 13th and 19th years. In the dollar equivalent, the minimum pension in 2013 is $118 (it's 949) and it's going to be in 2019, even after the increase, $53 more than twice as much. The subsistence minimum: 2013 – 147 dollars, 2019 – 66 dollars, more than twice as much. In fact, the country needs a normal, effective exit strategy, and we have it, and we implement it. Only a few months left before the election. I also want to welcome the entire Ukrainian people, every Ukrainian with Santa Day! May Nicholas bring peace to our country and prosperity to every family. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-19-m0.u11	I'd like to invite you to the floor of the People's Deputy Bondar.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-19-m0.u12	Good afternoon! Bondar Mikhailo, 119 constituency. I also want to join in the greetings of Santa Claus Day, to wish for prosperity, peace, and, above all, to win us. Yesterday we did not put the daily bill 9406 into order – this is a draft law amending some Ukrainian laws on the continuous supply of electricity to operators providing utility services and adjusting prices/tariffs for utilities. If this bill is included, very many issues will be addressed precisely by electricity supply. But after consulting Minenergo, we found that, unfortunately, there were no government carbon companies involved. And so in this law, it will be proposed in the Final Positions to write a provisional rule: "From 1 January 19th to 31 December 20th, universal services, except for residential and small non-profit consumers, are provided to suppliers of such services, as well as to budgetary institutions, regardless of the size of contractual capacity, to industrial enterprises of state-owned property, enterprises, institutions, organizations that provide water and water services, heating, street lighting, urban electricity transport, regardless of the size of contractual capacity, and to other consumers of electrical installations that are connected to electricity networks with a reliable capacity of up to 150 kilowats. During the specified period for budgetary institutions, irrespective of the size of contractual capacity, coal-based enterprises of state-owned property, enterprises, institutions, organizations that provide services of water supply and water supply, heat supply, street lighting, urban electricity, regardless of the size of contractual capacity, and other electricity consumers who are connected to electricity networks with a contractual capacity of up to 150 kilowatts, all the rights and obligations provided for in the Ukrainian Electricity Market Act are extended to small non-profit consumers with regard to the provision of universal services provided for in article 63 of this Act." So I want to ask the authors of this Law 9406 once again to take into account exactly this proposal in the End Positions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-19-m0.u13	Thank you. I'd like to invite you to the floor of the people's representative of Burbak.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-19-m0.u14	Good afternoon! Yesterday, the People's Front announced the establishment of a Temporary Investigation Commission to investigate the facts of interference in the electoral political process and the information space of Ukraine by the aggressor country of Russia and Ukrainian citizens associated with the power of the aggressor state, particularly Medvedczuk and others. And I emphasize that we expect the heads of factions and groups of their representatives to work in the TSC. The commission's task is not just to investigate what has already been done. As national MPs, we should not allow a repulsive rematch in Ukraine. If someone thinks that a Kremlin rematch is just a strain that they're afraid of, and it doesn't apply to him or Ukraine in general, I can be disappointed. In local authorities, the rematch is on its way. It is in the center of Medvedchuk and part of the Opoblok that have recently been united, and in places this tandem has long been friends against the Ukrainian people. I want to take a particular example of the Montenegrin City Council showing how they plan to do this across Ukraine. In Chernobyl, in July-month this year, a bunch of firtasho-medvedchuk mudscuses (also called in the Chernivs) moved the people's elected city head Alexia Kaspruk and immediately showed how they know how to manage. They've put their superiors in all positions, and it doesn't matter that there's no experience or special education, and the main thing is that they can steal. Within five months of such farming, the city looks like a bombardment — all roads are buried. Because in the early winter, they decided to lay asphalt, although yesterday the city was too snowy. And now I advise them not to take away the snow, at least the children will enjoy it. You will not make the way, and you will not have to clean the snow, nor will you spare any more. The second affair of this company is that companies are built to serve multi-houses. In these companies, one person worked for two companies (the status of the contest). Now there's a reference from the State Fiscal Service that they don't pay taxes, secondly, that they even employ people and pay them in envelopes. Well, that's their usual theme. Next. The goal of the so-called "Firtash Medvedczuk" managers in Chernów is to drink gold as soon as possible. And if we don't stop this slippery Kremlin swamp, it can spread to other city councils or village councils. We have presidential, parliamentary elections ahead, and then we have local elections. We believe that the TSC should also investigate sources of financing for proputin media. These are television channels called Ukrainians, who work in secret for surrender to Russia, flood the dirt of Ukrainian military, whitewash terrorists and invaders. Of course, the TSC will not limit itself to either Medvedchuk or the TV channels or the company of his guides. At the same time, Putin’s negotiator should be of the greatest interest to the committee. I strongly urge the faction heads to support the TSC's draft People's Front Ordinance and to put their candidates into it. This is a matter of precedent: we must protect the will of the Ukrainians against the "Cremle dwarf." Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-19-m0.u15	Thank you. I'd like to invite you to the floor of the People's Deputies of Dudenkov. He was given the word to the MPs Moroko and Gusak, so it's six minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-19-m0.u16	Alexander Doubenkov, opposition block faction. Dear citizens, dear colleagues, we are now witnesses, observers, some active participants in the election campaign. The language, the faith, the army are the three who operate the actual coalition, because they can't hide anything else. Because the economy is in ruins, the investment attraction is not even talked about, because, God forbid, save those investors who had already entered Ukraine by 2014 and invested their money in Ukraine's economy. "It's a speech. Faith. Army." That's right. The talk of religion was very, very much talked about during the United Church Council. Europe is now drawing the attention of Ukrainians and Ukrainian authorities to how they carry out their national policy to realize the rights of Ukrainian citizens to use the language they speak. What is the President, his team, the coalition, the factions that were once part of a coalition that seem to call themselves opposition, but they are all supporters of the coalition that they are proposing in the Ukrainian Education Act adopted by them, and what do they propose in the Ukrainian Language Act that is being considered today by a committee of profile, and that may be voting tomorrow or in any case before the presidential election? During this week, the Council of Europe adopted a resolution that once again warned Ukraine against the violent Ukrainianization of schools, from forced coercion, from coercing Ukrainian citizens who do not speak Ukrainian, for whom there is another native language, particularly that more than 50 percent of Ukrainian citizens are Russian - speaking. For me, too, Russian is my native language of communication. But at the same time, the Council of Europe is talking about Ukraine using non-democratic values and tools to implement language policy. What, in particular, does it call for Ukrainian authority? Everyone knows that in September last year, the Ukrainian Education Act was passed, and it is so discriminatory, in the opinion of the Council of Europe, it is not only my subjective idea, how many members of the Coalition and the Supreme Council of Ukraine might feel, that the Council of Europe is saying that it is unacceptable in the form in which the Supreme Council of Ukraine has adopted an edition of the Ukrainian Education Act, its existence, this norm, because it grossly violates the rights of national minorities. We have before the decision of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine the Ukrainian Act on the Basic Principles of State Language Policy. And we had so-called regional languages. Regional languages are languages anchored by national minorities. And according to the Constitutional Court and applicable legislation, according to article 10 of the Constitution of Ukraine, which provides for the free use and protection of Russian and other languages of national minorities, it has been pointed out that they can learn, apply in institutions, in public institutions, in local government of the language of national minorities. What is now being proposed? In fact, effective authority is now on the path of forced Ukrainianization and neglect of the rights of national minorities. The European Union calls for the implementation of the Recommendations of the Venice Commission No. 902/2017 of 11.12.2017, which emphasises that Article 7, paragraph 4, does not provide a solution to the problem for languages that are not official to the European Union and, in particular, to the Russian language, which is the most common language of communication. It is noted that a less favorable attitude toward Russian is difficult to justify. And for that reason, there is a problem of discrimination. So, the European Union, the Council of Europe, which is a model of democracy, coming out of your speeches, they say, "Come on! There is no need to extend and implement discriminatory standards. Step aside, protect the languages of the national minorities." Such an impression is that the Supreme Council is living in some parallel reality, it does not see it, and many of the deputies who speak Ukrainian begin to speak Russian in the watchtowers. They do not see that the majority of the Ukrainian population communicates in Russian. In addition to Russian, there are languages of national minorities: Romanian, Hungarian. And for some reason, we're listening to Romanians and Hungarians, and now even a registered bill that the current authority wants to push out, but it's all limited to the official languages of the European Union. Whose interests do you defend? The interests of citizens who simply require basic guarantees of implementation. use the language they communicate with. I'll say again, "The Opposition Block" will support this legislative initiative if the right to defend the Russian language is embodied in these legislative initiatives. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-19-m0.u17	Thank you. I invite you to the floor of the People's Deputy Refat Chubarov.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-19-m0.u18	Dear Leader, colleagues! Today, Russian invaders in Crimea are making illegal arrests, arrests, searches. A week ago, December 12th, when crossing the administrative line between mainland Ukraine and temporarily occupied Crimea, he was illegally detained, later arrested, Eden Beckirov, 57 years old, Ukrainian citizen, resident of the village of Novoleksiyevka in the Herson district. Eden is a public figure, one of the important people of the Genician region, but at the same time he suffers from a host of severe diseases: diabetes, an amputated leg, this year he underwent a complex heart surgery, he was given four hams. Russian invaders are allegedly accusing Edom Bekirov of illegally acquiring and storing weapons and explosives. It was only yesterday that he was allowed a lawyer and it was found that no doctor had visited Eden in a week. Clearly, Russian invaders try to intimidate the Crimean Tatars by imprisoning Edem, a man of severe disease. This is a kind of revenge against the Crimean Tatars for their aid to an illegally detained Ukrainian sailor. Another question I'd like to focus on is that on December 14, 2018, there was an explosion in the city of Fastov on the 4th floor of a five - story building. As a result of the explosion, people were affected and their homes destroyed. 30 apartments, with 70 people who have been taken out of service, cannot live, is life - threatening. The city council of the past asked the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine about the allocation of funds from the State Budget Reserve Fund to provide housing for citizens affected by an extraordinary technological event. I would like my speech in this section to be considered a parliamentary request to the address of the Prime Minister of Ukraine. And I very much ask the Cabinet of Ministers to respond immediately to the allocation of funds for the disaster that took place in Fastov and thus to help people who lost their homes in the winter and in such colds. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-19-m0.u19	Thank you. So, colleagues, if there's no intrigue then, two more speeches, we have time. It's Yooffe who's giving Scorch, and Zlatchuk or Barna is getting ready. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-19-m0.u20	Dear citizens of Ukraine! Dear colleagues! Dear Chairman! This is the last session week of this year, and you can summarize. Let me, on behalf of the Opposition Platform for Life, greet our citizens with the coming New Year, with Christmas Christ. Today is the beginning of a whole series of New Year's and Christmas holidays, and I want to make sure that 2019 is much better for our citizens than 2018. Sadly, this year has become a year of disappointment for Ukrainian citizens. Regrettably, once again the expectations of our citizens to return to Ukraine have not been met. Unfortunately, the President and Parliament did not have the political will to activate the peace process in Ukraine, to activate the Minsk Accords, and unfortunately, we have today's exacerbation of the conflict in the eastern part of our nation. This year, the President and Parliament adopted a completely heist budget for the following year. This budget provides almost 400 billion dollars to secure our nation’s external loans. And when the authorities say that it's like borrowing from previous years, from previous powers, it's absolutely not true. Because when this power came into power, our nation’s debt amounted to 560 billion dollars, we are now entering the new year 2019, with debt of 1 trillion 200 billion, and there we seem to be another 260 billion dollars. This is an absolutely unrealistic sum, and all Ukrainian citizens feel this kind of politics. Talk about how much of a victory is that we finally got a loan from the IMF. This is an absolute disgrace to the state, because the conditions that are to be met under the IMF Memorandum are absolutely insurmountable for Ukrainian citizens. This is primarily the case with gas tariffs. Our political power, "The Opposition Platform for Life" and its leader, Yuri Boyko, along with a number of deputies, have registered an appropriate bill in the Supreme Council concerning the introduction of a normal price for gas, based on the price of gas for their own production, based on the price of imported gas, and this can definitely be done. And we insist that this bill be put into the hall. We are confident that, unfortunately, the issues before the state can be resolved only after the presidential and parliamentary elections.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-19-m0.u21	Ten seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-19-m0.u22	We are confident that in the new year, Ukraine will have normal power to bring peace and economic development to Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-19-m0.u23	Thank you. And a closing statement. Report to the microphone. Svetlana Zlatchuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-19-m0.u24	Dear colleagues, I give the word to Vadim Krivohatka.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-19-m0.u25	Yeah, I'd like to put a picture there, we got a deal. Look, dear colleagues, you have Governor of Zaporez County on screen, Constantine Brill. It's a normal exercise. Although the governor of the frontal area could use his time more perfectly. But that's not the problem. The problem is not even that he went fishing on boats owned by conservationists and purchased for the local budget. That's not the problem. The problem is that after the governor went out to parchment the hammer, the game continued, and as a result, the man was killed. One of the department's employees, the director of the department of combat. Well, UBEP, Major of the Police. I don't know how he found himself in Zaporozhye with the Chief of Fisheries Inspection, the Catastrophe. Cutter failed to manage and killed a man. And that's not even the problem, even though it's a serious crime. The problem is that by this day, this fish watchman has been reinstated and is already on Facebook showing that he is at work. Please tell me, I'm going to the Attorney General, and I'm going to the police chief: how can it be that a person involved in a murder is not punished or even gone to work? That's a terrible problem. So I'm compiling. First. Let him fish, but the boats he fished on belong to the state purchased for government money. Cutter wasn't registered. The men who were on the fishing boat were drunk. Man is dead! And no matter what, no matter what it is, the head of the fishing force of Dmitri Chaika is working today, you know? Well, at least stop them from showing up on Facebook, don't tease people, you know! This one on Facebook shows what a fisherman he is, a fool, he shows that I'm already at work who wants to go fishing. As a matter of fact, I don't know how long the President's Administration is going to annoy Zaporozhye area with this Brilem, will you tell me? Is such an irreplaceable person? Is there no one here? I don't know, until after Brill took office, the area didn't know that. Even at Anishim, the thief who was at Yanukovich was greatly reduced in wages and taxes. I've got everything.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-19-m0.u26	Thank you. Thus, the time for the speeches by the national deputies is over. But, colleagues, I would like to inform you that the Regulatory Committee has taken a decision on the draft Decision repealing the decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine of 06.12.2018 on the adoption as a whole of a bill amending the Ukrainian Budget Code (8044-P). Under the law after the decision of the committee, I have an immediate decision to make for the consideration of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Therefore, I invite both the authors and the representatives of the regulatory committee. Now we're going to consider this decision. The authors will report to Andrew Illenko. Mr. Paul, the authors will report to Andrew Illenko, and then to the committee. So we're going to Project Order 8044-P. And I invite you to the report of the Ukrainian National Deputy Andrey Illenka. Please, Mr. Andrew.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-19-m0.u27	Andrew Illenko, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union, the city of Kiev. To your attention, the draft Decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine repealing the decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine of 06.12.2018 on the adoption as a whole of a bill amending the Ukrainian Budget Code (as regards the legal basis for the implementation of medium-term budgetary planning). Dear colleagues, this decree, it was registered by freedom deputies, because during the consideration of this issue, this bill in the Supreme Council of Ukraine was a grave violation of the Supreme Council Rules. And this, unfortunately, is not the first time, unfortunately, it's already getting signs of a systemic phenomenon. And this is specifically about the numerous non-personal voting of Ukrainian national deputies, the impersonal voting of Ukrainian national deputies, and also about the violation of the deadlines for the provision of materials to Ukrainian national deputies. — Rule 117 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules. During the discussion of this issue, the Ukrainian national deputy Levchenko, during his talk on amendments 17, 18, 39, 41, 54 and 110, drew the attention of the presiding officers at the plenary meeting, during the consideration of the matter, to a violation of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules, in particular the provisions of article 117, when preparing for consideration. So I call on the Ukrainian National Deputies to vote in favour of this decision, to annul this decision, which has been made in a wrong way. I don't even touch the contents of this question right now, although there's a lot to talk about. But we must put an end to these facts of buttoning, we must stop the facts of the violation of the Rules, especially as there is already the practice of the Constitutional Court, which annulled the decision on the basis of the violation of the procedure for adopting them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-19-m0.u28	Thank you. The co-report invites the first deputy head of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the Rules and Organization of Work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Phinehas Pavel Vasilovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-19-m0.u29	Dear Head, dear colleagues! The committee considered the application of National Deputy Levchenk Jury to the Head of the Supreme Council for the removal of violations of the Rules of Procedure adopted at the time of the decision of the Supreme Council on Bill 8044 and introduced the draft Decree 8044-P repealing the decision of the Supreme Council of 06.12.2018 on the adoption as a whole of a bill amending the Code of Budgets. The National Deputy Levchenko reasoned on the need to abolish the relevant decision of the Supreme Council by inpersonal voting of Ukrainian national deputies, referring to article 47 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules and a violation of the deadlines for the provision of material to Ukrainian national deputies (this is article 117 of the Supreme Council Rules). He noted this during his talks and discussed amendments 17, 18, 39, 41, 54, and 110. We have already stressed during the consideration of similar regulations on a number of occasions that the establishment of a nonpersonal vote is being considered. I'm a member of the People's Department. is not considered by the committee, and should be violated entirely directly during the consideration of the bill in the sitting room in accordance with the procedure provided for in the 47th Rules. And we've also been paying attention to that line. That the question of the time-limits for the submission of material to the second reading bill relates to the preliminary preparation for the consideration of the bill and is not part of the procedure for consideration and voting for it. This is also true of the decision we are considering today. In accordance with part 8 of article 48 of the Rules, the Committee adopted a conclusion on the draft Decree 8044-P and invites the Supreme Council to decide whether to adopt it or to reject it by voting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-19-m0.u30	Thank you. So, colleagues, please record the performance. Please take part in the discussion. Please. From the Self-Help faction of Roman Semenich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-19-m0.u31	Semenha Roman, "The Self-Help Union" faction. Dear colleagues, of course, buttoning is a disgraceful phenomenon of the Ukrainian Parliament, and the eighth cadence is, unfortunately, no exception. If, indeed, there is confirmation that voting in favour of the bill was a sign of buttoning, it would certainly have to be voted on. But I would like to say a few words about the content of the law itself, more faithfully, the draft Law on the Implementation of Medium-term Budget Planning. I am convinced that without the responsibility of officials, particularly the Ministry of Finance, the law will make little sense. Note at least what happens to the pension deficit figures. Remember how part of the deputy corps voted in favour of the so-called pension reform of Groysman, where the goal was to stabilize the pension deficit at 139 billion dollars. Moreover, the three-year budget resolution, which was submitted by the government at that time, stated that the deficit of the Pension Fund would amount to $139 billion during 2018, 2019 and 2020, but already this year as a result of, inter alia, colossal estimates and the Ministry of Social Policy and the Ministry of Finance, the MPs have already increased the deficit of the Pension Fund to 150 billion dollars this year. Moreover, in the 2019 budget, this Parliament approved for the following year, the pension deficit is projected at 167 billion dollars, and this is not the end. And that means that colleagues, as far as the Ministry of Finance's calculations go, the Ministry of Social Policy will be covered manually by the Cabinet of Ministers at the expense of taxpayers. So, colleagues, without introducing the responsibility of specific ministers for incompetence, failure to calculate basic figures, this law will unfortunately make little sense. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-19-m0.u32	Thank you. From the Opposition Block of Dudenkov Alexander Valeriyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-19-m0.u33	Alexander Dudenkov's Opposition Block. The Opposition Block faction will support that determination. So we're against the fact that the current power, the coalition, is talking about some kind of medium-term planning. What is medium-term planning? This is a three-year schedule: for the budget period and for the two planned budget periods, the deadlines. But why are we against it? Of course, fiscal policy stability is a very good element. element. An integral element of budgetary state policy. But we're against population and eye-scarring -- ordinary Ukrainians, because the current power and the current coalition is disrupting the budget process. In accordance with the current budget regulation you are violating, the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine is in violation of the budget resolutions, the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine is in breach of the budget review deadline, the Supreme Council of Ukraine is in breach of the procedure laid down in the Rules for the consideration of the relevant State Budget Act for the following year. As for the substance of the budget that was adopted next year, there is nothing comforting about the citizens of Ukraine, because 40 percent of the income part of the budget will go to our strategic partners for loans and interest payments. These are the funds that could be used to develop infrastructure, social assistance to citizens whose income levels are much lower than those in 2013. How could they not say that the predecessors were bad, but the figures speak for themselves? At GDP level, economic development and social security levels, the five-year rule of government did not justify itself or achieve the indicators that were in the 13th year. Therefore, I ask you to support this decision and to lift this legislative initiative.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-19-m0.u34	Thank you. From Peter Prashenko's Block, Melnik Sergey Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-19-m0.u35	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to ask you not to support this decision, because we are taking the first and most important step in the transition to medium-term planning, and this will allow us to adopt the budget declaration for the next year for the first time, and to move from a budget resolution to a declaration, from a resolution where there were, as always, many criticisms, some slogans, to a declaration. And this will allow us not to argue here in the room about the support of the producers, and every year we place great hopes on the Ministry of Profiles and the Committee of Profiles, that is, the Hall will identify mechanisms and tools in one way or another, in one way or another, in the direction of budget support and the definition of budget as a tool for supporting Ukraine's economy. So I'm asking you not to support this decision and allow the Ministry of Finance to make a budget declaration next year. This will give us the opportunity to work on it later. Of course, there are many, such as form critics, by content. But in the case of a new application, it will be an opportunity for us to work on it and take the next step towards changing the budget, the state budget of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-19-m0.u36	Thank you. From the People's Front, the head of the Maksim Burbak faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-19-m0.u37	Dear colleagues, the People's Front faction will not support this decision. We see, once again, they want to block the adoption of the budget, the adoption of very important bills for Ukraine. They don't vote for the budget, but then they register. Therefore, I believe that medium-term budgetary planning is a step forward in the budgetary process and in reforming the budgetary process itself, and preparing the budget for consideration. So, your honors, once again, I ask everyone not to support this decision, and we are voting now and moving on to the next question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-19-m0.u38	Thank you. Do they still intend to speak? Please, from Fatherland, Sergey Sobolev. And whoever intends to speak, just give us the information.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-19-m0.u39	Dear colleagues, I'm surprised you voted on a budget night to create a mafia registration in Ukraine. You've all told your voters that in order to sell any item in Ukraine, you'll have to register with the mafia, private entrepreneurs pay at least a thousand dollars to verify how the registration was conducted. You've all told your voters how you've shared these two billion that you're going to get out of this? You've been shared with each and every one of you! Do you know that now the notary in order to conclude a deal (this, thanks to you, on a budget night) has to go to a private structure to get help that the registration service that gave the property assessment didn't lie? Don't you realize that now a thousand bracelets in the smallest village to sell the basic thing, you, the national electorate of the majority factions, of others who have voted, have voted to have a thousand bracelets taken from each piece? You don't mind? And after that, you continue to vote. But come here, all of you, repent for what you have done! Two billion dollars were voted for by the so - called budget. And after that, the minister of justice has instructed notaries to collect 590 dollars from each citizen for another reference. Do you have a conscience?Oh, my God! I'll see how you go to the districts, how you go to advertise. The list of all those who voted in favour of amending the Code of Budgets is yours, the ones who decided.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-19-m0.u40	30 seconds, please. So, colleagues, are there still willing to speak from factions, groups? The discussion is over. And we're moving on to making a decision, colleagues. Everyone, please prepare for the vote, take your seats. So I remind you that whoever supports the law - does not vote in favour of the decision, who wants to repeal the law and considers it right - votes in favour. And I'm voting on the draft Decree repealing the decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine of 06.12.2018 on the adoption as a whole, as a bill amending the Ukrainian Budget Code (the legal basis for the implementation of medium-term budgetary planning) (No. 8044-P) as a whole. If you support the adoption of this decision, please vote. Let's vote, colleagues. [[10:57:12]] For-49 The decision is not taken. Colleagues, and this allows me to sign today the draft Law amending the Ukrainian Budget Code (as regards the legal basis for the implementation of the midterm budget planning), and I will do so immediately after the conclusion of the plenary session. So the decision is rejected. I want to inform you that the Presidency has received a call from two factions, Self-Help and Fatherland, for a recess, and they're ready to take a break. And after that, colleagues, according to our annual tradition, I'll invite you into the Scouts' Hall to serve the Bethlehem Fire. And so I'm asking everyone to come into the hall, in three or four minutes, I'm going to invite the Band-Aids, and it's going to be the right thing for everyone to come back to the hall during this event. Now from two factions, I invite you to the performance of Jegor Sobolev. Please, three minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-19-m0.u41	Katerina Butko, an activist from Automidan, addressed me and asked me to hear these facts on the parliamentary stand. It's very important for people to know that right now, active judges have to delegate four of their representatives to the High Council of Justice. The Supreme Council of Justice is the main body for the selection and punishment of judges who do not meet the standards of integrity that do not exercise justice. And one of the problems that this House doesn't solve, which is not resolved by the President, is that it fills the High Council of Justice with principled people. When people come to the courts and they can't get the law when business comes and they can't get property protection, it's all covered up and managed by the High Council of Justice. Automidan requests attention to candidates who claim to be delegated from judges to the High Council of Justice. They're judges who have no place to put the stamp. They are judges who have participated in the repression of the court. They are judges who cannot explain their possessions without exception. I just want to give you one example. A gift of an apartment and a parking lot in the very center of the capital. The Leipzig Tower class building on Istituto Street. The price of a gift is between 20 million and 50 million dollars. These are the people who want to represent the judges in the Supreme Council of Justice. Clearly, if they get there, they will continue to cover corruption and continue to cover injustice. Sadly, the same is true of Attorney General Yuri Lucenko. Under the Constitution, he has the right, along with other prosecutors, to delegate two representatives of the Public Prosecutor's Office to the High Council of Justice. What's interesting is this has to be done in April in an orderly manner, according to the procedures that are set out. But Yuri Lucenko is in some kind of haste, apparently, for the results of the presidential election, as the Automidan representatives think, and not just them. Similarly, all five candidates who want to be representatives of the Public Prosecutor’s Office in the Supreme Council of Justice have failed public integrity checks. I ask the Speaker of Parliament to entrust the Anti-Corruption and Legal Committee of the Council to take control of the situation and, together with the Anti-Corruption Bureau, to help prevent it.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-19-m0.u42	30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-19-m0.u43	Justice.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-19-m0.u44	It's all right, isn't it? So, dear colleagues, I'm asking the national MPs to come into the hall. I invite all the national deputies to the hall. Colleagues, return to the hall, now the canvasses will enter, especially where they will enter, if not difficult. Please take up jobs. Ladies and gentlemen, since 1986 in the whole free Christian world, there has been a beautiful forewarned youth action: Scouts from all over the world have been lighting fires from lamps in Bethlehem at the birthplace of Jesus Christ and handing them over to each family by Christmas. This light is passed on to temples, public institutions, hospitals, and children’s homes. Ukrainian plates spread this fire in Ukraine. It is a sign that they will bring this fire to the fore for our Ukrainian defenders so that soldiers who are far away from their families will be able to feel the spirit of Christmas. I invite the placards to bring the Bethlehem Fire of Peace from the birth of Jesus Christ to the Plenary Hall. And, colleagues, let's welcome our canvasses with applause. [[Applause]] I'd like to invite you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-19-m0.u45	Ladies and gentlemen, this has become a fine tradition for the platters -- to pass the Bethlehem Fire of Peace to the Supreme Council every year. This is a great honor for us. Bethlehem's fire of peace is an important Christmas symbol, and it's been spread to schools, churches, state institutions, public organizations and Donbas for 20 years. On the front to symbolically warm our warriors. It is very important that this light, as a symbol of Christmas, should come to anyone who cannot be at home during these Christmas days, near the family. As this fire spreads, scouts around the world aim to spread and remind us of the importance of good, love, unity, and peace. In our day - to - day lives, we can forget about these important things, but they remain relevant, especially in anticipation of Christmas. Just 30 years ago, in 1988, in the underground youth newspaper "The Heritage", published in Lviv, Andrew Parubius wrote an article on the need to revive the young scout organization "The Plast". [[Applause]] And today, on behalf of the National Scout Organization of Ukraine, Plast, we express our gratitude to the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Andrey Parbia, the honorary sheet and the man who stood near the origins of the rebirth of Plast in Ukraine, and the support of the Ukrainian scout youth movement. Thank you to all the national MPs who are aware of the importance of supporting the young scout movement, and to all who are helping the Plast to raise future leaders in Ukraine. We want to convey to the Head of the Supreme Council and to the entire Parliament this Bethlehem fire as a symbol of love, good and unity. May he inspire you to make a wise decision for the benefit of our nation, as well as to give you Christmas joy in anticipation of Christ’s birth. Thank you! SSCOB and the glory of Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-19-m0.u46	Dear colleagues, the National Scout organization Plast is one of the largest and oldest youth organization in Ukraine. Ukrainian Plast has been around for over 100 years. At the time of the creation of the Plast, there were hundreds and thousands of Ukrainian leaders in his ranks. Among them are prominent personalities such as the chief commander of UPA Roman Suhevich, such as UN leader Stepan Bandera, a smoker of Red Calin, world famous economist Bogdan Gavrilishin, Cardinal Lubomir Guzar. And I, on behalf of the Parliament for my credits to the Ukrainian people, am awarding the Plast, the National Scout Organization of Ukraine, the Honourable Literacy of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Congratulations on "Plass"! Strong, red, careful, bistro-SCOB! Thank you very much to the plastics! Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-19-m0.u47	Thank you, thank you, children! Thank you, plastics! You have succeeded and won all of us! S.H.I.E.L.D.! Glory to Ukraine! Colleagues, everyone can take the Bethlehem Fire from the Supreme Council to their homes. But we continue to work hard. And, colleagues, we have today, as we agreed on the Conciliation Council, a draft law amending the Ukrainian Code of Land and some other legislation on anti-reception. I would like to remind you that the Conciliation Council has been called upon by the chairman of the committee to allow this bill, which is large enough and has a large number of rights, to be considered today and to vote tomorrow. Let me remind you, tomorrow we're going to have one of the two blocks on the table -- that's a block of agrarian politics. And in that block, we're going to consider all of the questions that concern the continuation of the moratorium on land sales. But so that tomorrow we don't take a half hour and two hours of deliberation together at the Conciliation Council, we agreed that today we're going to start a review of Law 8121 so that tomorrow we can vote and make a decision on it. And so, colleagues, I'm announcing a move towards a draft law amending Ukraine's Land Code and some other legislation on anti-registration (No. 8121). And I invite the head of the committee's subcommittee on agrarian policy and land relations, Kulinich Oleg Ivanovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-19-m0.u48	Good afternoon, dear fellows! For your consideration, the draft Ukrainian Law on Amendments to Ukraine’s Land Code and some other anti-registration legislation (registration number 8121) is presented for your second reading. I would like to remind you that the bill is designed to address those problems in legislation that are causing immigration in the agricultural sphere. Today, this is a huge problem in the field. We have many cases where the composition of their participants changes without the knowledge of farm participants. Regrettably, the extended scheme is to register on the basis of old land leases with other tenants. The bill is complex and contains a number of measures to combat this shameful phenomenon. In particular, landowners and shareholders are given the opportunity to establish, on their own initiative, a notary form of all transaction documents with these objects. The specified loads will be entered into state registers. All of this will take place voluntarily, through the signature of the owner of the corresponding requirement in the notary, and will allow them to insure themselves against falsification of land leases and changes in the membership of the household. Also important, the bill obliges the government to conduct an inventory of all land areas missing from the State Land Cadastre. Today, this is about 20 percent of the total number of plots formed. This is about 8 million land areas. Unfortunately, they are only in paper form today, and they are not reflected in the electronic base of the State Land Cadastre. Draft law of the State Land cadastre. The bill foresees the government’s obligation to organize and report on land - based work to the cadastre in the form of electronic documents. Filling the inventory of such land areas would make it impossible for a large number of raiding schemes, including the double registration of land leases. The bill also fully automates the relationship between the State Land cadastre and the State Register of Real Estate Rights. Now these relationships are going in semi-automatic mode, they're exchanging queries and answers. For example, a land lease is being registered, and the registrar asks the cadastre whether there are old leases. In practice, the answer may come in time or not at all. As a result, the old contract registers a new lease with another tenant. The bill foresees automatic interaction, all necessary information will be drawn up on its own, without human intervention, so we do the technical impossibility of abuse. The bill also foresees that the cadastre will be able to extract all information about the land and cadastre information, official information.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-19-m0.u49	Colleagues, the reporter asks for time to report. I don't think anyone will mind, it's an important bill. Please, five minutes. Oleg Ivanovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-19-m0.u50	Thank you. The bill also foresees that the cadastral will be able to extract all information about the land and cadastre information and the official information of the State Register of Rights. That's the real principle of a single window. In addition, the bill provides the opportunity to obtain any information from the State Land Inventory in electronic form. A person on the Internet with a paper document will be able to do so. The person pays for the relevant information -- and immediately online, he gets an extract, he doesn't have to go to the paperwork. Paper extracts, which unfortunately are often faked, have to go back in time, should not exist at all. The bill for the state registration of land leases provides for very substantial changes. Today, a register of real estate rights is built exclusively on the application principle. What does that mean? The lease period of the land has long expired, and in the register it will forever be counted as valid until one of the parties makes an application to register the termination of the contract. The bill changes this phenomenon. The registration will be clearly linked to the lease periods. All rental information will be in the register only until the date indicated in the lease agreement. The bill also introduces substantial changes to the procedure for the renewal of contracts. Today, we have a situation where instead of the tenant's written offer to renew the owner's contract, empty envelopes and so forth are sent. As a result, we often fail to say whether there is a lease or not. This is widely used by raiders. The bill provides an order in this matter, and the whole process of renewal will go through a register of rights. If the contract provides for automatic extension, each party will be able to cancel the renewal by applying for registration. If an application is made, the contract is excluded from the register, if not, the registration records the fact that the contract is renewed. In addition to the regulations, the bill contains many other money aimed at combating raids. I hope that they will help us to communicate in this regard. Since the adoption of the bill in the first reading by the legislators, 188 amendments and proposals have been submitted to the committee. These are suggested to be taken into account in whole, in part, or in part, 113 minus 75. On behalf of the committee, I would like to thank the staff of the committee secretariat, all the members of the agrarian committee, who have done a huge job and drafted a comprehensive bill. I would also like to thank the representatives of the State Department, the Ministry of Justice, the professional associations that have been very active in preparing the bill for second reading. And it's the acceptance of it in time, because we have a lot of references from profile associations, from district government administrations, from farmers, from agrarians who have been asking for this bill to finally become law, and we have really protected our farmers, our agrarians from such a disgraceful phenomenon as raiding. In my opinion, the bill has come out in a balanced, beautiful way, so I'm asking you, your honourable colleagues, to support the bill, to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine that you accept it in second reading and in general as a law. The only thing we've done is align the text of the bill with the factions. There is a position of the Fatherland faction on the transfer of the period of validity of changes to the Ukraine Earth Code on the order of electronic land trade: by 1 January 2020. A pilot project from these deals is now under way, and it takes time to complete this project and evaluate its results. I think it's a perfectly logical proposition, so under the transcript I would like this proposal to really be taken into account, and this term has been changed to 01.01.2020. That is why the committee agrees. In view of the great amount of the bill, I ask that the committee, together with the Chief Legal Authority of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, undertake the technical and legal drafting of this bill. Thank you for your attention. And I ask you, Your Honor, to support this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-19-m0.u51	Colleagues, the bill has more than 200 rights. I'm going to call the license numbers, and accordingly, whoever intends to speak or put on confirmation, by raising their hand will be able to report it. So 1-a. Don't insist. 2nd. Don't insist. Third. Don't insist. Five, five. Please, Ivanchuk Andri Volodymyrovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-19-m0.u52	Dear Mr. Golovo, honourable Mr. Reporter, regulation number 5 of our colleague Martovicko. It foresees the second sentence of the second paragraph of paragraph 2 of section 1 and the bill after the words "holder of the land" to be supplemented by the words "except for the land of state and municipal property". Please explain why the committee did not support the amendment. In my opinion, it would be harmoniously embedded in the body of the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-19-m0.u53	Thank you, Mr. Andrey. Amendment 5 proposes to prohibit the State and the territorial communities from establishing the obligation of notarial certification of landscaping contracts. However, according to the committee, the state and the community should have the same means of combating raids as private owners. It is logical, then, that the committee rejected the amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-19-m0.u54	Thank you. Do you insist on voting? Yeah? People's deputies, please vote. [[11:23:05]] For-57 The decision is not taken. And the people's deputy, Martovitchki, insists. Please. It's also amendment number 5.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-19-m0.u55	Thank you. National MP Martovicki, 36 constituency, Pavlovgrad, Ternivka, Prvotravensk ( The Pavlovgrad district, the faction of the Opposition Block. The committee's decision is to propose: "The land owner may also establish a requirement for notary certification of the contract for the establishment and cancellation of the land service." I propose and say that the norm should not be extended to land areas of state and municipal property, because the actual introduction of the possibility of establishing the obligation to notarize the contract would increase the value of the waiter, as in the state. The utility budget is not going to be costed, so they're going to be put on the users of the waiter. So I propose and I demand that you put 5 amendments to the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-19-m0.u56	Please comment on the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-19-m0.u57	I would like to point out once again that, according to the committee, the state and the territorial communities should have the same means to combat raiding as private owners. It is logical, therefore, that the committee rejected your amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-19-m0.u58	Thank you. I understand that we have already voted, right, with respect to the 5 amendments, we have already decided. This was 57 votes in favour, and there was already a vote on this amendment. Let's move on. Next amendment, number six. Please, People's Deputy Ptashnik.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-19-m0.u59	Dear colleagues, I would like to point out that the bill's drafting proposes such a standard as that the owner may set a requirement for a certificate, a notary certificate of the contract. And this requirement will be considered a unilateral right. I understand absolutely the idea of preventing the re-entry of those who drafted this bill, but I want to say that from the point of view of civilism, this is absolute nonsense and absurdity. After all, please read what is a right that is considered a unilateral right, and you will probably realize that a unilateral right is what creates exclusive rights and responsibilities exclusively for the person who claims it. I don't really understand how this is going to work in practice and whether you've taken into account the relevant changes and all the civil legislation, because there was a lot that needed to be done at the time. So please support my amendment and rule it out.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-19-m0.u60	I'd like the committee to comment.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-19-m0.u61	The amendment was rejected by the committee because Amendment 6 proposes not to allow landowners to establish the obligation of notarial certification of a notarial agreement. a contract for the establishment of a land service. However, in the Committee's view, this is an effective means of combating the counterfeiting of signatures on such contracts, the more this is done on a voluntary basis. And we think, most of the members of the committee who have made such a decision, that it will be an effective means of combating raiding. That's why the committee rejected your amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-19-m0.u62	Thank you. The next amendment is number 7. Please, People's Deputies of Semimenah. Oh, I'm sorry, yes. You insist, the People's Deputy Birddog insists on voting. Please vote. [[11:27:06]] For-57 The decision is not made. Amendment number seven. People's deputy to Semimenach.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-19-m0.u63	Semenha Roman, "The Self-Help Union" faction. Dear colleagues, according to the draft law, the contract for the establishment of a land serviette can be certified notarized by the agreement of the parties. At the same time, the Civil Code provides that at the request of a natural person or a legal person, any contract for his involvement may be certified notary. So notaryus can't refuse such a certificate if it's a requirement of at least one party to the contract. So I suggest that we reconcile this issue, because we can't allow a double-trafficking committee at the legislative level, or this law will apply to the interests of individuals that we can't allow. Please be supportive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-19-m0.u64	Thank you. The committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-19-m0.u65	Amendment 7 basically duplicates the 6 amendments, and the logic of the committee was that voluntary certification is such an effective means of combating the raiding schemes that unfortunately exist today. I repeat, voluntary. And that's why the committee rejected your amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-19-m0.u66	Thank you. Do you insist on voting? People's deputies, please. Amendment 7. [[11:28:31]] For-52 The decision is not taken. Next amendment, number 8. People's MP, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-19-m0.u67	This amendment also applies to the establishment and determination of the requirement for a notary certificate as a unilateral right. I want to point out that the problem and the problems that will arise after the adoption of this bill have also been addressed by the Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration, and the Chief Legal Authority. And they also said that this would lead to an absolute lack of understanding of legislation and it would completely interfere with civil law. And I think if you ask scientists who have been involved in civil law for many, many years, they'll be very surprised by this design. So I suggest you either make changes in a complex way and make absolutely appropriate changes in all legislation, or don't interfere and change the concept and logic of what you have to consider to be right and what is required. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-19-m0.u68	Thank you. I'd like the committee to comment.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-19-m0.u69	Same comment as 6 to the right. I would like to point out that this rule is fully in line with both the Ministry of Justice and the Notary Chamber. And I don't think there's going to be any collegiates in the case of adoption, (and I hope this bill is adopted as law), and it's not going to work, and it's going to work. And that's really going to be an effective defense against the raiding schemes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-19-m0.u70	Thank you. Do you insist on voting? People's deputies, please identify yourself. [[11:30:25]] For-38 The decision is not taken. The next amendment is number 9, National Deputy Martovicki.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-19-m0.u71	People's MP Martovicki, faction of the Opposition Block. The final edition of the committee proposes: "By agreement of the parties, contracts to grant the right to use the land for agricultural purposes or to forget may be certified notarially." I believe that the standard should not extend to the land of state and municipal property, since the actual introduction of the possibility of establishing the obligation to notarize the contract would increase the value of the contract. And since the public utility budget does not provide for the cost of this, they will be placed on the users of the waiter. I'm asking you to place my amendment for confirmation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-19-m0.u72	Thank you. I'd like the committee to comment.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-19-m0.u73	Thank you. Amendment 9 proposes to prohibit the State and the territorial communities from establishing the obligation of notarial certification of emphysics and superficies contracts. However, according to the committee, the state and the community should have the same means of combating raids as private owners. It is logical, therefore, that the committee rejected your amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-19-m0.u74	Thank you. A national MP insists on voting. I'd like to make a statement. Amendment number nine. [[11:32:03]] For-47 The decision is not taken. The next amendment is number 10, the Ptashnik People's Deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-19-m0.u75	This amendment also refers to the cancellation of the need for a notary certificate of a claim as a separate right. You just pointed out that this idea is supported by both the Ministry of Justice and the Notary Chamber, so I'd like to hear a comment from you. How? This will be a separate notary action and accordingly this notary action will require a separate archiving procedure that will need to be done by notaries, a separate collection of documents that will be properly installed, and a bunch of paper documents will be placed under this notary action. In addition, this additional burden will also impose on our citizens, since this and the corresponding additional costs for this procedure will have to be paid. How is this regulated in the bill? What normative legal acts have already been developed to apply this in practice? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-19-m0.u76	I'd like the committee to comment.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-19-m0.u77	The comment will practically be the same as the previous one. According to the committee, voluntary certification is notionally logical for emphysics and superficies contracts. And according to the committee, both the state and the territorial communities should have the same means of combating raids as private individuals. So the committee rejected the amendment. I would also like to point out that the bill makes complex changes to the Civil Code, so all of this is consistent with civil law. Absolutely no extra paper, I don't think. And we consulted both the Notary Chamber and the private notaries, and we met with the Ministry of Justice. It'll work in practice, protect our agrarians from raiding patterns and captures. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-19-m0.u78	Thank you. You insist on voting, don't you? I'd like you to identify yourself. [[11:34:31]] For-39 The decision is not taken. Next amendment, number 11. People's deputy to Semimenach. Are you insisting?
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-19-m0.u79	I'm sorry, what's the readout?
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-19-m0.u80	11th. Don't insist. Okay. Next amendment, number 13. Declined. National Deputy Birddog, are you insisting? Don't insist. Okay. Next amendment, number 14. National MP Bakumenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-19-m0.u81	National MP Bakumenko, Peter Prashenko Block. Edit 14. The law proposes to clarify the wording of the second part of article 123 of the Ukrainian Code of Land, namely that the decision of the administrators of the state and municipal property in transferring them to use may not only be made on the basis of the land administration projects, but also on the basis of the other documentation provided for in the Code with the land structure under which the land was formed. We understand that the law is being applied in violation of the requirements of Rule 116. But do you think it is sufficiently regulated in article 123 of the Ukrainian Land Code that lists the types of land administration documents on the basis of which state and municipal land managers decide to transfer them to use? Perhaps there is a need to clarify that a decision can be made on the basis of the other land structure documentation provided for in the Earth Code, under which land formation was carried out? Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-19-m0.u82	I'd like the committee to comment.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-19-m0.u83	Thank you, Alexander Borisovich. Amendment 14 proposes editorial rights to article 123 of the Ukrainian Land Code, which defines the order of transfer of state and municipal property to rent, but the issue is not the subject of the bill. It is logical, then, that the committee rejected the amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-19-m0.u84	Thank you. Do you insist on voting? Please vote. [[11:36:46]] For-35 The decision is not taken. The next amendment is number 15, National Deputy Ivchenko. Are you insisting? No, it's not. The next amendment is number 17, People's Deputy Bird. 17. Don't insist. The next amendment is number 19. National MP Martovicki. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-19-m0.u85	Thank you. People's MP Martovicki, faction of the Opposition Block. I suggested that paragraph 5, paragraph 1, of the bill should be deleted. Because the proposed amendments in the bill will increase financial pressure on the owners when they acquire land rights on a competitive basis. The committee rejected my offer. So I'm asking the reporter to tell me why it's been rejected and to put my proposal on confirmation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-19-m0.u86	Thank you. I'd like the committee to comment.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-19-m0.u87	Thank you. Amendment 19 proposes to exclude from the bill the rule on increasing the guarantee of land trade. However, this standard is designed to combat the collapse of land auctions. I think that all those who are somehow involved in this or are interested in it know that today’s guarantee is very small. There are many times when a person wins an auction but refuses to pay his rent. In the Poltava region, for example, there were many such cases, not just in the Poltava region. This is a serious problem. And so according to the statistics of the holdingokadastra that we've been taking, we've been wondering, these cases make up a quarter of all the auctions we've auctioned. The bill increases the guaranteed contribution from 5 to 50 percent of the start-up rent. If the winner refuses to make a lease, this amount will not be refunded to him. I think it's perfectly logical and right. And this will allow us to avoid the abuses that unfortunately are currently taking place in the land trade. And they're really going to win.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-19-m0.u88	Please, 30 seconds, finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-19-m0.u89	And indeed, those who plan to process this land rather than abuse land trade and do not violate legislation will win, and will allow those who want to do so to actually win and process this land. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-19-m0.u90	Thank you. You insist on voting. People's deputies please identify themselves. [[11:39:37]] For-41 The decision is not taken. The next amendment is number 22, People's Deputy Ptashnik.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-19-m0.u91	21th Amendment of People’s Deputy Kulinic. Please turn on the microphone for the national MP Yvchenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-19-m0.u92	Dear colleagues! Vadim Yvchenko, "The Fatherland" faction. Thank you for bringing this up. But, at the same time, I'd like us to understand that we're introducing this regulation by electronic commerce. And we're always talking about strengthening the role of the local manufacturer, who actually has to process and process a suitable land area there, he has to take, have a right to participate, just the local manufacturer, in electronic commerce in a particular area. We do. And thank you for saying that we're going to drag, let's say, the year of electronic commerce. But please tell me, why don't you put the local manufacturer's priority in the process of actually competing in electronic commerce? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-19-m0.u93	I'd like the committee to comment.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-19-m0.u94	I thank you, Mr. Wadim, for having participated directly in the drafting of this bill, preparing it for the second reading. As far as electronic commerce is concerned, your proposal, I read it under the transcript, and the committee supports it so that we can postpone it until 01.01.2020. And with regard to the admission of local producers, well, this should be discussed either at the level of subcontractors, or at the level of the individual law, because there should be equal competition and we should not violate the Constitution, we should not violate the rights of citizens who want to process this land and pay a good wage, even if it is not a local farmer. So it's only from this logic that the committee rejected the amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-19-m0.u95	Thank you. You insist on voting, don't you, National Deputy Ivchenko? Oh, no?
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-19-m0.u96	It's counted.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-19-m0.u97	I understand that it is counted, but was there a requirement for confirmation? Thank you. Let's move on. Amendment number 22, People's Deputy Bird. I'm marked that the amendment is rejected. Do you insist? Please turn on the microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-19-m0.u98	There's actually this amendment that's essentially taken into account. So I think it's a mistake in the table, and just the secretariat needs to look more closely at the table and switch it down to essentially. Thank you. That's why I don't insist.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-19-m0.u99	Thank you. The next amendment is number 25, National MP. 24th. Please turn on the microphone to the national MP Yvchenk.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-19-m0.u100	Vadim Yvchenko, "The Fatherland" faction. Dear reporter, I wanted to point out, you know, we're always talking about rules, some rules of land circulation. So I want to remind you that there are certain priorities in these rules of circulation in any country. Well, for example, if you're in France, you can't take a land plot if you don't rent nine years. If you live in Denmark, you should live no more than 17 miles [17 km] from the site. What does that mean? This means that in these e-commerce orders, we would give priority to, for example, district producers who have the right to participate directly in e-commerce, we would give some priority. And so we have a situation where in Kiev, Kiev, there's a pseudo-farmer sitting in Kiev, taking part in all electronic commerce, and then taking part in this land. In fact, he gives these land to those farmers who work in the area. I'm just here to clean up the pseudo-farmers through.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-19-m0.u101	Thank you. And I'd like the committee to comment.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-19-m0.u102	I would like to point out that this question does not apply entirely to this bill, to the cause of the raid, to the fight against the raid. We, I think you know very well, all of these things, we counted the 7060 that we voted on. And that's why I think we're going to keep working on it both in the committee and in the session room, so that, in fact, someone who wants to work on the ground, who's going to pay rent, who's not going to be in the shadows and willing to work with you just for that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-19-m0.u103	Thank you. Don't you insist on confirmation? Thank you. 25 revisions. There's no insistence on a national MP. 28th. Don't insist. 26th. People's Deputy Ivanchuk, please. I'm sorry, I just heard. The Ptachnik National Deputy will be speaking. Yeah? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-19-m0.u104	It's obvious that I'm going to be the one to make my move. This amendment also refers to the notary recognition of this requirement as a unilateral right. I would like to read out the conclusion of the General Legal Directorate, which reads: "The legal structure of the establishment or cancellation of the requirement as a unilateral right is controversial because it does not comply with the relevant terms used in the Civil Code of Ukraine." A similar observation, by the way, was made in the conclusion of the Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration, which they gave to the first reading. And that's why I fully support our experts, and once again, I point out that the Civil Code does not agree with this institution, but our lawyers also notice it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-19-m0.u105	I'd like the committee to comment.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-19-m0.u106	Amendment 26 proposes to exclude from the bill the right of a member of a private enterprise to establish the obligation of notarial certification of shares in the statutory capital of an enterprise. But this rule is one of the key, I would say, and central to this bill, and it's meant to fight against falsifying documents and changing business participants. A member of a private enterprise is given the right to determine on his own that any right to a particle will only have the power if they have their notary certificate. Under these conditions, the signature will be forged. Could not close temporary folder: %s A member of a private enterprise has the right to voluntarily insure himself against falsifying the signature of the deposit in the statutory capital of the notary. I repeat, voluntarily. I think it's a perfectly effective norm, it's consistent with Minista, with the Notary Chamber, it's going to work normally in practice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-19-m0.u107	Thank you. Do you insist on counting? People's deputies, please vote. [[11:47:16]] For-33 The decision is not taken. Amendment 28. A national MP is not. 29th. People's MP, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-19-m0.u108	You know, when people's problems arise in practice because of the adoption of this standard, if it's accepted, I think it's important for the stenographer to figure out that who stood up and what the conclusions were here in the hall. So I'm going to read a further comment from the Chief Scientific and Expert Office that says, "You have to point out that setting a waiver can't in any way be considered a civil-law unilateral right. The arbitrary establishment of the rights and duties of one person as a party to a civil relationship for another person who is legally equal and has the same rights and duties as the first person is contrary to the principles of civil law and is permitted only in the will as a personal authority of the individual in the event of his death, and that the heir has the right to accept or refuse an inheritance.” I'm doing this for the transcript, so that the Notary Chamber, which of your words, you say, agree, also see, and maybe react accordingly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-19-m0.u109	Thank you. I'd like the committee to react.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-19-m0.u110	The amendment proposes to exclude from the bill the rule on granting the owner of immovable property the obligation to establish a notarial form of documents for making use of this property. But this rule, I repeat, is also one of the key in the bill, and it's absolutely right, and important, and it's meant to fight against counterfeiting documents on real estate contracts, like land, buildings and so on. We give the property owner the right to voluntarily, I repeat, voluntarily insure himself against falsification of lease contracts for the use of this property in a notary. It's totally normal. That's why the committee turned you down. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-19-m0.u111	Thank you. People's deputies please identify themselves. [[11:49:24]] For-32 The decision is not taken. Next amendment, number 31. National MP Martovicki, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-19-m0.u112	Thank you. People's MP Martovicki, faction of the Opposition Block. In my amendment to the 31st article, I proposed the sentence of paragraph 3 of section 4 and the bill after the words "owner of immovable property" to be supplemented by the words "except for the lands of state and municipal property." But the committee did not support this proposal: acceptance of rights would result in restrictions on the rights of the State and local authorities. I ask the rapporteur to make an explanation and to put my proposal to the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-19-m0.u113	I'd like the committee to comment.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-19-m0.u114	Amendment 31 proposes to prohibit the State and the territorial communities from establishing the obligation of notarial certification of real estate contracts. However, according to the committee, the state and the community should have the means to combat the raiding that private owners do. Once again, everyone has to have a level playing field in the fight against raiding. It is logical, therefore, that the committee rejected your amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-19-m0.u115	Thank you. People's deputies, please identify yourself. Please vote. [[11:51:04]] For-28 The decision is not taken. The next amendment is number 34. National MP Yvchenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-19-m0.u116	Vadim Yvchenko, "The Fatherland" faction. You know, this amendment applies to changes to the Forest Code, but I want to tell all the foresters that there are great benefits in this bill. By 2024, we set up deadlines for state forestry companies to register the right of permanent use of land for the forestry purpose given to them by 2002. It seems to me that we now need to anticipate in the budget the costs for the forestry enterprise itself: (a) we can make technical documentation -- once, in order for them to do their inventory -- two, and the third, it is imperative that they bring these data directly to the land, including the cadastre. So these are the benefits of this bill, and these are the changes. Although my revision was rejected, it is the changes in the Forest Code that are positive for forestry enterprises as well.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-19-m0.u117	30 seconds to complete, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-19-m0.u118	and the possibility of eventually completing inventory, shaping their lands, which are today under-formed and not integrated into electronic databases. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-19-m0.u119	I'd like the committee to comment.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-19-m0.u120	Edit 34 was rejected because it is a question of discussion. The ownership of agricultural land in the forest fund gives them greater legal protection. Moreover, this rule does not fall within the scope of this bill. Well, I think we just found a compromise here. The woodsmusees are now in the forest fund, but they are agricultural land. And that's the only reason that your amendment was rejected. But with regard to the money that we, I thank you for finding a normal way out, a compromise on how these lands are formed, I think we will continue to work. That's a big plus for our woodsmen.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-19-m0.u121	Thank you. Next. You will. Do you insist on voting? Please vote. [[11:53:46]] For-36 The decision is not taken. The next amendment is number 35, National MP. Are you insisting?
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-19-m0.u122	I will not insist on not voting on this amendment, but I would like to draw the attention of all those present to the one norm proposed by this bill. There is no amendment to the norm, but it is proposed that the person who applies to the notary be appointed on the basis not only of the passport but also of all the documents provided for in the Single National Demographic Register Act. So I want all those who are fighting the raider to report that such documents are, for example, a seaman's license, a crew member's license, a temporary passport from a Ukrainian citizen and so on. Notaries do not have the ability to verify how original and true these documents are. So, my esteemed counter-residers, if you set such a standard, it will only lead to raiding, because your land will be sold precisely on the fictitious certificates of a sailor and crew members' certificates, which notaries will not be able to adequately verify and establish a person. That's why the committee had it.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-19-m0.u123	30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-19-m0.u124	The committee should join here and just when we go to the final vote, propose appropriate proposals and delete the standards that say that a person can be set up by any document that is provided for in the Single National Demographic Register Act, and I ask the committee to do so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-19-m0.u125	Committee, please comment.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-19-m0.u126	I would like to point out that new passports are now being issued in electronic cards from the age of 14. There is a corresponding Law on the Single Demographic Register and documents that identify a person, and there is a clear and excluded list of documents that identify a person. It's by these documents that the notary is going to be setting up the person. But I would like to take this opportunity that we now have the Deputy Minister of Justice here, and I would like to ask you, Madam Chairman, to allow her to comment on this rule as well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-19-m0.u127	Thank you. If possible, then a comment from the deputy minister of justice.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-19-m0.u128	Thank you. The norm really refers to the change that today, according to the new legislation, passports can be issued from the age of 14. According to 14 years of age, the document is different, not a passport, but a birth certificate. As for the instruction on notary actions, it remains the same. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-19-m0.u129	Thank you. Since a national MP does not insist on voting for 35 amendments, amendment 36. People's deputy Birddog. Thirty-six amendments. Are you insisting?
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-19-m0.u130	Thank you. I would just like to point out that in the course of this discussion, there is no such thing as an electronic passport. It says that it is possible to establish a person on the basis of documents provided for in the Single National Demographic Register Act. Let us open article 13, please. Part one (for the Ministry of Justice in particular): "Documents that illuminate the person and confirm the citizenship of Ukraine." I continue to read: "paragraph (d) of the seaman's licence; (e) the crew member's certificate; (e) the person's return certificate to Ukraine; and (e) the Ukrainian citizen's temporary identification." And then there's the migration cards, the driver's license, and so on. I'm very sorry, how do you want the notaries to verify whether the original seaman's certificate, a crew member's license or a driver's license, is it fake if they don't have adequate access to the relevant databases? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-19-m0.u131	I'd like the committee to comment.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-19-m0.u132	Your number 36 is in the editor's office about other things. But as for what you're saying, I'd like to point out once again that we are. for today, we have the Act on the Single Demographic Register and the documents that bear witness to the person. And there's a clear list of documents according to which the notary will set up the person. As for 14 years, I would like to emphasize once again that electronic cards are issued. passports issued in electronic cards are now issued to us from the age of 14. So it's perfectly normal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-19-m0.u133	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, we have concluded our consideration. [[B in m in s a l in]] You insist, don't you? National Deputy Birddog, are you insisting on the vote? No, it's not. Then. Ladies and gentlemen, we have completed our consideration of the 36 amendments. We'll start our work after our break from Amendment 38.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-19-m0.u134	Dear colleagues, two factions have announced a recess for half an hour. With that in mind. And the People's Front faction and the Peter Prashenko Block are asking for a real break for consultations. Given that we now have half an hour under the Rules, then half an hour's break, so I invite everyone into the Hall at 1:00 to continue the consideration of the matter. At 1:00 we'll start with 38 revisions. I ask the author of 38 amendments and the committee representative at 1:00 to be in the workplace to continue our work. So, colleagues, thank you. And I'll see you at 1:00.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-19-m0.u135	Dear colleagues, the time taken for a break has passed quickly and inconceivably, but it is time to continue our work. That's why I'm asking everyone to come into the hall. I would like to remind you that we are continuing our consideration of the draft Law on Amendments to the Land Code of Ukraine and some other legislative acts against registration (No. 8121). This is a draft law on agrarian politics. The law has more than 200 rights. We started looking at it for a break and went through 37 rights. Now we're going to continue with 38 revisions. And I would like to invite the head of the Committee on Agricultural Policy and the Land Relations of Kulinich Oleg Ivanovich to the rostrum, please. And I ask all right-wing authors to prepare for further discussion. So I'm going to read the same things that are rejected. Whoever wants to bet on confirmation is by raising their hand. 38 readjustments don't insist. 38th, Yvchenko insisted. At 38, please, Oleg Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-19-m0.u136	The amendment is purely editorial, so the committee rejected it, as if it were agreed upon and so the committee thought.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-19-m0.u137	Thank you. Whoever insists supports the 38th Amendment, please vote. The committee turned her down. Please. [[13:03:22]] For the 15th. The decision is not taken. Forty lashes, Birddog. Don't insist. 41st. Don't insist. 42nd, Mr. Roman. Don't insist. 43rd. Don't insist. 44th. Don't insist. 46th, Bird. Don't insist. 47th. Be more active, right-wing, please. 47th. Don't insist. 48th. 49th. 50th. 53rd, Martovitchki. He insists. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-19-m0.u138	Thank you. People's MP Martovicki, faction of the Opposition Block. The proposed version of the article, in my view, would make it impossible to form derived rights: rent, suborenda, waitout with such persons. Moreover, the restriction may include the ownership of property that is owed by alimony or credit. So I suggest in the second sentence of paragraph 5 of section 7 of the bill that the word "or transfer on another right" be deleted. Please put to the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-19-m0.u139	Please, committee, you won't comment, will you? Then I'd like to ask the national deputies to identify themselves. [[13:05:23]] For-23 The decision is not taken. The next amendment is 54th. Please, People's Deputies of Semimenah.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-19-m0.u140	Semenha Roman, "The Self-Help Union" faction. Dear colleagues, with this amendment, I suggest that we not allow the debtor to avoid drawing on his property because of laziness in legislation. In particular, I would like to clarify the case where a notary may refuse a person’s notary certificate. First of all, I propose to expand the list of contracts for which it is possible to refuse a notary certificate if the party is the person who is entered into the debtors' register. In its original form, it is only about contracts for the alienation of property. I propose that this list be supplemented by contracts for the transfer of property to third parties in any way or otherwise. Secondly, allowing the borrower to enter into such settlement agreements with creditors, but only by written consent of the borrower. This amendment will help to resolve the conflicts that currently exist in a peaceful way. Please be supportive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-19-m0.u141	I'd like the committee to comment.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-19-m0.u142	Amendment 54 proposes to make an editorial clarification of the draft law, which was excluded from the bill in the process of redrafting the second reading. The committee therefore rejected the amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-19-m0.u143	Do you insist on voting? Please vote. [[13:06:54]] For-33 The decision is not taken. The next amendment is amendment number 56. 55th. I'm asking for a national MP, Bakumenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-19-m0.u144	National MP Bakumenko, Peter Prashenko Block. Section I, paragraph 8, I suggested that the following should be made: in the Ukrainian Land Administration Act (Reports of the Supreme Council of Ukraine 2003, No. 36): Paragraph 9 of Article 1 reads: "Land-to-land land-to-land land-to-land land-to-land land-to-land land-to-land land-to-land land-to-land land-to-land land-to-land, including tenants, with border-to-gear signs of the established model, allowing them to be self-produced by the buyer or the land-to-equity contractor." Item 2. Part four of article 55, which reads as follows: "Between land in kind (in the area) are sealed by border signs at the request of landowners (users) (except for land withdrawals)."
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-19-m0.u145	Please, 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-19-m0.u146	Item 3. To complete article 55 after part five of the new part: "Among the land areas that are used by the single array, the boundaries are fixed only at the request of the owners (users) at the perimeter of the single array." And number four. The following sixth and seventh parts of article 55 read: "Earthowners and land users, including."
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-19-m0.u147	Please let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-19-m0.u148	It's very important. Thank you. ".. are obliged to adhere to land boundaries. Sealed in kind (in the area) the border signs appear to be under the supervision of landowners and landowners, including tenants, and may be restored at their request in case of damage or loss or other necessity." Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-19-m0.u149	I'd like the committee to comment.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-19-m0.u150	Amendment 55 proposes to amend Ukraine's Land Administration Act on how to secure land borders by border signs. However, these issues are not the subject of regulation of the bill and better settled separately in the bill. So the committee rejected the amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-19-m0.u151	You insist on voting or. You insist. People's deputies please identify themselves. [[13:09:59]] For-40 The decision is not taken. The next amendment is 56. There's no insistence on a national MP. 56th? Please, National Deputy Ivanchuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-19-m0.u152	The amendment of the national deputy Yvchenka, he is unfortunately not in time. But, sir, a representative of the committee, and why. I think it's very suggested that the right legal regulations: "set pattern" should be removed and replaced with the words "at the request of landowners." I think that would be a correct amendment to the Land Administration Act. And also the definition of "in-kindly fixed boundary signs of the pattern" gives a broader explanation. That is, "The border signs attached in nature appear to be an act of oversight for the preservation of landowners and land users." So we're going to meet the landowners. Please comment.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-19-m0.u153	I'd like the committee to comment.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-19-m0.u154	Thank you, Your Honor, Mr. Andrew. Amendment 56 proposes to amend Ukraine's Land Administration Act on how to secure land borders by border signs. But in the committee's opinion, this issue is not the subject of regulation of this bill -- it's counter-riding. So it would be logical to make these changes a separate law, just in the Land Authority Act. So the committee rejected the amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-19-m0.u155	He insists. Please, I'd like to ask the people's deputies to identify themselves. [[13:11:41]] For-24 The decision is not taken. The next amendment is number 57. Please, People's Deputy Ptashnik.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-19-m0.u156	I would like to draw the attention of the people's deputies to the fact that the 67th article, which is proposed for adoption, suggests that, at the expense of the state budget of Ukraine, technical documentation be developed by the Land Authority on the establishment of land boundaries in kind for individual land areas. An explanatory note, it did not contain any financial justification for how these positions would affect Ukraine’s government budget. Moreover, before the second reading, the project had expanded the list of land areas for which appropriate technical documentation should be developed, which meant an increase in public budget expenditure. So I'm asking you to cancel these positions. And my amendment says that these positions need to be ruled out and that they should not be carried out at the expense of the state budget. Please support the amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-19-m0.u157	I'd like the committee to comment.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-19-m0.u158	I'd like to point out that we don't have information on 8 million plots in the cadastre. Amendment 57, which you are proposing, is proposing to exclude from the bill a rule that allows the State budget to carry out land-use work for the cadastre of land that is unfortunately not available today. According to the committee, this rule is very important and is one of the key elements of this bill. Because today the raiders are using large amounts of land in the cadastre, and on the basis of existing leases, new leases are registered with other tenants. The reason for these abuses is that the cadastral is incomplete. That is why we allow this problem to be rectified, and it is the bill that provides that this situation will be gradually rectified at the expense of the state budget. Therefore, the committee logically rejected your amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-19-m0.u159	Thank you. Please vote. [[13:13:58]] For-33 The decision is not taken. The next amendment is number 62, Birdman People's Deputy. Are you insisting? No, it's not. 63th? Don't insist. 64th? Please, Deputy Martovitchki.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-19-m0.u160	People's MP Martovicki, faction of the Opposition Block. The committee suggests that we accept it as an editorial in the committee. But I point out to the National Deputies that the standard proposed by the Committee should not be extended to land areas of state and municipal property, since the actual introduction of the possibility of establishing the obligation to notarize the contract would increase the value of the contract. So in my proposal, I propose that the first sentence of paragraph 2 of paragraph 2 of section 9 of the bill after the words "owner of the land" be supplemented by the words "except for the lands of state and municipal property". Please put to the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-19-m0.u161	I'd like the committee to comment.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-19-m0.u162	This amendment deals with notary certificates, voluntary notary certificates, just lease contracts. And your amendment proposes to prohibit the State and the territorial communities from establishing the obligation to notarize their leases. However, according to the committee, the state and the community should have the same means of combating raids as private owners. So the committee rejected the amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-19-m0.u163	People's deputies please identify themselves. [[13:15:58]] For-26 The decision is not taken. The next amendment is number 66, National Deputy Martovicki. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-19-m0.u164	People's MP Martovicki, faction of the Opposition Block. The Committee's proposed revision implies that, at the time of the conclusion of the contract and the registration of the lease right, the lease will not be in practice. This legislation establishes that the right to rent arises from the date of the State registration. The amendment is proposed, my amendment is proposed to correct the invalidity of the lease. I ask you to put it to a vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-19-m0.u165	I'd like the committee to comment.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-19-m0.u166	Amendment 66 suggests that it is not mandatory for a land lease to specify the date on which the lease is made. In the Committee’s view, such an amendment would not be appropriate because it would make it impossible to calculate the rental term by means of a state register of rights software. In addition, there are many cases where a signed lease is taken for registration after a considerable period of time after the deposit, and this may even be a few years. As a result, the earth is used in shadow. There are so many cases where a contract is concluded without a date and registered, for example, three years later. In summary, for 3 years the land area is in the shade, and this greatly complicates the relationship between the renter and the renter. In addition, it allows for the lease to be signed at this time with another renter, which will make the situation even more difficult. So I think the committee's opinion is perfectly logical, so your amendment is rejected. It's an important norm that needs to work.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-19-m0.u167	Thank you. I'd like to make a statement. [[13:18:00]] For-27 The decision is not taken. The next amendment is number 67, the Ptashnik People's Deputy. Please turn on the microphone to the Ptishnik People's Deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-19-m0.u168	This amendment, it's in the table, it means it's rejected, but it's essentially accounted for, so thank you for that committee. But I would like to take this opportunity to ask Victor Mikhailovich Pinzenik to comment on budgetary issues and 57 amendments that I think are important.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-19-m0.u169	I'd like the committee to comment.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-19-m0.u170	My colleague gave it to me.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-19-m0.u171	But you can't pass it on. Ladies and gentlemen, I don't deny it, but you don't have to pass on the word. It's just that the People's Deputy Pinzenik can speak on this amendment, no problem. Please turn on the microphone for the People's Deputy Pinzenik.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-19-m0.u172	Dear colleagues, I will draw attention to what Victoria the Bird has to say. Regrettably, we have taken it lightly with 57, where 8 million land plots are required to produce technical documentation at the expense of the budget. It demanded the right financial and economic justification. How much will it cost? Are billions there for us, billions here, not money anymore? I believe that this norm cannot be passed without financial justification. So number 57 of Victoria’s Birds should be taken into account in the final edition if we are to be responsible for our decisions.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-19-m0.u173	Thank you. The committee would like to comment. Have you commented on this amendment? Do you have any comment on Mr. Victor Pinzenic's proposal? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-19-m0.u174	I will comment exactly as I commented on Victoria the Bird. This amendment proposes to exclude from the bill a rule that allows the State budget to carry out land-use work to cadastre information on land that is not available in the cadastre. Yeah, we actually have all 7 million land plots now that are missing from the cadastre, and they're using it now, and they're exploiting the raiders who, on top of the old contracts, because there's no information, they're putting in new contracts, and people are suffering from it. So it's definitely, I think it's key as if the norm is supposed to work, it's in the first reading, and it's completely logically taken into account by the committee. But if the national MP insists, please place this amendment on confirmation.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-19-m0.u175	Thank you. Please. Do you insist on voting? Please, then we're moving to Amendment 68, People's Deputy of Semimenach. Are you insisting? 68. Oh, no? The next amendment is number 74, the Ptashnik People's Deputy. Are you insisting? No, it's not. The next amendment is number 83, National Deputy Ivchenko. Don't insist. The next amendment is number 87. Semenha, please. Again, I'm sorry, I missed something. So let's go back to amendment 80. Please, Deputy Martovitchki.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-19-m0.u176	It's counted.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-19-m0.u177	Thank you. People's MP Martovicki, faction of the Opposition Block. Yes, it is, indeed, partly taken into account, but by my amendment I propose to take into account the question of the tenant's overwhelming right to contract and to refuse it. And it's proposed to change to paragraph 7, paragraph 9, of section I of the bill: after paragraph 5, complete with a new paragraph the content that is proposed and added to the comparative table. I'm asking you to put me to the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-19-m0.u178	I'd like the committee to comment.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-19-m0.u179	Thank you. Your revision is edited, article 33 is presented in a new edition. And the amendment was made in violation of article 116 of the Rules. That's why it's edited. The committee's absolutely logical decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-19-m0.u180	Thank you. People's deputies, please. Do you insist on voting? Okay, we're not voting. Thank you. The next amendment is 83. National MP Ivanchuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-19-m0.u181	Your Honor, if you'd like to comment on what you've been up to. Now, you've taken into account the Bakumenko-Mirochnichenko-Labazük amendment, and according to the text it's similar to the 83rd deputy Yvchenka. But you counted one, the other you didn't. wrote that you considered it editorially. And now I'd like to discuss what Victor Mikhailovich Pinzenik said. We need to talk not about what the State is spending, but about whether the State is obliged to spend money and control these land rations. If the state should not do so, then who should finance it? This is a political issue, and if the state is obliged to do so for eight million Ukrainians, then the funds it will spend should be done by the Ministry not in one year, but in two, in three, but for the Ukrainians. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-19-m0.u182	Thank you. I'd like the committee to comment.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-19-m0.u183	About 83 lashes. The amendment proposes to establish in the Land Rental Act the right of the parties to the land lease agreement, which does not contain conditions for its automatic renewal, to establish this condition when making an additional agreement. But in the Committee's view, this rule is unnecessary, because the leases created have the right to modify the contract at any time. So that's what they have. So the committee rejected the amendment. And with regard to eight million land areas, I want to support Mr. Andrey, that's really a huge problem. We're going to make an appointment for the Cabinet of Ministers, and he's going to use a sub-legal instrument to develop a mechanism for how this is going to happen, what's the term. Well, it's obvious that this problem is huge, it needs to be solved. So this norm, it was voted even in the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-19-m0.u184	Thank you. You. We can't insist. you cannot insist on voting because you are not the author of the amendment. Next up is Amendment 86, People's Deputy Bird.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-19-m0.u185	Colleagues, I note that this bill lists the burdens of goods rights as a requirement for notarial certification of a contract that is subject to immovable property if it is established by the owner of such property. I've already mentioned that the application of notarial certification to the category of unilateral rights and burdens is in fact not in line with the many legal structures that are established in civil law. And so in order to make such complex changes, in general, these changes are revolutionary, you need to look at the legislation in place in a comprehensive way. So I would still, because the relevant changes to civil legislation have not been made, I would have given up on these changes at the moment, would have supported the position of both the NEU, and the administration of law in order not to make the legislation more inconvenient than it is now.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-19-m0.u186	Thank you. I'd like the committee to comment.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-19-m0.u187	These standards are already provided for in the bill provided for in the Civil and Earth Code, and we duplicate them by the bill, and in the Law on State Registration of Goods Rights. It is therefore quite logical that amendment 86 was rejected by the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-19-m0.u188	Thank you. Please vote for the people's deputies. [[13:27:21]] For-27 The decision is not taken. Next is Amendment 87. Please, People's Deputies of Semimenah.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-19-m0.u189	Semenha Roman faction, Self Help Union. Dear colleagues, with the right to rule out corruption risks in the course of a state registration. Today, we have a list of accredited subjects who have the right to register. As a general rule, public registrants who work for such subjects do not have the right to decide on the registration of such persons. This rule does not extend to those government registries who are working with the executive authorities of rural, rural, and urban councils. As part of the centralization of government registration, executive authorities of the local councils received their approval. This is an exception to the general rule that contains a corruptogenic risk, for it is obvious that there is an interest in the executive bodies of these councils in carrying out such a registration. So I'm going to suggest that I warn you to do that, and so I'm going to rule out the exception and leave the general rule. If the general registrar is in a working relationship with the applicant, such a registrar should pass the documents to a foreign registrar. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-19-m0.u190	I'd like the committee to comment.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-19-m0.u191	87. The amendment proposes that state registrars of local councils and district administrations should not register the rights of state and territorial communities to real estate. However, these norms are not relevant to the scope of the bill and are controversial, so it is better to settle this issue in a separate bill. And I'd like to add that there are communities where only one registerer works, there are no notaries at all. In that case, who will register the rights? Therefore, it is logical that the amendment is rejected by the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-19-m0.u192	Thank you. Please vote. [[13.29:19]] For-39 The decision is not taken. The next amendment is number 91. National MP Martovicki, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-19-m0.u193	People's MP Martovicki, faction of the Opposition Block. In the final proposed edition of the committee, the section of the State Register of Rights consists of four parts that contain information on the matter. And the first is real estate, its price, its value. I think that information about price or cost can be a commercial secret, and that information, in my opinion, may be available to the general public. So I propose in paragraph 3 of sub-paragraph 8. The X chapter of the bill is the word "and its price (value)" I propose to exclude. Please put to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-19-m0.u194	Thank you. I'd like the committee to comment.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-19-m0.u195	This standard, according to the committee, is 91 laws that the national MP proposes to exclude, is very useful. Because it provides an opportunity to store information on the market value of land in the register of property rights, which will in the future provide a basis for creating a mass assessment of land in Ukraine and allowing it to move away from the assessment of land by hand. This will allow you to automatically define the land's monetary valuation in the future. So the norm is absolutely useful and it makes no sense to rule it out. Therefore, it is logical that the amendment was rejected by the committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-19-m0.u196	Thank you. Please vote. [[13:31:17]] For-22. The decision is not taken. The next amendment is number 93. People's MP, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-19-m0.u197	Dear colleagues, I would like to draw your attention to the proposal to include in the register of real estate rights information on the price of this immovable property. This is, of course, commercial information, which is a commercial secret. And what I'm saying is that it's not some anti-corruption norm that, for example, would apply to national MPs or category officials. State officials, then, would likely have made such information available to the general public. And this is information that will apply to all the citizens of Ukraine who will have to show how much their apartments they live in. I'm not sure it's an adequate norm, even in terms of the safety of these Ukrainian citizens. So I'm asking you to focus on this and not include information and information about the price, and not make it open, and not put it in the relevant government registers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-19-m0.u198	Thank you. And I'd like the committee to comment.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-19-m0.u199	It's almost the same comment: that this standard is very useful because it will allow us to actually store information in the register of property rights about the market value of land and allow us to go out in the future for an automatic assessment of the land, that is, to step away from the manual regime. And also in the bill, I would like to point out that we have determined that information about cost is not public and anyone can't, it's essentially confidential. So once again, it's a very useful norm and you don't have to rule it out. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-19-m0.u200	Thank you. People's deputies please identify themselves. [[13:33:20]] For-25 The decision is not taken. The next one is amendment 100. I can't see. Now.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-19-m0.u201	Same thing.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-19-m0.u202	We missed something. I'm sorry, I missed. Amendment number 93. People's MP, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-19-m0.u203	Again, this amendment also refers to the price that is currently being proposed for submission and the information that is, in the State Register of Rights. I want to point out that the issue of access to registers, unfortunately today, is absolutely possible to have access to them in any person, because appropriate access to registers and relevant information is being sold to us in the petrovka market in Kiev. Prices alone. This is a question, by the way, of internal affairs, as they allow themselves to trade access to registers. So to put the price there and to share this information with the unscrupulous people who have access to these registers, I don’t think you should. So I suggest that this information be excluded and that I support my amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-19-m0.u204	Thank you. I'd like the committee to comment.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-19-m0.u205	The committee believes that this information will not be traded by anyone, because in fact this information will be confidential and no one will be able to obtain it. This is already a question of protecting information. And the law determines that the register information should be protected, and so I think that at the level of the subcontraction, you can work out such a mechanism that this information is actually protected and it's useful for further purposes, so that we can automatically define the land's legal valuation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-19-m0.u206	Thank you. Please vote. [[13:35:35]] For-27 The decision is not taken. The next amendment is number 94. National MP Martovicki, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-19-m0.u207	People's MP Martovicki, faction of the Opposition Block. My amendment also refers to the protection of information, the price or cost of it, which may be a commercial secret. That is why such information, in my view, can be made available to the general public. So I propose an amendment that will influence the protection of information. So it's proposed in paragraph 9, paragraph 8, of Section 10 of the Bill after the words "price (value)" to be supplemented by the words "and also in the case of a confidential declaration". Please put my proposal to the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-19-m0.u208	I'd like the committee to comment.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-19-m0.u209	Amendment 94 allows owners and users of immovable property not to provide information on the value of immovable property in the State Register of Real Estate Rights. According to the committee, the amendment should be rejected because if it was supported, the real estate database would be incomplete because the committee would be guided by it. And the amendment was rejected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-19-m0.u210	Thank you. Please vote. [[13:37:29]] For-22. The decision is not taken. The next amendment is number 96. Please, People's Deputy Ptashnik.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-19-m0.u211	I'd like to take another look, ask the committee about it, and why would I report the price of real estate to the State Register? Why do I have to ask such a question? I want to point out that price is a modified characteristic, because it's defined on a given date, and obviously then it changes. What is more, your project itself provides some warnings that are absolutely counterproductive to the proposed change. Because the project predicts that if there is no property value information in the registration documents, it's no big deal, you can still register. In other words, it is not clear what you are pursuing and why you are putting the price into a proper register if you can’t show it at all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-19-m0.u212	I'd like the committee to comment.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-19-m0.u213	The bill clearly states that information on value is not public. And anyone can't get this information and it can't be useful, it's essentially going to be confidential. And it's a question of protecting rights, protecting information. The law determines that registration information should be protected. Why is this being done? Once again, this is done to store all the information about the value of land in order to eventually come out for an automatic calculation of land regulation. We think it's a useful norm, so we don't have to rule it out. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-19-m0.u214	Thank you. Please vote. [[13:39:32]] For-28 The decision is not taken. The next amendment is 100, the Ptashnik People's Deputy. Don't insist. 102th People's Deputy Levchenko. Don't insist. 107th National Deputy Martovitchki. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-19-m0.u215	People's MP Martovicki, faction of the Opposition Block. In line with the rules of the current law of confidentiality, they may also be issued by a legal person without the need for a certificate. Otherwise, this will result in additional financial costs for notarizing confidence. So my amendment 107 takes into account and reconciles these differences. I ask her to put it to a vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-19-m0.u216	Thank you. I'd like the committee to comment.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-19-m0.u217	107. The amendment proposes that it be clarified that, in order to register real estate rights, it is necessary not to give any notarial confidence, but only to the one established by law. In the Committee's view, this clarification is unnecessary, because any document submitted to carry out the registrations must meet the requirements of the law. And this does not only apply to notary confidence. Thus, the amendment was rejected by the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-19-m0.u218	Thank you. You insist on voting, don't you? I'm voting on amendment 107 of the Martovicki People's Deputies. Whoever supports this amendment, please vote, and the committee has rejected it. Please. [[13:41:25]] For-21 The decision is not taken. 108th. Don't insist. 109th. Don't insist. 110th. 111th. 113th, Martovitchki. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-19-m0.u219	People's MP Martovicki, faction of the Opposition Block. In my amendment, I propose in paragraph 17, paragraph 17, of section 10 of the bill after the words "(except in cases of acquisition of ownership and" to supplement with the words "implementation of other actions that do not result in termination of ownership or." And this amendment is proposed for a second reading in the paper, because it will lead to the inability to form derivatives rights, it means rent, sub-borand, servitut, with such persons, the more so that the property owner, which has a debt on alimony or credit, can fall under the restrictions. So I ask you to answer and put my amendment to the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-19-m0.u220	Please, Oleg Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-19-m0.u221	113. The amendment proposes to amend paragraph 12 of section 1 of article 24 of the Ukrainian Act on State registration of immovable property rights. However, the corresponding changes to this paragraph were excluded from the bill when preparing it for second reading. Therefore, there is no need for this, and it is logical that the committee has rejected it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-19-m0.u222	Thank you. Thus, the author insists on voting. And I'm betting on the vote of 113 people's MP Martovitchki. The committee turned her down. Anyone who supports it, please vote. [[13:43:34]] For the 17th. The decision is not taken. 115th. Don't insist. 116th. Don't insist. 117th. He insists. Please, Bird.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-19-m0.u223	Dear colleagues, this will be my absolute principle of amendment, because the bill proposes, as for me, a raiding scheme. After all, it is suggested that you automatically cancel the load on the immovable property if a period of 5 years has elapsed since their imposition. What's more, if you see and see the Transitional Positions of this bill, you'll see that this rule is still being proposed for the introduction of January 1st, 15th. That is, it seems that someone has a debt that is owed some real estate, and someone wants to get this debt out of the balance, and he wants to keep that debt. So for me, it's a completely Ryder scheme, and more than that, if you enter it, the investigators will not be able to track down all the arrests that have been imposed, because they will automatically stop. So I propose to support my amendment and to remove it from this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-19-m0.u224	Thank you. Please, Oleg Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-19-m0.u225	117. The amendment proposes to exclude the rule that the information on real estate loads is valid for 5 years from the date of their registration if the other period is not set by the weighting documents. Today, there are often cases where, for example, a long period of time, a real estate arrest hangs in the register. And people can't do anything about that property. All the grounds for the arrest have long disappeared, and the arrest continues to be valid. So it's suggested that I think it's a logical decision: either clearly determine the time frame of gravity, or it's going to go down alone in five years. Today there are thousands of such arrests in the register, and people are forced to take them down because of the court. We give a term of five years, and then we give a term of one year before 1995 to record the loads. So if it's really that principled, there might be two choices here, in my opinion, it's either that term that goes on for up to seven years, or, if, again, it's very principled, it would rule out this norm altogether.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-19-m0.u226	Thank you. So I'm putting to the vote the amendment of 117 of the People's Chamber of Birds. The committee turned her down. Whoever supports it, please vote. [[13:46:21]] For-35 The decision is not taken. 118th, Martovitchki. He insists, turn on the microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-19-m0.u227	People's MP Martovicki, faction of the Opposition Block. In practice, the conclusion of the contract and the conclusion of an additional agreement on its extension do not coincide. Therefore, the rule in the proposed bill will result in the cancellation of the registration record in relation to the right that is actually in the extension process and thus the need for a new introduction of the data into the State Register of Rights and, as a result, the payment of an additional administrative assembly that will increase the financial burden on operators. I therefore propose to add the words "except in cases where the tenant is entitled primarily to contract land leases (renewal of land leases) for a new term." Please put to the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-19-m0.u228	Thank you. Please, Oleg Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-19-m0.u229	The Committee considers that the amendment is not appropriate because if the tenant realizes his or her dominant right, a new lease agreement will be made, the law requires it. On the basis of this, new rental information will be introduced, that is, information about the old contract will be excluded, and new leases will be made. Otherwise, even if the new treaty is not concluded, the information about the old agreement will continue to be automatically posted in the register. So the committee came out of these moments, and that's why the amendment was rejected.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-19-m0.u230	The author insists on voting. And I'm betting on the 118th vote. Whoever supports this amendment, please vote. [[13:48:27]] For-21 The decision is not taken. 120th. He insists. Yeah? Please, Birddog, 120 revisions.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-19-m0.u231	This amendment of mine also applies to the cancellation of the proposed automatic cessation of the load on immovable property after the 5 year deadline. If you go to any lawyer, the lawyer will explain to you that the automatic loads can't stop. Obstacles stop when the primary obligation is fulfilled or if there is a proper arrangement between the parties. To stop something automatically means to draw different patterns. What's more, I don't understand how a five-year sentence was proposed, why exactly five years. Moreover, no such proposals can be made in the back of the line, and they can vote in favour of laws where the anticipated standard of implementation of this standard has been absolutely absurd since 2015, as far as I am concerned. So I would still urge the MPs to support my amendment and exclude this disgraceful mechanism from the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-19-m0.u232	The 120 amendment proposes to exclude from the bill a rule whereby, after the contract expires, the lease registration record is automatically excluded from the register of goods rights. This rule is one of the central ones in the bill. The land plot is leased for a certain period and there can be no such thing as the lease agreement ended and the register continues to be valid. This, in our view, is the cause of abuse and raiding. It is therefore quite logical that the amendment was rejected by the committee. As for the term of five years, I've already given an explanation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-19-m0.u233	Thank you. I'm putting 120 people's deputies to the vote, and the committee rejected it. Whoever supports it, I ask you to vote. [[13:50:38]] For-34 The decision is not made. 121st. Don't insist. 123rd. Don't insist. 125th. Don't insist. 127th. Don't insist. 129th. Don't insist. 130th. He insists. Bird, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-19-m0.u234	129 revisions. I would like to draw my colleagues' attention to what is proposed by the bill, that if the state registration decision on the basis of a court decision is revoked, the mechanism that actually conducts the relevant state registration is still being proposed. Thus, in addition to government registrations, government registrations will be carried out by officials of the Ministry of Justice who will be authorized to register the acquisition, change or termination of property rights. I have a question: Why aren't public registrars enough, and what exactly do the officials of the Ministry of Justice want to be responsible for carrying out appropriate registration actions on immovable property? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-19-m0.u235	Please, Oleg Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-19-m0.u236	Amendment 129 proposes to exclude from the bill a rule that specifies that if a state registration of a right was revoked by the Ministry of Justice as a result of a complaint, the relevant official, Minust, submits this information to the register of rights. The committee believes that the amendment should be rejected, because it is an effective norm, today, the requirements of article 37 of the Ukrainian Law on State registration of immovable property rights, and they simply overlap in article 26 of this law, in order to avoid two collations. There are many complaints about the work of the Minsk Commission regarding the handling of complaints, but this is not really the subject of the bill. That's why it's rejected.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-19-m0.u237	Thank you. So I'm putting the vote to 129 people's deputies, Birds. It's rejected by the committee. Whoever supports it, please vote. [[13:52:59]] For-25 The decision is not taken. 130? Don't insist. You insist. Please, 130 revisions.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-19-m0.u238	This amendment is similar to my previous amendment, as the project suggests that the official of the Ministry of Justice should provide information on the annulment of the relevant decision to the State Register of Rights and re-examine the application. You all know that all officials of the Ministry of Justice are not subject to state registration according to current legislation. In addition, there is no responsibility or requirement for ministerial officials, such as registrars. And the question is again, why would the officials of the Ministry of Justice, and would you like to say immediately, which officials would be responsible for carrying out the appropriate registrations? And will they be able to ensure the anti-trade nature of the bill? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-19-m0.u239	The same explanation. It's an active norm, today it's the requirements of article 37 of the Ukrainian Law on State Registration of Real Estate Rights, and they're simply duplicated in article 26 of this law in order to avoid a conflict of two articles. That's it.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-19-m0.u240	I'll bet you 130. The committee turned her down. Who supports the 130th Amendment of the People's Chamber of Birds, please vote. [[13:54:39]] For-26 The decision is not taken. 131st. Don't insist. 132nd. Don't insist. Yeah, 138th. Don't insist. 139th, Bird. Don't insist. 142nd Buckumenko. He insists. Please, Bakumenko, 142 revisions.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-19-m0.u241	Regulation 142. This right proposes to amend article 15 of the Act on State Land Cadastre, which defines the list of land information that is included in the State Land Cadastre, and excludes from the part of the first article the word “data on the linkage of the return points to the points of the State Geodetic Network”. The amendment is made, I know, with violations, but accuracy in the execution of geodetic works is certainly necessary, but it is not always possible to link to a state geodetic network in practice. In addition, GPS devices used by land - based organizations today provide sufficient precision to determine the coordinates of the turning points and to place them in the State Land Cadastre. Thank you. Please answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-19-m0.u242	Please, Oleg Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-19-m0.u243	The amendment proposes to amend the Ukrainian Law on State Land cadastre and exclude data from cadastral information on the linkage of land boundaries to state geodetic network sites. The committee believes that these positions are not the scope of regulation of the bill, but, secondly, they are important, but they are controversial. Therefore, it is better to put them into a separate bill that will deal with these very issues. So the committee rejected the amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-19-m0.u244	Do you insist on voting? So I'm betting on the vote of 142 people's deputies in Bakumenka. The committee turned her down. Whoever supports this amendment, please vote. [[13:57:05]] For-31 The decision is not taken. 143rd. Don't insist. 145th. Don't insist. Colleagues, let's get down to 145. 145th, Bird. And then we're going to figure out which direction we're going to continue tomorrow.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-19-m0.u245	Dear colleagues, I will not insist on voting on this amendment. However, I wanted to take advantage of the opportunity to draw your attention to the 179 amendments I consider. It is considered by the committee, but I believe that before the vote it must be put to the vote and, in fact, failed. Why? Because this is the correction that predicts that this 5-year run to automatically stop real estate loads will start on January 1st, 15th. So the norm is going to be in the back number, we're going to have some kind of, inexplicably, automatic lifting of loads, and accordingly, if the law is voted in that order, we're going to assume that within a year, all of the loads that exist in automatic mode will automatically go away. So 179 amendments I then ask tomorrow, if we continue to consider, put on confirmation and not support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-19-m0.u246	I'm sorry, I'm just going to say, we've reached 145. 179th is obviously tomorrow, and now we're not there yet. So I, my colleagues, now suggest we determine which revision we're going to start with tomorrow. Because the time spent on our work is running out of hope. We could still work, adopt a lot of laws, but unfortunately, there's only two minutes left. [[B in m in s a l in]] Let me get this straight. Mrs. Victoria, Mrs. Victoria, are you not insisting on 145? Don't insist. So it's me. Now we're looking for where we start tomorrow. 147th. 148th. Don't insist. Wait a second. 149th. Okay. Then, colleagues, tomorrow we will continue our consideration of the draft law amending the Ukrainian Code of Land and some other legislation against registration (No. 8121) of 149. Let me remind you, the whole law has 188 rights. I think tomorrow, for a maximum of half an hour, we'll be able to go through all the paperwork and vote in the room. I thank both the reporter, the head of the subcommittee, and the right-wing authors for their active, active work. Once again, I welcome all the Santa Clauses with their names. We're having a committee day after lunch today. I wish everyone good work on the committees. Let me remind you, tomorrow we have a block of agrarian issues, a block of fuel-energy issues. And so I ask everyone to come to the hall at 10 a.m. to continue our work. And this morning's meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, I have to declare it closed. See you tomorrow, colleagues. Fruitful committee work. Good-bye.
