ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-06-m1.u1	I'm asking the national deputies to come into the hall and prepare for registration. So, colleagues, I'd like everyone to come into the hall. And I want to report that we've gone beyond today's agenda. We have the following questions that stand in order of the day: these are overriding ratifications. It's a ratification. The Law on Ratification of the Agreement between Ukraine and the Kingdom of the Netherlands extending until August 1, 19th, the duration of the Agreement between Ukraine and the Kingdom of the Netherlands on the International Mission for the Protection of Investigation from July 28, 14. Next is a draft law on the ratification of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Lithuania, Poland and Lithuania on the establishment of a joint military unit. I'm very counting, colleagues, that we'll be able to go through them with a reduced procedure and that there'll be overall support for the hall. We have a cluster of security issues. And in order for us to be able to look at them, as well as budget planning and the Soccer Act, we need to support the consideration of ratifications under reduced procedures. So, colleagues, I'm going to ask everyone to come into the hall right now, so there's 150 votes for a reduced procedure. And please prepare for registration. Come into the hall. So come into the hall. Please prepare for registration. People's deputies please register. Please take part in the registration. [[16:06:16]] 342 national deputies registered. I declare the evening session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine open. Dear colleagues, let's welcome our soldiers who are on the Supreme Council of Ukraine today, the Armed Forces of Ukraine. Welcome, my friends. Welcome, colleagues, to the Supreme Council of Ukraine. [[Applause]] I'm asking you, colleagues, to reenter the hall, take up jobs, get ready for the vote. The heads of the factions, I ask you to mobilize the deputies. If we go into full ratification procedure, we won't be able to look at the agenda. Therefore, it will be important for all deputies to be in place at the beginning of the discussion. Now I want to report that a statement came from two factions, "Peter Prashenko's Block" and "The People's Front" with an application for a recess. They're ready to take a break from the rostrum. And I invite you to speak to the head of the Maxim Burbak People's Front faction. Please, Mr. Maxim, three minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-06-m1.u2	Thank you. Dear colleagues, while you and I are legislatively opposed to Russia, we are demanding increased sanctions and we are putting an end to the Friendship Treaty, the Fertash gassies are being diverted in Ukraine. So in a state of war, otherwise as a diversion, you can't call gas shut down in social and administrative objects. A recent statement by Skrtransgasu has been published on an attempt by the WGC group to provoke a large-scale provocation in order to break gas supplies to consumers in the heat of the heating period and to divide the gas market. Let me get this straight. Yesterday, 14 facilities were shut down in the Chernobyl area. These include: Bukovin State Medical University, Cherniewec University of Fedkovic, colleges, administrative and social facilities. At Bukovin Medical University without warning in a few days, as it should be by law, came and quietly covered the gas. How can people respond, and how can children be taught in cold rooms? There's no debt to gasses. All the limits for gas supply are given and the heat is turned off. Today, 10 administrative objects remain shut down from the warmth of the Chernobyl region. And this is done in almost all areas of Ukraine, except Kirovograd, Odessa, Lugansk, and Donetsk. What is it, not a diversion and a well-planned act against Ukrainian citizens? That's why we're turning from the People's Front faction to the U.S.S. Attorney General's Office to take immediate measures to punish Firthash and other Kremlin collaborators for causing a diversion in the energy sector of Ukraine. Especially in wartime, this cannot be called any other word, such as a diversion. We need an immediate response. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-06-m1.u3	So, colleagues, please come into the hall and prepare for the vote. And I would like to stress once again, and I would like to remind you that the next day is the draft Law on the Ratification of the Agreement between Ukraine and the Kingdom of the Netherlands extending until August 1, 19th, the duration of the Agreement between Ukraine and the Kingdom of the Netherlands on the International Mission for the Protection of Investigation from July 28, 14. I'm going to ask everyone, colleagues, to vote in favour of a brief review of this ratification. And I want to tell everyone, colleagues, coalitions, or opposition, that the consideration of this ratification is of great importance to Ukraine, and we will not be able to pass other laws on the welfare, budgetary planning and security if we do not vote in favour of the shortened procedure. That's why I'd like everyone's support, colleagues. So I ask you to come into the hall and prepare for the vote. And I ask the factions to invite the deputies to the hall. Please. So I'm voting on the proposal that the draft Ratification Act (0204) on the ratification of the Agreement between Ukraine and the Netherlands, we've considered the simplified procedure. And I'm asking you to support everyone, and I'm asking you to vote. Please take up jobs. We need 150 votes. I'm asking everyone to support the ratification and I'm asking everyone to vote. Oksana, we're voting! Please be supportive. Vote. Please vote. [[16:11:20]] For 116 Guys, I'll put it back on. And I'll explain again. I am a huge proponent of the law by full procedure. But at the same time, I am confident that this ratification will unite the entire hall, and it does not require much discussion. If we go and get into the full procedure, it'll take us more than an hour, we won't be able to look at other issues of the block. Security and defense issues. We will not be able to consider the Law on Changes to the Budget for 2018 on Soccer. And so, colleagues, I urge everyone to enter the hall, we only need 150 votes, and we want to take part in the vote. And the heads of factions, I ask you to invite the deputies into the hall and vote in favour of the summary procedure. So, colleagues, I ask everyone to prepare for the vote. I'll point it out again. There is no problem, only then will committee heads at the Conciliation Board tell us why we do not consider the necessary number of issues. I'm trying to make the Supreme Council's work more intensive and I'm asking you to help. So I'm going to ask you to take up jobs. As the MPs come in, I want to welcome the students on the 15th anniversary of Chernigova, which we have in the Supreme Council. Welcome, fellows! [[Applause]] Welcome to our children, our students! And your colleagues, please, take your jobs. I ask the Secretariat to inform the deputies to enter the hall. Please take up jobs. And I'm putting to the vote the proposal that we consider the draft Law on the Ratification of the Agreement between Ukraine and the Kingdom of the Netherlands (0204) as a simplified procedure. Please vote. Please be supportive. Every voice matters. I'd like your support, colleagues. We're voting carefully. Please be supportive. Vote. [[16:13:56]] For-147 Three votes. I'll set up a third, final one, colleagues. Third time, final. And I'm asking you to be in the workplace during the vote. I ask you not to have a discussion during the vote, but to take part in the vote. Everyone please take up their jobs. Colleagues, I am addressing all the national MPs who are in the room, take part in the decision-making process during the vote. Once again, ratifications are overwhelming for Ukraine, which unite the hall and do not require much discussion. It's just a prolongation of the agreement. Therefore, I ask everyone to take part in the vote and to support the consideration of the draft Law on the Ratification of the Agreement between Ukraine and the Kingdom of the Netherlands (0204) under the reduced procedure. Please vote everyone. Please be supportive. Vote, colleagues, every voice. Please be supportive. Vote. Careful. [[16:15:06]] For-163 Decision taken. And I invite you to report to Deputy Foreign Minister Sergio Olegovich. And I'd like you to make as brief a report as possible. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-06-m1.u4	Good afternoon, distinguished national MPs! The President's proposal to ratify the Agreement (in the form of exchange of notes) between Ukraine and the Kingdom of the Netherlands to extend until 1 August 2019 the duration of the Agreement between Ukraine and the Kingdom of the Netherlands on an international investigation mission from 28 July 2014. In this difficult time for our nation, it is very important to continue a comprehensive and impartial investigation into the tragedy of the Malaysian Airlines aircraft, which resulted from the terrorist attack on July 17, 14 in Ukraine. At the request of the Netherlands, the term of the agreement between Ukraine and the Netherlands on an international investigation mission from 28 July continued in the 15th, 16th and 17th years. As part of the implementation of the agreements reached with the Dutch side on July 23, 18th, the Agreement (in the form of exchange of notes) was concluded between Ukraine and the Netherlands on the extension of the agreement until August 1, 19th. The number of international investigation missions under the leadership of the Netherlands is now no more than 12. The mission actually completed its technical work in Ukraine at the crash site. And the main effort is to prepare a comprehensive report on the plane crash. As part of the fulfilment of its obligations, the mission staff clearly adhere to Ukrainian legislation and coordinate their activities with the Ukrainian authorities. The draft Ukrainian Law on the Ratification of the Agreement was agreed without notice by the Ministry of Justice, the Ministry of Economic Development and Trade, the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Defence and the Security Service. The adoption of the law will confirm that Ukraine is taking all possible steps to ensure that the investigation is completed. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-06-m1.u5	Thank you very much. Mrs. Oksana Bilozer is invited to the report, and I would like to ask you as concisely as possible. Please, Mrs. Oksana.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-06-m1.u6	As has just been pointed out by the subject of the legislative initiative, the bill aims to carry out the internal procedures necessary to give effect. the entry into force of the Agreement (in the form of exchange of notes) between Ukraine and the Kingdom of the Netherlands on the extension by 1 August 19 of the period of validity of the Agreement between Ukraine and the Kingdom of the Netherlands on the International Mission for the Protection of Investigations by Ratification on 28 August 2014. With regard to this international treaty, such a procedure by the Supreme Council has already been implemented for the fourth time and is no different in any way from the previous one, which has continued every year. The European Integration Committee considered the draft bill at its meeting on 22 November this year and decided to recommend it to the Supreme Council as a basis and as a whole. This decision of the committee is also in line with the conclusion of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration. It must be said that the world has no doubt that the country involved in Boeing’s defeat has been established by name and by the perpetrators and those who managed this criminal operation, but despite the fact that the Russian Federation, as a permanent member of the UN Security Council on 29 July 2015, has blocked the proposal to establish an international tribunal to investigate the crash of an aircraft initiated by Austria, Belgium, Malaysia, the Netherlands and Ukraine, the Dutch criminal justice system is capable of ensuring the integrity, objectivity and fairness of the trial. Every fact, every detail is examined and examined by the joint working group. So please support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-06-m1.u7	Thank you. Colleagues, please, two in favor, two in favor. And I also urge everyone to be as concise as possible. Please. From the People's Front, Andrew Teteruk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-06-m1.u8	Andrew Teteruk, People's Front. I urge all deputies to return to the session room, vote for the bill. And we have a lot of questions in the daytime. In particular, I would like to highlight this bill -- 8339 -- which provides for the promotion of the names of our police who are protecting us. And we have a day when we honor our Ukrainian defenders who work in the Ministry of Defence, remember others, those who work in the security sector, and the police show their high level of expertise very well. So I'm asking very much that we now vote, that we don't take the time and that we're able to put 8339 into the agenda. Thank you all.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-06-m1.u9	Thank you very much. From "Peter Prashenko's Block" Melniczuk Ivan Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-06-m1.u10	Using the finesse, the esteemed colleagues clearly support the Peter Dustenk Block. Good luck to all of us!
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-06-m1.u11	Thank you. So, colleagues, there's now going to be a closing statement, after which we'll move on to making a decision. That's why I'm asking everyone to come into the hall. My colleagues, I see there aren't many deputies yet. Final statement, and we're going to the vote. I ask you to call upon all the heads of factions to enter the Chamber. From the Radical Party, Oleg Lazko is invited to the floor. Then there's the vote. Please, Oleg Valeriyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-06-m1.u12	Our team is voting for the continuation of the Treaty with the Netherlands. It will be extremely fair when the killers of three hundred people, the passengers of Malaysian Boeing, who were beaten over Ukrainian Donbas by the Kremlin team, by Putin's command, when these murderers will be held accountable. There is no statute of limitations on this antihuman crime. And I call upon the entire international community, not only the Netherlands, but the United States, and the European Union to make every effort to ensure that justice prevails, that murderers are punished, that such crimes never occur again, and that there is never forgiveness for those who have killed innocent people. Therefore, Ukraine is making every effort to facilitate the investigation of this crime and it is essential that the international community never forgets this crime, so that under no circumstances, under any commercial agreements, under any other advantage, there is no excuse and forgiveness for this bloody crime. We very much hope that the international community will unite all efforts to bring down the criminals who killed Malaysian Boeing, who killed innocent children, men, women, to be punished if they did not, but to be punished.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-06-m1.u13	So, colleagues, we're done talking, we're moving on to making a decision. I ask everyone to take their seats and prepare for the vote, this is an important, symbolic vote. I ask everyone to take up their jobs and take part in the vote. So I'm voting on the draft Law on the Ratification of the Agreement (in the form of exchange of notes) between Ukraine and the Kingdom of the Netherlands extending until August 1, 19th, the duration of the Treaty between Ukraine and the Kingdom of the Netherlands on the International Mission for the Protection of Investigation from July 28, 2014 (0204), on the proposal of a committee, on the basis and in general. Please vote and please support, colleagues. Vote, please. Vote. Accordingly, we shall vote in agreement. [[16:23:36]] For 228 Decision taken, colleagues. Colleagues, next ratification. I very much ask you to accept it briefly. It's about creating a joint military unit between Ukraine, Poland and Lithuania, Prince Constantine Ostrozhky, the winner of the Battle of Orshey. I ask, colleagues, for the first vote in favour of the shorter procedure draft Law 0200, the ratification of the agreement. Please support the reduced procedure. [[16:24:19]] For 175 Decision taken. I invite you to report to the First Deputy Minister of Defense, Rusnak Ivan Stepanovich. And please make the most concise report. Please. And I'd like everyone to come into the hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-06-m1.u14	The Honourable Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine! Honorable National Deputies of Ukraine! On March 28, 17th, at the Eighth International Inter-Parliamentary Assembly of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the Seima of the Republic of Lithuania, the Seima and the Senate of the Republic of Poland, a decision was taken to assign a joint Lithuanian-Polish-Ukrainian military part of the brigade's level of honour to the name of the great Hethman Constantine Ostroski. In the development of the Treaty between the Government of the Republic of Lithuania, the Government of the Republic of Poland and the Cabinet of the Ministers of the Ukraine on the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Lithuania, the Government of Poland and the Cabinet of the Ministers of the Ukraine on the Establishment of a Common Military, the Agreement on the Amendments. A further addition was made to the agreement that the brigades and units should be prepared to participate in international operations that meet the principles and standards of international law only by unanimous consent of the parties. The agreement is subject to ratification by the Supreme Council of Ukraine in accordance with the International Contracts Act. The Republic of Poland and the Republic of Lithuania have completed the internal procedures necessary to establish the validity of the amendment agreement. Please support, thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-06-m1.u15	Thank you. Jurinec Oksana Vasilovna is invited to the report. Very short, Mrs. Oksana.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-06-m1.u16	Dear Mr. Head, distinguished national MPs, respected Ukrainians! At its meeting on 3 October 2018, the Committee on European Integration discussed the draft Law on Ratification of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Lithuania, the Government of the Republic of Poland and the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine on the amendment of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Poland, the Government of the Republic of Lithuania and the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine on the creation of a common military unit and endorsed the decision to recommend it to the Supreme Council of Ukraine as a basis and as a whole. This decision of the committee is in line with the conclusion of the Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration, which supported the ratification of the agreement. The bill is designed to implement the internal procedures necessary for the entry into force of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Lithuania, the Government of the Republic of Poland and the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, which provides for amendments to the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Lithuania, the Government of Poland and the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine on the establishment of a common military unit, the Law of Ukraine (No. 1438) of 04.02.2015. The treaty proposed for ratification was made in Ljubljana on October 5, 2017. It proposes to amend the preamble to the basic agreement. The joint military unit is named after the great Gehtman Constantine Ostrozhki. It is predicted that the joint military may not participate solely in international operations that meet the principles and standards of international law. Asking for support, for it is to strengthen our security and to confirm the work of the three mighty nations together with a powerful history. Today we need it more than ever. The committee is asking to support the Hall's ratification of this agreement. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-06-m1.u17	So, colleagues, I'm asking everyone to take up jobs. I would like to make it clear that this ratification provides for the implementation of the parliamentary initiative, the parliamentary initiative, which states that our joint unit of Ukraine, Poland and Lithuania can participate in peacekeeping operations. But most importantly, it is given the title of the great Gehthman of Ukrainian Constantine Ostrozhki. This is the interparliamentary initiative of Ukraine, Poland and Lithuania. This is a great honor for Ukraine and for the Ukrainian Grand Gehtman. That's why I'd like everyone's support, colleagues. Please take your jobs and support me. And I am voting on the draft Law on the Ratification of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Lithuania, the Government of the Republic of Poland and the Cabinet of the Ministers of Ukraine on the amendment of the Agreement on the Establishment of a Joint Military Section (0200) at the proposal of a committee on the basis and as a whole. Please vote and please support. Let's vote, colleagues. Please be supportive. Vote. Please take part in the vote. [[16:29:57]] For 219 Colleagues, I'll be right back. But you have to understand, two of our neighbors: Poland and Lithuania agreed that the name of our brigade would be the name of the Ghetman Ostrozhky. What is the response of the Ukrainian Parliament, colleagues? How can that be? And the Gehtman and the Prince of Ostrov. So, colleagues, I'm betting on a return. Please vote for the return to draft Law 0200. Please vote, please support. Vote. For the great Ukrainian of Ostrovsky. [[16:30:42.]] For 231 So we're back. And I'm putting the draft Law 0200 on the ground as a whole. We'll support it, colleagues. For the great Prince Constantine Ostrozhsky. We'll support it. We're voting 0200 as a base and as a whole. Vote. And for the victory under the Orchid of our common armies over the Moscows. [[16:31:11]] For 230 Decision taken. This is a parliamentary initiative and a great victory for Ukrainian parliamentaryism and Ukraine. Thank you, colleagues. Decision taken. The next draft of the Act is the draft Act amending the Code of Budgets of Ukraine. So this is about long-term budget planning. A progressive law that has long been prepared by the Ministry of Finance and appointed by the minister of finance for consideration. It's a second reading, colleagues. That is why we do not vote in favour of a special procedure, but we immediately begin our consideration. So we're moving on to draft Law 8044. And I would like to invite the head of the Committee on Budget Affairs of Ischeikin Costin Eugenovich to address you, please. Budget Committee. Ishchin is here. I invite you to the report, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-06-m1.u18	Dear Andrew Volodymyrovich, distinguished national deputies and invited! The Supreme Council of October 18 was adopted on the basis of government bills 8044 and 8043 (for the implementation of medium - term budget planning) with the commission of the committee to develop them into second readings, uniting them together. The Committee on Budget Affairs, with the participation of the Ministry of Finance and Experts, prepared a unified bill of 8044 for second reading. In general, the bill has received many proposals from the people's deputies, who are grouped and generalized in 152. Most of the proposals are aimed at resolving the issues raised by the budget committee in preparation for the first reading of the bill. As a result of the committee’s proposals, some 106 proposals are taken into account and 46 suggestions are rejected. Thus, the final draft of the unified bill proposes, inter alia: First. To improve the new edition of article 33 of the Code of Budget Declaration by providing for the definition of such a document, its status and its term of action, the systematization and streamlining of the procedures for the compilation and components of the Budget Declaration, the submission to the Supreme Council, together with the Financial and Economic Statement. The other one. To clarify the changes proposed by the Government to the Supreme Council Rules, first and foremost, by specifying the special procedure for the consideration of the Budget Declaration in part of the decision-making process. Third. Ensure that the budget declaration is made public, together with relevant information and analysis materials. Four. To improve the drafting proposed by the government, the new article 75-1 of the code on the preparation of the local budget forecast, with the provision of the definition of such a document, the systematization and streamlining of the drafting of the components of the local budget forecast, the submission to the local council, along with the forecast of the local financial and economic justification budget, and the provision by Minfin of the organisational and methodological principles for the drafting of such a document. Fifth. To provide for the application of the new provisions of the Code for Projection of the Local Budget since 2020 and, in 2019, to standardize the production of forecasts of local budgets in the same way as the valid standards set out in article 21 of the Code. Six. To provide for the harmonization of the legal provisions of the amendments to the eight legislative acts related to the bill and necessary for the proper implementation of such provisions. Seven. In the Code, use the terms "border spending and lending rates", "local budget forecasts and public services" instead of the government's proposed terms "cost ceilings and loans", "local and financial plans" and "public services" to contribute to the explicit treatment of their content and dissemination in legislation.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-06-m1.u19	Please finish one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-06-m1.u20	According to the Committee on Budget Questions, the United Council recommends that the combined bill 8044 be adopted in a second reading and, in general, as a law taking into account supported proposals in the proposed final text, as set out in the comparative table given to the bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-06-m1.u21	Thank you, Mr. Constantine. Please stay on the rostrum, and we're on the move. Amendment No. 6 of the People's Deputies of Seminy. No, it doesn't. Thank you very much. Correction number. Now. Amendment No. 17 of the People's Deputy Levchenka. Please, the microphone. 17th.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-06-m1.u22	Lewchenko, Freedom, 223 District, Kiev City. Well, first of all, I'm paying attention to the Presidium that, I see, budget night is not enough for you from November 22 to November 23. You do. This rape of the Rules you want to keep it endlessly simple, don't you? I remind you of the standard of article 117 of the Ukrainian Act on the Supreme Council Rules: the table should be distributed to the second reading in 10 days, not in a few hours to appear, well, first to be distributed and then to appear on the website electronically. How can such serious documents, the Country Budget Code, now a substantial change in the general principle of budgeting be made to medium-term planning, thus proposing to work at all, to work improperly, in general, in violation of the Rules. The next time? Well, how long can you do that? It is not physically possible to process all of your adjustments properly and, in fact, physically impossible when this table, in fact, only appeared. So I demand that we postpone the consideration of this issue, give it the right time to process all the amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-06-m1.u23	Don't you insist on voting? Oh, you insist, I didn't hear. Please define 17 amendments. The committee turned her down. [[16:38:12]] For-66 The correction is being rejected. Next Levchenka 18th. Are you insisting? Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-06-m1.u24	I would, however, like to see Mrs. Chairman, Mrs. Irina Heratschenko, deputy head of the Supreme Council, even though I would like to respond to the fact that we now have a direct violation of the Ukrainian Act on Rules of Procedure of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Well, I see she's not interested in the question, and she's more interested in talking to Mr. Pashinsky about some culinary issues. That's what's going on in the lobby right now. Once again, I point out that it has not been possible for conscientious national deputies to prepare properly for the consideration of this issue. Once again, you are considering serious matters in violation of the Rules. This is my amendment to the point that in the bill the words "local financial plan" should be replaced by the words "local budget declaration." In connection with the change of the term "local financial plan" to the term "city budget declaration." But on the other hand, please implement the Ukrainian Act on the Rules of Procedure of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and allow time for processing, how many pages, a 100-page table as amended to this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-06-m1.u25	Please vote for the 18th amendment. [[16:39:39]] For-81 The correction is being rejected. Next, 25th. Does Simeonah insist? Thank you. Lechenko, 31st. Don't you insist? Please, the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-06-m1.u26	I insist. Although it's coming right now in direct mode, let's say real-time, on live air, now look at this table and try to process it properly. This amendment of mine 31 refers to the fact that section I, paragraph 2, of the bill is proposed to supplement the budget structure of the Ukrainian budget code in article 4 with new instruments, the budgetary declaration of local financial plans. A legal form of approval is required in the text of the bill. Otherwise, they cannot be interpreted as legislation in the future. So actually, I'm suggesting that it's not just a matter of filling in. The budget code is appropriate in terms of terminology, adding that the Budget Declaration, the local financial plans, are approved in accordance with the requirements of the Code, not in any way incomprehensible. It's important for legal technology. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-06-m1.u27	Please be determined by 31 corrections. [[16:41:02]] For-78 The correction is being rejected. Next up, 35th. Lechenko, please. Don't you insist? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-06-m1.u28	I insist. Lewchenko, Freedom, 223 District, Kiev City. So this amendment refers to the need for clarification in relation to the term "public service" instead of the definition of "public service". I mean, everybody needs it. In paragraph 3, paragraph 1, of section 3 of the bill, replace the word "states" with the word "public." It's actually a technical amendment, once again, for the proper processing of the legal document. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-06-m1.u29	I'd like to make 35 adjustments. [[16:42:07]] Z-85 The correction is being rejected. Semenha, 37th. Don't insist. 39th, Levenchenko. 37th? Please, Semenha. Semenha, 37th.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-06-m1.u30	Semenha Roman, "The Self-Help Union" faction. Dear colleagues, the legislative initiative in general clearly deserves support, but some things need to be worked out. In particular, my right to the Budget Code introduces a new principle, the principle of stability and consistency. He obliges the public authorities to adhere consistently to the stated strategic goals of the state’s development and earlier decisions. Today, the country's budget is very often in the hands of the Cabinet of Ministers, which is unacceptable for the country's main financial document and for the state's public finances in general. The bill therefore requires the introduction of draft legislation, which is aimed at a positive change in budgetary indicators, but only by the procedure laid down in the Code of Budgets. Please be supportive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-06-m1.u31	Please determine for Amendment 37. [[16:43:17]] For-83 The correction is being rejected. Next 39th, Lechchenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-06-m1.u32	Madam Chairman, however, I see you have completed your previous conversation with Mr. Pashinsky in the Presidium. So I would still like to ask you to respond publicly to the fact that now, on live air, the Ukrainian Act "On the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine" is being violated, and specifically, its 117th article, which clearly states that the relevant materials are to be distributed to national deputies in 10 days, not a few hours before consideration. To avoid that, it is a special legislator who is smarter than an active warehouse, wrote many years ago, that serious things on 100 pages are not viewed in such a way by running, in haste, without proper, in fact, discussion. With regard to the 39 amendments, amendments to article 13 of the Ukrainian Code of Budget are proposed to grant the right to place in banks, including foreign funds, funds received by the State as loans by other States, and so forth. Such changes should be excluded because they do not meet the purpose of the bill. It is not clear who will be able to do so, as well as to place funds in private banks, especially at foreign, public funds, poses a threat to national security. That's it.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-06-m1.u33	Thank you, Sir Yuri. You know, talking to any of the deputies can't distract me from studying your amendments. I listen to them very carefully, and I always vote for them, "against" or usually "retained." So don’t worry, even Pashinsky can’t distract you from your amendments. I'd like you to pick 39, dear colleagues. [[16:45:05]] For-69 And we're moving through the Rules because we're going after all the amendments, dear colleagues. And all the desirable deputies, including Lechchenko, were able to submit on time, and they were considered on the committee. 47th, Semenha. Please. 47th now, and then 41th will be. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-06-m1.u34	Semenha Roman, "The Self-Help Union" faction. Dear colleagues, my right is to exercise parliamentary control over the approval of the government debt management strategy over the medium term. Unlike Minfin's proposal, the law suggests: First. Draft strategy to develop a Ukrainian Ministry of Finance and approve the Cabinet of Ministers and submit to the Supreme Council. The other one. National deputies develop their proposals for a government debt management strategy and submit them to the Budget Committee. Third. The Budget Committee is preparing a draft Supreme Council ruling, which contains the proposals taken into account. Four. The Supreme Council of the Plenary discusses the issue of a sovereign debt management strategy. As a result of the review, he makes an appropriate decision on the management strategy for government debt with approved proposals from the committee. Please support, and, in our view, this is a more advanced moment of parliamentary control in the strategy of government debt management. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-06-m1.u35	Please identify yourself for 47 amendments. [[16:46:38]] For-76 The correction is being rejected. I have missed the 41 amendments of the Levchenk People's Deputy. Please, he's got a microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-06-m1.u36	Lewchenko, Freedom, 223 District, Kiev City. First of all, Madam Chairman, I answer you that compliance with the Rules is not only that you put to the vote any amendment to which the National MP insists, but that compliance with the Rules is also intended to provide the relevant materials to the National Deputies in due time, as prescribed, I stress, in the Ukrainian Law on the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. And it turns out that the Supreme Council does not comply with its own law, so how can it be expected that the rest of the country will abide by the laws if the national deputies themselves do not comply with their own laws? With regard to this amendment, the proposal in paragraph 3 of section 5 of the bill and paragraph 5 of the bill should be supplemented by the words "that amount of total capital expenditure included in the State budget for the corresponding budgetary period with a view to specifying the norm." Because the thing is, without it. Without such specificity of the norm, the corresponding point of the State budget deficit is not perfect and will not, in fact, work properly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-06-m1.u37	I'd like to make 41 adjustments, please. And I'm asking the secretariat to give the MPs the amendments in time so everyone can study the amendments. Although our colleague Lewchenko is studying in 10 minutes, not to mention 10 days. [[16:48:06]] For-72 The correction is being rejected. Next, 50th. Semenha. Don't insist. Thank you very much. Next Lewchenko, 54th.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-06-m1.u38	Thank you. Lewchenko, Freedom, 223 District, Kiev City. Madam Chairman, first of all, I say that the question is not just in the Secretariat and not so much in the Secretariat. The Secretariat is a hired employee who, unfortunately, depends on their political leaders. And you, as a political leader, can. You have the full right and not the full right, but the obligation not to put a bill into discussion now, knowing that the materials are being distributed improperly. Well, it's about who's responsible. With regard to this amendment, this refers to section I, paragraph 10, of the bill, which should be supplemented by a new paragraph of the following sentence: "Wherein, among the stages of the budgetary process, the stage for assessing budget performance and achieving strategic objectives is foreseen." So this is about what the bill lists the stages of the budget process, which are exactly what these stages are. There are five stages: the compilation and compilation of the Budget Declaration, the drafting of budgets, and so on. I would like to add that the sixth stage is the evaluation of budget implementation and the achievement of strategic goals, because without an evaluation of what is proposed, it is unlikely that we can properly continue to plan. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-06-m1.u39	Thank you. I'd like to make 54 adjustments, dear colleagues. And, of course, please vote. And, of course, as chairman and political leader, I cannot be so rude as to violate the Rules that we have now interrupted the discussion that we have already entered. Then you'll be the first to criticize me. [[16:49:42]] For-68 The correction is being rejected. The next amendment is 64. Likewise, Levenchenko. Are you insisting? Please, the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-06-m1.u40	Thank you. Thank you, Madam Chairman. Well, I'd like to tell you, first of all, that if you didn't go into this discussion illegally, then there would be no problem ripping it off. Because, in fact, the beginning of this discussion as such was illegal. But, Madam Chairman, I just did. See? Because of your haste: you gave me 64 amendments, and 64 amendments are not Leuchenka, they're Dennisenka. That's why I can't say anything about her. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'll be right back. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-06-m1.u41	Excuse me, excuse me! I was just wrong, I'm very sorry, my dear colleague. Next, Amendment 85, Levchenko. I'm sorry. No one insists on anyone until 85? Mr. Levchenko, your next, 85th.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-06-m1.u42	Now, please. Now it's on the air right now, looking for the repairs, doing them right.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-06-m1.u43	It's okay. It's not a violation of the Rules.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-06-m1.u44	No, I'm just saying, if we were to split up on time, there wouldn't be a problem. So this amendment refers to what is proposed, namely. The bill, namely, in paragraph 13 of section 22 of section I of the bill, should take into account that the State must first determine how much taxes can be collected, then how much expenditure is needed under valid legislation, then how much debt must be recovered and only then how much deficit or surplus should be foreseen. So I propose in paragraph 13 of section 22, paragraph 22, of the bill that the word "determins the amount of funding of the budget" be transferred to the sentence at the end of the sentence. In fact, this refers to the chronological way in which the State budget is properly shaped. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-06-m1.u45	Please, 85 amendments to Lechchenka, vote. No, 85th, fifth, don't beat me up, please, or Lewchenko will say again that I don't listen very carefully. [[16:52:00]] Z-71 The correction is being rejected. Next, 86th, Semenha. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-06-m1.u46	Semenha Roman, "The Self-Help Union" faction. Dear colleagues, our rights are improving the order of application of the marginal spending rates of budget managers. In order for the budget economy objectives not to dominate the strategic objectives of the State's development, in line with the objectives of the budget managers, the regulation allows for a reasoned request by the budget manager to increase the marginality of its expenditure compared to Minfin's proven expenditure, if this is justified for the execution of the public tasks assigned to such an authorising officer. Thus, it is envisaged that Minfin is obliged to analyse the proposals of the arrangers not only in terms of their compliance with Minfin’s defined expenditure ceilings but also to analyse the proposals for compliance with the strategic plans of the arranger. Please be supportive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-06-m1.u47	Thank you. Please, Your Honor, please identify 86 amendments. [[16:53:08]] For-74. The correction is being rejected. Next, so is the People's Deputy of Seminy, 87th. But he does not insist on his correction. And the 90th Amendment of Lechchenka. He insists. A microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-06-m1.u48	Lewchenko, Freedom, 223 District, Kiev City. The legislation does not determine how the table of expenditure is established and how the budget is credited for the planned and planned budget periods. I propose that the third paragraph of section 23 of the bill be supplemented by a new sentence: "The methodology for determining the table of expenditure and lending from the budget to the planned and subsequent budget periods shall be established by the Cabinet of Ministers." The thing is, if you don't set specific standards, who prescribes appropriate methodologies, then there's a total mess, like we have now. Therefore, instead of continuing this mess in all spheres of public life, we should try to resolve it in any way. So it must be that someone should be responsible for establishing the appropriate methodology. I propose to place this responsibility on the Cabinet of Ministers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-06-m1.u49	I'd like to make a statement, colleagues, about 90 amendments. [[16:54:29]] For-74. The correction is being rejected. Next amendment to the 98th People's Deputy, Levchenka. 98th. Did you find it on live?
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-06-m1.u50	Yes. Lewchenko, Freedom, 223 District, Kiev City. 98 The amendment refers to what the bill proposes in paragraph (d) the words “the main directions of budgetary policy for the next budget period” to replace the words “the budget declaration”. This proposal needs to be more detailed, so I suggest that you put "g" in the next new edition, which states that the information on the appropriateness of the budget declaration with a description of the budget table deviations (if any) on each of the main schedules of funds is all indicated. Appropriately insert item "d" in the following edition: "Information on the matching of the Budget Declaration with description of budget table deviations (if any) for each main cost manager. This must be indicated because it also indicates how the previous plans were or were not implemented. Without proper control of the planned items, budget planning cannot be done in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-06-m1.u51	98th Amendment, please identify yourself. [[16:56:04]] For-69 Yes, colleagues. the amendment is rejected. Semenha, 102nd. Please, the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-06-m1.u52	Semenha Roman, "The Self-Help Union" faction. My dear colleagues, next year, I would like to draw your attention again to the fact that there has been a substantial increase in funding for the Ministry of Internal Affairs, plus 25 percent compared to the current year, plus 17 percent for the Ukrainian Security Service compared to the current year. And our amendment is very simple and has a very simple goal: to expand the list of materials that the Cabinet of Ministers, along with the draft Budget Act, should submit to Parliament. We believe that taxpayers deserve the right to know what is involved in such an important, substantial increase in expenditure to the strong organs. That is: there should be justifications for any increase in expenditure: the Ministry of Internal Affairs, the Office of the Attorney-General of Ukraine and the Ukrainian Security Service, the National Security Service, the National Security Service, and the National Security Service. I repeat, taxpayers have to have a reasoned answer why the next draft budget next year is proposed to increase such expenditure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-06-m1.u53	I'd like you to define yourself by 100. Would you like to comment on that, Mr. Ischikin? Let's define 102 amendments. [[16:57:36]] Z-62 The correction is being rejected. 104 repairs, Semenha. Please, the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-06-m1.u54	Semenha Roman, "The Self-Help Union" faction. Dear colleagues, the law proposes to at least partially open the country’s defence budget. It is no secret that today's defense budget is closed by three locks and consists of several lines and is totally out of control for Parliament or even more for taxpayers. And then the next fiscal year, Ucroborprom, which is basically one of the principal money managers, is proposed to increase the statutory capital by 3 billion dollars. Therefore, the expenses of the military sector, security and defence authorities should be separated by types of maintenance, and some of them should be transferred to the public finances, except, of course, the costs of applying public secrecy, the costs of public procurement of arms, military and special technology. I think everyone interested in making the defense budget as open and accountable as possible to taxpayers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-06-m1.u55	Thank you. Please identify 104 amendments. [[16:58:51]] For-69 Dear colleagues, 69 - per, the amendment is rejected. Next is Semenha, 116th. Are you insisting? Don't insist. Colleagues, next 117, Levechenko. He had two amendments, 117th and 110th, two minutes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-06-m1.u56	Lewchenko, Freedom, 223 District, Kiev City. I'd like to use these two minutes of my last two revisions to pay attention, first of all, to our television audiences, to our radio audiences, and second of all, to those conscious deputies, to the few tens that are in this room, to what is now going on, to the propaganda that is going on right now. First of all, I would like to point out that a very important bill on changes in the substance of the approach to budgetary planning in Ukraine is being considered in grave violation of the Ukrainian Act on the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, when MPs are not able to properly process the 100-page table of amendments, right? Now, why is that actually happening? And this is done so that we cannot properly discuss and draw attention to the fact that what is now being proposed here is not an implementation of medium-term budgetary planning, as it is, for example, in most countries or even in all Western European countries, right? And what we're proposing here is that it's a bit of a bit of a policy about anything that's creating an additional new document or even saying it's replacing one document with another, but it doesn't really alter the approach to budget planning in any way. Parliamentary control is appropriate, correct – when MPs, the Supreme Council, most of them in the Supreme Council, can respond adequately to unprofessional or generally corrupt budget failures, or absurd elements in the planning of the state budget by executive authorities, on the part of the Cabinet of Ministers. This parliamentary control is not being implemented at all. There is no real way to change the Cabinet documents. There is no real possibility of particularly refusing to accept documents that are accepted by the Cabinet of Ministers. The innovations proposed have nothing to do with real medium-term budget planning, when it is very difficult in Western Europe, for example, to move away from medium-term planning. If you make an annual budget, it has to be very strong in terms of medium-term planning. What is offered here is still going on year after year. And the medium term is just a declaration, another paper that will be circulated from the Cabinet of Ministers.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-06-m1.u57	15 seconds to complete.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-06-m1.u58	So in fact, this is how the discussion is made completely untrue, non-parliamentary. In order to make this positive butaphoric, or not even positive at all, but simply to cover up the propaganda. For such a bill, it's like that.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-06-m1.u59	I understand your position. Don't you insist on voting? Oh, you insist. Please, Amendment 110, we'll vote in order. Please make up your mind. [[17:01:56]] For-72 The correction is being rejected. And the next 117. I'd like to make a statement. [[17:02:14]] For-60 The correction is being rejected. Colleagues, we have literally a few more amendments to the People's Deputies of Semimenha. Do you insist on any of them, Your Honor? Please, 129, 130, two in one. Okay, let's go 129, 130. And then he asks for the word of the national MP Meparishvili. And we vote. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-06-m1.u60	Since the beginning of the budget process, honourable colleagues have in fact been placed within a sufficiently rigid framework to consider and make proposals on the budget and related bills. However, unfortunately, there is a manual management regime that is used by a government that, in fact, allows it to make any appropriate changes to any document at any time in the budget year. Therefore, my amendment increases the deadline given to the Supreme Council of Ukraine for the preparation of the Government's budget declaration by one month. The drafting of the project proposes to oblige the government to submit the Budget Declaration in early June. My right suggests that we do this in early May, which will allow much more and more members of the Supreme Council and the Supreme Council in general to work out the Government's budgetary declaration. Thank you. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-06-m1.u61	Please identify yourself for Amendment 129. [[17:03:43]] For-65 The correction is being rejected. Next up is 130th. Please. [[17:04:00]] For-64 The correction is being rejected. After the 134th amendment, the people’s MP Meparishvili asks for the word. Please turn on the microphone. It's not an amendment, mate.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-06-m1.u62	I'm not going to insist on voting on this amendment, I'm going to ask you to take technical notes into account. To supplement paragraph 9 of paragraph 2 of section II of the bill to make Law 794-VIII of 27.02. 14 with new paragraphs of the following content: to complete paragraph 12 of part number 42 of the first article with the following words and symbols: "including one person applying to the persons involved. To be foreseen in article 72 of the Ukrainian State Service Act (No. 889-VIII of 10.12.2015) in the order established by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-06-m1.u63	30 seconds to complete, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-06-m1.u64	Yeah, what to do. Thank you. In the second part of article 41, the words and symbols mentioned after the words “meetings” and in the first part of article 51, the words and symbols indicated after the words “vote”. Replace the words and symbols in the order established by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. Part three of article 46.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-06-m1.u65	How much time do you need? I'm asking you to give it up for the transcript of our session, okay? And you're done? Dear colleague, we have completed our discussion of the bill. I ask Mr. Ischikin to sum it up for one minute. And your colleague, Meparishvili, spoke. So please also give your position to the committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-06-m1.u66	Dear presiding fellows! I want to ask everyone again to support this bill, because a few recent calls from the Supreme Council have tried and declared that they will move on to the mid-term three-year planning that will symbolize the new development in our state. I would like to say separately that the working group on the committee, with the participation of the National Deputies of the Budget Committee and Minfin, worked on the document for a week at a time. And I sincerely thank everyone who has joined in this work. Some thanks to Oksani Sergiyovni and Minfin for a large team of professionals who have worked actively on this document, members of the budget committee, and the head secretariat, which has provided almost 24 hours of rotation to support the consideration of this necessary bill. That's why I want to.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-06-m1.u67	30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-06-m1.u68	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-06-m1.u69	Attention! Attention, colleagues! Everyone, please come into the hall. It'll be 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-06-m1.u70	I want to say that again.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-06-m1.u71	Wait a minute. A vote will take place in 30 seconds. So I ask the heads of factions to invite everyone into the hall, to take up jobs, and to prepare for the vote. Please, Constantine, finish your report, 30 seconds. I'm asking everyone to come into the hall. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-06-m1.u72	A request for the Committee’s consideration to recommend to the Supreme Council the adoption of a unified bill of 8044 on second reading and, in general, as a law that takes into account the supported proposals in the proposed final edition, as set out in the comparative table in the bill, taking into account the clarifications read by the Meparishvili People’s Deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-06-m1.u73	So, colleagues, we've finished the discussion. I'm asking everyone to take up jobs. I ask the heads of factions to invite members to the Chamber and ask the Secretariat to inform us that we are moving on to a decision-making process. Please. Colleagues, please return from government beds to your workplace. Meparishvili's correction is progressive, healthy. Please. So, are you ready to make a decision? You're ready, aren't you? So, colleagues, I'm being referred to by government officials who are unadulterated, unadulterated. And so, the committee agreed to that without a readjustment? Yes. So I don't just read any papers, I just lay down the law. Of course, that will be the way it will be prepared. So, colleagues, let's move on to making a decision. And I am voting on the draft Law amending the Ukrainian Budget Code on the Legal Basis for the Implementation of Medium-term Budget Planning (No. 8044) as proposed by the Committee in its second reading and as a whole. Please vote, please support the government, the finance minister and our committee. Please vote, please support me, colleagues. Vote! Please be supportive. [[17:10:53]] For 238. The law is passed, colleagues. Hello! Colleagues, the next question we have is, I would like to draw your attention to the previous report of the Interim Investigation Commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The Security Committee, which was actually forming its own block today, requested that the committee continue its work. That's why I'm asking Sergei Pashinsky to approach. But before that, I would like to read out a message that came to the Presidency by the head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine from the national deputy of Oksana Sold: "Please do not include my vote in favour" for the draft Ukrainian Law 9260, the elimination of the disagreements to which was voted in the session room on 06.11.2018. Please announce my address at the meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, by the National Deputy Sold. That is, she withdraws her voice from clarifying article 131 of the Tax Code. And now we're moving on to the next issue of the agenda -- the draft Order on the previous report of the Interim Investigation Commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to investigate the facts of the theft in the Armed Forces of Ukraine and to undermine the defense of the state between 2004 and 2017. Please support the consideration of the reduced procedure. Please vote, please support. Vote! I'd like everyone's support, colleagues. [[17:12:34]] For a hundred and Decision taken. And I invite the Secretary of the National Security and Defence Committee, Mr. Ivan Yuliyovich, to report.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-06-m1.u74	Dear colleagues, as we promised, symbolically on the Day of the Armed Forces of Ukraine, we have proposed to hear a report from the Interim Investigation Commission of the Parliament on the investigation of the facts of the robbery in the Armed Forces of Ukraine during the period 2004-2017. In fact, we'd be willing to report, but the facts we got during the commission's work are so impressive that we actually registered today's Order 9370 and, as it stands out, we're proposing to continue this commission for another six months, and I'd like to explain why. We have indeed been able to find out the facts, including with the assistance of the Attorney General's Office, the Kyiv Research Institute of Forensic Experts, about the amount of technology that has been completely unreasonably sold by the defence ministers that led this office from 2004 to 2014. In fact, it turns out that each of these ministers, and more specifically a group of ministers, were implementing a plan to disarm Ukraine, which began in 1994. In 1994, the first 10 years leading up to 2004, the Kremlin’s plan must have been designed to destroy Ukraine’s full strategic potential for backstopping and curbing aggression. All forms of offensive weapons were eliminated. From 2004 to 2010, when the defence ministers of Gritsenko, Yehanurov, Yvashchenko, were in office, there was a large-scale sale of equipment and weapons of defence. The final phase from 2010 to 2014 was characterized by a complete balance and destruction of military command systems, the destruction of project war orders, and so on. Ministers Ježel, Salamatin, and Lebedev, who are thought to have Russian citizenship, the head of Zaman’s General Staff, have taken all necessary steps to ensure that the Ukrainian army is not only ineffective but also unguided. In this regard, we need to make sure that these facts are fulfilled.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-06-m1.u75	One minute, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-06-m1.u76	Please add 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-06-m1.u77	In this regard, in order to fully investigate these facts, and above all, we want to establish damage not only to the security and defenses but also to the material damage inflicted on the State to establish them in relation to individual leaders, we suggest that the commission continue to operate with appropriate proposals. First, coordinate the work of the Derjphinaudit Service and the KNICE to calculate the value of those weapons and the damage they caused, unscramble the entire range of documents that are included in the State Export Control Service that.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-06-m1.u78	Please record: two in, two in. So, colleagues, from the Petar Dust Block, Melniczuk Ivan. Turn on the microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-06-m1.u79	Dear colleagues, I propose to support and move on to the following question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-06-m1.u80	From the People's Front, Grand Chief Mikola Romanovich. Surgey Pashinski, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-06-m1.u81	Dear friends! I want to pay attention to the seriousness of this question. In 10 years, one of the world’s largest armies was sold at a price cheaper than scrap metal. These people are walking, and now they're teaching us how to live and protect the country. In the 14th year, we had at least what we could and should have stood up to the Russian Federation. Tanks, infantry combat vehicles, PWI complexes were sold cheaper to scrap metal, I emphasize that this is objective information. That's why I'm asking everyone to support the initiative of the interim commission of inquiry to continue their work and establish damage to our financial capacity and to bring the guilty to criminal responsibility. This should never happen again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-06-m1.u82	30 seconds, please. We're done, aren't we? So Moses Igor, the Radical Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-06-m1.u83	Igor Mosiyczuk, Radical Party. Now it's about the biggest crime, probably in the history of modern Ukraine, the crime is not just corruption, but it's a crime that has to qualify as an exclusive treason of the state. Because the destruction of the Ukrainian army, the Ukrainian defense, caused the death of thousands of the best Ukrainian soldiers at the beginning of the Russian aggression against Ukraine, was the cause of Crimea’s treachery, the occupation of part of Donbas. And the people, irrespective of the names that occupied the responsible state offices, throughout the period when they were sold at the price of scrap metal armor, missile complexes, other weapons, were destroyed whole divisions, these people had to be criminally responsible, they had to have a separate criminal trial, because it was on the hands of these people that were the best Ukrainians in the 14th, 15th, 16th, 17th and 18th years protecting the country from Russian aggression. I would like to extend my greetings to the soldiers of the Armed Forces of Ukraine, to those who have defended and defended the Ukrainian state: glory to heroes, glory to those who defend the Ukrainian land!
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-06-m1.u84	From the "Fatherland" faction to the word, John Krulko is invited. And, colleagues, please come into the hall. In two or three minutes, we'll move on to making a decision. Please invite everyone to the hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-06-m1.u85	Ivan Krulko, "The Fatherland" faction. Dear colleagues, do we need, as a Parliament, to exercise very clear control over what is happening in the Armed Forces of Ukraine. Of course, it's a necessary thing. And I think that such a commission that started its work, including it should be a key task to examine very clearly, and what was done in the Ministry at this time, at the time of the war, at the time when our soldiers, the Ukrainian defenders we are celebrating today, when they were protecting Ukraine from the Russian invader, from the Russian aggressor who was at the back when war was a matter of life and death for someone, and war was a matter of business. Clearly, then, it is necessary to put an end to the business of war. And the parliamentary commission has to think very clearly: and as of now, in the time of war, when the Supreme Council is at the expense of taxpayers, when a special military tax is introduced 1.5 percent, when pensioners do not receive their pension, because the funds go to defense, because there is a Russian aggressor, as in this period the cost of various Ministry of Defence programs, which are not only related to arms purchases, but also related to other things on which someone makes money. And we should certainly consider, including, what happened to our weapons in Ukraine's years of independence. The commission's mandate should be extended to all the years since the beginning of Ukraine's independence and looked at how methodically from the year 91, when all this contraband was sitting in the Ministry of Defence, the Security Service, the Foreign Intelligence Service, worked for Russia, worked for the Kremlin, and methodically destroyed the Armed Forces, so that as soon as Putin decided to attack Ukraine, Ukraine was not ready. That's what we're talking about.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-06-m1.u86	30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-06-m1.u87	And those heads of the Ministry of Defense who allowed only five thousand soldiers to go east and protect Ukraine in the course of armed aggression to shoulder the responsibility of those who admitted to such a state. So I think the commission has to work, but it has to extend its mandate throughout the period, both in the course of armed aggression now from 2014 to 2004. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-06-m1.u88	So, colleagues, one more minute is the non-fractional Kishkar, and in a minute we're going to vote. I ask everyone to take up their jobs, go into the hall, get ready for the vote. Please, Kishkar, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-06-m1.u89	Paul Kishkar, National Movement of Ukraine I am a member of an active TSC and deeply concerned about the form of work proposed by the head of the TSC. I stress that such a vote will now be a direct violation of the Rules. As a member of the TSC, I have been deprived of the opportunity to submit a separate opinion to the interim report. I support the work of the TSC, I'm willing to engage in it and deal with it, but when we talk about thousands and thousands of land violations, housing distribution, social security, the report of the Court of Auditors -- over 300 pages of abuse, no criminal case. We now insist that after the 14th year these abuses continue. The goal was to create this TSC to produce tools that make it impossible to repeat these facts. Why vote for fiction? The school airport in Odessa is breaking up today. Not yesterday, not yesterday, not 10 years ago, and today, now.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-06-m1.u90	Thank you. There hasn't been a "self-help" faction. One minute, Taras Shepherd. And let's go to the vote. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-06-m1.u91	Dear colleagues, the Self-Help faction initially supported the work of this commission, because, in fact, the country needs to know who has joined in the reinforcement or the weakening of defence from the previous leadership. But it's no less important what's happening in this period. Since the commission has indeed been able to open a series of facts that are very challenging to date about the theft of the Armed Forces, but the whole country is witnessing the annual explosion of stockpiles in Ukraine, thereby weakening the security of our country, and the stockpiles are exploding not by thousands, not by millions, but by billions, in fact, where the whole country is hearing about corruption scandals around the purchases of the Ministry of Defence, so we insisted that the work of this period should be increased from 14th to 17th year. And today we confirm our position that the commission should not be limited to the activities of the previous leadership of the state, but should include the period of the present, the work of the present leadership.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-06-m1.u92	Please, Vinnik, the closing statement.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-06-m1.u93	After listening to the proposals as the head of the TSC and the author of this decision, I propose that we actually extend the term, not the term, I'm sorry, the period that the Commission has been investigating since the year 94. Why '94? Because the Budapest Memorandum was signed on December 5, 1994. And according to the studies that we know and own, it is from this very period that a systematic decline in the ability of our state began. As for the function that we need to explore during the period of effective leadership of the Ministry of Defence, these issues are being explored. They're being studied in the material and technical parts, in the fuel and oil parts, in the food part. And now we're talking about another scandal that might happen. And you know just as well, Mr. Taras, that this is about work, especially our committee, which has done a lot to stop any inefficient forms of purchases that have been made. Therefore, we will certainly explore the period 2014 to 2017, because our report cannot be complete, since the commission’s mandate extends to 2017, it is obvious. And that's why I'm asking you to continue the work of the commission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-06-m1.u94	Thank you. So let's move on to decision-making, colleagues. And I'm putting to the vote a draft decree on the preliminary report of the Provisional Investigation Commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to investigate the facts of the dissolution in the Armed Forces of Ukraine and to undermine the State's defence capabilities, as amended by the transcript by John Winnick (9370) as a whole. Please vote, please support, with technical legal rights. Please vote, please support. Vote! [[17:27:29]] For-200 Guys, I'm going to make another call. 150 votes is enough for the commission to proceed. So the decision is made, the decision is made. Colleagues, if you'll just point at 150, is that correct? I'm on my way. Colleagues, 226 to go, says the Law Department, need 226. So, colleagues, I want to point out that Winnick read out the amendment to the commission's extension, right?
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-06-m1.u95	Since the '91st. So, colleagues, I think with this right from 91st to 91st.? After the 17th year. After the 18th year. You got it, right? So I'm going to put this right over here. Please vote for the return first. Please, colleagues, mobilize. And I'm voting on the proposal to go back to Project Order 9370. Please vote. Please be supportive. Every voice, colleagues. Vote. Please be supportive. Vote. With the work I've been doing. [[17:28:56]] For 219 We didn't make it. I'll put it again, colleagues. I would like to point out that I am going to put to the vote with the readjustment that John Winnick made. I ask you to come into the hall and take part in the vote, colleagues. From 91st to 18th. It's an amendment that all sides are satisfied with and that's compromising. So please all take part in the vote, colleagues. So I would like to support the proposal to go back to Project Rule 9370 and carefully ask everyone to participate in the vote. We're voting for the return. Please be supportive. Vote. Please be supportive. [[17:29:46]] For 224 Two votes. Colleagues, well, we should be in place. Colleagues, I don't understand. I brought in the paperwork you've been offering. My colleagues, I'll put it again, two votes. I'm asking you to back me up. I'm betting on the return of Order 9370 with the rights that John Winnick gave us. And I ask everyone to take part in the vote and vote. So please vote, colleagues. Please vote. Please vote, please support, vote for the return. Final final vote. Each voice has a weight. Please vote. Please be supportive. Voting, voting. [[17:30:45.]] For 226 My colleagues, we're back. Now I'm putting the Bill of Decree 9370 on the ground and, in general, the amendments that John Winnick made under the transcript. I want the commission to review the period from 91st to 18th. I ask you to vote and support. Colleagues, every voice, please support, we vote. Please vote. Please support, we vote. Please be supportive. We're voting carefully, colleagues. [[17:31:27]] For 233 Decision taken. Colleagues, we voted before noon on the draft Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on the State Budget for Ukraine 2018 – a dutiful bill. Now we're going to go over it. But before that, attention, colleagues! Before that, I would like to point out that by noon I had put a block of issues in the agenda of the day session for decision-making. And then there are six questions just to get into the agenda of the day session. In particular, a transplant. It'll take four minutes. I ask you to listen carefully, they are all in order today, and to vote. It's just getting into the agenda of the day session without going to the decision-making process. The first is 9162, a draft of the Law on Fundamental Principles of State Agrarian Policy and State Policy for Rural Development. 9162, in the agenda of the day session, please vote, please support. Vote. [[17:32:38]] For-163 The decision is not taken. The other one. The draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on the Use of Anatomic Material Transplantation to Man. That's what you asked, you were talking to me. I'm putting the day session in order. Please vote, please support. Let's vote, colleagues. We'll support it. We are voting for the inclusion in the agenda of the day session. Vote. [[17:33:16]] For 214 I'll do it again, colleagues. Once again, I put 9284 into the agenda of the day session. Please vote. Please be supportive. Again. Please be supportive. Vote! It's just getting into the order of the day session, colleagues. Hold on! It's not a review, it's just an inclusion so the committee can work. [[B in m in s a l in]] No, he can't. We can't do without it, colleagues. [[17:33:42]] For 218. Next. Draft Decree on Commemorative Dates and Jubilee (9234). Include in the agenda of the day session. Please vote, please support. Vote. [[17:34:09]] For 218. Colleagues, what is the problem with memorizing dates and Jubilee? I'm going to re-design the Order on Commemorative Dates and Jubilee in the 19th year (9234). Please vote, please support. Just getting into the agenda of the day session. Vote. We support you, colleagues. Vote. [[17:34:43]] For 229 Decision taken. Draft Act amending the Ukrainian Television and Radio Act (9068), incorporating the agenda of the day session. If you'll excuse me, I'd like to vote. Please be supportive. [[17:35:10]] For-189 The decision is not taken. The next one is 9287. At the request of Spiowakovsky, the head of the committee, the draft Act amending Chapter XI of the Law on Education, the Act on Education, the inclusion of a day session, only inclusion, colleagues, a bill of parliament. Please vote, please support. Vote. [[17:35:45.]] For 176 176, colleagues. Let's back up the head of the Spiowakovsky committee. I'm once again putting 9287 in the agenda of the day session, the MP. Please vote, please support. Vote. [[17:36:13]] For 171 The decision is not taken. 9217. Draft Act amending the Code of Administrative Offences and the Criminal Code of Ukraine (9217), incorporating the agenda of the day session. Please vote, please support. [[17:36:41]] For 204 The decision is not taken. One more time, colleagues. You know, when the law doesn't work, You can't put it again when it fits, I demand it again. I'm putting 9217 again, in the agenda of the day session. I ask everyone to vote carefully. Please be supportive. Vote. I'd like your support, colleagues. [[17:37:13]] For 230 Copy that. Next 8339. Ukraine Act amending the Ukrainian National Police Act. Let's support, colleagues, the important bill, the inclusion in the agenda of the session. I'd like your support, colleagues. Vote. It's just getting into the agenda of the day session. Vote. Please be supportive. [[17:37:44]] For 193 Colleagues, why? Think, read. I'll put it again, colleagues, the National Police and Change Act (8339). Let's support it. It's just getting into the agenda of the day session. It's not a review, it's an inclusion. If you'll excuse me, I'd like to vote. Let's vote, colleagues. Please be supportive. Vote. [[17:38:17]] For 193 The decision is not taken. Next draft of Law 9102 on the enforcement of housing rights of residents. Include in the agenda of the day session. Please vote, please support. Vote. Please support the inclusion of the day-to-day session, colleagues. [[17:38:43]] For 236 Decision taken. And 8021: draft Law on Movement across the State Border of Ukraine of Cultural Values. The committee of the Prince. If you'll excuse me, I'd like to vote in favour of joining the agenda. Let's vote, colleagues. Please be supportive. [[17:39:11]] For 186 Colleagues, we still have Soviet law. What is the difficulty in putting it into the order of the day session? I, my colleagues, once again put to the vote the inclusion in the agenda of the 8021 daily session on the movement across the state border of Ukraine of cultural values. This is the protection of Ukrainian cultural values. Please vote, please support the inclusion in the agenda of the session. Please vote. Vote. Vote. [[17:39:52]] For 208 Colleagues, 20 votes. Hold on! I'll do it again, colleagues. Well, this has nothing to do with any of our debates, colleague. I'll put the third time in. Keep it up, fellows. I'm putting it to a closing session, and I'm asking everyone to participate in the vote. Entry into the agenda of the 8021 day session, movement across the state border of Ukraine of cultural values. Keep it up, fellows. Please vote. Please be supportive. I'll re-plant the transplant, but you support this. Please vote, please support. Vote! Vote. Please be supportive. [[17:40:45.]] For 218. The decision is not taken. And, colleagues, once again, I put to the vote, at the request of several factions, the draft Law on the Use of Anatomy Material Transplantation to Man (9284). Please vote for inclusion in the agenda of the day session. It's just a turn-on. Please vote, please support. Vote. [[17:41:24]] For 229 It's on. Decision taken. Colleagues, look, look, we've got 20 minutes left on the socioconomy. I'm going to put the National Police again and once again, cultural values. Please support everyone. These are the last two votes. Then we move on to the socioconomy. Two final votes. Everyone please take up their jobs. So the first is 8339, right? Teteruk! 8339, right? I'm putting in a day-to-day session a bill amending the Ukrainian National Police Act. Colleagues, support each other. They support you, and they support you. Yeah? So 8339 is just the inclusion in the agenda of the day session. Please vote. Please be supportive. Keep it up, fellows. We're backing it up. We support each other. Vote. Please be supportive. [[17:42:37]] For 197 We weren't very supportive. Not really. And now I'm putting 8021, final vote, draft law on movement across the state border of Ukraine of cultural values. Let's keep it together. Include in the agenda of the day session. Please vote. Please be supportive. Vote. [[17:43:08]] For-167 The decision is not taken. Let's finish, fellows. We move on to the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on the State Budget for Ukraine for 2018 (9369). Please support the consideration of the reduced procedure. Please vote. Please be supportive. [[17:43:41]] For 177 Decision taken. I invite you to report to Minister of Finance Markarov Oksana Sergiyevna. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-06-m1.u96	Dear Mr. Head, honourable deputies! Request for support for amendments to the State Budget Act 2018. The final changes in this year, which are actually correcting a few indicators as a result of the actual data that we have using some programs. Above all, we switch and increase expenses by three, just articles. This is pension payments, this is the payment of so-called Chernobyl payments of $227.4 million, pension payments of 10.8 million and a small transfer to our Academy of Vernadian station to enable them to enter the winter peacefully. We're doing this on account of the economy of a few programs that we're seeing for a given period of economics that is not going to be used this year. Plus a few text articles to make it possible to use the surpluses on certain subsidies that we have for local budgets. And we're correcting the question of the correct representation of the loan between the Government of Ukraine and the Government of the French Republic. The law is pretty small, it's completely balanced, it's dealt with by the budget committee. A request for support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-06-m1.u97	Thank you. The report invites the deputy head of the Committee on Budget Affairs, Melnik Sergey Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-06-m1.u98	Dear Andrew Volodymyrovich, distinguished national deputies, invited! In view of the need for a settlement by the end of the current fiscal year of the 9369 important social issues in the government bill, the Budget Committee considered the bill yesterday. First of all, the bill proposes to increase the general fund expenditure of the Pension Fund by 10.7 billion and the social protection of the Chernobyl population by 227.4 billion dollars. The main source of this expenditure is social assistance, debt service costs, as well as individual expenditures in the area of monetary policy. Overall, the expenditure indicated is balanced by the general fund. With regard to changes in the special fund, the deal is said to be 2.5 billion with a view to creating a single aviation security and civil protection system. In addition, the bill proposes to retain the remaining amounts of subsidies for socio-economic development of specific areas and for the implementation of measures aimed at developing the rural health system in 2019 for appropriate expenditure at the end of this year. As you recall, the same standard worked this year. The Committee on Budgetary Questions concluded that the decision had been adopted. To recommend to the Supreme Council Bill 9369 to adopt as a basis and generally as a law, taking into account the committee's proposals made in its conclusion to the Supreme Council. Accordingly, the committee, together with Minfin and the Chief Legal Authority, in the drafting of the relevant law, should make the necessary editorial and technical regulations. Please support the committee's decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-06-m1.u99	Please, two in, two in. From the Radical Party of Oleg Lazko.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-06-m1.u100	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. I have to go to the deputies who have now voted in favour of a reduced budget procedure: do you have any idea what you're voting for? Everybody's in a hurry. Let's vote fast. They're moving the sociopods there for the next year. And then you saw what was going on? They take away almost 2 billion dollars from farm and animal support because governments and governments have not been able to recover these funds. Everyone was told that 5 billion were being given to support animals and agriculture, and part of it was being taken away because they weren't winning because they really weren't helping people because there was no executive discipline. The same sociocon that you all care about, the last tranche was distributed to the government only yesterday. All normal people start working in April months, not in December, you learn to work with a sociocona. This shows that there is no execution, no authority in the country! They take 7.2 billion dollars out of the payment of help to families with children and low - income families! I have a question to ask the finance minister, Oksana, do you know how many packs of diapers are costing, do you know how many moms the bride gets a month after taking care of the baby? 200 bucks a month, help! Try living on the 200 bucks! So we suggest that we increase child care support, at least 2-3 thousand dollars a month would be this help to have young women give birth and have money to feed them. We propose that these funds be directed towards restoring the nutrition of children in schools at the expense of the state budget. For parents, the problem is when a child goes to school because there is nothing to feed the child. We criticize this power, this President and this government, because you don't care about people, you don't care about people's jobs.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-06-m1.u101	30 seconds to complete.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-06-m1.u102	You are not interested in the welfare of Ukrainian families, and your policy has led millions of Ukrainians to seek a better fate abroad. With your economic policy, tax hikes and new borrowings, you're taking away the future. We're offering an alternative -- new jobs, economic recovery, support for a national producer, increased government payments for the birth of children, child care, nutrition.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-06-m1.u103	From Peter Prashenko's Block, Dekhtyarchuk Alexander Volodymyrovich is invited to the floor.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-06-m1.u104	Dear Society, I would like to draw attention to the need to support this bill because it regulates budgetary relations at the end of the year. In turn, I would like to point out that if we voted this week on average. Three years of planning in the state would probably not be in manual mode, but it would be in the future to automatically plan the development of strategic objects, including, including, the cost to the socioconomy. So I'm focusing on the situation that occurred at the end of the year with arrears on salaries, on budgetary institutions, on education subsidies: The Demidiv district, the Plains region, is now registered with the official payroll debt, and I hope that these issues will also be settled. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-06-m1.u105	From the Opposition Block is Dobrenkov Alexander Valeriyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-06-m1.u106	Alexander Doubenkov, Opposition Block. I have no other word but the word "disgusting" and "sorm" in this bill. Your Honor, the coalition, my lord! It's very embarrassing. I don't understand how after that you can speak for the country and for the citizens of Ukraine when you make the decisions at the end of the year. What are they offering? There's an economy of 7.2 billion dollars. And look what the explanatory note says: "According to the volatility and constant fluctuations in the number of recipients of social assistance, such as the decline in the birth rate of Ukraine, the savings of the given subsidy amounting to 7.2 billion dollars have arisen." Who is this group of recipients of social assistance? And these low-income families, families with children, people with disabilities, children with disabilities, and the temporary state aid of children — this contingent is not part of the vision of a valid authority. Who does the current authority care about by reducing the benefits of this contingent, the recipients of social benefits? It's an increase in the wages of the BSS, the Ministry of Defence, the Henprocuratory. Two and a half billion dollars are allocated to the Ministry of Internal Affairs for the purchase of French helicopters at the expense of low-income families. You've just been reviewing the transplant bill. You missed 100 million dollars. These are the costs. Of course, you have an economy. Sadly, though, you do not target the economy for the purpose of providing and caring for Ukrainian citizens. Shameful, respectable coalition!
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-06-m1.u107	He's welcome to the People's Front. So Maxim gives the Squirrel a word for the performance. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-06-m1.u108	Vladimir Schwarliuk, People's Front. Honourable MPs, the bill must be voted on and supported, for the bill is followed by the entire geography of Ukraine. You don't have to listen to "The Opposition Block," they have their philosophy on it, and we have our own truth. Before this bill, I propose another bill, which is balanced, which will not be reflected in any way on the bill itself. This will increase spending on the general budget of the state budget under the following budget programmes. This is 2401010 "general management and management in the field of ecology and natural resources" for 2 million 576 thousand 400 dollars, of which 2 million 111 thousand 800 dollars will be allocated to work. And the 2408010 "management and management of activities in the alien zone" program, where 4 million 687 thousand 700 dollars will be sent, of which 3 million 738 thousand 500 will be paid for work and utility services -- nine and a half thousand dollars. In doing so, reduce the general budget of the State budget under budget programme 2408110 "supporting environmental security in estrangement zones and unconditionally mandatory evictions". The amount of expenses I've called in previous programs, 7 million 264 and 100 dollars. They pay 5 million 954 thousand 200 dollars. Then it is necessary to adjust the indicators in the summary lines by code: 24000000, 2408000 and in the summary line only according to the proposed changes to the budget indicators. It is also proposed that the Government Bill No. 9064, supported by the Budget Committee, should be included in Bill 9369 and that the provisions and indicators of the bill should be adjusted. Please support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-06-m1.u109	Thank you. I'll give the floor to the Minister of Finance, and she'll say, "Confirm or not, my colleague." Two minutes now, Roman Semenich of Self-Help, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-06-m1.u110	Semenha Roman, "The Self-Help Union" faction. Dear colleagues, dear Mr. Head, the government boasted in due time, not under a tree that was accepted by a high - quality budget. But within two weeks, the government came to Parliament to ask for billions of dollars in this year’s budget. Moreover, note what the government actually has to say honestly: Today there is nothing to pay the pension. How else is it to accept the government's proposal? And this is actually the verdict of the so-called pension reform of Groisman. This is the verdict of the medium-term budget planning that we are talking about today. That's why the government has to put holes in the budget when the government actually comes to patch the holes in the 19th budget. What does the key offer us? First. Reduce the privatisation revenue by 3 billion dollars, but how is the government going to throw away this article of revenue if only 100 million dollars were privatized in 10 months of the year? Next. It is proposed to increase the expenditure to cover the deficit of the Ukrainian Pension Fund by nearly 11 billion dollars. And here's the question, whose account is the banquet? Not by reducing expenditure on public apparatus, not by reducing expenditure on the IMF, the BSS, the Public Prosecutor's Office, but by reducing support for the agricultural sector, one of the few that continues to grow today, and by reducing programmes for socially vulnerable groups. So, colleagues, what's going on today three weeks before the end of this year, the budget changes for several billion dollars, colleagues, this is the sentence for the pension reform of Groisman, this is the sentence of the Ministry of Social Policy, which cannot calculate the basic figures, and this is the government's ruling in general. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-06-m1.u111	So, colleagues, now there's going to be a replica of the Opposition Block, one minute. Then one minute, Lechchenko. And, colleagues, I continue for 15 minutes. In two minutes, we're going to vote. I ask everyone to come into the hall and prepare for the decision. One minute, Dudenkov.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-06-m1.u112	Dear citizens of Ukraine, look what's about to happen. They say not to listen to "The Opposition Block." We may not need to listen to you because we quote what you are bringing here to the Supreme Council of Ukraine. This is the Cabinet of Ministers you support. And what I'm saying is that in an unconstitutional way, when you talk about taking care of citizens, you're actually taking 7.2 billion out of low-income people, calling them a contingent of social benefits, and you're redistributing these costs between law enforcement agencies and the Ministry of Internal Affairs at the end of the financial year, 2.5 billion dollars to buy aviation technology, namely French helicopters. I don't know what the truth is and what principles you are now guided by in making this decision. But this truth is incompatible with the protection of the interests of the Ukrainians. And this decision is not in favour of the Ukrainians.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-06-m1.u113	In a minute, colleagues, we'll pass. One minute, Lewchenk. And I'm asking everyone to take up jobs.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-06-m1.u114	Lewchenko, Freedom, 223 District, Kiev City. Now, in the form of good intentions of moving socio-economic subsidies to the next year, so that they don't burn in paws, it's suggested to do the following. For example, 300 million reduce state support for technological innovation for industrial development. To reduce financial support for farm development by 850 million. To reduce the financial support of farmers by 250 million. For more than 7 billion, reduce subsidies from the national budget to local budgets to help families with children, low-income families, disabled children, disabled children, temporary state aid to children and care for the disabled and group II. This is done under the good intentions of moving socioeconomic development. But the problem with socio-economic development subsidies is that they're simply reaching out to the last moment so that they don't want to go out into the market to hand-in-hand their businesses. They're just trying to cut their own costs. What's all this? They're not getting to the bottom of it.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-06-m1.u115	Thank you. So let's move on to decision-making, colleagues. Vote. I'm asking everyone to take up jobs. Please return from your beds and government to your seats. One minute, Markarova. And let's go to the vote. Please, Oksana.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-06-m1.u116	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues! I want to confirm that the redistribution and enlargement is done solely under three articles: pensions, Chernobyl payments, and the Academy of Vernadians. Everyone else. And it's done on the basis of the articles on which they're actually fully funded, and we're already seeing that we don't need any extra funds in December. As for the Agreement between Ukraine and France on helicopters. No additional funds are available for this program. A technical standard is inserted so that we can get a French loan for a given contract. So about the rights that were read by the Ministry of Ecology, they're all without changing the balance sheet, balanced redistributions, and we don't deny their inclusion.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-06-m1.u117	So you're backing Squirrel's amendment, right? All right, colleagues. So I'm voting on the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on the State Budget for Ukraine for 2018 (No.9369) with an amendment that the People's Chamber of Squirrel has written under the transcript, and for the Committee's proposal as a basis and as a whole, taking into account the committee's proposals. Please vote. Please be supportive. Vote. Vote. [[18:02:57]] For 242 The law is passed. My colleagues, congratulations! We passed very important laws, including the adoption of progressive legislation on medium-term budgetary planning today (8044), with which I welcome everyone. And I want to point out that we accepted it with technical law. And, colleagues, I now invite Irina Heratchenko to the report.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-06-m1.u118	Dear colleagues, there are two more information from our colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-06-m1.u119	Dear evening meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, I declare closed, colleagues. Tomorrow at 10 a.m., I'm waiting for everyone in the meeting to resume our work.
