ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-03-m1.u1	Everyone, please come into the hall, get ready for registration. I ask the secretariat to inform the National Deputies to come into the hall and prepare for registration. I'm asking the factions to invite deputies into the hall. And I'm asking the people's deputies to take up jobs. Are you ready for your registration? So please register, please participate in the registration. Please. [[16:04:22]] 355 national deputies registered. I declare the evening session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine open. Colleagues, we have the next draft of Law 6466. There are only five rights and there is a proposal that we first consider the next draft of the Concession Law (8125), then there is 6466. This is the request and position of the committee. When there's mobilization, when there's maximum mobilization in the room, there's only five bars so we can accept 6466. But the next bill of the Act on Concessions (8125) is a request that we consider it in a simplified procedure. I want to remind you, colleagues, that we have the next block of environmental policy issues. It's six very important issues, we've spent too much time in the afternoon and there's a request to the hall that after lunch we can pass both the Act on Concessions and local self-government, but also so that we can get through the environmental policy block. So I ask everyone to support the proposal to review the draft Act on Concessions (8125) under a reduced procedure. Is there understanding and support for this position? Is there any understanding that we would be able to reach the environmental block under a reduced procedure? So please prepare for the vote. We're going to consider the draft Act on Concessions (8125), and now I'm going to put to the vote the proposal to consider it in a simplified manner. So I ask everyone to take up their jobs and prepare for the vote. Colleagues who are in bed take up jobs. I re-emphasize the logic of work after lunch. In order for us to pass through the Act on Concessions, and an extremely important Act on Voluntary Unity of Communities (6466). And for us to get through the environmental policy cluster, it's important that we work more intensively. So I'm asking for a review of Law 8125 to be followed by a reduced procedure. Please vote and please support. Colleagues, please take part in the vote. And I would like to support the discussion of the reduced procedure. Vote. Please be supportive. [[16:07:36]] For 118 I'll do it again. And I'll explain the logic: if we go into full procedure, it'll take an hour, and we just won't be able to get through the environmental policy block. These are bills prepared by both the committee of profile and the ministry. So I ask everyone to take a more responsible approach to the vote, because I know for a fact that there are a large number of deputies in the room who support the adoption today of 6466 on the voluntary union of citizens. There are a large number of MPs who support environmental policy issues. But for us to reach them, the committee is proposing a draft Act on concessions (8125) to be considered in a simplified procedure. And I ask your support, and I ask you to vote. Please be supportive. Vote. Please be supportive. [[16:08:54]] For 114 There are no votes needed, so let's move on to the full procedure. And I invite you to the report of Deputy Minister of Economic Development and Trade of Titarczuk Mikhail Ivanovich. Please, Mikhail Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-03-m1.u2	Dear Head, honourable national deputies, today we are presenting a new concession bill, which is the result of the joint work of the Government of Ukraine, international consultants and international financial institutions, business, and the EU directive. This bill has become a time requirement because existing legislation in this area is not working because it did not balance the interests and responsibilities of the parties. It opens up new opportunities for cooperation between the state and business in a new format that will ensure investment in social, transport, energy, housing and utility infrastructure, health care and the provision of new services for our population. Concession is an effective tool not only for implementation at the state level, but also one that can contribute to the development of every region of our state. This tool allows you to preserve and modernize existing objects and create new ones at the expense of private investors, and it guarantees the preservation by the state of ownership of assets. Yes, our neighbours in the EU have only submitted about 40 concessions contracts for about 14 billion euros for 2017. For example, for Ukraine to fully modernize existing infrastructure, we need 25 billion. 35 billion dollars, as well as for housing and utility, 25, which is 60. In the EU countries, concessions have built up up to 50,000 km of roads operated in the form of concessions. Such cooperation between the State and business is possible under two conditions: the rules of such cooperation are transparent, stable and understandable, and the other is the mutual benefit, the balance of interests of the parties. This is the result of the concession bill because it is a complex solution to the issue that arises from the initiation and completion of the concession project. The bill foresees: the first is the possibility of applying concessions in any area of economic activity at both national and local levels; the second is the transparent procedure for initiating and deciding on concessions and the choice of concessionaires; the third is the possibility of replacing an inefficient private partner; the fourth is the creation of favourable conditions for the involvement of bank financing. The latter is a clear definition of the rights and obligations of the parties and control over the performance of the State. In addition, the bill proposes to amend some 30 legislative acts of Ukraine aimed at ensuring a systematic approach to the settlement of private business in infrastructure. The law will encourage the development of small and medium-sized Ukrainian producers and producers to implement concession projects. Concession is not an end in itself, it is an effective mechanism to achieve goals to improve the quality of services for Ukrainians. To sum up, I would like to stress once again the importance of this bill for Ukraine, because applying such a form with private business to build infrastructure like concessions will create conditions for increasing external and domestic investment, will ensure the provision of quality social services and will provide a basis for achieving the strategic objectives of Ukraine's socio-economic development. In summary, I would like to add that we have, to our knowledge, met with representatives of the people's deputies of different factions, where we have in principle received meaningful proposals that will be taken into account between the first and the second readings. Please be supportive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-03-m1.u3	Thank you. The report invites the head of the Economic Policy Committee. Question, yes. Please. Three minutes per question, please sign up. No, from here, yes, stay in the rostrum. Please, Semenha Roman Sergiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-03-m1.u4	I have a question for Mr. Titarczuk of the Ministry of Economics. Colleagues, you see, when you brought a privatisation bill to Parliament, the faction of Self-Help stressed that it was not necessary to start with this, but rather to start with a comprehensive law that would define a new policy, strategy, general government property management, state property, where, in particular, they defined everything: the principles of privatization, the principles of concession and other things -- which, in particular, the principles of governance of the State Property Fund, and many other things. Instead, today you're offering only point solutions that remind you, you know, if you take a metaphor for building a building, you're offering us to choose windows today instead of actually showing a project to build a building like this. Explain when there will be a comprehensive bill on the strategy of government ownership. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-03-m1.u5	Please answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-03-m1.u6	Mr. Semenha, thank you for asking. I'd say you don't need it all in the same basket. Because if we don't settle, privatization is separate, concession is separate. As for the state. I understand. Today, the issue of concessional legislation has been raised, and it is important. In terms of numbers, in Turkey over the past 15 years, 120 billion dollars in public and private partnership investments.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-03-m1.u7	Thank you. Kiral Sergey Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-03-m1.u8	Thank you. Dear reporter! As a general supporter of my colleague Semenich, I also understand that there are dozens in the world, and in Europe in particular, if not hundreds of failed concessions that you are not talking about either. Failures are probably due primarily to lack of proper preparation, including concession contracts, to conduct a transparent selection process for concessionaires who are actually able to do so, to implement the project, and probably to lack an institutional basis, weak institutions of the rule of law, and so on. First of all, do you believe that in our absence of really substantial, meaningful, substantive reforms, especially in the judicial branch of power, anti-corruption, reforms in the sphere of state institutions, the construction of capable ministries, government administrations, and so on, we're actually going to have big concessionaires like Bouygues, like "Scanska", like Strabag, and they're going to invest billions of dollars. Chi.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-03-m1.u9	Please answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-03-m1.u10	Look. Thank you for asking. I'll tell you what, if I didn't believe in this bill, I wouldn't present it. Second of all, it's about negative experience. It really does exist in different countries. For example, Slovenia, it was a failure of experience because there were a number of reasons. So today we've taken into account international practice with Ukrainian realities, and we've been helping us, together, we've written this bill with the EBRD and the IFC. Today, when it comes to institutional ability, you can wait, but you can create a foundation. We have institutional capacity and we have, I'll tell you in general in reform, every ministry should have a specialized department of the Department of Public Private Partnerships. So there's a conceptual note, technical justification, and efficiency analysis. Regrettably, the projects that had failed had no efficiency analysis. So we want to take that into account? And we've never done that, and now there's a possibility.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-03-m1.u11	And the final question of Kugel Alexander, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-03-m1.u12	Alexander Kugel, "The Fatherland" faction. You know, it's very sad when the deputy minister of the economy says that the issues of concession, the state private partnership, privatization and others aren't connected, and they don't belong to the government property management unit, it's just awful. And so I want to tell you that this bill, as a faction of the Fatherland, we found it deeply corrupt, and it doesn't just rule state property, but it practically makes a shadowy, separate corruption component in defense, in the business of the bankers who are going to be eliminated, there are no issues of written social protection, there are simply no questions about the competition. It pains me very much what you said about Slovenia. Please go this country in three years to meet all the conditions of membership of the European Union. Do you know what she did first? Infrastructure.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-03-m1.u13	30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-03-m1.u14	And you're sending 42 billion to the roads that went down the snow in a year. That's the question, as long as you don't have the infrastructure and control of the state budget, you don't have the concession or the private partnership or the privatization.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-03-m1.u15	Please answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-03-m1.u16	Mrs. Kugel, thank you for asking. I may not have made the right statement, in fact, privatization has to divide and concession, just this bill that I'm presenting, it's all right, but privatization is sales, and it's a concession that the state leaves behind. As far as Slovenia is concerned. I told you they had a negative experience of a public private partnership. What they built the economy, the infrastructure, you're all right, it just didn't work out. That's it.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-03-m1.u17	Thank you. So the time for answers and questions is over. Thank you for the report. And I invite the head of the Economic Policy Committee, Ivanchuk Andrija Volodymyrovich, to report. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-03-m1.u18	Dear Andrey Volodymyrovich! Dear colleagues, national MPs! For your consideration is Bill 8125, introduced by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine on concessions. Today, many of my colleagues and I have heard criticism of the bill. In fact, many of my colleagues have pointed out that there are things in the bill that do not fully meet the requirements that we would like to see in the concession process or in the public private partnership. But I'm surprised why we don't want to adopt the bill in the first reading. For us to be subject to the legislative initiative to be able to read the second reading, to have the opportunity, to make the changes that are necessary to ensure that the concession legislation meets all European and world standards. Dear Mr. Head, I will allow myself to say just a few words why we are obliged to vote in favour of the bill in the first reading on the basis. This bill harmonizes Ukrainian legislation, and we recently passed the Law on State Private Partnership in this room. And when we just analyzed it, we have a law in Ukraine that was passed in 1999 that regulates the issue of concession. And it's quite clear that they don't respond to each other and they don't work either way. And I thank you very much that the Ministry of Economics, the government and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development have worked out this bill as a basis for us as the legislative body further to the second reading to refine it, correct all the inaccuracies, improve the various procedures and adopt a balanced bill in the second reading. The bill amends 30 laws of Ukraine. Think about it. This is about what I'm saying, we're correcting the inaccuracies and discrepancies that exist today in existing legislation. So our responsibility is to base this bill and to work on it for a second reading. I would like to tell you that a public private partnership will never work effectively unless we adopt quality legislation. This law can be changed, I am convinced that it will be changed along with my colleagues from different factions and groups. But we need quality, modern legislation on concession. And so I'm very much asking all factions and groups to support in the first reading the position of the Economic Policy Committee. And I don't want us to be discussing right now that there's an untransparent competition in the law, we're not going to adopt this law as a whole. We raised these questions, we talked to each other, we know the problem, and we'll work on it. But, Mr. Head, I would like to say that, for example, the European Union. We analyzed last year. Statistics show that 12 billion concession contracts have been signed in the European Union. That is, this modern tool, which gives a great boost to the development of infrastructure objects. Think about it, last year. No, a total of 50,000 miles [50,000 km] of concession roads have been built in the European Union. So they have modern legislation on the example of Bill 8125, and this allows a private capital, a private investor, usually it will be a native, I don't understand why they put foreign investors first, I think in Ukraine a domestic investor first. But he'll have a mechanism, he'll have instruments to protect his rights. I thought I had 10 minutes. And then I'm going to focus very clearly on what this bill is giving us. It clearly distinguishes the regulation of concessions and other forms of public private partnership. The only procedure for initiating and deciding on a public private partnership, including concessions.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-03-m1.u19	30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-03-m1.u20	A transparent procedure for the selection of concessionaires, the possibility of involving advisers, the provision of guarantees for creditors and concessionaires, the facilitation of land allocations, the characteristics of concessions in markets in the state of natural monopoly, the construction and operation of roadways, the protection of renters’ rights, the protection of concessionaire rights, the ownership of the concessionaire’s property by the local community. So please, the committee has decided to recommend.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-03-m1.u21	Ten seconds, please, and finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-03-m1.u22	At the meeting, the committee decided to support the bill in its first reading on the basis. I'd like to support you very much. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-03-m1.u23	Thank you. Please remain in the rostrum. There will be questions for the coconspirator. Please record the question. Please welcome to the speech of the national deputy Eutushka.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-03-m1.u24	Please pass on the word Alexandra Kugel.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-03-m1.u25	Please, Alexandra Kugel.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-03-m1.u26	Dear Sir, I want to give you an answer why we shouldn't take it. First of all, the Supreme Council is not a garbage man who takes loose ends, bad laws, and has to complete them here. I can say that almost all these laws are made with grant money. Please ask yourself, look at the industrial program that they've submitted, about a grant of 2 million without making an energy balance without even understanding it. We don't really have the right to accept this bill because you don't have any experts who can write it and then the Ministry of Economics doesn't need it, let's eliminate the Ministry and write with you in the Supreme Council, take the payroll fund, take the literate lawyers, that's the first. The other one. Since this bill is practically a secret privatization, it will not be an improvement again.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-03-m1.u27	Ten seconds, please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-03-m1.u28	And I tell you frankly, as a colleague, don't take bad laws. Let them work, because they're a government, and we have to work with you. And when we take bad laws, then we take them 3-4.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-03-m1.u29	Please give an answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-03-m1.u30	Thank you. I understand the question, Madam Chairman, I will answer. You know, I'd like to see the signatures of Alexandra Kugel and Andrew Ivanchuk under this law, it would be a lot, maybe better and less to add to the second reading, but we don't do everything together. They are also the subject of a legislative initiative, and this is their responsibility. Now another question, and I don't know why since the 99th year, why no one has initiated the new modern concession law, neither you nor I, nor anyone. And worse -- I don't know why, when we passed the Law on Public Private Partnership with you, why didn't we settle all these gaps and inconsistencies? That's the first question. The second question is hidden. You're talking about hidden privatization, and I definitely disagree with you. The adoption of the Act in the first reading on concession is a requirement of modern times, it's no secret privatization. Yes, I agree that there will be infrastructure objects that we do not have the right to privatize, but they may be with a clearly involved investor either as a concession or as a state private partnership. For example, Borispol Airport, I think it's to be sold and privatized.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-03-m1.u31	Thank you. Ten seconds, please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-03-m1.u32	I don't think we can privatize it, Alexander Volodymyrna, but there may be an international investor there who will only benefit Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-03-m1.u33	Thank you. And please, the People's Deputy of Semimenah.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-03-m1.u34	Semenha Roman, self-help faction. Dear Mr. Andrey, you have a question for the head of the committee. Well, I'm sure good things aren't done in a good way. Well, you're talking about responsibilities, about the legislative initiative of the government, but please explain to your colleagues how, if the bill to get acquainted with your committee came on March 19th and March 22nd is a positive conclusion of the committee? Moreover, in the positive conclusion of the committee that you just reported to us, there is no mention of the negative conclusion of GNEU. Moreover, in fact, by speeding up your consideration, perhaps one of the most important economic laws, you have virtually denied the rights of a parliamentary alternative to a legislative initiative. Explain to me why you're violating the Rules as a committee?
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-03-m1.u35	You know, Mr. Semenach, you gave me a present for the Passover today. I've been accused in this Parliament of everything, of delaying the bill, of everything that's possible and impossible. Even Mrs. Kugel laughs. Well, no one's ever accused me of speeding up anything. But I'm going to answer that question. Before the government passed the bill, we had two round tables and one working meeting at the Ministry of Economics under the bill. And we supported the initiative to get the government to be the author of the bill. We've been working on it, we've seen it before. As for the conclusion of the GNEU, I do not hide it. It says what you need to bring in. They have some comments on some of the questions that I've said and that all MPs are confirming to me today. And I guarantee you that you and I will correct these questions for the second reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-03-m1.u36	Thank you. You may sit down, Your Honor, the co-reporter, Mr. Chairman of the Committee. Yes, yes. And we're moving on to the discussion. Please prepare to be part of the faction discussion. Please hold the recording. I'd like to ask of the Radical Party the national deputy of Halasyuk. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-03-m1.u37	Victor Halasyuk, Oleg Lachka Radical Party. Dear colleagues, the legislation on concessions is very important, as is the legislation on public-private partnerships that we adopted with you in this room a few years ago. You and I have adopted the Law on State-Private Partnership, but we don't see from the government quality implementation, we don't see from the government quality reporting. We don't see any real-scale investment projects that are involved in Ukraine because of the law that we've discussed with you for so long and adopted in this room, "The State-Private Partnership." This is a world practice and potential for investment in Ukraine through public-private partnership, because of concessions, it exceeds $100 billion. But in order to implement it, it has to be a very literate bill. I'm drawing your attention to the shortcomings in this concession bill that have been identified by the Supreme Council's Chief Scientific and Experimental Authority. This must be corrected. First, there must be a more transparent and open, competitive basis for selecting concessionaires -- those who are given this property in concession. This should not be a culinary event, not a closed one, but an open and competitive one. Secondly, we need to remove all possible even potential risks of loss of state or municipal property in the form of concession. Property must remain under the control of the State and the territorial communities, and it can certainly be used together with a private partner. Moreover, it is necessary to make it impossible for the rule that is now in force in the law, which provides for a State to be obliged to compensate for the loss of the concessionaire’s activity. That's not right. It doesn't make any sense. If the concessionaire is taking the object, he is carrying out an investment project, and he is taking market risks. We can't cover its risks with you from the state budget, because this will create a completely ineffective basis for its activities. This could turn completely into a depository of taxpayers' expenses, because, as Margaret Thatcher said, "There are no public funds, there are taxpayers' costs." Finally, with regard to the award of concessions. The rights of concessions on roads, our team of the Radical Party is convinced that it should be distributed on new, new roads, so that it doesn't have to be that they're already on the concession, they're making it pay, they're making it work. This is wrong and unfair. If a new road is made, it's planned in advance at the expense of an investor and so on, it's one situation. Existing roads must be free, it is a social interest. Therefore, this bill needs to be improved substantially.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-03-m1.u38	Please. Done? Thank you. Ten seconds, complete.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-03-m1.u39	He needs substantial improvement in order to make it possible to invest billions of dollars in Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-03-m1.u40	Thank you. I invite you to speak from the People's Front faction, National Deputy Humil. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-03-m1.u41	Good afternoon, Madam Chairman, distinguished fellow national MPs! I think we're actually too late to adopt this law. As it is too late, we have adopted the Law on State-Private Partnership in this room. These were the tools or these are the tools that have to give the Ukrainian economy a chance to move forward. I want to ask you: do we not know in what situation our large infrastructure objects are in? Do we have real resources in the state budget to sustain these objects, these bridges, these ports, seaports, airports, other hospitals? Objects. Do local self-government authorities have sufficient resources to maintain health facilities and so forth? The nature of money is one. It can be either budget money or investment money. What conditions they're going to enter, we have rules for these. So, dear colleagues, I personally participated in the working group after writing this bill. And three times we were going to meet, at least three times, at the Ministry of Economics to work on this bill. The fact that the law is not adopted, fundamental, demonstrates. For example, two weeks ago, when we passed the law on the road, we separately wrote down the rules and tried to interpret the concept of concession in the law of road management. That's not right. So that means that if we look at, for example, the aviation sector or any other sector, or the maritime sector, then we're going to define the individual standards of concession for those sectors. So we need to define the basic law, take a clear definition of what concession is. And define it for all sectors as a default. This law gives a clear understanding of who the concessionaire is, who the concessionaire is, who the contract is right when the concession is concluded. Property does not go into private property, property remains either in the possession of a state or in the possession of an authority of local self - government. The term “concession” is clearly defined, and it ranges from 3 to 49 years. Yes, there were several questions at the presentation yesterday about whether or not they might be subject to a company concession or a company where ownership is not 100 percent. We can discuss these issues and settle them until the second reading. But, dear colleagues, I think.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-03-m1.u42	Ten seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-03-m1.u43	Countries such as Turkey, other countries, Greece, with large amounts of money involved under private partnership and concessions.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-03-m1.u44	Thank you. I invite you to the words of the People's Deputy of the Will of the People. Igor Molotock, please, from the will of the people.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-03-m1.u45	Dear Chairman, dear colleagues! Igor Molotoc, 160 constituency, Sumstina, representative of the People's Will. After a thorough review of the bill, I had the hope that one of the main problems in our country would be the disposal and processing of household waste. We all know what's going on at the dumps. By the way, a week ago, in the town of Shostka, in a garbage dump, they found a chemical that was buried by this company. The competent authorities are already dealing with this issue. We know how many areas these dumps occupy, and they're a threat to the environmental disaster for those local people living there. And given that every year there's not enough money in the state and in the local authorities for the disposal and processing of these household approaches, I want to say that the production and construction of garbage refineries will be able to solve this problem. And secondly, this will give local authorities the opportunity to give preference in the form of recycled gas and electricity production. The will of the people will support this in the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-03-m1.u46	Thank you. I invite you to the floor of National Deputy Kulinich. People's deputy Kulinic from the Rebirth Group, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-03-m1.u47	Dear colleagues, before the bill is introduced, there are a number of substantive observations that apply to land legislation itself. The bill suggests, for example, that ownership of private property land be deprived of the property that the authorities want to use for concession activities without a court decision, according to a decision of the authority. Moreover, the owner can even charge this decision in a court of law, and he can only charge the amount of compensation. The same is true of rent and constant use. All these rights are proposed by the bill to annul the ordinary decision of the authorities without a court decision. The user’s consent will not be required, and as owner, he will only be able to charge the amount of compensation. In my opinion, these positions are totally inconsistent with article 41 of the Constitution, which defines guarantees and property rights. About what guarantees can be made when a land area can be removed at any time without a court ruling on any state authority. All of these positions completely undermine the ideology of land legislation that is built on the guarantee of land rights. Questions arise about the procedure for granting property in concessions. According to the bill, these can be not only open competitions but also regular negotiations with interested persons. All right, here's the thing. The bill needs to be carefully worked out. This bill can be adopted on the basis of the exclusion clauses that provide for the compulsory suspension of land rights for concession activities, in particular the Ukrainian Act on Land Renting, Land Disposal for Social Needs and Reasons for Social Need. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-03-m1.u48	Thank you. Dear representatives, from factions, I have a great request, you all know the next order of the day, how important the important questions would be if you could be more concise. But I can only ask you to. So, from Fatherland, Eutuszek gives the speech to Alona Shkrum, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-03-m1.u49	Alona's splinter, Fatherland faction. Colleagues, well, what is a concession, what is a state private partnership? This is one of the mechanisms of a very good chance of involving, in fact, investors in Ukraine and of transferring large infrastructure projects, perhaps roads, perhaps government enterprises, perhaps other entities. And this chance, if you use it correctly, it can actually build a new country. But if it is misused, if it is wrong to make wrong legislative regulations, do some mechanisms, manipulate the concessionaire, perform so - called transparent competitions, of those objects that we will pass, disagree separately with land legislation, with energy legislation, with environmental legislation, it may lead to a complete disaster. Unfortunately, we don't see from the Cabinet of Ministers today that implementation is probably the right and beautiful kind of legislation that we've already adopted about a state-owned private partnership that has been very much involved, for example, Mrs. Kugel and the entire Industrial Policy Committee, but we don't see any quality legislative initiatives. And it hurts me so much, because I rarely see the laws that the Cabinet of Ministers has to make negative conclusions and say that this bill has to be returned to work or rejected at all. And unfortunately, I haven't been able to ask Mr. Deputy Minister why, first of all, whoever did this inadequacy bill was named. And secondly, why did the GNEU in its conclusion formally say that it was unable to make all the remarks because of a lack of time? Why was there a lack of time in GNEU, and who was trying to speed up this analysis of the GNEU bill, and GNEU was unable to make all the warnings? The Fatherland faction has a lot of warnings about land issues that my colleagues have already talked about. It's about the issues that this bill does not deal with the current regulation of land and land issues. For example, the appropriateness of granting the right to form the land needed for the implementation of the project before the announcement of the concessional competition. I have a big question about why. To give reason, to put the earth beyond the procedure that we have today. That is, some preferences may encourage concessionaires to come to Ukraine and carry out these projects, and some things will simply be manipulation, and we will give, unfortunately, both Ukrainian land and Ukrainian infrastructure objects. Also unacceptable is the rule on the cessation of the right of permanent use of the land of an enterprise, an institution or an organization if a transfer is made to the private partner of the concessionaire according to this land area. And I have a lot of questions, including the environmental audit that's being cleaned up, for example. I wonder if there is Mr. Semerak's position and also the Committee on Environmental Issues on this bill. We also have questions about the gas transport system and, if possible, transfer to the concession of specific gas transport facilities. You know how painful this is for Ukraine right now, I know that yesterday, colleagues from the Energy Committee, the PEC Committee, asked you these questions and unfortunately didn't get a full answer from government officials. There are many questions. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-03-m1.u50	30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-03-m1.u51	There are many questions about the quality of the bill. Regrettably, such laws are complex and should be written more professionally and more qualitatively. I don't believe that on the second reading we're going to be able to work on them because we can't make any changes to what's not there. So the "Fatherland" faction requires quality laws and their work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-03-m1.u52	Thank you. From the Self-Help faction of Semimenach Roman, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-03-m1.u53	Semenha Roman, "The Self-Help Union" faction. Dear colleagues, Mr. Head, indeed concessions, as a state-owned private form of partnership, are an effective tool for attracting foreign investment, a tool for managing state ownership and an effective business manager. I'll give you a few successful projects that are implemented through concession in Europe, this is a tunnel under the Channel of La Manche and the Eiffel Tower, and national highways in the countries of the European Union. However, as my colleague Sergei Kiral noted, there are other unsuccessful, even failing examples. And that's what I'd like to hear about, because it's on the basis of what the bill says, and it's going to depend on whether it's going to succeed. Unfortunately, from the representative of the government of Mr. Titarchuk, or from the representative of the committee of Mr. Ivanchuk, we never heard the reason, the resulting analysis of what was going on. Because there is a valid 1999 concession law in force in Ukraine today, and the talks did not say what did not happen, why Ukraine today is a failure in this form of a state-owned private form of partnership. Next. I have already pointed out that when the government introduced a privatisation bill to this Parliament, the Self-Help faction stressed that we are looking forward to a government, as envisaged in the coalition agreement, a new comprehensive law in general on politics and a strategy for the administration of state ownership in general, where privatization, concession is only part of it. Instead of taking a complex approach, we see once again that we are given a separate bill, and in haste, 88 pages. I am convinced that most of the national deputies did not even get to know him. What does the concession bill offer us, and of what are there great doubts? First. The government proposes to select the concessionaire through direct negotiations. That is to say, we are offered an opaque, vertical concession that can obviously be used for its own or its limited circle of persons. Next. According to the bill, the concessionaire has the right to rent state property. So the concessionaire will benefit not only from the rent but also from the possibility of alienating the property. Tell me, what is it not like to be privatized, or to say more, to the government in front of the next parliamentary election? And the last. The bill proposes that payments be made by the State if the concessionaire’s income is reduced. So think about it, colleagues, the bill suggests putting risks on the table when the state is on a permanent basis to support a pool of concessionaires that has no incentive to develop an object. So in spite of any business logic, investment logic, we create enterprises that will be stimulated not to make these objects profitable, but rather to make them profitable to take out taxpayers' costs from the state budget. I am convinced that, unfortunately, this bill is unacceptable in this way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-03-m1.u54	And a closing statement from the factions from the Peter Dust Block, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-03-m1.u55	Dear Chairman! Dear National Deputies! The Act on Concessions was passed in the distant year 1999, 19 years later. Can you please tell me what changed after he was approved? For whom did he boast 19 years later? It's obvious to yourself. And laws must be approved for the people and for the state. This law is primarily aimed at modernizing our infrastructure, our airports, our roads and many other things that simply do not have enough money, and we need to live today. I'm convinced that all progressive, promising societies, and expert societies understand that this bill is creating tools to improve economic efficiency, including through the involvement of highly needed investments. And these are jobs, these are extra pensions, they're extra payouts, they're less social tension in the state. Is there a note to this bill? Yes, of course there is. There is also a reference to the terminological apparatus, and there is also a reference to the procedures of the contests, but you can also touch the pole. Colleagues, I want to remind and just urge each and every one of you, this law is a step forward. It's up to you to decide which country we're going to live in tomorrow, in a Middle Ages country or in a modern and promising Ukraine. Personally, I and the entire faction for modern and promising Ukraine. We vote yes, and until the second reading, we're going to do all the wrong things, and we're going to do all the wrong things. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-03-m1.u56	Thank you. The factions have ended. It's nine minutes away from the National Deputies. Anyone who wishes to participate in the discussion, please record. Nine minutes. Please. Kuprienko and Laško are united. Six minutes is given to Lašková. After him, Melnik. And these will be performances by the National Deputies. So Oleg Lazko is six minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-03-m1.u57	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. You can see the gul standing in the hall, honored by the Ukrainians. Midday to noon, the cancellation of the electronic declaration was discussed for so - called anticorruption activists. There's only one problem: that an honest man is buried. Why declare the wealth of honest people who engage in corruption, why are these political repressions, as they say? If you are honest, if you have nothing to hide, do what everyone has done, declare it and continue to do what is important to society. No, they've turned it into a God-knows-what. The whole country is watching this show -- hungry, unemployed, no wages, no bread. As in ancient Rome, there is no bread - show, gladiatorial fighting. And the Southern Parliament instead of looking at the Radical Party Bill on Recalculation of Military Staff Pensions, for Chernobyl, for former colporteurs, they're putting in a fight. Instead of supporting the Radical Party Bill, which will allow Ukrainians to work in their home country, young people to have housing, farmers to have income from their own products, Parliament is considering what is not of interest to the vast majority of Ukrainians. As far as the concession bill is concerned, it's a normal bill, correct. Every Ukrainian knows there are no roads in Ukraine. In Germany, the roads are still standing, with Hitler still standing, and in Ukraine last year, asphalt is laid, this year again being asked "give money to asphalt, because the snow has come down and the pits have come down again." But the highway managers are building new dwellings, opening accounts — not bad! So here we're going to support any legislative initiatives that will allow you to repair roads. I go to my family's trailers, where I was raised in a children's house: you go through Basan, Brovary to Priluki, there's no roads, there's no Talalayevka, there's no way to Sumu, there's no road to Harkov. Recently, with my colleague Victor Vuk, we traveled from Rabev to Złotoša, there is no road, and Link and I traveled from Kropivinski to Mikolayev, there is no road. He took his native Lugansk by car through Kupyansk, Svatovo, Bilukurakino, a road that can be traveled within an hour and a half, and people have to drive for 5 to 6 hours. And when taken from Svatovo or from Kupyansk to Harkov, the sick or pregnant. Pregnant or pensioners on the market want to sell their products. So by the time Kharkiv gets milk, there will be cream and butter instead of milk, he will shake the whole soul until you get there. That is why we demand a radical government, I stress. My colleagues laughed when I confused the difference and told them instead of the pregnant woman who was pregnant. With this policy run by the "Doctor of Death" in Ukraine, there will soon be no one pregnant. Because they're introducing the third sex. What is the third sex? I know a man. I know a woman. I don't know what the third sex is. In Ukraine there should be a family of values, not a third or a fifth sex. As we return to the subject of roads, therefore, it is a vital question. And we demand that the government take radical, decisive steps to rebuild roads in Ukraine and build new ones. It's Ukraine's transport potential, it's transit, it's billions of dollars of budget income, it's labor cities and it's the development of the infrastructure of the populace that's by the road, it's the wages for Ukrainians not to travel abroad. Road construction in synergy provides additional jobs in the related fields — road construction, housing, where money has to be invested. Well, how do we propose to fight the inadequacy of building roads? We propose to amend the Criminal Code. If money was spent on roads, reports were made that there was no repair, then there was no road there for the second year, all those who had built that road for five years in prison, from the boss to the worker. [[Applause]] All five years in prison, because some road is death on the road. Ukraine is the world's highest death rate in road traffic, and the low-cost road is the lost economic potential, the lost jobs. Therefore, the one who steals on the road is the one who builds houses with gold toilets instead of the road, burying them in that pit, and driving up the asphalt to the top. I'll take the wheel myself. For others to steal on the roads. A radical party for straight and high - quality Ukrainian roads that will live in the bright future!
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-03-m1.u58	And, colleagues, this is the closing act. And then we go to the vote. So the vote will take place in three minutes. I'm asking all the national MPs to come to the hall. I'd like the factions' heads to mobilize a special warehouse. And I give the floor to Melnik Sergey Ivanovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-03-m1.u59	Good afternoon. Ladies and gentlemen, I'd like to say briefly that the bill is set out in general to address many of the issues that apply to housing and utilities. I can, no matter who criticizes the old law, but I will say that he allowed the territorial communities to write the terms properly and had the opportunity to engage the concessionaire. Unfortunately, I cannot give examples in Ukraine of good ones. I can give you a few examples from the hops that aren't very good. It's the Peltsilian Heat Energy, where the city authorities managed to break the deal at the right time, returned to utility property, and, in principle, removed the problem. For today, there is a warm whisper company, where for almost a year, people per month are two without heat, and the question is not solved. What am I trying to say? Any purpose of the concession is to raise funds and solve the problem, and how the concessionaire can afford compensators because he wants to earn something. So the key is the terms and conditions for which the property will be transferred. Which is most of the warning in this bill, in my opinion. That's two moments. The first is the use of property. Property and land are sacred cows of territorial communities. He can't own property. Property is transferred and maintained in proper condition and then returned. Everything else that has been invested must also return to the community after the term of the concession. We solve compensators in two ways: either cost reduction, or investment inclusion in tariffs, so in other words, it's profitability. So these issues need to be settled. We can't do these two things that are involved (this is land relations and property relations), they're very, very scary, frankly. It seems that just today these failed examples of concessions in Ukraine are being gathered to resolve these issues. That's why I think we can generally accept it in the first reading, but I would like to pay attention to these things, and the second reading, we have to settle the issue of the term concession, the compensations of the concession, the property relationship and the land relationship, and the public participation in the approval of concessions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-03-m1.u60	Thank you. So, colleagues, the discussion is over, let's move on to the decision-making process. And I'm asking everyone to come into the hall, take jobs and get ready to vote. So, colleagues from government beds, guests, I'm asking you to come into the hall. Heads of factions, please invite deputies to the Hall. I would like to stress that the law is only voted on the basis, so all the suggestions and corrections that were made during the discussion can be made between the first and the second readings. Just on the ground. And let's unite. So let's move on to making a decision. Please prepare, be responsible. And I'm voting on the draft Act on Concessions (No. 8125) on the basis of a committee proposal. Just on the ground, colleagues. Suggestions can be made between the first and the second readings. So I'm asking everyone to be perfectly and responsibly supportive of the bill as a basis. Please vote and please support. Vote, fellows! Please be supportive. Vote! Please be supportive. [[17:04:32]] For 240 Decision taken. I want to do a productive job for my second reading. Colleagues, now pay attention. I'm asking you to keep your distance, the next one we've got in order of the day draft of Law 6466, here's only six rights. The discussion will take just a few minutes. This is an important law on local self - government. I'm asking you not to leave the hall. I'm asking everyone to be in the hall. We're going to look at it, and I'm going to look at the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on Voluntary Unity of Territorial Communities (No. 6466). And I invite you to report to the head of the committee's Subcommittee on State Building of Fedoruk Mikola Trochymovich. Please, Mr. Mikolo. And I'd like everyone to come into the hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-03-m1.u61	Honourable National Deputies, the Committee on State Building, Regional Policy and Local Self-Government considered at its meeting the observations and proposals that came from subjects of the right of legislative initiative to the draft Ukrainian Law amending the Ukrainian Law on the Voluntary Association of Territorial Communities on the Voluntary Integration of Territorial Communities of Rurals, Settlements to Territorial Communities of Areaal Meaning (Registration No. 6466), returned by the Supreme Council of Ukraine on 7 December, following a second reading for further elaboration and re-reading of the second reading. For consideration, a bill in a second reading from 11 Ukrainian national deputies has 15 suggestions, 5 of which are proposed to be taken into account, 1 to be edited, 3 to be taken into account in part, and 6 to be rejected. As a result of the Committee's general discussion, it was agreed to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine, in accordance with article 123, paragraph 3, of the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, a draft of the Ukrainian Act on the Amendment of the Law on the Voluntary Association of Territorial Communities of Rural Communities, on the voluntary integration of the territorial communities of rural areas, on the basis of a review of a second reading, to be adopted as a whole. The final draft of the bill is being prepared with the observation of the Supreme Council’s Chief Legal Authority. In the event of the adoption of the draft in the second reading, and in general, we propose to entrust the Committee on State Building, Regional Policy and Local Self-Government with the preparation of it as signed by the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, to undertake, together with the Chief Legal Authority of the Supreme Council, its technical and legal work. Please be supportive. I propose to proceed to the consideration of the amendments.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-03-m1.u62	Thank you. I'm going to call the right-wing authors and these changes that are rejected. 2nd. Don't insist. Third. Don't insist. 7th. He insists. Please, Yvchenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-03-m1.u63	Vadim Yvchenko, "The Fatherland" faction. Dear colleagues, what is the problem with this law? There must be a balance in any unity or state policy. There is no balance in this law, and it is not clear how many communities will be able to eat large cities. Imagine a city that took 35,000 agricultural hectares or 17 rural councils. And the local council will direct the land to surrender, and believe me, it will not give it to the peasants. And believe me, the services of the communities that are farthest away from this city will be given last but not least, including the construction of roads, including the construction of infrastructure things. It seems to me that communities today are doomed to those who do not have taxes, and they will make decisions because they need to live. In this context, we're going to create urban agglomerations, we're going to completely forget about the Ukrainian village around the big cities. Fatherland won't vote in favour of this bill. And believe me, this bill is bad enough for you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-03-m1.u64	30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-03-m1.u65	This bill is quite harmful to agrarian politics and, believe me, it's harmful to the fact that there is no balance: until cities can develop where there are villages, how villages will develop, how will they have communities that they will be able to have. After all, the agricultural land today is to pass directly to those who will work on it, not to those who will rent to these farmers, but to those who will work. Our bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-03-m1.u66	Please, Mr. Mikola.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-03-m1.u67	The point is that it's not an amendment that has a completely different meaning, and that's a general statement on the bill. I realize that the position that was on the second reading of the faction that was just speaking has not changed. But this bill is not harmful; it allows for the development of areas that are within the economic interests of cities to develop. And this bill is positive on the contrary, and it foresees the will to join. Don't forget that very basic word: volunteering.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-03-m1.u68	Thank you. So I'm putting to the vote amendment number seven of the national MP Yvchenka. Whoever supports this amendment, please vote. The committee turned it down. [[17:10:50]] For-78 The decision is not taken. 11th. Goose, please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-03-m1.u69	Dear Ukrainians, dear colleagues, dear Head! This bill is designed not to conduct out of turn local elections in the event of the creation of unified territorial communities based on district centres or subordination cities by joining small rural and rural communities. The adoption of this bill will unlock the process of creating united territorial communities on the basis of large cities, which is not actually happening at the moment. This is a positive step, and our faction will support this bill in the second reading. My assignment is to ensure that when a united territorial community is formed, the great city’s head is not to hold a standstill, and the head of the united community is to be automatically the leader of the great city. Since it is partly counted, I do not insist on voting.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-03-m1.u70	Thank you. 8 Amendment, Eutushek National MP, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-03-m1.u71	Sergey Eutuszek, "The Fatherland" faction. Mikola Trochymovich, you emphasize that the law provides for a voluntary union. In my direction, which was rejected by the committee, that's exactly what this is about. And it's not a secret that today is the measure of cities, district cities don't really want to go to elections, definitely. And so there is a bill that allows other communities to join such a large city. So my point is that joining and uniting communities are different things. I propose that section I and chapter IV of the Act on the Voluntary Association of Territorial Communities be supplemented by the sentence "Association of Territorial Communities of Rurals, Settlements to Territorial Communities of Cities of Area Meaning is solely voluntary and is followed by the decision of all relevant local councils provided for by the Act on Voluntary Unity".
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-03-m1.u72	Please, Santa.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-03-m1.u73	I totally agree with you. And when we considered the question, we came to understand why we wrote it in part. Yes, of course, about what there is. You're just saying it's oil, and we decided not to do it again. You're absolutely right, and volunteering there should be preserved, 100 percent. So there's no contradiction here.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-03-m1.u74	Do you insist on voting? I put to the vote the proposal of the national deputy Eutushka, 8 the right to count fully because it is only partially counted. Whoever supports this proposal, please vote. [[17:14:06]] For 113 The decision is not taken. Next. So 8th. We've just discussed 8 revisions. 9th. Declined. 10th. Please 10th, Yvchenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-03-m1.u75	Dear colleagues! I want to say again about the balance. We now have an understanding in this law that those communities that are close to the cities are, of course, going to the urban agglomeration. What's the limit? Where is this balance? This is 17 villages, 20 or 35? This is 10,000, 20,000 or 45,000 hectares to be managed by local councils that have nothing to do with agrarian politics. Where is the balance in this law? And that's the problem that "Paternity" wants this law to have the right balance for this association. And we know how unification takes place when you take taxes, and these villages today sit without basic taxes. Of course, they will make decisions. What will happen to the elections? Nothing. They will be left without even a member of the local council. So I'm putting this right here to confirm, and at the very least, let's keep the government policy on saving the village and the countryside, not building the city's total agglomerations.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-03-m1.u76	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-03-m1.u77	Mr. Wadim, you don't shout, I'm not afraid of you, no matter how much you're a boxer. Now, as far as this is concerned. It's counted, 10th. You're putting her on confirmation? Please confirm.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-03-m1.u78	So a committee representative asks to confirm Amendment 10 and asks all law-abiding supporters to vote in favour. So I'm betting on confirmation of Amendment 10 and I'm asking you to support this amendment, the committee is asking you to back it up, confirm it. Please vote, please support. Vote. [[17:16:26]] For 177 Thank you for your permission and for your recommendation. 12 revisions, Walking. Turn on the microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-03-m1.u79	Vasile Guljavil, group of Rebirth Party. The first thing I want to say is, if we support this bill, there's not going to be any MPs left in the village, that's what we've said, none, and we haven't given them that right, people have given them that right, and voters have given them that right. And when they are united, there will be no other elections in the country, I say again, no deputies in the village, and this is a direct violation of the Constitution and this is not me saying, this is the Chief Legal Authority, this is a violation of articles 24, 71, 141. And what happens when the city takes the villages and then there's a collapse with such good slogans, that could happen in the village of collapse. Thank you. For confirmation.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-03-m1.u80	I'm putting 12 amendments to the vote, and the committee rejected it, and I'm asking you to vote. [[17:17:52]] For-93 The decision is not taken. And the last rebuffed amendment 14, 13. Yvchenko, 13th.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-03-m1.u81	Vadim Yvchenko, "The Fatherland" faction. Mikola Fedorovich, I can't raise anything but my voice, believe me. That's the first one. The other one. I want to tell you again that let's think about what my colleague was saying. If you would even like to make an association, please make a decision, but the official elections throughout the community, including the villages, the villages, please conduct the next election in 2020. This is a compromise, that is, by 2020, but on the city council. The city council will have representatives or representatives of this territorial community who will at least protect the land. Let's do it in 2020, and that's exactly what Golovawa's revision is talking about. Why don't you want to do this? And because you are completely destroying that local self-government and that, directly, the representation of the local self-government that is around these cities. There's no limit, no balance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-03-m1.u82	Please, Mr. Mikola.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-03-m1.u83	We're not destroying anything. What's more, you can't blame me for destroying the local self-government that I've given for more than a decade. So this readjustment is completely out of date today. Why? Because in today's legislation, we don't have the full representation of all the territories in this council -- regional or district -- which is, by the way, contrary to the existing Constitution. But we're killing in this bill that the head of the city, actually, the village, the village or the mayor becomes a member of the executive committee, and that's how it affects all the decisions that the council makes, and so on.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-03-m1.u84	Do you propose to support the editing?
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-03-m1.u85	Decline. What's the readjustment?
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-03-m1.u86	13th.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-03-m1.u87	Thirteen, she's counted. And the 13th is not about Mr. Wadim's performance. The 13th Amendment says that this law takes effect as of May 1, 2018.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-03-m1.u88	So the committee is asking for support for this amendment. And I'm asking everyone to come into the hall, and now there's going to be a final amendment, and the committee is asking for support on number 13 and to vote in favour. So I'm betting on confirmation of 13 amendments and I'm asking you to vote, please support. Vote, colleagues, please. 13 clearance for confirmation. [[17:20:52]] For 203 Decision Not Adopted And the closing line of the 14th, I was walking. After that, we move on to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-03-m1.u89	This is strictly technical. What I want to say is, before they vote, they have to understand that, in fact, there will be no MP left in the village, no representative left, and big cities will eat these villages. And when we even say what happens in these cities and villages in all of the united communities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-03-m1.u90	Thank you. So you insist on voting? Don't insist. And 15th, Olena Boyko. Please turn on the microphone. And this is going to be the last correction.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-03-m1.u91	Dear friends, 47 cities of district importance, 25 million citizens, are waiting for this decision. Please give them the opportunity to volunteer in the event of such a decision by all the local communities. No one forbids voluntary union; no other decision can be made. Please support this bill. I don't insist, but I'm asking everyone to support the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-03-m1.u92	So the discussion is over. Yes, please, Mr. Mikolo.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-03-m1.u93	Dear Andrew Volodymyrovich, 8th and 13th are critical to this bill. So I would suggest that if we vote in general, taking into account the number 8 and number 13, because the bill needs to determine the date when it enters. enter into force. May 1st. Please support me with the number 8 and number 13 as a whole.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-03-m1.u94	Dear colleagues, I very much ask for peace in the hall. I've called every regulation in detail. On the 15th, Helen’s word was taken, and she took the floor. On the one hand, I won't give a few votes. Each readjustment will be one speaker. We finished the discussion. I ask all the national deputies to come into the hall and prepare for the vote. Now, as the national deputies enter, one minute, Hennaday Zubko. Please. I ask the factions to invite the deputies to the hall, prepare for the vote, and ask the secretariat of the Supreme Council to inform them that a decision will now be taken. Please, Hennaday Zubko.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-03-m1.u95	Ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I would like to thank you for the decisions you have made since 2015. These decisions have enabled people not only to make decisions but also to implement them – to gain the status of a united territorial community. Now the cities of regional importance are excluded from this process, and thanks to your joint work on the committee, in factions, we have the opportunity to allow 47 cities of regional importance to be elected. It's a huge number, practically, of people waiting for this decision to have an opportunity to influence their future. I'm asking you to support in general, taking into account the 8th and 15th lines that need to be calculated and run. The 13th, I'm sorry, 8th and 13th and run this process. I'm asking you, and now you see that a very large number of citizens are looking at the hall waiting for this decision in autumn to be able to participate in the formation of such communities, and the main thing is to gain the status of a united territorial community.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-03-m1.u96	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I would like to remind you that this bill was considered on Local Self-Government Day and that we did not have enough votes to allow communities to unite with cities to give them the legal right to unite. And today we have a chance to reunite and make a positive decision. This decision awaits a huge number of communities on the ground. And I'm asking everyone to come into the hall, and I'm asking everyone to vote responsibly. One of our major reforms is that the reform of local self-government should continue and allow people to realize their right to unification. So I'm going to put it in stages: first the adjustments that Mr. Nicholas asked for, and then the law as a whole. I ask very carefully and responsibly to vote. I'm asking you to come into the hall, not come out. So, please, I'll take the first step: getting back to number 8 and confirming it, and I'm asking everyone to vote and support it. A representative of the committee requests that you return to number 8. I'm asking everyone to back up to number eight. Please vote for the return and ask all law-abiding supporters to support it. Please vote. Please support the return. Please be supportive. Let's vote, colleagues. We'll support the committee. [[17:26:18]] For 258. We're back. Please support Amendment 8, please vote and support. Let's vote for number eight. Please be supportive. Voting, supporting. I'd like your support, colleagues. Whoever supports the law, please support. [[17:26:42]] For 259. Decision taken. Please return to number 13 at the request of the committee. Please vote, please come back. Please vote back carefully every vote, please. Proponents of the law, please vote in favour. [[17:27:06]] For 243 We're back. Please confirm the amendment number 13, please vote. Please support, confirm number 13. Please vote. 13, 13. Vote, law-abiding people, please vote. [[17:27:27]] For the 250. Decision taken. And the last one is confirmation of 15 revisions. Please be supportive. The committee's requesting support for amendment number 15, and it's been put in for confirmation. Please vote, please support the supporters of the law. Vote, please. Please support the law. The committee's asking for everyone's support. [[17:27:57]] For 242 Decision taken. And I now put to the vote the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on the Voluntary Association of Territorial Communities on the Voluntary Integration of Rural Communities, the Settlements to Territorial Cities (No. 6466) in a re-second reading and in general with technical legal rights. Please vote. We'll support local communities. Please be supportive. We're voting on the law. Vote! [[17:28:43]] For 268. The law is passed. And I welcome all the local communities that are able to unite after today’s important decision by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Thank you all for the discussion. And, colleagues, now we have a question. This is not a question, it is only an inclusion in the agenda of the daily session: the draft Act amending Chapter VI of the Code of Budgets of Ukraine (8175). It's just getting into the agenda of the day session. The government has made a request, and I ask to support the inclusion of the day session so that the committee can consider it. Today we will not consider it just so that the committee can consider it. Please vote and please support. We are voting for the inclusion in the agenda of the 8175 session. Please vote. Please be supportive. Vote. [[17:29:47]] For-152. It's not a decision, colleagues. And we have the ability to move on to the environmental block at last. But before I go to him, I want to announce that there's a statement from two factions for the break. It's from the Self-Help faction and the Fatherland faction. And from two factions to a word, Egor Sobolev is invited, three minutes. And we're moving to a cluster of environmental policy issues. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-03-m1.u97	I'd like to address the people who were on Maidan with an important message. The police and prosecutors detained John Bubenčik, one of the field activists who fought in this war for independence on Ukraine’s side. Now the Ukrainian prosecutor's office is asking for his arrest, attention! - on suspicion of murdering the Berkuts in Midan. I propose that Parliament immediately call to us the Attorney-General of Ukraine and the Minister of Internal Affairs to explain to us and to society what is going on and why they see justice in this way as a result of those events. I will remind everyone who forgot that none of those who shot people in Maidan, criminal responsibility, and prison terms were punished for this. I'm asking the speaker to consider this an appeal to the entire Self-Help faction. Lucenko and Habakkuk are to come to us and explain what they are producing.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-03-m1.u98	So let's move on to environmental policy, and the first one is the daily draft of the Act amending article 20-2 of the Ukrainian Environmental Protection Act (No. 6530). Let's work, colleagues, intensely. These laws are unifying, let us work effectively and intensively. And I'm going to vote on the motion to consider it as a reduced procedure. Please support me. [[17:32:12]] For a hundred and Decision taken. And I invite you to the report of Minister of Environment and Natural Resources Semerak Ostap Mikhailovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-03-m1.u99	Thank you, Mr. Head. Ladies and gentlemen, before we present the bill of government, I would like to begin with the thanks of our mutual. For the results of our work together last week. Thank you for supporting important environmental, environmental laws. Today you have a draft Ukrainian Law amending article 20 of the Ukrainian Law on Environmental Protection, which was developed in accordance with article 7 of the Ukrainian Law on Metrology and Metrology. The bill proposes to empower the State Environmental Inspectorate to authorize its territorial authorities to conduct measurements that are not related to the assessment of the conformity of products, processes and services in accordance with technical competence and independence requirements. And the second. Provide the Ministry of Nature with proposals to determine the measurement methods required for the use of authorized territorial authorities. I would like to point out that, as a result of the disagreement that exists today, the bill aims to eliminate this incompatibilities, at first in 2016, the cancelled mechanism for testing measuring laboratories, resulting in the loss of the ability of the territorial authorities of the State Environmental Inspectorate to perform measurements in the field of public oversight (control) and environmental crisis monitoring as a result of environmental accidents. Today, there is a threat of halting laboratory-tooling in the exercise of State control and control. As of today, 14 inspections have lost this technical capacity, and the adoption of this bill will solve this problem. Ladies and gentlemen, please support the bill as a basis, and if there is will, perhaps in general.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-03-m1.u100	Thank you. From the committee co-reporter I invite Dziblik Pavel Volodymyrovich. And I'd like to be brief.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-03-m1.u101	Good afternoon, dear colleagues. Yes, so that we don't repeat ourselves for a long time, a really technical moment is raised in this bill. The committee has a comment on this bill, so I would like to support it in the first reading, not in general. And in the period between the first and the second readings, make appropriate adjustments to bring it into line. Besides, I'd like to address you, Head, so that we can actually consider Bill 6598 today on the subject of animal cruelty. And I would ask all my colleagues to vote in favour of the first reading of this bill without much discussion. Let's just work a little bit. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-03-m1.u102	So let's do the recording: two in, two in, two in. From Peter Prashenko's Block, Klan Sergey Volodymyrovich. And I'm asking everyone as concise as possible.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-03-m1.u103	Please pass the word to Nedava Oleg.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-03-m1.u104	Hello, everyone. It is a very simple bill, but it allows environmental inspection to work fully and protect our environment and health. And we have to hope that the Minn-Natures will regulate their powers in this area of activity as defined by this bill. This will legally strengthen the mandate and responsibility of the Ministry of Nature to define and establish clear requirements for technical competence and independence. And in recognition of the criteria for measurement methods that are required to use and minimize the risks of obtaining unreliable, biased measurement results. I would like to support it in the first reading and take note of the comments during the second reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-03-m1.u105	So, from the People's Front, Bondar Mikhailo. Passes the word to Ungurian. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-03-m1.u106	Praise Jesus Christ! Dear colleagues, we have two laws. We have the Environmental Environmental Protection Act, which is a professional law for the environmental protection system, and we have the Metrology and Metrology Act. There is a very important body in our country, such as the State Environmental Inspectorate, which has exclusive powers to exercise state environmental control in the country, as well as at border customs and other types of care and analysis. Among other functions of the State Environmental Inspection, especially at the state border, is the function of radiological control of radiation emissions, pollution among goods that either leave or leave Ukraine, or otherwise enter Ukraine, or transit through Ukraine. And for the state environmental inspection to be able to fully carry out its function, we need to vote on this sufficiently technical but important bill. Secondly, there's an option that's very important and budgeting as damage and damage to the environment. This is important in terms of water pollution, soil, or air pollution. And we're going to have to give the State Environmental Inspectorate all the important influences, as well as the Ministry of Profit and Natural Resources, as well as the proper calculation of that one.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-03-m1.u107	Thank you. And the closing statement from Fatherland Rybchin, turn on the microphone. And I'd like everyone to come to the hall and we'll have a vote in two minutes. Please invite everyone to the hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-03-m1.u108	Alexei Rybchin, Fatherland, Doñecina. "Paternal" supports the availability of environmental bills in the order of the day. Unfortunately, during the war, the priority of environmental and green development is not urgent, so all the bills that are for improving the environment and improving the standard of living of our citizens will be supported by the Fatherland. This bill is also supported, it's technical, I propose to vote on the basis and in general not to waste any more time on such bills. He's technical. I'd like to get from the Ministry of Ecology more professional, more complex bills. There are also certain questions to the minister of ecology. You've repeatedly spoken for the elimination of environmental inspection, the creation of, there, a state environmental service, and now there are bills that are essentially developing the State Inspectorate. Please comment on your plans for this structure, which you have called corrupt. And the second. A very large number of deputies, a very large number of public activists, are protesting against large polluting heat stations that do not install filters. For example, at Dniper’s DTEK station, they are highly polluted, making civil society and national MPs indignant. How does this Maintenance react, and will this law improve the situation, or will it not? "Paternality" will vote in favour of this bill, we propose on a basis and in general, so that we don't spend any more time here, there's nothing to complement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-03-m1.u109	But I have a proposal from the committee: just on the basis. And that's why I'm going to put it as a committee proposal. The committee says what could be in general? If there are voices. So, colleagues, I'm asking everyone to come into the hall, we're moving on to making a decision. I ask everyone to prepare for the vote. So let's move on to making a decision, this is a matter of ecology, and let's get together in the hall. In support of the work and the committee and the ministry, I'll lay the groundwork, if there's the will of the hall, then I'll put it all together. So I'm voting on a bill amending article 20-2 of the Ukrainian Environmental Protection Act (No. 6530) as a basis. First vote on the basis. Please vote. Please be supportive. Vote. Please be supportive. [[17:42:38]] For 211 I'll be back. Please include the factions. I'm asking you to come into the hall. I'm asking you to invite the deputies into the hall. The heads of the factions please assist the deputies in voting at the time of the decision, not at the entrance. So, Peter Poshenko Block 81, People's Front 62, Opposition Block 3, Self-help 3, Radical Party 12, Father's Party 12, Will of the People 3, Rebirth Party 10. Colleagues, I'll put you back on the line, but I'd like everyone to take their seats and prepare for the vote. Ivan, please. So I'm voting on the proposal to go back to the draft of Law 6530. And I ask everyone to take part in the vote. Please take up your jobs. Please vote. And please support the return. Please be supportive. Vote. [[17:44:04]] For 223 Three votes. Please come into the hall and take your jobs. Please enter the hall and take your seats, and prepare for the vote. I'm asking you to maximize your mobility. Please enter the hall and take your seats. Please. There are voices, right? I propose to go back to voting for the draft Act amending article 20-2 of the Ukrainian Environmental Protection Act. Please support the return to Law 6530. Please vote and please support, please vote, please support. [[17:45:25]] For 234 We're back, 234. And I'm voting on the bill amending article 20-2 of the Ukrainian Environmental Protection Act (6530) as a basis and as a whole, as proposed by the committee. Please vote, please support. Vote, please. Vote, please. [[17:46:02]] For 229 Decision taken. Colleagues, while we're having a discussion here, yes. Colleagues, we have the next draft of the Law on Amendments to Certain Laws of Ukraine (for the introduction of a ban on the total logging of beef and beech forests on the mountain slopes of the Carpathian Region) (No. 6749. Let me run a rating vote first so we don't put the environmental law at risk. So, I'm betting on a rating vote on draft Law 6749, please vote and I'm asking you to support it. Please vote and please support. [[17:49:33]] For 196 We didn't make it. Yeah, I'll put it back on the ratings vote. Let's go in, yeah. We are well placed in draft Law 6749, and I ask you to support the consideration of the reduced procedure. Please support the consideration of the reduced procedure. [[17:50:07]] For 171 I'd like to report to you by the name of Irina, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-03-m1.u110	Mrs. Golly will be out of the way. Please, Mrs. Gorgeous.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-03-m1.u111	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-03-m1.u112	Dear colleagues, I invite you to speak on this bill to the head of the Subcommittee on Environmental Policy, Environmental Use and Elimination of the Consequences of the Chernobyl disaster, Paul Djublik. From the place, please, Paul Dziblik, I invite you to speak as a co-rapporteur for this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-03-m1.u113	Good afternoon, dear fellows! I'd like to address the self-help faction first. I do understand that there are political moments, but the bill introduced by your colleague concerns the Carpathian region and refers to the continuation of the moratorium on tree cutting. We have said together many times that we must stand up for green plantings, that we must do everything we can to make our forest sector flourish, that our trees remain and our forests remain our offspring. And it doesn't make sense at some point when there's a turn for environmental bills, and the faction, completely, doesn't vote or support these bills. I would ask all colleagues, including self-help colleagues, who are the authors of this bill, to support it in the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-03-m1.u114	Thank you, Your Honor, Mr. Dziblik. Dear colleagues, I invite you to speak to the Minister of Ecology, who will speak in support of the copyright team, that was the decision taken by the copyright team. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-03-m1.u115	Dear colleagues, distinguished national MPs, first of all, thank you for supporting the previous ecologically important bill. In fact, the protection of the environment should be beyond politics, because regardless of our political views, we live in this country, we breathe this air, our children live here. And in our country we live and this is the nature that should be left behind after our activities to our offspring. The bill currently under consideration is supported by the Ministry of Environment and Natural Resources, since it is directed or directed to the protection of the forests of the Ukrainian Carpathians. Ukrainian Carpathians are not only a pearl of Ukraine but also of all Eastern Europe and Europe. In principle, it is important for us to prepare and modernize Ukrainian legislation in order to protect the forests of the Ukrainian Carpathians as much as possible. Therefore, I ask today to vote on all factions, regardless of political views, political platforms for this very important law for Ukraine and the Ukrainian Carpathians. Thank you for your support.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-03-m1.u116	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we voted in favour of the short-term procedure for considering this bill. I'm asking you to sign up for a faction discussion right now. And I would like to remind you that among the copyright group of this right and important bill that we are looking at in the first reading, Mrs. Pole, the national deputy of Irina Podoljak, Jaroslav Moskalenko, Tetjana Ostrikova, Arthur Gerasimov, Helen Sotnik. So we see this kind of copyright. Oleg Lazko, I don't have a name here, probably simple. Oleg Lazko. It just expands the copyright team. Please, Ivan Krulko. They'll come out of the place. I'm asking you to turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-03-m1.u117	Ivan Krulko, "The Fatherland" faction. Dear fellow countrymen, and most importantly, Ukrainians! The question of protecting the Carpathian forests is an extremely serious issue that we, as a Parliament, are obliged to solve. Today, the Carpathian region is experiencing a totally unauthorized deforestation. We do not have a normal and adequate legislative base to protect Ukrainian Carpathians from being cut off by Ukrainian forests. You and I here, in this session room, remember how seriously we were going through the subject when the problem of the removal of roundwood from Ukraine became important, even in the requirements of the European Union. And certainly we have to protect the Carpathian forests, and not just the Carpathian forests, but instead to create all over Ukraine, in all parts of our country the possibilities for investors to come here that will form here, in Ukraine, new jobs, appropriate infrastructure, and abroad we will export not a forest round, but a finished product, one that will have added value, and that will create jobs and pay taxes here in the Ukrainian state. So, of course, the "Fatherland" faction will support this bill, 6749, which is aimed at strengthening the protection of the Carpathian forests. And we call on all other factions to support this bill in the same way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-03-m1.u118	Thank you for your constructive position. Please, Victor Halasyuk will speak from the Radical Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-03-m1.u119	Victor Halasyuk, Oleg Lachka Radical Party. It's a pleasure that colleagues from Fatherland join our team in saving Ukrainian forests. Oleg Lazko is coauthor of this bill to protect and preserve the Carpathian forests. More than that. We stand for the protection and preservation of all Ukrainian forests, without exception. That's why we initiated a moratorium on the export of roundwood, which is effective today. That's why we put a bill into Parliament with our fellow thinkers on criminalizing the smuggling of roundwood forests. Not the way it is now: they steal the forest, they take it in echelons abroad in the form of wood, and they get a fine of 5,000 dollars. No, we're offering up to seven years in prison. And if he does, he'll be 12 years old. To prevent Ukrainians from stealing the country’s lungs, stealing jobs from Ukrainians, and stealing income. It's unacceptable. More than that. A moratorium on the export of roundwood is fully in place in the 17th year without exception for all rural breeds. And what do we see? According to national statistics, exports to Europe do not take place in the forest, and according to European statistics from Ukraine imports 500,000 tons of roundwood. Imagine! We will raise this issue in Europe on the parliamentary committee of associations. Oleg Lášk and I addressed the Prime Minister. This is unacceptable! The smuggling of roundwood, which today is destroying the Ukrainian economy, which is stealing Ukrainian jobs abroad, we have to put an end to it. Thanks to the moratorium, the timber industry has received 2 billion additional investments, an additional 4 billion more raw exports from the country, half a billion additional incomes from the budget, and tens of thousands of new jobs throughout the country. We're going to do everything we can to make this policy not an exception, but a rule. It's a consistent policy of the Radical Party: to lift the customs of export into scrap metal, to save the moratorium on the export of roundwood, to leave Ukrainian resources inside the country to work.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-03-m1.u120	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we have a few more speeches left. So I'm going to continue the sessional session until the end of this bill, I think for 10 minutes. And now, please, Igor Shurma of the Opposition Block is invited to the floor. He'll be out of town.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-03-m1.u121	Igor Shurma, Opposition Block. I just want to say that the opposition block faction will definitely support this initiative for one reason. You know, there's a lot of talk going on about what we're going to leave behind. If someone was in the Carpathians and could climb high slopes, he would see the horror of our forests today. The bill applies to the beech - beech forests. This may not be enough, but we need to talk about deforestation in general. Worse still, no one has a systematic correct planting of the right trees after this cut. We grow shrubs, we lose Carpathians. What, though, is the result? No one wants to think about it. Thousands of wagons, echelons go to Europe in the form of a round forest or under other graphs. We're saying it's smuggling. If we have such partners in Europe, and they're so concerned about fighting corruption and smuggling in Ukraine, and they know it's a smuggled product, why do they take this forest with echelons and wagons. They are complicit in the smuggling movement. And the problem is not only in Ukraine, but also abroad. Do not make Ukrainian criminals. Let them cover the border, refuse to set up, accept, process, and then our people living in rural areas will not participate. So this stick is at two ends. This needs to be supported, but we need to appeal to the European community, stop provoking smuggling in Ukraine, don't buy it, and we won't have it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-03-m1.u122	Thank you for supporting this bill, it's important. And now, if you'll excuse me, from the Peter Dust Block, Ivan Sporish. They'll also come out of the place. Yeah, yeah. Then the People's Front. Please, Mr. Ivan.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-03-m1.u123	Ivan Sporish, Peter Dusty Block. It's a pretty important bill. So I ask you to convey the word to a acquaintance from the Carpathian Mountains, Yuri Solovia.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-03-m1.u124	Please, Mr. Yuri, give me your word.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-03-m1.u125	Thank you, Sir Ivan. Yuri Solovay, 89 constituency, Gutzulščina, and Pocust. Dear colleagues, I have the honour of representing mountain areas in the Ukrainian Parliament. And so I want to say that this bill is extremely important. And in the context of this law, I want to give you an example that applies, especially to my district and Kosovsky, the Supreme District. So, if you can imagine a situation where these two areas are one of the most forested areas, these areas where the most forest is cut down, but there are villages in these areas with completely decomposed roads of these forests, with no normal infrastructure of preschool facilities, schools, and hundreds of thousands of cubes of forests being cut out and exported every year outside these areas. This is a totally unacceptable situation. Moreover, all funds in the form of a payment are directed to the state budget. That's why I think the most correct thing to do is to consider this law as soon as there's a law in place that sets the land tax for the state forests that will go to the local budgets, or that part of the pay will go to the local budgets. For example, the Highlands, which cut out 150,000 cubic feet [150,000 cu m] of forest a year, will be able to receive over 60 million bracelets in the case of the introduction of 400 bracelets from a cubic meter [1 cubic m] of forest. That is why we, fellow members of the people’s parliament, are developing an appropriate bill. And I'm asking our colleagues to bring it to the walls of Parliament as soon as possible so that the local communities where the forest is being cut down will receive it.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-03-m1.u126	Finish up, please. 15 seconds. Finish it, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-03-m1.u127	That is why we need to do everything we can to ensure that the local communities in which the forest is cut down are provided with sufficient financial resources to support these communities on their own. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-03-m1.u128	Please welcome me from the People's Front, Djublik, National MP. And this is the last performance. The BP just appeared. Thank you. Last performance in this block.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-03-m1.u129	Thank you, Mrs. Irina. Dear colleagues, first of all, I would like to address the Head, Reverend Andriy Volodymyrovich. Of the six important laws of the environmental day, we can only consider two. I would ask the chairman and all the heads of factions to have the rest of the bills that they have been able to consider in the process of our consideration of these bills to be passed on to Thursday. I'd like you. Andrew Volodymyrovich, on the bill. We must in any case support this bill, as well as a number of important others, to increase criminal responsibility for the illegal circulation of wood introduced by members of the committee. And the People's Front supports this bill and urges everyone to support it as well. And as for the environmental day, the transposition of his drafts into the fourth, I would still like to support and put into order again on the day of Thursday those bills that we have not been able to consider today.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-03-m1.u130	Thank you for the talk. Dear colleagues, this was the last performance in this block. Please return to your seats. There will be a vote on Bill 6749. We have heard the position of all the factions of Parliament that support this bill, and among the authors of the bill are representatives of all factions. So let us now join you in the vote. And then the Chief of the Supreme Council will inform a colleague about the brief meeting that took place with the Self-Help faction during the discussion on this bill. Dear colleagues, please return to your workplace.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-03-m1.u131	Colleagues, may I have your attention, please? We're going to the vote. And please invite everyone into the hall. I've just started to study the situation that the self-help representative was talking about. I've spoken to the minister of the Ministry. Right after the session, I'm going to have a conversation with Henprocuror to clarify this situation. And we can go back to her tomorrow, because there's a chance that the situation will be resolved by nightfall. There is a high probability that it will be resolved by evening. In the morning, I guarantee you that I will inform you of my conversation with Henprocuror. As far as I'm concerned, if I'm aware of the prescription given by Horbatuk, I'm going to clarify this situation and report it to Parliament in the morning. Now I would ask that we vote positively in favour of an environmental law that cannot be questioned in any way and in any way because of the political debate in this room. And we're moving on to making a decision. And I'm voting on a bill amending some of the laws of Ukraine (for the introduction of a ban on the total logging of beef and beech forests on the mountain slopes of the Carpathian region) (No. 6749). The committee, right? On the basis and in general. The committee, tell me I wasn't in the hall. Based, based on. Please support the base, 6749 on the basis. [[18:07:29]] For 259. Decision taken. Against the whole thing, right? Let's try it out in general. Mrs. Irina, aren't we putting it all together? Don't we put it all together? The committee is against, the author is against. All of it. I'm sorry, the committee is against it, the author is against it. Thus, the draft Law 6749 is adopted as a basis. Unfortunately, we didn't make it. Let's cut in and prepare for the second reading, shall we? So I'm voting on the proposal that we've considered draft Law 6749 a reduced procedure for second reading. Please vote and please support. Vote. Short procedure for second reading. [[18:08:42]] For 218. One more time, one more time, no more time. A very simple suggestion: a reduced procedure for preparing for second reading. So I'm putting this motion to a vote of 6749, shortening preparations for second reading. Please vote and please support. Please vote. Please be supportive. [[18:09:16]] For 219 Unfortunately, there are no votes, but the law is adopted as a basis. I want productive work in preparation for second reading. Unfortunately, not all environmental laws have been able to be considered. Time for work is up. The evening session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is closed. Tomorrow at 10 a.m. I'm asking everyone to come to the hall to continue our work.
