ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-22-m1.u1	Dear colleagues, I'd like to return after my break to the session room. We continue our session, we begin our evening session. Dear colleagues, I ask you to prepare for registration. And please register the national deputies present in the session room, as we always do before the opening of the evening session. [[16:05:42]] 354 national deputies registered in the hall. We can continue the session. Dear colleagues, let me ask you a question. We are now moving to the national security and defence cluster, and we have a review of the bill now on the second reading -- 5512. But it's because. There aren't a lot of amendments, and given that there are really certain transport problems in the city, let me start now in the first reading of the complete procedure of the 6697 bill, which is going to be followed, and then we'll go back to 5512. No objections, colleagues? I think everyone understands that. Thank you, thank you for understanding. And we're moving with you now to the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Laws to address some of the issues of debt to enterprises of the defence and industrial complex -- participants in the Ucrobanprom State Company before the aggressor State and/or the occupying State and to ensure their sustainable development. Dear colleagues, we will work fully because we can see that colleagues are only returning to the hall. And I'd like to invite the rapporteur, the national deputy of Ukraine, Andrija Vadaturski. Please, Mr. Andrey.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-22-m1.u2	Good afternoon, colleagues! It's very nice that we're already going to a full-procedure bill that allows for the adoption of just quality drafts in the Supreme Council. Well, actually, the question here is pretty straightforward. Now we're going to be looking at an issue that's very important, in our view, in the defence complex. Ukraine has been trading with Russia for decades, and many defense contracts have been signed for three years, five years in advance. Why? Because there was another doctrine or concept, defense. Even a number of previous payments for goods were made under such contracts. Following the beginning of Russian aggression in August 2014, the President of Ukraine issued a decree on the decision of the RNB, which provided for the cessation of exports to the Russian Federation of military supplies. I would like to remind you that export from the EU and the United States has also been halted and imposed sanctions that continue to apply today. Thus, the implementation of the contracts that had been made before 2014 became impossible. Even if the customer’s funds were fully used for production, it cannot be placed today because the moratorium is in effect. On the other hand, it is impossible to find another buyer for goods that are specific. That's why we have to secure our defense complex with legislative changes. Therefore, Project 6697 is called upon to do the following: first, to prevent an aggressor State from interfering with Ukrainian strategic defence companies' economic activities and to prevent them from being forced to raise funds and assets (now the aggressor State's debt is more than 3.8 billion dollars); to ensure the stable operation of defence companies and to prevent reduction. Just imagine, in one city of Mikolayev, there are about 15,000 people working in such businesses. In Ukraine some 80,000 people are involved, and they also have families. And think about how many other businesses that connect their activities to the production of the Ucroborprom?Oh, my God! Stop already open and prevent the discovery of new executives, where the challenger is an aggressor state enterprise. To extend the moratorium to the aggressor state in the event of an artificial census or assignment of a debt to a fictitious firm registered in Ukraine, this is simply to make it impossible to create patterns and to remove eyes, as they say. A decision by the Defence Committee of 17.05 was taken in the comments of GNEU and a decision was taken to support the project as a whole. Colleagues, this is a very important bill, because, on the one hand, we want to somehow break the attitude of the aggressor country and not help them with the production of weapons, and on the other hand, we just need to protect those businesses that have become hostages, unfortunately, in this situation. So today we need to correct this very mistake and make it possible, just imagine, today we have enterprises that can't even pay, pay their wages. There's an enterprise like, well, in Santa Claus, the Mikolai Shipbuilding Plant, in the past -- 61, where the wage debt is 60 million dollars, and today we see companies associated with the aggressor country wanting to take 3.8 billion dollars. I just think it's going to be. may lead to the bankruptcy of some businesses and the liberation of people who are now working for Ukraine, who are producing products that should protect the country. So let's save the wages of 80,000 people today associated with Ucroborprom. So, colleagues, please go back to the hall and support, and adopt this very important Bill 6697 as a whole, in accordance with a decision taken by the committee, a committee of profile. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-22-m1.u3	Thank you. Please remain in the rostrum. Dear colleagues, please sign up for a question to the reporter. Please. Please, Ostap Ednak, your question.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-22-m1.u4	Dear Mr. Reporter! Since you are the author of this legislative initiative, you may have studied the matter more deeply. And how much do you appreciate the professionalism of the businesses themselves and the Ucroborprom concert about the legal component of breaking contractual relations with enterprises and with the aggressor state, and what are the prospects? I can so imagine that the aggressor state might be using international arbitration processes on these treaties. So, of course, we have to adopt this law and protect our businesses right in the Ukrainian legal field. What about the international legal field? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-22-m1.u5	Your answer, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-22-m1.u6	I think it's a global practice and tradition, because when a country enters a stage of aggression, of course. And we see, by the way, just when sanctions are introduced, that contracts are broken down that can strengthen the security of the enemy country, you have to do everything you can to just not perform the contract, and today we're talking about freezing the conflict. And then we'll have a court hearing on the execution of these contracts or pennies, at least to stop the foam that is now being counted against Ukrainian businesses in Russian courts.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-22-m1.u7	Next question is Igor Mosiyczuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-22-m1.u8	Igor Mosiyczuk, Oleg Lachka Radical Party I have very specific questions for the author of the legislative initiative. I take it you're deep into the subject, that's why. First. Were these contracts concluded by Ukraine during the last four years of the war? The second question. You're saying that as soon as you answer the question, the contracts will be frozen and executed when the conflict is over. When will it end? War can end only with victory or defeat. So the contracts have to be broken. And it's actually wild in the fourth year of the war, when the best of the best die, that we're only looking at this bill today. What prevented him from considering it during the first year of war? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-22-m1.u9	First, we registered this bill a year ago. And today we're looking at it, but the situation can still be saved, first. Second of all, with respect to the execution of contracts over the last four years. I don't know about these cases, I know about the businesses that work in Santa Claus today that stopped their supply to the Russian Federation. I know what these companies have done to find other countries to which they can supply their products. Thirdly, I think we should do contracts. Today we're stopping the process of collecting money and pennies, so today we're taking bankruptcy and the risk of bankruptcy from companies that can't place goods today and can't recover money. So we're just going to win the time until this is resolved.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-22-m1.u10	Thank you. One last question. Please, Andrew Illenko, give me your word.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-22-m1.u11	Andrew Illenko, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union, the city of Kiev. Dear reporter, there is a question of the proposed rule on the possibility of meeting the requirements of the claimants of the legal persons of the aggressor State at the expense of the borrower's assets. Instead, in our view, it is appropriate to make it clear in the law that the requirements of the holders of persons, legal persons of the aggressor State and its enterprises cannot be met until the end of the occupation of the Ukrainian territory. And only in that context can we ask the question, because otherwise it's kind of the right idea, but actually it's kind of a bit curved. We need to ask a clear question. Any links with the aggressor state and any claims they make to our side are impossible as long as the Russian Federation is occupying part of the territory of Ukraine, leading an aggressive war against us.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-22-m1.u12	Your answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-22-m1.u13	Thank you for asking. Well, first of all, that's how we do it. So we don't give you the right to collect today's debt from Ucrobanprom. We also agreed on a committee to take into account the proposals made by GNEU. That's the question that's being supported, and I think it's going to be announced by a representative from the committee where we found support. What you say is included in this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-22-m1.u14	Thank you. Please return to your workplace. And I invite you to report to the Committee on Security and Defence of John Winnick. Mr. John, we invite you to your word.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-22-m1.u15	Good afternoon, colleagues! Well, actually, as the committee defined, this bill by a number of authors, it's not about relations with an aggressor country, it's about resistance to any aggressive action by the aggressor country on enterprises that are strategically important for the defence of Ukraine. Its purpose is to prohibit the collection of debts from entities belonging to the aggressor country, from enterprises of the Ukrainian military and industrial sector, to prohibit the opening of executives, and to make a direct provision for the closure of ongoing executive conduct. Well, actually, in terms of the subject of the bail that our colleagues are now commenting on. The Committee also considers it appropriate to impose an embargo on the subject of a mortgage, at least until all of our assets, including others, are settled with the aggressor State in order, perhaps to recover from the annexation and occupation of Ukrainian territory. In view of this, the committee has really proposed to support this project on the basis and in general, but only in the light of the comments and suggestions that I am now going to have to read under the transcript. If you support this, we will now vote. Thus, chapter I of the project after paragraph one to complete with a new paragraph of the second such content: "Preamble of the law after the words of the Ucroborprom State Company" to complement with the words "State enterprises created by the Ucroborprom State Company", as well as shareholders whose only shareholder is the State in the person of the Ucroboranprom State Company. The other one. In the first part of the new article 2 prime. 1 word "to establish that in the relationship of the bond where the hostage is" replace by "to establish that in the relationship of the obligation to collect the debt where the claimant is." In addition, in this same article, the sentence, "The conqueror's powers can be satisfied solely on the account of the borrower's accumulated property" is excluded. Item 3. In part two of the new article 2 prime. 1 word "stop the executioner" is replaced by the words "are already open and are not allowed to open new executions." Point four. First sentence of part four of the new article 2 prime. 1 to read: "The position of parts of the first and third articles is distributed, including to liabilities that have not been replaced by a party (creditor, claimant) or a transfer of rights. where the party (creditor, applicant) has been replaced or the right of claim has been transferred to third parties, but the first priority is the legal person of the aggressor State and/or the occupying State." This is important because the assignment of the right of claim is being implemented and thus an enforcement procedure can be initiated. Paragraph 5 — What Is the Bible’s In section III of the project (amendments to article 34 and article 35 of the Ukrainian Law on Executive Implementation), the figure "12" should be replaced by "13". Please support the project on the basis and as a whole as a law in the drafting of the committee on technical legal rights and what I have just stated under the transcript. Here the question of bond relations is what the representative of the Freedom Union has just said. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-22-m1.u16	Thank you. Please remain in the rostrum. Dear colleagues, I'm asking you to sign up for a question to the representative of the profiling committee regarding the bill that we're considering. Alexander Kugel. Mrs. Alexander, your question. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-22-m1.u17	Frankly, I am very surprised by today’s draft law, which appeared in the fourth year of the war. During these times of war, I had a case of defense. And I can say that a very large number of business leaders came to me and gave me very serious information about how to run a defense, where bankruptcy, where it's just a business stop. I can tell you that this law does not have the right to life. Because there's a law that predicts that if there are force majeure conditions and there's a "war," "attack," then these enterprises have to take a statement in the Chamber of Commerce about force majeure and that's where it ends. And then no European court will be able to review any other decision, because it is a world practice. And the acceptance.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-22-m1.u18	Please, 10 seconds. One more question. Yes, another minute is passed on by the national deputy Eutuszek. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-22-m1.u19	I'm just trying to close things up, and I'm just trying to close things up. We've already taken such a decision in the courts, in the banks, I'm sorry, the Supreme Council, without looking, has decided that banks that are subject to the operation of the National Bank cannot intervene in the executive direction. What do we have now? No enterprise, no human, no natural person, can defend its rights to the inactivity of the National Bank or its criminal activities and the Guarantee Fund. So is the situation with defense. I think we need to carry out a serious public audit or commission the Supreme Council to the Court of Auditors, and better invite independent auditors and conduct audits since 2015 to protect ourselves. Because in times of war, when we give serious funding that we have not seen in defense in all our lives, it is a crime to pass such a law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-22-m1.u20	Thank you. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-22-m1.u21	It should be noted that the Ukrainian Act on certain issues of debt to defence and industrial enterprises - participants in the Ucroborprom State concert and ensuring their sustainable development - did not appear today. Today we propose to make some changes in relation to the adoption by the Supreme Council of the Act on Depopulation, where the Russian Federation in the High Parliamentary Court was recognized as an aggressor country, it became effective. And today the whole world understands that Russia has launched an armed attack, an armed aggression against Ukraine. So in this sense, we have the answer. As for the comparison of these relations with the legal relations that you mentioned in the context of the Deposit Guarantee Fund, there is nothing in common in this case a proposed bill with the operation of the Fund or the National Bank as the main financial regulator of Ukraine does not. It's only about allowing us to ban as much as possible from the defensive strategic state enterprises of the aggressor country to collect any debts, pledges. Because Russia will owe us much more. I'm asking you to support this. And we're going to be doing this together with you, and that's a lot of discussion going on right now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-22-m1.u22	Thank you. We're out of time. Thank you, then, to the co-reporter. And we're moving on to the discussions. Let me ask you one more question. Please, National Deputy Kishkar. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-22-m1.u23	Thank you, Madam Chairman. In fact, I would like to brief Mrs. Kugel about the problem and why I, as one of the co-authors, had to pass this law. Because Russian companies go to Russian courts and usually refer to force majeure in Russian judiciary because Ukrainian information about force majeure is not used, and the courts do not take it into account. It's about 3.8 billion dollars today, which we either have to put in the form of goods, or compensate with pennies and corresponding fines to Russian companies. So, please, I urge everyone to support this correct urgent bill in order to preserve our Ucroborprom. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-22-m1.u24	Thank you. Dear colleagues! Yes, the questions came to an end. Please repeat one minute, National Deputy Kugel.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-22-m1.u25	Dear colleagues, I'd like to give you an answer to an unprofessional comment. International legislation predicts that if there is a case of war, the counterparty is relieved of his duties, this is force majeure. And the decision of the Russian courts let Putin put himself in the jugular. We have Ukrainian legislation and European legislation, and there's nothing to do to cover up the defense tents run by the President for four years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-22-m1.u26	Thank you. Let's move on to the discussion. Please record the factions for discussion. Dear colleagues, I ask you to prepare yourself for the recording. Welcome to the speech of the Vadatoursky People's Deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-22-m1.u27	Please pass the word to John Winnick. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-22-m1.u28	Please, National Deputy Winnick.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-22-m1.u29	Actually, I'd like to point out a rather unpleasant situation that is now in the hall. We see, on the one hand, support the political relevance of the discussion and, certainly, vote in favour of the project. Perhaps in general, perhaps in the first reading, if it is then processed quickly. But we don't see the physical presence of the deputies, the amount needed to vote on it. Perhaps some faction heads are being consulted now on the same anti-corruption court or on other resonating issues. So I would like to point out that if, Madam Chairman, we see that we don't have any deputies physically in the room, it's very important not to reject this project, but to move forward, perhaps. Is there any other regulatory possibility that if we have an MP in the room, on Thursday, for example, a bill that has already been discussed, we could vote because we have this practice. We do have problems today with Ukraine’s obligation as a subject of international law, including regulations and orders and Russian courts. And we need to create an appropriate legislative base so that neither the collection of debt on appropriate loans from the aggressor State, nor the collection of property in lieu of entities belonging to the aggressor State, are directly coordinated by the aggressor State. Obviously, for the purpose of undermining our defenses, it's actually a diversion in the defence and industrial complex. We need to prevent this strategy from being implemented by legislative means. Everything is in our hands, it's in our hands, it's in our hands, it's just that there are no MPs physically in the room right now. I would like to point out that the committee supported this project as a whole. The Committee on Safety and Defence does not often make similar decisions, so this indicates political support from the various factions on the legal relationship that are proposed to regulate the project. In this regard, I would like to support my concern, however, if there are no votes, to postpone the consideration, the final vote for the project for another day or time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-22-m1.u30	Thank you. Deputies! You know that we can't bear the vote, that there should always be a vote after the bill is concluded. Therefore, we must consider it and make decisions according to the number of deputies in the hall. I'd like to invite you to the words of National Deputy Taras Shepherd of Self-Help. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-22-m1.u31	Dear colleagues, national MPs! Dear Madam Chairman! Dear Ukrainians! It's true that colleagues raised the question that it's been four years of war, and we're still discussing what to do with the aggressor country, admit war, call our things our names at last. At last, we have come to help our businesses not to implement the decisions of the aggressor country courts that today are due to the same judicial decisions dictated by the Kremlin. But all of these problems need to be done properly so that Ukraine does not deteriorate, taking into account these decisions of the courts. On the one hand, we have precedents today when these lawsuits take place. But they are happening today between the aggressor country's owners and Ukraine's owners. If a state of war had been established at the beginning of this war, it would have been force majeure, a force majeure situation would have arisen, in which our enterprises would have been responsible for failing to implement such agreements. Sadly, this did not happen. What do we have today? This method, proposed by the authors of the legislative initiative, can lead to the fact that the Russian Federation, more loyally, the enterprises that are now being called upon to Ukrainian enterprises, will now be brought before the courts, international arbitration, not in relation to Ukrainian enterprises, but in relation to the State of Ukraine that has adopted the law, in view of what appears to be the damage caused by the aggressor country's owners. And if these companies from Russia today are unable to raise funds from our businesses, international arbitration is going to make such funds really come from the state of Ukraine. So when we take such legislative initiatives, we need to take further steps accordingly. But to solve this problem, I don't know how real this will be between the first and the second readings, the self-help proposal is to address the problem of Ukrobanprom enterprises, and to make changes to the Ukrainian Law on Prevention and Anti-Legalization (Laundering) of Income received by Crime, Financing Terrorism and Financing the Distribution of Weapons of Mass Destruction, complementing it with the definition of the final beneficiary, the controller of the legal person by the principle of control doctrine, which is that the legal person has the nationality of that State from whose territory is controlled and managed, including through funding. And that's what it takes to recognize Russian counterparties by contracts to those who need it. are controlled by the enemy. That is how Britain escaped responsibility for breaking trade agreements during World War I. The same practice was applied during wars and beyond. Also make changes to the Ukrainian International Law.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-22-m1.u32	30 seconds, finish, please. 30 seconds to complete, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-22-m1.u33	on international private law, prohibiting Ukraine from implementing decisions made in favour of those under enemy control. And accordingly, so that these situations don't happen again, finally get sanctions on the aggressor country and the companies that made these contracts today, because these are typically the aggressor military sector.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-22-m1.u34	Thank you, Mr. Taras. I invite Igor Mosiyczuk to present the position of the Radical Party faction on this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-22-m1.u35	Igor Mosiyczuk, Oleg Lachka Radical Party Dear colleagues, dear Ukrainians, I have one question. Imagine the British Parliament, which during the fourth year of the war with Nazi Germany, deals with a similar issue. Can you imagine? I don't. Do you know what the difference is? The difference is very simple: Britain was ruled by Winston Churchill, and we have in power, to put it mildly, the barriers that they earn, including in war. What prevented us from considering in this room the bill of our leader, Oleg Láška, on nationalizing the property of the aggressor country, to include and consider this issue? Nothing bothered me. Now. A year ago, the author of the legislative initiative gave it to her, and she was lying about a year ago. It is now either ruined by the absence of national deputies in the hall, or at best by the first reading, and another year, that is, the fifth year of war, will await it. What are the commitments to the aggressor country in general, in front of the aggressor country? Thousands of the country's best sons died as a result of the war, as a result of the protection of our Fatherland, and we are looking at the financial obligation of those who kill our compatriots, who kill the heroes of our national-liberal war. What's more, it's even in this bill, which I think we should both step up and work out, that we might someday have our state-owned enterprises doing these contracts. Let's be honest: these contracts are never and under any circumstances going to work, because military cooperation with the aggressor country is impossible, because this is the aggressor country, the Russian Federation, the fault of Ukraine's reparation. And, I'm sure, sooner or later, she's going to pay them for the annexation of Crimea, for the occupation of Donbas, for the destruction of Donbas' infrastructure, for the 2 million refugees -- we're not going to be ashamed to say that because we call them displaced persons, for the killed and wounded Ukrainians. So we unite and vote now at least what we failed to do four years ago.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-22-m1.u36	Thank you. I invite you to speak now to Alexander Kugel of Fatherland. Please, Mrs. Alexander.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-22-m1.u37	After Maidan, when President-in-Office Peter Poroshenko came to power today, we're all used to the very important positions, especially during the war, he appointed the head of defense of the man who sold the Gods in Herson. This is the level of attitude in times of war towards an important defence industry. How many times have we talked about corruption in defense?Oh, my God! For two years I was in court with the defense when they turned to defend their honour and dignity, but I won the court. The court didn't admit that they had honor and dignity, because every night the heads of the defense came to me and told me what they were doing during the war, how they were going to go bankrupt, how they were stealing. And ask them today how they make them raise the price in order to make otters for defense. Today a new leadership has come. We know that they have uncovered a large number of criminal cases. We hope that there will be a continuation of order in defense. We know that a lot of people have been released, and some of the parties that are the authors of this bill, these people have entered this party and are now funding stolen money in times of war. I want to say that we have international practice. There's a possibility in any country when there's a war, a failure to execute treaties. And there are no laws that can be passed. If you are voting on this bill today, you admit that we did not have four years of war, you admit that the state is making a commitment to the unprofessional leadership of the defence leaders, and this is just humiliating. Let's ask you why Ahmethov doesn't go to court and bomb his property, the Donetsk airport. Why do not owners of businesses that are bombed and prevented from working there? What damage do businesses in Donetsk and Lugansk suffer today? Let's ask our owners in Crimea why business was left only with Mr. Dustenk, everyone else was taken away. Ask Zhivago how he responds to debts he did not carry out when Russia took away his business. I think this law is just criminal, and the Motherland Party won't give a vote for it.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-22-m1.u38	Colleagues, as I understand it, factions and groups all took part in the discussion of this bill, and there are no more willing groups or factions. I ask you to sign up for a discussion by the members of the Supreme Council, who will now be able to join the debate on this important bill. Please welcome Yuri Lewchenko to the floor. They'll come out of the place.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-22-m1.u39	Lewchenko, Freedom, 223 District, Kiev City. In fact, I have a very brief statement on what I ask you to follow in the context of this bill at the end when it will be put to the vote, the Rules, and that this bill will be adopted today if it is adopted exclusively in the first reading. Because he does. It's so important and there are so many different issues to it, both technical and not just technical, but political. Philosophically, let's say, as it should be written, that it's not acceptable from the voice just to accept questions in the first reading and in general. So by supporting a lot of things in it, but also by believing that there is much to be done there. And, for example, I think there should be much more harsh things in terms of, say, any economic ties with an aggressor, with the Russian Federation. I call for him to be considered exclusively, to vote in accordance with the Rules in the first reading, so that national MPs can properly prepare for professional second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-22-m1.u40	Thank you. Please, Igor Mosiyczuk, your speech is as a national deputy of Ukraine, not from a faction. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-22-m1.u41	Igor Mosiyczuk, Oleg Lachka Radical Party There's a discussion going on right now, and I'm completely confused about what? Is there a corrupt leadership for defense? There may be – there are the appropriate charges, but at the same time this is not a reason not to vote on the termination of financial obligations and the execution of contracts with the aggressor country. This is no reason to take action that will continue this relationship, a criminal relationship that lasts the last four years, which was to be interrupted in the first days of the war, to leave it behind. This is absolutely no excuse, we must break this umbilical cord once and for all. And in order for this to happen forever, this bill needs to be redrafted for the second reading, and it needs to be clearly defined. As I've already said from this rostrum, these contracts will never be implemented by Ukraine, and under no circumstances, that military cooperation between the country that destroyed Ukrainian Donbas, which occupied Crimea, which kills tens of thousands of Ukrainians, is impossible, impossible and will never be possible. Let's finally stop being politicians and become statesmen. Let us talk about the interests of nations and nations, not in the interests of political groups. The question is too principled, it's principled, because it was really meant to be solved four years ago. And thank you to the drafter of the bill, who, at least a year ago, raised this question. And now we have the opportunity to discuss it, and most importantly, to make a decision that will protect the Ukrainian defence industry from cooperation, from the Gliths who sit behind the eastern front. But at the same time, well, no reason, I'm talking to my colleagues again, no reason -- corruption, if it's in defense, doesn't support this bill. It's completely different. It is not about covering corruption in defense but about getting rid of the ties with those who are killing Ukrainians forever. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-22-m1.u42	Next performance. National MP Igor Lapin is invited to the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-22-m1.u43	Glory to Ukraine! Dear colleagues! You know, I just had a conversation about war and peace. And I'm addressing our colleagues, including the Fatherland party, with all due respect to everyone who's here today. Understand one thing: we, our generation, must end this war. If there's one person in this room who wants to inherit this war from our children, then she may not vote in favour of this bill, tell us about corruption in the Ucrobanprom and tell us that we need to order from the Russian Federation, maybe even pay our debts sometime and so on. To this day I am not ready to inherit my son’s obligation to protect the state. I must fulfill this responsibility to protect our nation from the Russian Federation. I must carry out this duty along with you and end this war, win this war and not inherit it. We have two choices now. Either we continue to order -- or we can pay off the debt to the country that came to my house with guns. They came to our country, they raped our women, they drove our children out. And someone else wants to say that I have to give them the money for it? Dearly beloved, our duty is to end this war victoriously. We have no moral right to pay them money, it's an aggressor, once again, it's an aggressor. And if there are corruptionists, and we think there are Ucrobanprom and people like that, then you and I have adopted unprecedented anti-corruption legislation, and we're with you, I hope, unite around the adoption of the Anti-Corruption Court Act. And corruption workers are supposed to be in prison, and the state of Ukraine and our state enterprises have no money to give to the aggressor country, and that's not just about the Ucroborprom or any other military structure or factory. We all say there's a war going on, so let's not pay the aggressor in the war. There's a lot of people drowning behind the blockade, there's a lot of people drowning for what a patriot he is. So let us all unite around the bill and take one small step toward victory. Let's not pay the aggressor so he doesn't have the opportunity to develop for our money, let's not pay Russia because it has to pay us a lot more. Once again, we do not have the moral right to inherit debt and war from our children. Thank you. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-22-m1.u44	Thank you. Please give the next talk, Ivan Melniczuk. Ivan Melniczuk. I'm asking you, colleagues, look, we have very, very much today we're constructively discussing all the bills, everyone has this rostrum, the right to use what he thinks is necessary. Let's not interrupt each other. Thank you very much. Please, Mr. Ivan.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-22-m1.u45	Dear colleagues, in fact, the bill, it's very clear and he's talking about strengthening the defence of our country, about what we can do by voting in favour of the bill. From. So I want to stress the following. Look at the surrealism that's taking place in the Supreme Council Hall: they go out, they say they can't vote for this bill, because the Commander-in-Chief of our State, he's not like anyone wants to. And who's talking about it? Dear lady, I think you should start not so, but to say that I recently supported Yanukovich and said to the whole country, "Janukovich, come on, order in." And that's why I can't love Dusty until now, and I'm going to tell you in any way that he's bad. This is my thesis to you: come and save. In YouTube, you can see anyone who's not lazy, who hasn't looked yet. And I urge everyone to look at that person, the people's deputy she spoke to recently, and why she is now swearing to our Commander-in-Chief. To the second person who says that we have shame, corruption and so on in the Croatprom. Listen, honey, you've recently taken 100,000 bribes to the cells, and now you're standing on the stand telling us that we have corruption in the Ucrobanprom. I'm going to ask you a lot of questions before you mention that one that's the other, look at yourself in the mirror. And look, I'm saying, is that who's talking? We vote, my friends, for the bills that will add strength to our army, which will add power to our power of defense. These incompetent pigs are reminded again: Look at yourself in the mirror.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-22-m1.u46	Colleagues, please don't walk away from the parliamentary language. Colleagues, in principle, we are out of the discussion, but our distinguished colleague, Mr. Semimenach, wishes to speak in this discussion. Please, Mr. Semenha, we grant you this right. Three minutes of your show. And I am very much asking, and above all, the Head of the Supreme Council is already asking to return to the session room. Now we're going to move on in three minutes before the vote. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-22-m1.u47	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Semenha Roman, "The Self-Help Union." Dear colleagues, it's really a nonsensus, the fifth year of the war, the fifth year of the war, and the national parliament is looking at the issue of the debt of the State Enterprise Ucroborinprom to the aggressor state. Well, how else can I tell? What's the logic? What are the standards of international law that may prevent counterparties from fulfilling their obligations if countries are in a state of war? In what other language does this explain? I understand the logic, there's the hybrid war you came up with, there's hybrid peace and there's hybrid solutions. But it is obvious that there are norms of international law, praise to God that no one has abolished. Why aren't we using it? I agree with those colleagues who spoke out of the rostrum, who voted in that format, and the idea behind the concept of the bill obviously means denying the reality, denying the existence of the fifth year of the war between Ukraine and Russia. Next. This issue of the bill also raises overall efficiency and in this way the relevance of the existence of the Ucroborprom. I hear some colleagues are saving today: let's save Ucrobanprom. This raises the question, if there are economic issues of the Croatprome today, where is the legislative initiative of the government, the professional ministry, and what about the Croatprome? If someone's looking after the Croatprom, I'm pointing out that, according to the latest audit, every second enterprise that's part of the Croatprom is ineffective. I invite you to the city of Kharkiv, for example, for the unique Malisheva factory. In order for all of us to hear the answer to why a third of the entire export contract proceeds remain on Ukrespecexport and does not come to a real producer. What's going on with the State Enterprise, the Kharkiv Transport Equipment Factory, which is also part of the Ucroborprom. And think about it, during the war, in this company, the debt on the wages. So what is the effectiveness of the Croatprome? Isn't it obvious that Crocobanprom, as it is, has, like Carthage, to be destroyed. There has to be an effective audit, corporateization, so that you and I, colleagues, can create conditions that will allow quality, and effectively manage the enterprises that are creating the war complex today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-22-m1.u48	So, colleagues, the discussion is over, we're moving on to making a decision. It's coming from the committee. I'm asking everyone to come into the hall. Heads of factions, please invite the deputies to the Hall, and the Secretariat, to invite everyone to the Hall. It's now three minutes, closed by the Ivan Vinnick Committee. And let's move on to making a decision. We'll vote in three minutes. Invite everyone into the hall. Please, Mr. Ivan.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-22-m1.u49	Let me start by saying that the National Security Bill introduced by the President of Ukraine provides for the creation of a central executive body that will implement state policy in the field of the military and industrial complex. And he's going to be the regulator, which today, in fact, is Ucroborprom, even though he's a fully owned entity. This conflict in legislation will be halted after we adopt appropriate legislation. Very little will be said in the Final and Transitional Positions about the duty of the Cabinet of Ministers to create an appropriate controller within six months. As for the proposals, how do we vote, taking into account the consultations I have now conducted with the factions, we propose to take this project as a basis, because on the basis and in general, I understand that there will be no votes. In addition, we suggest that the decision before the first reading should include changes that I read under the transcript, on behalf of the committee, in the decision of the committee. In addition, allowing the committee to amend the Ukrainian Law on Prevention and Anti-Legalization of Funds Received by Criminal Procedures for the Financing of Terrorism, etc., and the Law on International Private Law when processing the second reading. In this way, I think we will be able to prepare for the second reading a balanced text that, on the one hand, will address the issue of banning moratoriums on any acquisitions by enterprises belonging to the Russian Federation aggressor country, on the other hand, will balance these relations in such a way that Ukraine, through the execution of relevant decisions by international courts in connection with a certain legal uncertainty, has not obliged Ukraine to pay these debts in another way. So this is exactly what I've just talked about, with the transcripts, with the possibility of amending these two laws that I'm talking about, about preventing and resisting the legalization of funds obtained by crime and international private law, and I'm proposing and asking the speaker to put Project 6697 to the vote on the basis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-22-m1.u50	Thank you. So let's move on to making a decision. I'm asking you, colleagues, to come into the hall and leave the beds and take jobs. And I'm putting the committee's proposal on the basis that you don't have any doubts, and let's get to the vote, take the jobs. I am voting on the draft Act amending Ukraine's Laws to address some of the issues of debt to enterprises of the defence and industrial complex – participants in the Ucroborinprom State Concert in front of the aggressor State and/or the occupying State and ensure their sustainable development (No.6697) with the rights that have been presented under the transcript by a representative of the committee on a basis, colleagues, just as a basis. Based on the base. Please vote. I told you to be careful and listen. With the transcripts of the committee's representative, Ivan Vinnik. Please vote, please support. Vote. Please be supportive. [[16:59:28]] For 230 230-yes. Decision taken. The law is passed. Colleagues, don't leave the hall, oh, I'm sorry, on the first reading. Decision taken, I'm sorry. It's just that I've written a committee decision and I've made a decision on the first reading. Colleagues, attention, now the second law, the next one in security and defense has just a few rights, two or three rights. And so please don't split up, the discussion will be very and very brief. We move on to the next issue of the security and defence bloc: this is the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on Social and Legal Protection of Military Servants and Members of Their Families (No.5512) in the second reading. And I invite you to the report of the committee of security and defense of Vinick. And I stress very few amendments, the vote will be literally in a few minutes. Please, Mr. Ivan.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-22-m1.u51	Colleagues are very simple, but a very important bill that we consider in our second reading. This is about amending the Ukrainian Act on Social and Legal Protection of Military Servants and Members of Their Families. The point is not to take into account the time needed to travel to a place of residence on an annual vacation. In this way, the military will receive full leave, provided for by law, and the time needed to travel will be taken into account during work hours. Such application has always existed, usually in most armies of the world, and we are obliged to do so for Ukraine. It's a second reading. We had nine suggestions: four counted, two counted, three rejected. Please support the drafting of the committee and vote on the basis and in general. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-22-m1.u52	That's a whole second reading. So, colleagues, I'm going to call, just three adjustments were rejected, I'm going to call them. 2nd Semenha. No, it's not. 3rd, Odarchenka, turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-22-m1.u53	Thank you. Yuri Odarchenko, Fatherland. Dear colleagues, the amendment made by a fellow shepherd is unfortunately a nuisance of the contents of this bill. The point of the project is that the time that a soldier travels home from duty is not included in his vacation. The amendment predicts that such a time cannot be greater than one day. Sadly, though, transportation in Ukraine is not ideal. The military can't be responsible for the fact that the Crucifixion has often not a very convenient schedule, that in remote populated areas buses ride once every two days and so on. So I suggest that we make an amendment for confirmation and not support it, or we just discriminate against those soldiers who live long distances from the duty station.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-22-m1.u54	Please, Mr. Ivan.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-22-m1.u55	I'm just suggesting to the editor, he'll explain it better.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-22-m1.u56	If the committee does not object, Mr. Taras may comment. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-22-m1.u57	Dear colleagues, the amendment came from that point of view that the bill does not only regulate annual leave. He also regulates family vacations. The term of such a vacation is 10 days. I command, if part of today is on a combat mission, it's important to know when the fighter will return to the location. Unfortunately, there is a fear of the Ministry of Defence and the General Staff, which may begin "military tourism," when a military officer, on his leave, will return not to time, not to time, but to return 5-7 days. And accordingly, the commander will not be able to determine whether he left part of it on his own, whether he needs to be searched for, or whether the fighter can come back tomorrow or tomorrow at the duty station. So we figured that in the middle of the day, it was enough to get there. If even a period is to be held there, that is essentially a personal decision of the commanders that this issue will be settled. So please take it off now. the request for confirmation does not make this amendment because the room may not be packed and it will balance it.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-22-m1.u58	Mr. Yuri, why don't we listen to the committee, our colleagues? That's your requirement, isn't it? So, colleagues, the 3rd amendment is for confirmation. But the committee is asking for her support, colleagues. Everyone's in the hall, let's support the committee. Colleagues, everyone in the room, I'm asking you to take your seats, get ready to vote. Please come into the hall. Well, on security issues, stay in the hall, stay out of the hall. So I'm betting on the vote on the offer of Yuri Odarchenk to confirm amendment number three. The committee wants us all to support it together, all supporters of the bill. And let's support her, colleagues. Please vote in favour of Amendment No. 3. Please vote and please support, colleagues. We vote in favour, we vote in favour. Stop voting. What happened? Well, why are you yelling? Do you want to take it off? You're not filming, are you? He's not filming, I'm sorry. He's not taking the amendment, he's a national MP's right. So I'm betting on confirmation and I'm asking everyone to back up and confirm number three. Please vote, please support. Vote, please. [[17:05:32]] For 184 Many, but not enough. So the next one is 4th. Don't insist. 8th - Semenha. He insists. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-22-m1.u59	Semenha novel, "The Self-Help Union" faction. Dear colleagues, the idea of our review with Taras Shepherd is to resolve the issue of keeping railway and other military tickets. Today, some 250,000 people are serving in the Armed Forces of Ukraine. At least once a year, these people move to Ukraine. You know, there's a huge ticket-keeping problem in the country today. Moreover, military officials are often unable to plan their vacations in advance. It would be absolutely logical at the legislative level to make it possible for military personnel to defend such tickets and buy them off-line. If we're going to settle an entirely fair issue today that arises with the Ukrainian soldiers, let's also give the legislative level the opportunity to secure tickets for the military. Please support our revision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-22-m1.u60	Please comment. Eighth right. Sergei? Ivan? Please, it's the eighth right. So I'm betting on the vote. Explain, I say twice, explain.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-22-m1.u61	Colleagues, look, we have military personnel using their annual vacations, which can be between 30 and 45 days a day. And it's perfectly normal, once a month or twice a month, they want to visit their family, come there, let's say, for two weeks or a week, or even for five days, in connection with an event that doesn't fall under family circumstances that have separate categories of vacations. And really, this one day of going to a place of residence and going back to a place of residence, if you count it and multiply it by 5-6 vacations per year, can give you an extra 10 days, very important days, for any Ukrainian soldier. That's why this amendment agrees with the Ministry of Defense, it gives absolute predictability and understanding to any military authority with which the appropriate military officer is operating. So I ask you once again to support the committee with all the rights that we are.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-22-m1.u62	30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-22-m1.u63	In particular, the Law No. 3 of the People’s Parrot, which is the Committee, the Bill in the second reading and in general. Please ask the speaker to put the question to a vote in the following order: in the edition of the 3rd edition committee, which was not currently confirmed in the room. Or these two separate votes. Please identify yourself, Mr. Speaker.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-22-m1.u64	Thank you. First, we vote in favour of Semenha's amendment. So I'm betting on the vote. I would like to emphasize to you once again that we are discussing Semenha's revision. And be careful, representatives of the committee, during the discussion. So number eight, the Semimenah committee turned it down. Whoever supports this amendment, please vote. I'd like to make up my mind. [[17:09:15]] For-162 Colleagues, discussion is over. Let's move on to making a decision. I'm asking everyone to come into the hall. Colleagues, I'm asking the factions to see who's not here and invite you. If necessary, invite the coulaires. Look, call me back. It's a safe law, and I'm asking everyone to come to the hall. So, at the request of the committee, I'm going to suggest you go back to number three. Mr. Taras, I'll put you back on line 3, but you'll ensure that everyone is present from your faction. Please, colleagues, invite everyone into the hall. Please prepare for the vote. Everyone please take up their jobs. So a colleague, a committee representative, is willing to make a compromise proposal and the author agrees. I'm going to put it to a vote with an amendment that I made as a compromise. Please, Mr. Ivan, come in. And we're going into the hall, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-22-m1.u65	In the first part of article 10, paragraph 1, in the Committee's fourth column, "but not more than one age at the end," replace "but not more than two days at the same time." Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-22-m1.u66	You're in, right? Roger that. All right, let's make a decision, colleagues. So I'm voting on the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on Social and Legal Protection of Military Servants and Members of Their Families (not to take account of travel time within Ukraine to the place of vacation and back) (No. 5512) in the second reading and as a whole with the amendment that was made by the representative of the Committee, John Winnick, who is a compromise and accepted by all factions, as a whole. Please vote and please support. Colleagues, pay attention! Every voice! Please be supportive. Please be supportive. In a committee edited by John Winnick. [[17:11:39]] For 226 Decision taken. The law is passed. Colleagues, we have the following two laws of the Committee of Tretlyakow. But I did. Attention! Stay where you are. Mr. Alexander, this is a question about the injured members of the Dignity Revolution to conduct a rating vote before that, whether there is support for them. Careful, fellows! I'm asking you very much. I'll explain. Guys, come into the hall, I'll set you up. I want to inform you that there is no final committee decision under the Higher Anti-Corruption Court Act. Now it's working in the legal department, we're waiting for it. And today there will be an IMF meeting to reconcile the last position that has not yet been agreed upon. And so, colleagues, we await the committee's decision. Without a committee, I have no right to be considered without the committee's decision. Colleagues, take your seats. I'm voting on the ratings. Don't come out, guys. Why? Now we're talking about the courses of law. Why are you leaving the hall? Why are you leaving the hall? So I'm voting for the next draft of the Act amending Ukraine's legislation on the social protection of injured members of the Dignity Revolution and some others (8301). Please support, colleagues, this is a rating vote. Let's make sure we get through it today. They're technical repairs, support for our boys. Please vote, please support. Vote, rating vote. [[17:13:33]] For 199 Shall we come in? Come in, Mr. Alexander? Let's go in. So I'm asking you to support the committee's proposal that we consider draft Law 8201 as a reduced procedure. Please vote, please support. Please vote for the short cut. [[17:14:05]] For 155 Decision taken. I invite you to report to the head of the Committee of Trelyaków Alexander Yuriovich. Mr. Alexander, who will report? Maxim Burbak. The committee will report to Maxim Burbak, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-22-m1.u67	Dear colleagues, Bill 8201 is the first of two important draft laws that our committee proposes to adopt today. They apply to ensuring equal access to benefits and social guarantees for people who protected Ukraine during the Dignity Revolution and in the East War. I emphasize the importance of these bills and ask everyone not to leave the hall. We cannot afford to allow our nation’s supporters to be deprived of attention and help because of the gaps in legislation. Legislation is to be modern and to follow the realities of life. Our duty as lawmakers is to do our work in time. The main objective of this bill is to ensure the implementation of the 2203 Act to the affected participants in the Dignity of the Aids. I recall that this law granted the status of a injured participant in the Dignity Revolution to persons who, during their participation in the Dignity Revolution, suffered bodily harm that did not result in disability. They are likened to those involved in fighting. At the same time, the benefits for those involved in the hostilities provided for by the Law on the Status of War Veterans are duplicated in other legislative acts. Yes, the right to additional leave is duplicated in the Labour Code, the right to housing – in Housing, the right to State support for education – in the laws governing education. The bill therefore amends 21 laws. At the same time, the rule is being clarified as to what body is carrying out the child's medical and social expertise (LCC) to establish the status of a child with disabilities as a result of the war. There are changes to the 13 legislative acts to change the term "Great Country War" to the term "World War II." The law is supported by Minfin and Minsozpolytica. GNEU also recommends the adoption of a bill as a basis. The Committee on Veterans and Fighters in the ATO Zone, and members of the Dignity Revolution, recommends the adoption of a bill as a law as a whole. At the same time, we ask that the secretariat be given the right of the committee, together with the Chief Legal Authority, to bring technical and legal remedies in part.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-22-m1.u68	30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-22-m1.u69	Amendments to the Laws of the Court of Justice, "On Funeral and Funeral Affairs", "On Compulsory Insurance of Civil and Legal Liability of Land Transporters" concerning the granting to injured members of the Dignity Revolution the benefits provided by these laws for participants in hostilities. Dear colleagues, this is a technical bill and I ask you to support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-22-m1.u70	Thank you. Please record: two in, two in. Germany from the Opposition Block. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-22-m1.u71	Germany, Opposition Block. It is suggested that these issues, as Mr. Burbak has mentioned, should indeed be settled.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-22-m1.u72	Mr. Nimchenko, I'm going to make a huge request to you, but you speak a good language if you don't mind. Thank you so much for understanding.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-22-m1.u73	What do you mean?
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-22-m1.u74	State language, if you don't mind.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-22-m1.u75	What do you mean?
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-22-m1.u76	On the topic in the national language.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-22-m1.u77	My friends, well, first of all, this rule does not provide for your right to deprive me of words.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-22-m1.u78	Please, Mr. Germanko. You know very well the English language, and I ask you without offense or humiliation, but I ask you to do so.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-22-m1.u79	In fact, you're depriving yourself of the ability to serve as a national deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-22-m1.u80	I'm asking you, Mr. Germanko. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-22-m1.u81	Okay. Then I'll try it in English. And I think there might be a reason to speak. the improvement of this law. At the same time, I would like it to be improved at all. And I want to inform you that according to these laws for minor bodily damage is a son, etc. There are 200,000, 200,000 compensations. Where there is a disability, there are no questions. But let's look at justice, what is 200,000? I raised this question, millions, tens of millions of dollars paid. Who determines where these slight bodily damage was sustained? I want to tell you that if you get disfigured or killed in the line of duty, that's the same pay-as-you-go system for decades or what?
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-22-m1.u82	Thank you. Majjkovich Mikola Romanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-22-m1.u83	Dear colleagues, there's nothing to discuss here, it's just a matter of voting and supporting this bill that we're giving social support to those affected by the Dignity Revolution. Please be supportive. "The People's Front" for "The People's Front."
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-22-m1.u84	Colleagues, I'd like everyone to come to the hall. The discussion will not be open for long. It's coming from Fatherland. Ivan Krulko, two minutes, please. Tell me who's going to be from Peter Dusty's Block to announce it. Please, two minutes. And I'd like you to invite the deputies into the hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-22-m1.u85	Ivan Krulko, "The Fatherland" faction. Dear colleagues, well, certainly, the issue of protecting social guarantees for ATO participants, as well as for participants in the Dignity Revolution and especially for their families and children, this Parliament always votes. But at the same time, I would like to pay attention to all of us, so that we, in the matter of the conduct of Ukrainian legislation, really get along systematically. I'm speaking and I'm going to speak for issues like social guarantees for ATO participants and members of the Dignity Revolution, and we're going to adopt one comprehensive law once and for all, and we're not going to introduce it every week. We go back several times to this question by making some point. That's why I'm also going to the profile committee first of all so that we don't speculate on these issues, on people's feelings, but systematically, give maximum protection and move, in fact, in the legislative work in a way that we adopt the systemic bills that the Ukrainian state is looking for, rather than making the legislative process visible, as it is often, unfortunately happens. And with regard to this bill, "The Fatherland" will vote for it, will support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-22-m1.u86	Thank you. And now from the People's Front, Maxim Burbak. Two minutes, please. Then Alexander Trelyakow, two minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-22-m1.u87	Dear colleagues, once again I urge you to vote in favour of this very important bill, because I have emphasized that it is technical at the time of the speech, because some of the bills are being amended. And to those reporters that we're being called upon to do a profile committee to do a better job and make one bill that will take into account all the types of people who participated in the Dignity Revolution and the ATO, I would like to invite these factions to work on this committee. Because I would like to point out that five of us are working on the ATO, the Dignity Revolution, and people with disabilities. The Self-Help faction didn't delegate a new member there, and the last one was released from there. One, sad to say, is no longer in this world. One doesn't come to work once. So tell me, who's going to draft these bills? Because there is a lot of willing people to tell everyone the story that you better do. Come to the committee and work. We will be very happy to hear your suggestions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-22-m1.u88	My colleagues, I'd like to point out that there's going to be a closing statement and in two minutes we're going to go to the vote. It's a very important bill, and it's very sensitive, and it's about participants in the Dignity Revolution. I would ask all the heads of factions to invite as many deputies as possible into the hall. I know committee meetings are coming. Ask the committee members to return to the decision - making room. In two minutes, we'll move on to the decision-making process. Now, I give the floor to Alexander Trelyakow. Please, Mr. Alexander.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-22-m1.u89	I would like to ask everyone not to engage in politics on this bill. It's just a technical bill. Every time we just clean up the dualism that exists in many laws, and we evenize the legislation as it should be. There are no new benefits. There's nothing new that they're going to be able to get from people on the Maidan. It's basically a technical bill that takes away dualism. And I'm very much asking that there be no political battalions, and we just accepted it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-22-m1.u90	Thank you. So we finished the discussion. Are there no more speakers? Please come into the hall. Call the committee! Please invite those on the committee to return to the hall immediately. And I'd like you to announce to the Supreme Council Secretariat that the deputies will enter the Hall. So it's a whole group of committee members. Let me put it on the ratings, then. Will we go back? Colleagues, tell me, for real, how long to wait? Two, three minutes? Well, colleagues, please, let's, if we don't make a decision, we'll come back when the committee comes, I'll just put it back. Please take up your jobs, prepare for the decision. And we're moving on to making a decision. I am voting on the draft Act amending Ukraine's legislation on the social protection of affected members of the Dignity Revolution and some others (8,21) on the proposal of a committee on the basis and in general. It's a technical bill. Please vote, colleagues, each voice has a weight, and please support. Vote, Ruslan, vote. Please support, please vote, vote, please support. [[17:26:26]] For-195 Not everyone's in the hall, we'll go back. Invite us into the hall, colleagues, and don't let anyone out of the hall right now. I would like you to contact the committee again so that they can come to the hall immediately. Please return immediately to the Chamber to all members of Parliament for their jobs, where you should be during the consideration of the bill. Please show by factions. "Block of Petra Poshenko" – 79, "National Front" – 50, "self-help" – 16, Radical Party – 13, "Fathership" – 7, "will of the people" – 3, "Rebirth" – 3. I think we can mobilize, and I'm asking you to come into the hall, and I see groups of deputies coming in. Please prepare for the vote. Are the committee members coming in already? So the committee members come in, please come in without you and we can't make a decision. Please take up jobs. Please, friends, come in, take your jobs. Please. Everyone, please take part in the vote, each voice has a weight, you see. Please prepare for the vote. I would like to remind you that we are considering a draft Act amending Ukraine's legislative acts on the social protection of affected members of the Dignity Revolution and some others. And so I ask everyone to vote in favour of returning to draft Law 8201. Every vote, please vote for the return. If you'll excuse me, I'd like to vote. Careful, every vote, we vote! Please be supportive. [[17:28:51]] For 214 214. Not everyone's back yet. We're not there yet. Please come to the hall. Colleagues, don't leave the hall, I'm asking you to become members of the committee just to stay out of the hall, rather, to invite. I'm asking you to maximize your mobility. Please don't leave the hall. Why are you doing this? Invite me back. I just got out of the hall. So, colleagues, I'm going to put it back again. And I'm asking the committee members to help mobilize the maximum hall. Please prepare for the vote. Take up jobs. So, are you ready? Colleagues, maximum mobilization, and every voice matters. I am voting once again on the proposal to return to the draft Law on Amendments to Ukraine’s Legislative Acts on Social Protection of Victims of the Dignity Revolution and Some Others (8201). Please support the return. Colleagues, every voice! Careful! We're voting for the return. If you'll excuse me, I'd like to vote. We're voting, colleagues, be careful! I beg your pardon, please vote! Vote. [[17:30:29]] For 226 We're back. Now, colleagues, everyone in place. I'm putting draft Law 8201 on the ground and in general. Every voice, fellows! Every voice! We're voting carefully. Please vote, please support. Vote! Vote! Careful! Vote! We vote yes. Please vote. [[17:31:03]] For 226 The decision is taken, the law is passed. Colleagues, the next law is extremely important for our Federation – the draft Law on the Protection and Protection of Intellectual Property Rights of the UEFA during the UEFA Champions League 2018 and the Women's League of the UEFA Championships 2018 in Ukraine. An extremely important bill. We are assured by the committee and by Pavelko that the entire room supports all factions. And I'm asking you to support his consideration of the reduced procedure. Please vote, please support, 8335 is a reduced procedure. [[17:32:04]] For a hundred and Decision taken. And I invite you to the report of the Ukrainian national deputy Andrija Pavelko. Please, Mr. Andrew.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-22-m1.u91	Thank you, Your Honor. Thank you, Andry Volodymyrovich. The need for adoption of this law is due to many factors. In particular, the problem of parasitic marketing has always been the case during such football events. And unfortunately, the practice first shows that UEFA suffers from this, and this is very important for our image of Ukraine. Bill 8335 aims to do everything possible to minimize UEFA’s reputation and financial losses. Despite a number of legal acts, the issue of intellectual property abuse as a result of parasitic marketing remains unresolved, as there is no clear list of actions that would be considered ambuch marketing. Instead, Bill 8335 provides a complete and comprehensive list of actions that UEFA does not allow will violate their rights. Bill 8335 aims to fully address the issue of the illegal sale of tickets and the provision of sanctions in the event of violations of such requirements. Now, we are able to correct the flaws and stand in the way of integrating the best European standards that protect the intellectual property of UEFA. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-22-m1.u92	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I invite you to the floor of the First Vice-Chairman of the Committee on Science and Education, Alexander Spiowakovsky, who is a co-reporter of this important law.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-22-m1.u93	Dear colleagues, using football terminology, I want to say that the Committee on Science and Education voted 4-0-4-0 for a positive decision. Dear colleagues, we understand perfectly simply that we must protect intellectual property, including intellectual property owned by UEFA. In view of the fact that many unkind subjects use appropriate symbols, Tickets, and so forth. Therefore, the honourable colleagues are proposing to the committee to vote on the basis and in general to ensure that the investor, and we consider him, including as an investor, is able to defend his rights in Ukraine. Please vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-22-m1.u94	Thank you for the brief presentation of this bill. I'm asking the deputies to sign up for a discussion. Please, Sergey Kaplin. They'll come out of the place. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-22-m1.u95	I want to support my colleague. We're going to vote on this bill. And I'd like to take this opportunity to welcome Arsenius Petrovich Yatsenuk to his birthday. Today, he is 44 years old. Let's all welcome. And he used to have a very nice slogan on the boards, "It's just starting." So I was going to say, it's just starting, Arsenija Petrovich. Today, our team registered with the Attorney General's Office and the Ministry of Internal Affairs for the incredible discredit you've been doing against Sergey Kaplin for the past two years. And you too will bear witness to all the initiatives and steps that you take. Our party and the common people.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-22-m1.u96	Mr. Sergei, I ask you to go back to discussing a bill concerning the UEFA Champions League and copyright. Now I invite Mrs. Romanov to present her self-help position. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-22-m1.u97	"The Self-Help Union will, of course, support this bill, because events like the finale of the Champions League are an opportunity for Ukraine to improve its image. And I want to remind you that Ukraine is now entering the top-10 dangerous countries for travel. This is by the rating of such an authoritative organization as the World Economic Forum. And we are worthy to go through this great international event, because we see what is happening now: the hotels have raised the prices of 100 times for placement services, and many unscrupulous entrepreneurs are now profiting from reselling tickets. This is a disgrace to the image of Ukraine, which is already undermining corruption and other bad things. So let us unite and do this little but good thing for our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-22-m1.u98	Thank you. Please, Ivan Krulko, give me your word. Colleagues! Ivan Krulko, your esteemed colleague Ivan Krulko, will you please withdraw from your conversation with the no less respectable Maxim Burbak and come to our rostrum with your faction. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-22-m1.u99	Ivan Krulko, "The Fatherland" faction. Dear colleagues, this bill must certainly be voted on. And what's more, this week in Kiev there will be two matches: the Women's League of Champions finals and the Champions League finals among men. The issue and problem of protecting intellectual property rights in Ukraine is one of the main problems that exists and that exposes Ukraine in an undetected light. That's why I have an offer. Voting this bill, which refers to the use of UEFA signs, there are various kinds of football tournaments in Ukraine that take place under the auspices of UEFA. So the proposal is not to limit this law until June 1st, but to make it universal, and to bring responsibility to those who use UEFA's intellectual property rights, and to bring responsibility to those who resell tickets at the match, thus making it available, showing the country of Ukraine a country where there is no normal possibility not only in the legal but in another order of purchase of tickets. So I think this law should be adopted, but it should be universal, not just until June 1. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-22-m1.u100	Thank you. Colleagues, only three factions and groups raised the issue. Are they still desirable? Please, Mr. Ivanchuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-22-m1.u101	From the People's Front.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-22-m1.u102	Yes, I say, Mr. Ivanchuk, from the People's Front, I give you my word.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-22-m1.u103	Dear Madam Chairman! Dear National Deputies! Well, on the one hand, the bill may seem petty, but now I've been talking to Andri Vasilovich Pavelko, the image of our country. Because I think that every MP present in this room, regardless of political colour, is proud that on Saturday, May 26, Ukraine will accept the football final, we will have the whole world looking at Ukraine. And this law will answer that we are, in fact, a European country where intellectual property rights are protected, where we are moving forward with time, and we are worthy to carry out such big sign events in world sport, and Ukraine is worthy to accept such a high level of competition. So I think this is the first step that concerns our response to UEFA, but this is the answer to the whole sports world, the whole community of the world, that Ukraine is a normal, civilized, European country. I ask you very much to support our colleague Pavelek, who is also the president of the Football Federation. Thank you all. We vote yes.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-22-m1.u104	Thank you. I also thank all the speakers who paid attention during the discussion, including the society that will, in fact, be going through two important sporting actions: this is the finale of the UEFA Champions League and the final of the Women's League of Champions. Let's not forget that. Colleagues, all of them? Yeah, we still have football fans here. Please, Mr. Ribczynski, he represents the position of the "Will of the People" Group. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-22-m1.u105	Dearly Headed, Honourable Ukrainian People! I'd like to say not for football at the moment, but for the theft situation. When a car is stolen or a cow is stolen, everyone understands that something is stolen, and it is a crime. When the products of intellectual law are stolen, people think it's common, and why it's not stolen, even though it's the most conscious piratery there is. It is clearly necessary to adopt this law and not only to show to the world that we are a civilized country, but also to continue to understand that intellectual rights are not a right but a duty for people to do it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-22-m1.u106	Thank you. Colleagues, I take it, all those who wanted to speak out of this bill were brief. I ask you to return to the session room. A vote will take place in a minute. Is there a desire for non-fractional people to join in the discussion? Please, Mr. Krivenko. And this is the moment that we're going to use to get everyone back to the session room. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-22-m1.u107	Victor Krivenko, National Movement of Ukraine. Of course, this bill needs to be supported. We need to look at it in parallel and compromise with the fans so that they do not get in the way of their interests, because they became one of the first to defend Ukraine. And remember, in the 14th year, how much and what they did to preserve the Ukrainian world in the Ukrainian cities, how they made peace with each other as intransigent opponents. Perhaps it is better to explain. And we actually have a big holiday ahead of us. I want to thank UEFA and those Ukrainian negotiators who have reached the Gazprom label from the advertising sites. Although he is a sponsor of UEFA, he has been promised that there will be no such thing in Ukraine, for Ukrainian patriots will not allow these symbols to be on Ukrainian soil. I therefore urge everyone to vote. Thank you all for joining this festival: the Football Federation, the Kyiv City State Administration and everyone who lobbyed for it, and I believe that Ukraine will conduct it with dignity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-22-m1.u108	Thank you, thank you. That's what I understand, Mr. Pavelko is asking? We're voting now, don't press the head, please. Please, Mr. Pavelko, I'll give you one minute to conclude. Now they're going back to the hall and everyone who wants to join this room and we're voting. One minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-22-m1.u109	Please support the decision proposed by the committee on the basis and in general that we, both in the eyes of our European partners and in the eyes of the entire sports community, will be watching Kiev in television screens from around the world and it is a wonderful sports festival. Thank you. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-22-m1.u110	Thank you, colleagues. I hope everyone's in their places of employment? Now we're going to go to the vote on Bill 8335 -- this is the draft law on the protection and protection of the intellectual property rights of UEFA during the finale of the Champions League. And I can see after this discussion that we have such a very constructive position in the room. All factions and groups will support this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-22-m1.u111	So, colleagues, the discussion is over. Please invite all fellow deputies to the hall. We're moving on to making a decision. A fine bill for the UEFA championship. And it's a very important general consolidated position. Please return from bed to work so that we do not return to the reception. Please. I'll wait, I'll wait another 10 seconds. Please come into the hall, call someone who's not here to come into the hall. You're ready, aren't you? I can see it in the voices as it is in the hall. We will now return five times. They'll come, they'll come. So I put to the vote the draft Law on the Protection and Protection of Intellectual Property Rights of UEFA at the UEFA Champions League final of 2018 and the UEFA Women's League of 2018 in Ukraine. The committee suggests that we take this as a whole. So 8335 is based on the whole. Please vote, please support. Every voice, vote carefully. Please be supportive. Vote. Please be supportive. [[17:46:29]] For 221 221. I'll wait 30 seconds, invite you to the hall, colleagues, we'll be back. This is the authority of our nation, please invite us to the hall, look at the leaders of factions who are not in the hall. And please, no one leaves the hall right now. I ask you to take your seats, too, during the vote, please. We've had enough. Please show the factions and come into the hall. "Block of Peter Poshenko" – 96, "National Front" – 60, "Resistance Block" – 5, "self-help" – 16, Radical Party Lachka – 7, "Fatherhood" – 6, "Will of the People" – 4, "Party Rebirth" – 8. So now I'm going to make an offer to go back to consideration. Everyone, please be ready. And I'm voting on the proposal to go back to the draft Law on the Protection and Protection of Intellectual Property Rights of UEFA during the UEFA Championships final of 2018 and the UEFA Women's League final of 2018 in Ukraine. Please vote and please support. Colleagues, every vote, we vote. If you'll excuse me, I'd like to vote. [[17:48:08]] For 230 230. We're back. Now let's move on to making a decision. Attention! I put to the vote draft Law 8335 on the proposal of a committee on the basis and in general, please vote and please support. Vote. Please be supportive. Vote. Please be supportive. [[5:48:44]] For 236 236 – a.k.a. Decision taken. Colleagues, pay attention, stay put. I'm going to put the next question to the rating vote. Don't leave. Ivanchuk, don't leave. Next draft of the Act amending Ukraine's legislation on social protection for victims. No, it's the next one. Draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine in connection with the adoption of the Ukrainian Law on the Specialities of State Policy for the Provision of State Sovereignty of Ukraine in Interimly Occupied Areas in the Donetsk and Lugansk Areas. If the ratings show we can go in, we go in, if we don't, we don't go in. I ask everyone to participate in the rating vote on draft Law 8293. Please vote, please support the rating vote. [[17:49:49]] For-166 166 – a.k.a. The hall is not ready to go into the matter. We're not going to put him at risk, it's a very important question. We'll be able to put it and accept it any day, Mr. Alexander, and we'll find a way to do it. Guys, we're actually out of time. Colleagues, is there any point in putting the agenda into the agenda? We didn't get through the block. Colleagues, then let me tell you more about the detailed run. In fact, we are no longer able to lay down another law. I'll tell you in detail about the negotiation of an anti-corruption court, the establishment of a High Anti-Corruption Court. So, dear colleagues, we had a few rounds of negotiations. You know, I've invited the Secretary of the Venice Commission to Ukraine and we've actually held four stages of negotiations with the IMF. Thirteen of the 14 recommendations of the Venice Commission were agreed. And I want to give what's right, and the committee has now given its decision, and by a majority of votes, it has supported all agreed positions. These positions, I think, relate to very important points. In particular, the jurisdiction of an anti-corruption court to match the NAB and the SAP. This also applies to the location of its location in Kiev. This also applies to the anticorruption court and its members being able to protect themselves from the state in the event of pressure on them. And also, an equally important position in reducing the demands on judges of an anti-corruption court. So that more people, internationals, can participate and apply for judges. At thirteen positions, we made a positive decision. There is only one but an extremely important position left: the mandate of the Public Council of International Experts. Several ways are being considered to ensure their decisive decision, as recommended by the Venice Commission. It is suggested that if one of the candidates has not been examined by the Public Council, he may appeal, and then this appeal may be considered either by a joint meeting of the Qualification Commission of Judges or again by the Public Council of International Experts. The committee decided not to take a decision on this matter. Today we're going to try to find this last position of understanding. If we can find an understanding of it, tomorrow the committee will be able to give us a position agreed upon. If we don't find an understanding, in fact in the final position, the position of the committee will be in the judgment of the hall, and we'll have to identify ourselves in each of those positions. I think it would be extremely right if we could agree if we could agree before we enter into the bill. But if there's no such reconciliation, if there's no such reconciliation, we're going to have to figure out each of those positions in the hall. And so the responsibility of each national MP, the responsibility of each faction, will be considerable and high. In fact, the apparatus is now working on the entire table, that's 2,000 rights, almost 1 thousand 925, a literary calculus, a legal calculus, these are tables that are going to be a lot of volume. The apparatus promises that by morning the tables will be placed in the hall and it will be important to make a political decision as to how we will act if we do not agree today. So I'm going to consult with the factions' heads. But my opinion, my personal opinion: going in and out tomorrow is my personal position, it's the right thing to do, and it's the right thing to do in the hall, that's my position. But I'm going to consult with all the factions' heads, with factions' representatives, so that we can get to the agreed position. So that's what I'm explaining to all the people's deputies, given that we're going to be in the process of being responsible for the decision that we're going to make. And I'd also like to announce that there's been an application for a break from the two factions, but I've turned to the faction, they'll agree to allow the performance instead of a break. It's from the Self-Help faction and the Fatherland faction, from two factions. And they're taking a performance instead of a break. And I give the word, three minutes, to speak to Jehor Sobolev. Please, Mr. Yegor.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-22-m1.u112	We greatly appreciate the desire in Parliament to find and vote together for them. And beyond question, the creation of the Anti-Corruption Court Act is one such task. Only I have a request to the Speaker of Parliament and to everyone: let's stop misinformationing the Ukrainian society that representatives of the Supreme Council of Ukraine are negotiating with the IMF and the Venice Commission. The truth is quite different: Ukraine needs justice, an anti-corruption court that attacks top-corruptioners is the most necessary tool to create this justice. Judges taking bribes are to be found in this anticorruption court on the bench of defendants along with those who appointed them. The International Monetary Fund, the United States Government, the European Union, experts from the Venice Commission support the Ukrainian people's desire to have justice. You don't have to have any fights with them. There's nothing to talk about. We pass the law, we ensure in the law that the judges will be chosen in a fair manner, and that the court will specialize in top-corruption cases, and we leave the parliament with a clear conscience.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-22-m1.u113	Thank you. I want to inform you that in the negotiations with the Secretary of the Venice Commission and with the IMF, the head of Parliament is the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, who has the right to consult, the head of the Committee of Profiles, Ruslan Knazevitch, and all the positions that we agree on are informed by all factions, in the positions that we speak about. The final consultation will be with the factions. And I said, in the position we're going to meet, I'm consulting with all the factions. And today I've had consultations with all the factions, with the majority: Self-help, with the head of the faction, with the Fatherland, with the representative Sergey Sobolev, with the BP, Arthur Gerasimov, the head of the People's Front, Maxim Burbak. Consultations are conducted at the widest level. And it is wrong and wrong to overshadow the efforts that he is making, including the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, so that the decision of the Public Council of International Experts is crucial. This should be welcomed and supported, not criticized by the efforts of the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and all the factions with which we negotiate. I believe and I believe that we're going to go to an agreed position, because if we don't support any of the positions, it's going to be very simple: there's going to be a first-reading editor. This is going to be the worst. If no proposal is put to the vote, there will be an editor of the first reading at the position of the public council, I'm mostware of that. For us to compromise, it's anyway. Either way, it'll do more than just the basic thing. And the whole Parliament and all the factions are taking part, and I'm consulting them on these negotiations. So, colleagues, today was a fruitful day, an important day. We passed the entire agrarian block, we passed all the laws of the agrarian block, and I want to say that the committee worked very professionally and professionally, preparing laws. We have adopted national security and defence laws and, of course, an important law for UEFA, and this is a joint effort by Parliament. But our time for work is exhausted. I declare the evening meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine closed. Tomorrow at 10 a.m., I'm waiting in the hall to continue our work.
