ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-19-m0.u1	Good morning! Everyone, please come into the hall, get ready for registration. Are you ready for your registration? Dear colleagues, please register. Please take part in the registration. [[10:03:55]] There are 338 national deputies registered. The morning plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. So, colleagues, I want to report that we have the first block of cultural development. Six questions are largely unifying. And then there'll be a block of "inclusion in the agenda of the day session." This block has a lot of important issues, but one of them I'd like to focus on. I would like to inform you that a law has come to Parliament, which, according to the Constitution, initiates the work of the Supreme Anti-Corruption Court (registration number 8497). I immediately refer him to the Committee on Legal Policy with an urgent mandate to consider. I hope we can get it into the agenda today. There'll be a hearing tomorrow on the committee. And on Thursday we will be able to pass this law so that this year the Supreme Anti-Corruption Court will work. This is our commitment, the continuation of our work to create an anticorruption court. The law is simple, it is incomprehensible, and I hope that there will be the same support for the Hall under this law as it was during the consideration of the Basic Law on the Supreme Anti-Corruption Court. And I would also like to inform you that today, at the recess of our session, at 2:40 p.m., there will be an artistic event called "From the Constitution to the Constitution," which will traditionally take place at the palace of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. We have musicians in our guests today who are very often in front of ATO fighters, this is Oleg Skrepka, and Sergey Fifour, and the Taruta band, as well as historians and experts in constitutional law. So I invite all the people's deputies, according to our tradition, that we do our backyard as a European playground, to this west in a break of two to four hours. So, colleagues, today, according to the Rules, we have 30 minutes for the speeches of the authorized representatives of the MPs and groups. And I ask all factions and groups to prepare for the recording. And I'd like you to record a statement from factions and groups. Please. Opposition Block, Boyko.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-19-m0.u2	Dear Mr. Head! Dear National Deputies! Last week we witnessed a successful solution to an outdated international conflict. For our politicians, President Trump's meeting with the leader of North Korea should be an example of how the desire for a peaceful settlement of a half-century conflict is higher than political and personal ambitions. This should be the position of Ukrainian authority. We insist that direct negotiations be held between our current power and the leadership of the Russian Federation and the unrecognizable republics to achieve peace and put an end to hostilities in the eastern part of the country. If the President of the country fears for his political ratings, we are ready as a political force to take part in this process. The state needs peace. As Ukraine and its citizens continue to leap into the chasm of economic crisis and poverty, the people of Ukraine have the right to know what the government is doing. We're asking the Cabinet of Ministers to finally report on the work done and introduce a program to get out of the crisis. Meanwhile, Ukrainian businesses and their employees are the victims of government policies. Since March, all 303 government mines have not paid their salaries. In addition, not a penny is allocated for technical resupply — human safety, coal production, and its price. Especially cynically, it looked like the backdrop of the 120th anniversary of one of Ukraine's oldest mining mines, the Mountain, which is on the line of delimitation. The people were paid a few months in advance. Catastrophe situation with payments to military pensioners, displaced persons It was worth it to the pensioners to stop the rally, and they were forgotten again. It seems that only megaphones are heard in the government. The State is obliged to immediately recalculate pensions from 2012 onward, not on partial payments. A similar situation with financial arrangements for displaced persons. When, in addition to a loud pianist, the government did not review the scope of the funding of these programs, continuing to count on Western countries for help. And the last. As I said before, the country's economic successes and the social protection of citizens cannot be realized as shells and people die in the east. Peace in the East should therefore be a priority for Parliament. I don't think any political ratings are worth losing. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-19-m0.u3	Thank you. From the Self-Help faction, Barezuk Oleg.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-19-m0.u4	Mr. Head, ladies and gentlemen! Two little stories. The older lady, who has a pension of 1,700 dollars, refuses to give up a gift — a TV that has broken down only because she fears that the socialist will come to her, describe, and take away subsidies from her. This is the confidence of the Ukrainian state and that I can survive here, senior lady, in Ukraine, working 45 years. A friend calls from Canada and says, "You won't believe it. 40 people have come from Nicopolis. They've never come here before. They work here. Why? Because they do not have a place to work or a meager salary in Nicopol. Nicopolis cannot be reached from Kakhovka or Zaporozhye. There is no quality medical care available in Nicopola, for it, as a medical aid, holds on to patients ’ money and enthusiasm, the enthusiasm of those doctors who remain there. What are these stories? These are the stories of government. This is the story of a government that took 10 people in Ukraine and robbed the country. They pass laws for victory. The laws adopted in the Supreme Council are not triumphant. Enforcement of laws, their implementation, not fraud with laws in implementation, is our victory with you. We say today that the adoption of the law is very important. We were happy to adopt the Law on budgetary decentralization, and today the communities have been robbed, there is no infrastructure subsidy or it is scarce. Excise is not paid into city budgets today for the retail sale of fuel materials. Today, public finances are translated into urban budgets by state-funded functions, which today are simply looting, devastating budgets. And trust in mayors, trust in local authorities is growing today, today the city’s communities and their high - quality leaders under the press of an oligarchic machine and law enforcement agencies. Today we are saying that we need NATO standards. Who wouldn't see the Safety Act? And as we have seen, there are no NATO standards or even standards of respect for soldiers in the 21st century. The adoption of laws is not a victory. Today, the adoption of laws in Parliament is broad for an oligarchic government that physically, simply physically robs Ukrainian citizens. And one more thing. The raid continues, the raid continues. A brother’s factory, an oilpress plant, over the course of a year, its owners protect themselves from law enforcement agencies that serve oligarchs and want to simply raid them. The self-help MPs along with those people.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-19-m0.u5	30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-19-m0.u6	And tomorrow they will be with people to protect the ordinary, average, hardworking Ukrainian entrepreneur from an oligarchic system that robs pensioners, prevents young people from getting involved and forgets their education and their medical services.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-19-m0.u7	Thank you. From the Radical Party, Oleg Valeriovich Ljashko.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-19-m0.u8	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. We ask the Prime Minister's Parliament, the head of Naftogazu Kobolev, the head of the Nasalik Energy Ministry. Today, the key problem that concerns Ukrainians is the rise in gas prices. We ask the government to inform Ukrainian citizens of what is the need to increase gas prices to 11,000 dollars per thousand cubes? When we went up to the 7th, then to the 8th, then to the 9,000 dollars per thousand cubes, it was also said that there should be a market price. How many times does it take to raise the price of gas to finally stop? The cost of production of Ukrainian gas is 1.5-2 thousand dollars per thousand cubes, taking into account the cost-effectiveness of transport costs, a maximum of 3.5-4 thousand dollars per thousand cubes. Why 11? How do you figure 11,000 dollars per thousand cubes? I have a question for the Prime Minister and Naftogaz. Who among the Ukrainians can pay such a price for gas? Where do people get money to pay 11,000 dollars for a thousand cubic metres of gas? When will the government raise wages and pensions for Ukrainians? Because the International Monetary Fund memorandum says: land sales, gas prices, but the ban on wage increases and pensions. We demand that the government amend the Budget Act and raise wages for Ukrainians. 4 million people live on a minimum wage, millions of Ukrainian pensioners live on a minimum pension of 1.5 thousand dollars. There's a redefinition of the pension fund's income, there's the possibility of recalculating pensions for colporteurs, for black people, for other categories of pensioners and raising pensions. We're asking the government not to pull up wages and pensions until autumn, but to do so now not to raise gas prices, but rather to pursue a policy of increasing gas production, which is conducive to investment in gas consumption in order to buy less import gas. More of its own gas, energy-generating rather than subsidies that actually preserve poverty. And finally, to the head of Naftogazu Koboljeva. You get 10 million euros in Stockholm arbitration, where we still don't get a penny, Ukraine. Moreover, the decision of Stockholm’s arbitration has been suspended. Mr. Kobolev, I demand that you return from your officials 20 million euros that you have already received from a decision that has not yet been implemented. You had no right to receive that money. This money will be returned to the Ukrainians and directed towards lowering gas prices, lowering the cost of utility bills.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-19-m0.u9	Please welcome the representative of the Fatherland faction, Sergey Sobolev. Please, Mr. Sergey.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-19-m0.u10	Dear colleagues! Yesterday at the Conciliation Council, speaking from the "Fatherland" faction, the position was clear that the daily order that we are offered does not correspond entirely to the realities of Ukrainian life. We demand that the "Paternity" faction put into order immediately this week the issue of the report of the energy bloc of the government and of Mr. Koboljev himself in Parliament on the actual breakdown of the energy sector of Ukraine. What's happening today with the energy sector, when when prices and tariffs on gas are actually proposed by 90 percent of the population to follow subsidies, it's a real breakdown of fiscal policy, it's a real breakdown of Ukraine's energy system. We demand here immediately for the Koboljeva report and the government's energy block on several issues. The first question is the formation of gas tariffs. The second question is actually what happens to untreated gas after the so-called "population grant" scheme. Where, in fact, billions of cubic metres of gas go into the pockets of gas oligarchs, and none of this is in the form of real payouts at these tariffs. The third is what happens in Naftogaz, when the declared profit of 40 billion dollars is almost $1.6 billion. And at this time Naftogaz is negotiating the sale of Crushing, and we will learn that from the mouth of a runaway Russian politician who, in fact, should have appeared in the law enforcement agencies of Ukraine. And I think it's their job to figure out how a financial speculator is negotiating with Kobolje's sale of Crushing. How Kobolev negotiates another loan, 250 million dollars, for gas purchases, with 1.6 billion revenue in the past year. I think it's a question that needs an immediate answer in Parliament if the President and the executive authorities don't want to ask these questions to the governing oil and gas industry. And the last. The bill that was filed this week for the third time, I appeal to you once again, Head of the Supreme Council, you have no right to bring it into the hall, because this bill has failed twice. I demand that you take it away.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-19-m0.u11	30 seconds to complete, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-19-m0.u12	Disengage the government from the leadership of state companies. All mandates are passed on to so - called supervisory boards, who will now set up company financial plans, control them, and direct them. I think all of this deserves to be allocated a single day this week to the government's energy block and Naftogaz. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-19-m0.u13	Please welcome the People's Deputy Ribczynski, who will be speaking from the "Will of the People" Group.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-19-m0.u14	Dear Ukrainians, dear colleagues! "Considering that our language is a fundamental element of national self-determination and the wealth of national culture, taking into account the historical experience when the struggle of enemies and invaders with our language was a tool for the destruction of the population, recognizing the need to protect national identity in the process of globalization, recognizing that our culture is an integral part of a common multicultural Europe, and that the preservation of this culture and its development is only possible through language protection, recognizing the need to protect the language and the obligation of all public authorities, institutions and citizens of Ukraine to adopt this law on the following." Do you know what these are, dear friends? No, it's not an article of one of the four Language Laws that we sold to the Supreme Council three years ago, it's quite different. That is how the Polish Language Act, adopted by the Polish Seima nearly 20 years ago in the fall of 99, begins. Twenty years ago, Poland had much less economic potential than Dooligarchi, a post - Soviet Ukraine. But unlike Ukraine, Poland had dignity and national self-awareness, and Poland is now one of the leading countries of the European Union, and we have what we have. And so Poland speaks and sings Polish and in Ukraine. and Ukraine speaks and sings almost 40 percent of the occupation. Two years ago, we introduced radio quotas for the Ukrainian song, and in just two years, hundreds and hundreds of new Ukrainian songs appeared. But radio stations in Ukraine, which belong to our rudimentary oligarchs, are still reluctant to broadcast the Ukrainian song, just under a knut, as they say. Do you know why? And because we should have introduced quotas, not for Ukrainian songs, but for foreign and Russian ones, especially in the same Poland or Turkey, where national language and national culture stand above all. I urge the Supreme Council not to forget that this is not the Panamanian Parliament or the Virgin Islands, where the authorities are hiding their multimillion-dollar assets, it is the Supreme Council of Ukraine, which has its historic obligation to finally adopt the Ukrainian Language Act and move on in the fairway of national interests. "The will of the people" insists on consideration and adoption in the near future of the Law on Language as a foundation and as a whole. Also from the group, please introduce Bill 7390 for consideration this week, which will ensure the proper functioning of the skynergo. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-19-m0.u15	Please welcome Arthur Gerasimov, head of the Peter Prashenko bloc. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-19-m0.u16	Dear Madam Chairman! Dear colleagues! Dear voters! First of all, I would like to reiterate my sincere thanks from the President of Ukraine to all of the more than 300 national deputies who supported the bill of the Supreme Anti-Corruption Court initiated by the Head of State. By this decision, Parliament has actually completed the creation of a legislative basis for anti-corruption reform in line with the strategy proposed by the President of Ukraine. In order for the full functioning of the new judiciary to take place this week, we also have to vote in favour of two bills: the establishment of an anti-corruption court and the addition of legislation on the judiciary and the status of judges. At the same time, the faction of the Party of Peter Prashenko calls for an end to the open lies and misinformation of society that began after the official publication of the text of the law. As a reminder, the president's office offered to refer all cases of NABU-subsequent cases that had not been completed to a new anti-corruption court. However, experts from the Venice Commission recommended that these conducts be left to the courts where they would be at that time, and then the Presidential edition was changed when the law was being considered in Parliament. This was repeatedly emphasized during the consideration of the bill in the session hall. We would like to emphasize once again that this bill was being considered openly and transparently. The session hall reviewed all the amendments, organized additional sessions of the profile committee, and worked as a working group. By turning the head of state to the leaders of the democratic world, international partners will identify experts in the near future who will participate in the selection of candidates for the office of judges of the anti-corruption court. The Party of the Peter Prashenka Party supports the invitation of the President of Ukraine to local professionals in the field of jurisprudence to participate in the future competition. We are convinced that it is the independent, professional Ukrainian experts in this court who should be the next example of the renewal of the entire judicial branch of power initiated by the President of Ukraine. Next. The Kremlin's military aggression requires us to continuously strengthen the security of the state, so the faction of the Party of Peter Poroshenko proposes that we finally consider this week's National Security Bill. This is an essential step to strengthen cooperation with NATO and to integrate into the collective security system of the Western countries. Our faction also calls for a profile committee to speed up the work on the currency bill. Because I want to remind you, it's actually a financial failure for Ukraine. The faction of the Party of Peter Prashenko is also surprised by the position of certain MP factions that do not vote and do not include in the order of the day a legislative initiative to improve public procurement through the ProZorro electronic system. Support for the presidential drafting of Bill 8265 will strengthen fair competition in public procurement. Let me remind you, over the ProZorro period, at least 46 billion dollars have already been saved, and these figures can get even higher. We are also reminded of Bill 8157 on the establishment of the National Bureau of Financial Security. 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-19-m0.u17	30 seconds to complete, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-19-m0.u18	We want to remind you that this is a real tool to reduce the pressure on business, to transfer financial offences to the authority of the body with analytical, not strong investigative methods. The proposed draft law is not supported only by those who are really interested in maintaining the pressure of law enforcement. We hope that such a minority in the session room will finally be able to start an active work on an additional tool to protect business and to combat corruption. Finally, before the end of the current session, Parliament must identify candidates to update the Central Electoral Office for the further transparent and effective functioning of this important body. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-19-m0.u19	Thank you, Mr. Arthur. And here's the invitation to the head of the People's Front faction, Maxim Burbak. Please, Mr. Maxime.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-19-m0.u20	Dear colleagues, Ukrainian people! I want to announce the position of the People's Front faction on the most important political issues. First of all, the Ukrainian National Security Bill. Contrary to the speculatives of populists, the text of the draft for the second reading is already there, and it is agreed with the participation of NATO and the European Union. Colleagues, it is very important to adopt this law before the NATO summit, which will take place in July of this year. This document, in particular, sets the task of acquiring Ukraine's membership in the European Union and NATO. The People's Front long ago lobbies Ukraine's specific legislative steps on Euro-Atlantic integration. We expect NATO to have a concrete plan of action for membership. Just like we got a plan of action for a visa-free regime signed and executed by the government of Arsenius Yatsenuk. My colleagues, remember how much shouting there was about the fact that no car for Ukraine would never be given, and our citizens would never be able to move freely through the European Union. Now the visa is a reality for every Ukrainian. Last year more than half a million Ukrainians have benefited from this visa. Ukraine's NATO membership is as real as it is, we have something to go to NATO with. To other defense issues. I want to inform you that the engineering project of the border with Russia is being carried out even in spite of chronic underfunding. This year, the state border in Kharkiv will be completed, the length of the 270 - mile [270 km] area, of which 220 km has already been arranged. At the same time, work continues in the Sumskie region. Minister Arsen Avakov personally inspected the work for days. The need for a real border with Moscow does not call the Ukrainians into question. The People's Front won't allow anyone to review this state policy. The criticism of the idea of setting up the state border is the work of the aggressor and the Kremlin. To other resonating themes. I want to reject the political speculation about June 17th in Kiev. The state must keep a monopoly on the use of force. The police prevented provocations and prevented street and political violence from being subjected to telecams, just as the police refused to allow serious provocations and incidents during the finale of the Champions League. Believe me, in both cases the police prevented bloody provocations. At the same time, the People's Front, as well as Minister Habakkuk, support the strict demands of the National Police. We understand the high social expectations of the new police and how important it is to create an atmosphere of trust around them. You can't let patriots bump into the police. And I want to show you that recent events have proven once again that the reform of the National Police is taking place and is quite successful, and there is a great deal of gratitude to Minister Arsen Avakov personally from the People's Front and the entire Parliament. And finally. The People's Front calls attention to the need for a real fight against smuggling, "cheese" and "black" imports. The country’s budget is underestimated from 25 billion to 70 billion dollars a year.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-19-m0.u21	30 seconds, please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-19-m0.u22	It's very good that Kabdin is trying to increase his efforts in this direction. Last year, more than 70 billion dollars were added to the execution. There was a joint meeting yesterday between Prime Minister Groysman and the law enforcement agencies, and I quote, "We promised to punish everyone and destroy the shadow schemes." We hope for the swift and steady results of this fight. The People's Front is ready to work on the relevant bills and will support the anti-trafficking plan proposed by Prime Minister Volodymyr Groissman. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-19-m0.u23	Thank you for the talk. And here comes Victor Bondar, the head of the Rebirth Group. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-19-m0.u24	Thank you, Mrs. Irina. Dear colleagues! I want to turn from this rostrum to the government, to the head of state of President Peter Alexiyovich Prashenko of the situation in Naftogaz Ukraine. You look at the cynicism with which the head of the government and all the Naftogazu leadership have written off the crazy prizes as a result of winning Gazprom's gas transit case. Ukraine hasn't received the money yet, and they've already booked 1 billion 200 million dollars of premium money, and they're showing that they're sneezing for the people of Ukraine, that they're raising tariffs at a crazy rate, that people are going through a practical stage of poverty, and they're eating for themselves. Just think: Over this billion 200 million dollars, you can spend one heating season for three months and fully support cities like Lviv or Odessa at the expense of Kobolev and their bonuses. You can buy 460 million eggs and feed almost 200 million Ukrainians once in a breakfast. You can buy 92 million loaves of bread and feed nearly 200 million Ukrainians. One hundred thousand Ukrainians can be sent to sea for ten days’ rest, or 826 thousand pensioners can be granted one minimum pension of 1 thousand 452 bracelets. This is the cynicism of Naftogazu Ukraine! And they're going to tell us that we have to raise the tariffs that Naftogaz is a corrupt, and we're seeing that the balance gets almost 40 billion dollars per year of revenue. That's their policy. I am still addressing the situation to the President of Ukraine, the head of government: let's make a decision on the head of the Naftogazu government. In a poor country, such bonuses cannot be paid. It is a cynicism of power in relation to the people of Ukraine. The other one. Obelenergies. You have raised tariffs, the Ukrainian authorities, in recent years, almost 3.5 times per electricity. And all the money that's being collected today is going to get the state of NCRE into Ukraine's energy supply. Today, it's come to the point that Czercasioblanergo has already released a third of the people, because they have nothing to pay their wages. So what is this energy policy? It's a nuclear power failure. There's nothing to pay in the armory. We propose, we demand that our Bill 7390 be brought to the fore for immediate consideration, which, first of all, allows for the payment of wages to people in the skyscrapers. For a few months, they will not be able to go out because there is nothing to repair and no one to repair. I suggest you listen to us. It's not just me saying the words, it's confirmed by the call of all the archetypes to our faction, because today the situation is becoming pathetic. Listen to us!
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-19-m0.u25	Thank you, dear colleagues. Dear colleagues, we have statements from two factions -- the factions of the Opposition Block and the Rebirth Group -- for a recess, but ready to replace the colleagues for the application. And we invite our fellow national MP, Vladimir Litvin, to the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-19-m0.u26	Dear colleagues, it has become evident to all that the authorities do not feel the country or hear the people. Moreover, she despises them exclusively by covering them with a loud thud about reforms and their impressive results. I'll give you one example. For two years, there is an epoch with the pollution of the "Ponninkian Paper and Paper Combination" of the Rivers of Gomorrah and the Sun. We already have an environmental disaster there. There were almost 20 parliamentary inquiries and appeals on this issue. On June 6th, I received this reply with the Prime Minister's mandate: I would like to study more carefully with regard to previous assignments. And what did respected colleagues carefully learn? From June 15th to June 16th, there was a mass discharge of impurities that exceeded the volume of the previous two years. Two years of fighting took place, while in April 2017 they issued the necessary licences to continue the work of the factory. People can't wait any longer, they've blocked the Kiev-Chop route today. Why? Because the authorities have signed up for their own helplessness, to be precise, in adhering to such actions. One thing remains: people have to act in the way that they have left, to resort to a variety of actions. I'm calling on the Supreme Council of Ukraine: let's support this decision and make a collective appeal to the President, the Prime Minister, the Attorney General, the Ministry of Internal Affairs, finally take a decision and stop this factory until all the violations have been detected. Otherwise, it remains to address organized structures, including national wives, in order for them to take the floor as a minimum of the factory’s management. Please consider my statement to be a parliamentary address.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-19-m0.u27	Please form a speech by Vladimir Litvin as a parliamentary address. Colleagues, this concludes with statements by leaders and representatives of factions and groups.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-19-m0.u28	Thank you. So, colleagues, moving on to the first block of today is the question of cultural development. Together seven issues have been raised in this cluster, they are unifying, and I hope that we will be able to deal quickly and effectively with the issues that the Committee on Culture has prepared for the Supreme Council of Ukraine today. So the first is the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on Protection of Cultural Heritage (No. 1553). This is the law in the second reading, the right is not much, and so I ask everyone to remain in the hall, and I invite the head of the Committee on Culture and Spirituality of the Princely Nikola Leonidovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-19-m0.u29	Thank you. Thus, the draft Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Act on Protection of Cultural Heritage (No. 1553) was adopted in the first reading on March 29, 2016. Since then, a thorough work on the text of the bill has been carried out. The authors and initiators of this legislative act, the Ministry of Culture of Ukraine, have joined the work, including experts from the UNESCO World Heritage Committee. As a result, the Committee on Culture and Spirituality proposes for a second reading such a bill that it is accepted by virtually all interested parties and takes into account the left-hand portion of the proposals and amendments made by the Ukrainian National Deputies. The second reading included 103 suggestions and revisions, of which 87 were taken into account in whole or in part, only 16 were rejected. Most of the proposals and amendments were taken into account in the committee's drafting, as the committee decided to form a separate chapter entitled "The Personality of the Protection of Objects of a Global Heritage". I will point out that the object of a global heritage has legal status as a monument of national importance and is protected by all the mechanisms provided for by this law. At the same time, there are certain features of the protection of objects of a global heritage arising out of the Convention for the Protection of the Global Cultural Heritage and Natural Heritage, Decisions, Rules and Procedures of the Committee of the Global Heritage. What does the bill propose? New terms are added to separate objects from UNESCO’s list, specifying the powers of the central executive authorities in the area of cultural heritage, granting them the right to approve the use of UNESCO objects, their buffer zones, and the approval of management plans for such objects, as well as the establishment of management bodies. There are requirements for any work on UNESCO sites and its security territory, which should be preceded by a request to the UNESCO World Heritage Committee, and recommendations are mandatory. The management of an object of cultural heritage is carried out by an authority designated by the central executive authority in the field of cultural heritage protection, which may be a single body of administration for several monuments or for one, depending on how much it will handle its duties. A UNESCO supervisory board is formed to monitor the implementation of the management plan. If the plan turns out to be imperfect, he takes the initiative to change it, agrees with this year’s report on the status of implementation of the plan and the report on the preservation of the object. I would like to add that the Committee also recommended in paragraph 2 of article 24 the words “on the basis of permission” to amend the words “in agreement with” and in paragraph 3 the words “central authorities of the executive branch implementing the State policy in the area of protection of cultural heritage” should be replaced by the words “Office of the Ministers of Ukraine”. Since advertising on cultural heritage objects is completely prohibited, it is in buffer zones.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-19-m0.u30	30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-19-m0.u31	In buffer zones it can only be allowed by decision of the Cabinet of Ministers. I would like to support this bill, and I would like to point out that its enemies are either builders who don't respect the law, or various organizations that have fed on grants all their lives, supposedly protecting their cultural heritage and selling their views to these builders. It is very important that this bill be adopted. I urge everyone to vote for him. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-19-m0.u32	Thank you. So it's just 16 lines out of the way. I'm going to call those adjustments that are rejected. Anyone who wants to bet on confirmation is by raising their hand. Third. Don't insist. 6th. Don't insist. 17th. Don't insist. 22nd. The author does not insist. 23rd. Don't insist. 24th. Don't insist. 25th. Don't insist. 47th. Don't insist. 50th. Don't insist. 58th. Don't insist. 68th. Don't insist. 69th. Don't insist. 71st. Don't insist. 76th. Don't insist. 87th. Don't insist. 91st. Don't insist. And so the colleague didn't force any of the authors to put her to the vote. That's why I'm asking all the people's deputies to come into the room. We're moving to making a decision. I ask the heads of factions to invite deputies into the hall and, colleagues, I ask now to head the committee. Please give me two minutes to head the committee. In two minutes, we're moving on to making a decision. I'm asking everyone to come into the hall. Two minutes, please, Mr. Mikolo.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-19-m0.u33	Thank you. I would like to support this bill, taking into account the proposal that I have voiced on the basis of the functions of the central executive authority on the placement of advertising in buffer zones and its total ban on UNESCO's heritage. Once again, I would like to emphasize that the National Monument to the Protection of Legislation is complemented by the notion of "object of a global heritage", "significant universal value", "buffer zone", "nomination of the object of an inheritance to the UNESCO World Heritage List." For the first time, if we want to preserve or do anything with UNESCO's legacy, international consultants from UNESCO, international consultants from COMOS, who are co-authors of this law, will issue expertise. The Ministry of Culture will exercise strict control along with the Cabinet of Ministers in actual preservation of UNESCO’s monuments. Because today we have such a history when the churches of Ukraine, which are UNESCO’s monuments, the ancient wooden churches are excluded from these monuments because they are. Some of them cover them up, some of them destroy them. And it's very important that we compromise in this law and with the Ministry of Culture and with the representatives of all factions. So I will be very grateful for the support of this bill, and I would like to invite everyone back to the hall, and I would like to vote. Thank you. To vote against the suggestions I have read.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-19-m0.u34	Thank you. So we're moving on to making a decision. Colleagues, please return to the hall. The deputies in the beds, please return to the hall. Attention, to the Chamber of Deputies. Olga, work. So I'm voting on the draft Act amending the Law on Protection of Cultural Heritage of Ukraine (for the preservation of cultural heritage monuments on the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization (UNESCO) World Heritage List (No.1553) with a law issued by the head of the committee of the Princely Mikola Leonidovic on second reading and in general with technical law. Please vote and please support. Colleagues, we unanimously support the Committee on Culture. If you'll excuse me, I'd like to vote. Voting, supporting. [[10:48:06]] For 212 I'll be back. Please turn on the factions, show them. Block of Peter Poshenko – 75, National Front – 63, Opposition Block – 18, Self-Help – 14, Radical Party – 2, Fatherland – 11, Will of the People – 6, Rebirth Party – 4. We can and I'm sure the MPs will come and we'll get back to the law. But I ask the heads of factions to maximize the mobilization of the people's deputies, and when I vote, I ask everyone to be in the workplace, don't leave the room. So invite everyone into the hall. People's deputies, please come into the hall. So I'm going to put my first offer back, and then I'm going to put the committee back on the table, and I'm going to ask you to get ready and take your seats. I propose to go back to the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Cultural Heritage Act (No. 1553). So, colleagues, please vote and please support. Every voice! We're voting carefully. Please be supportive. Careful! Every voice. Vote. Vote. Please be supportive. [[10:50:02]] For 226 We're back, colleagues. Now I'm going to put the vote again, but please come into the hall and be in your seats. Colleagues who are near the secretariat, please return to the hall. So I'm asking everyone to sit down, and I'm putting to a vote the draft Law amending the Ukrainian Cultural Heritage Protection Act (1553) with the right to be read under the transcript by Mikola Knieżicki, second reading and generally with technical legal rights. Please vote. Please be supportive. Colleagues, pay attention! Careful! Every voice. Vote. Please be supportive. Vote. Vote. [[10:50:59]] For 232 The law is passed. [[Applause]] Let's move on to the next law of the day. This is a draft of the Act on Amendments to the Ukrainian Cultural Act (No. 6738). Please support the proposal of a committee to review the law on a reduced basis. Please vote and please support. Support me, colleagues, for a reduced procedure. [[10:51:41]] For-143 Guys, I'll put it back on. Logic is simple: seven laws are just the first block; if we go in an hour, we don't even have a chance to go through one block today. That's why I'm asking you to support everyone. I'm once again proposing to draft Law 6738 that we consider a reduced procedure. Please support and please vote. Vote. Please be supportive. Vote. [[10:52:26]] For 155 Decision taken. And I invite you to the report of the Ukrainian National MP Yelenski Viktor Evgenovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-19-m0.u35	Ladies and gentlemen, today you are invited to vote and support the bill on the introduction of the concept of "creative industries." Today, we are encouraged to support the industries that have human talent, human desire for transformation, human generations for new ones, and support innovation. We can't agree that creative industries are still perceived as something irrelevant as something additional to the so-called fundamental industries. It's an understanding of 200 years ago, it's an understanding of the period when the factory was fighting the factory and the factory won. Similarly, creative industries are winning other industries, winning other economies, and starting to raise up to 5 to 6 percent of the world's GDP. Even in Ukraine, where we have not yet taken a decisive step towards approving the legislative concept of "creative industries", creative industries account for up to 4 percent of the domestic gross product. What does this bill propose? This bill proposes to define the very term "creative industries", which refers to the list of economic activities that have the potential to create added value and jobs through cultural, artistic and/or creative expression, and their products and services are the result of individual creativity, skills and.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-19-m0.u36	30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-19-m0.u37	I want to encourage you to support the Ukrainian talents. Talents need to be maintained, and insidious ones can make their way through. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-19-m0.u38	Thank you. Please record: two in, two in. Oh, no, I'm sorry. First, a report from the head of the committee of Mikola Knieżicky. Please, Mr. Mikolo.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-19-m0.u39	Dear colleagues! Creative industries are the driving force of the 21st century economy. But such a phenomenon remains outside the regulatory framework. The lack of a legislative term "creative industries" widely used in EU countries is a list of economic activities that have the potential to create added value and jobs through cultural, artistic or creative implementation. Their products and services are the result of individual creativity, skills, and talent. What is proposed in this law. The proposed bill proposes to make such changes to the Culture Act. Fix the legislative definition of "creative industries." The term is based on the standards of the United Nations Conference on Trade and Development. Add the support and encouragement of cultural diversity to the priorities of public policy in culture. This law is small and simple. And that's why the committee is now proposing to the conference room as a result of the first reading to accept it as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-19-m0.u40	Thank you. Please record: two in, two in. From Self-Help Romanov, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-19-m0.u41	Dear colleagues! The Self-Help faction will certainly support this bill. The thing is, for a long time, culture has been treated like a social sector that can only afford to eat budget money. And that's very good when we define culture as a creative industry, as it's already done in all the developed civilized countries of the world, as a sector that has to create jobs, as a sector that has to create overvalue for a particular area, for society. And that's why we're all now going to adopt this bill to give a chance to create a new creative class, jobs thanks to our Ukrainian culture. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-19-m0.u42	Thank you. Halasjuk Viktor Valeriyovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-19-m0.u43	Victor Halasyuk, Oleg Lachka Radical Party. Dear Andrew Volodymyrovich! Dear colleagues! Not only do we need to introduce the term "creative industries" into legislation, we need to bet on them and make them an important component of the new economy of Ukraine, which we need to build, an economy that depends not on the use and depletion of the country's natural resources, but on the development and capitalization of intelligence, the greatest wealth of the Ukrainian nation. Look what's going on today, Ukraine is selling raw materials to other states, until recently a drug rounder, until we've banned it with Oleg Lášk, with fellow thinkers in this room other kinds of resources. On the raw materials, you will never earn or be successful, rich, or independent. So you have to bet on the creative industry. Like industry, the agrarian sector is greatly strengthened if it is not grain, not wheat, but processed flour, which is worth much more. It's the same with creative industries. They are fundamentally strengthening the Ukrainian industry, making it more profitable, more successful, more competitive. So the next step is to introduce the characteristics of taxation of creative industries, to give them tax preferences, incentives, because there cannot be the same taxes for raw olives, for those who have links abroad to raw materials for no price and cause poverty and emigration, and for those who create intellectual products in Ukraine that need, as in any other country, state support, government procurement, tax preferences, cheap loans to win competition in a highly complex global market. So let's build a new economy together. This is the fundamental position of the Radical Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-19-m0.u44	Thank you. Now, colleagues, there will be a closing statement. So in two minutes, we're going to go to the vote. So I ask the heads of factions and the secretariat of the Supreme Council to invite all the deputies to the Hall. From the "Fatherland" faction to the word, you'll be invited to join us. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-19-m0.u45	Alexy Rybchin, "Fatherland" faction. The Fatherland faction will fully support this Creative Industries Act, which is part of the knowledge economy, part of the post-industrial economy, it's very important. However, I do have a question for the singing of honor. The drafters of the bill. It's really an copyrighted team of fine MPs. Why only two lines of this bill: the identification and encouragement of cultural diversity as one of the most important factors for continuous development? Why are there no tax benefits? Why are there no proposals for creative industries? Creative industry is from, I don't know, from the fancy industry to the design industry, the Internet design industry, etc., libraries, the creative cluster. Why do we just take a bill that has, well, frankly, a technical character just gives us a definition and we spend 10 minutes discussing it? It's nice that there's a discussion. Yet it doesn't solve any things because it's about supporting small, medium-sized businesses. Take immediate action. I'm sure they'll be supported by all the halls. And so we do. I'd like to address the honorable presidency. We have a large number of technical drafts. Forgot the tenth time in the tenth bill to rename "ATO" to "OOS." Forgot to name the disabled ten times. We're spending a lot of time and there's no time for, for example, the "Fatherland" bill that hasn't been published for a year, the de-offshoring bill, for example, my energy committee on the energy ombudsman, the creation of a single subscriber base, the transparency of extractive industries, and so on. The "Fatherland" faction will support this bill, but ask for more comprehensive bills, so that we can do it once, with a spearhead, don't waste any more time, or put such bills in place until they've been finalized and finalised. The Fatherland faction will support it as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-19-m0.u46	Thank you. We move on to decision-making and I ask everyone to take up their jobs and prepare for decision-making. Colleagues in beds, return to your own factions. So, colleagues, I'm voting on the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Cultural Act (for the definition of creative industries) (No. 6738) for the proposal of a committee as a basis and as a whole. Please vote and please support. Colleagues, we'll support the committee. Please vote. Vote. Please support [[11:03:30]] For 197 I'll be right back, but I can see everyone's not voting. I'm asking for factions. Let me put the second proposal as a base. Arthur! On the basis of that, will you give more votes? Let me put it on the ground first if there are voices. But first, we have to go back, anyway, first we have to go back. I'm asking you to show me the factions, please. And please come into the hall. Peter Poshenko's Block – 70, People's Front – 61, Opposition Block – 0, Self-help – 13, Radical Party – 16, Fatherland – 11, Will of the People – 6, Rebirth Party – 3. So, colleagues, let's mobilize. The first will be the vote for the return and please take part in the vote. Andrew, you're not against this law, take part in the vote, you see, we're collecting every vote. So I'm the first to ask the question. So I'm proposing to go back to the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Cultural Act (to define the concept of "creative industries"). First I'll bet for a return, then I'll re-establish the law. I ask everyone to support the proposal to return to the law. Please vote and please support. So, Andrew Volodymyrovich, please vote, we vote for the return. Please be supportive. [[11:05:40]] For 208 I'll do it again, colleagues. We can simply reject the law. Heads of factions, please see who's not in the hall. And I ask you to vote during the vote. Colleagues, I'm going to base the bill, but we still need to get the maximum mobilisation back first for any decision. I ask everyone to take part in the vote. I've seen the last time I voted, and I've seen the Rebirth Group, and now there's a little less vote. Colleagues, I'm asking you to mobilize, and I'm going to put it to the vote again. Invite everyone into the hall. And I'm voting once again on the proposal to go back to the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Culture Act (to define the concept of "creative industries"). Please vote, please support. Don't leave the hall or come in. Please vote for the return. Everyone take part in the vote. We're voting for the return. Please support, we vote. [[11:07:33]] For 219 219. Colleagues, now I'm going to put a third closing, if there are no votes, the bill will be rejected. And please don't leave the room during the vote, boys, don't leave the hall, we're seven votes short. Please invite me to the hall, I'll put a third, final one, if there are no votes, the bill will be rejected. So I'm asking you to mobilize, and I'm asking everyone to take the job. Heads of factions, please take a look. Colleagues, Alexei, we're missing a few votes. So I'm voting on the proposal to go back to the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Culture Act (No.6738). I'm asking you to come to your workplaces, colleagues, and I'm asking you to come to your workplace. I ask you to take part in the vote, Mr. Yuri, please take part in the vote, Mr. Yuri. So please vote and support the return to draft Law 6738. Vote. Each and every single voice, I ask everyone to support each voice. We're voting carefully. Vote. Please be supportive. [[11:09:46]] For 227 We're back. Now, colleagues, in your seats, please. I'm putting draft Law 6738 on the proposal of a committee as a basis and as a whole with technical and legal rights. Please vote. Every voice, every colleague, we had 227, every vote. Please vote and please support. We vote carefully, each voice. Vote, please. Please vote. Vote. Michael. [[11:10:29]] For 226 The law is passed. Colleagues, there's been a statement from two factions, from the Peter Prashenko faction and the People's Front -- they're ready to take a break from the rostrum. And I'd like to invite you to Nemirowski's address, please, for three minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-19-m0.u47	Honorable colleagues, honourable chairman, distinguished Ukrainian people! For some time now, rallies have been held throughout the country, throughout the state of Afghans, military, force, and pensioners demanding their social security. They do not require additional benefits or special status. All they want is to get laws and social justice. Say, people have risked their lives for us, they have the right to demand justice, they have the right to ask the Cabinet of Ministers, why haven't they fulfilled their promises? Since the Cabinet of Ministers has already promised many times not to monetaryize the benefits, they do not keep the promises made constantly during all the briefings by the Cabinet of Ministers. Therefore, a very big request from members of Parliament, the Cabinet of Ministers, is also a very big request to the presiding officer to go out and communicate with the protestors. Nakal is growing very much. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-19-m0.u48	Thank you. The next law of the day is the bill amending certain laws of Ukraine on improving the system of protection of cultural heritage (8202 and 8202-1). Colleagues, I ask you to support his consideration of the reduced procedure. Please vote and please support. Vote, please. [[11:12:42]] For-152. Decision taken. And I invite the head of the Committee on Culture and Spirituality of the Princely Nikola Leonidovich to report.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-19-m0.u49	Dear colleagues, this is a very important law, it worked for us on a committee with the Association of Ukrainian Cities and other social organizations. As you know, on April 27, 2017, the European Parliament decided to celebrate 2018 as the Year of Cultural Heritage in Europe. This has led to the launching of various programs throughout Europe, with the main aim of opening up more access to cultural heritage to citizens, involving a wider range of Europeans to participate in the preservation of a unique cultural heritage. The legal regulation of cultural heritage protection in Ukraine is based on the provisions of the Cultural Heritage Protection Act. What does this law offer? Complementing the objective side of the offence with the conditions of responsibility for damage to cultural objects not only to monuments but also to newly discovered objects of cultural heritage and parts of them, laying down basic principles for the enforcement of the purchase of cultural objects if the owners contribute to their destruction. You know the problem of burning houses, objects of cultural heritage in the center of Kiev, other historic cities. This law should put an end to this vandalism. So I am truly grateful to both the Associations of Cities of Ukraine and to all the other bodies of local self - government that supported this law. The law also provides for a change in sanctions for violations of cultural heritage legislation, including an increase in fines. We also have an alternative law, 8201. The differences here are small, and they are completely identical to the original, except for the size of fines. I very much ask you, colleagues, to support this law in the first reading, as the committee recommends, to continue working to protect our cultural heritage. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-19-m0.u50	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we have an alternative bill No. 8202-1. I invite you to present this bill the author, the national deputy Alexander Vilkul. Please, Mr. Alexander.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-19-m0.u51	Dear people of Ukraine! Dear colleagues! The vandals are destroying the monuments of victory in Lviv, Chernigov, and other cities. The penalty is now a fine of up to 2 000 550 dollars or up to 3 years in prison. But it doesn't actually work. Law enforcement has demonstrated a number of coalitions in the application of security rules, which refers to responsibility for violations resulting in loss or significant damage to Ukraine’s priceless heritage. Imperfection of legal regulation in a group with low penalties and lack of political will is a basis for reckless treatment of objects of protection. In view of the above, it is appropriate to improve the current system of protection of cultural heritage, which would create conditions for more careful treatment of the objects involved, while at the same time helping to take effective measures to stop violations and to restore rights to the full. The creation of such a system is the main purpose of this bill. The bill provides for the clarification of the provisions of article 298 of the Criminal Code on the Strengthening of Responsibility. They're increasing, the fines are increasing significantly, the sentences are increasing to six years for those vandals who want to destroy our cultural heritage. A cultural heritage is our acquisition in a thousand years and the acquisition of the last century also, including the memorials of the soldiers of the Great Homeland War. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-19-m0.u52	Thank you. Dear colleagues, please sign up for these two bills, please. Please, from the faction of the Radical Party of Igor Mosiychuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-19-m0.u53	Igor Mosiyczuk, Oleg Lachka Radical Party Our faction and our party have always advocated cultural heritage for the protection of Ukrainian cultural space. And of course, we'll support the bill in the first reading. At the same time, I would like to draw the attention of the Ukrainian Parliament and Ukrainian society to what took place this weekend in Kiev. This was a complete destruction of Ukrainian cultural space. For the sake of the perverse action, a territory greater than the Vatican country was discussed in the center of Kiev! We didn't miss people home without passports. As a result of the peaceful protest against this march of perverses, violent methods were unleashed, Orthodox Christians, Catholic Christians, Greek Catholics, Protestants were dispersed! All who advocated the preservation of Ukrainian traditional cultural values and Ukrainian families were dispersed. Why did this happen? Because the Ukrainian authorities are under external control. Because the Ambassador of the United States, Marie Jovanovic, walked in a column of perverts. Because she's doing everything she can to disprove the Ukrainian people with the American people. She arranged to intervene in the election of the President of the United States, Donald Trump, by sending in a small group of national deputies. And it promotes perversion against 95 percent of the Ukrainian population. We need to contact the U.S. Presidential Administration for feedback.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-19-m0.u54	Dear colleagues, I'd like to invite you to the People's Front. And my colleagues who speak, I call for tolerance, for tolerance. People's Front, please, who will your position represent? Mikola Knieżicki, please, out of the way.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-19-m0.u55	Thank you. The People's Front will support this bill. This is our principled position, since we cannot take a calm view of what is happening to the monuments of history, architecture, and culture in our cities. Moreover, with the reform of local governments, we should give them the right to order in our cities, to obey the orders of our own electorate. That is why we strongly support this bill on the basis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-19-m0.u56	Thank you. Please, Yuri Solovay, present the position of Peter Dustenk's Block. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-19-m0.u57	Yuri Solovay, 89th constituency, Gutzulščina, and Pocust. Dear national MPs, a respected Ukrainian society, you know, clearly we don't have any irrelevant laws, but I think we need to set priorities that we should consider first, and things that can wait a little bit. Today's agenda is designed in such a way that, to my profound belief, it does not meet the challenges and questions that are now in Ukrainian society. I want to point out from this rostrum that we haven't considered for a week any economic system law, namely the economic and welfare of Ukrainian citizens, is a matter that most Ukrainians are concerned about every day, because I am a major and I communicate daily with Ukrainians. Have we considered tax reform? No! No! We never got close to the Tax Law on the Capital, we never got close to the Land Circumstances Act, the Land Market Act, we never lowered the Moratorium on the privatization of state-owned enterprises, and we still have 3.5 thousand state-owned enterprises. Unfortunately, we are now in the midst of Bill 6677, but it is about the maintenance of a mandatory accrual pension system. But he is on the side of the list when the Supreme Council will never be able to look at him. That's why I think this imbalance, the imbalance in Parliament's work, needs to be corrected. We need to focus on structural economic reforms that we should consider. And I'm addressing Parliament's leadership on the next few days of the review to put in the passing part of the list a bill on mandatory introduction of a cumulative pension system number 6677. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-19-m0.u58	Thank you. Please, Alexander Doubenkov is invited to present the position of the Opposition Block on these bills.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-19-m0.u59	Dear citizens of Ukraine! Dear colleagues! Very interesting things are happening right now when we're considering drafts. One representative of the pro-presidential faction spoke of the chairman’s going out to the Chernobylites and apologizing or asking questions as to what they wanted. Another representative of the pro-presidential faction says that the issue of culture is time-consuming, first and foremost, the issue of economic development. I don't know, who's the coalition here, and who's making the decision? The Opposition Block faction has repeatedly pointed out that we are now looking at the wrong issues that need to be addressed first. The question of the elimination of the benefits for both the Chernobyl population and other socially vulnerable population groups is, I'm talking to the Presidential faction, it was decided by the coalition in the 14th year. The Opposition Block faction appealed to the Constitutional Court for the unconstitutional recognition of the proposed legislative initiatives. So talking about someone going out there, maybe this coalition has to go out and ask people why they're rebelling. With regard to culture, we support an alternative bill related to strengthening the legislative protection of cultural heritage. And with regard to economic issues, the Opposition Block faction has prepared a package of bills, which unfortunately is not for consideration by the coalition. So, of course, the economic issue is now urgent. It's more urgent than a cultural question. And when it comes to correcting mistakes, you just have to recognize them, make mistakes, sit down together and correct them, not blame each other, not just the government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-19-m0.u60	Please come in from Self-Help. Two minutes. Please, Irina Podowak invites you to her word. And this is the last performance.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-19-m0.u61	Dear colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-19-m0.u62	We never insult Fatherland. Please, it will be later. This is the last performance, then Igor Lucenko. Two minutes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-19-m0.u63	Dear colleagues, we've just had a heated discussion with Igor Lucenko about this bill. Besides saying general phrases about how we hurt for an inheritance that perishes, that burns, that burns, that's general phrases. I'd like to take us all back a little bit to the body of this bill, to the textual part of it. Undoubtedly, this part, which relates to sanctions, fines for deliberate destruction of monuments or for crimeless inaction, is a necessary thing, sanctions must be. Another thing about how these sanctions will apply to legal persons is how these sanctions will apply to individuals, such as the person who bought a private apartment in a house that is part of a census of the national heritage. But there is another large part of this bill that relates to the privileged ransom of the memorial, and it is dedicated to half of this law, the State or authorities of local self - government. And there's a certain procedure that's going to be followed by this compulsory ransom. And it's also supposed that the Cabinet of Ministers should determine the formula that will evaluate the ransom amount. Ladies and gentlemen, this huge part will allow those who have already privatized, to make more money, because those who have privatized them and destroyed them in recent years, in order to build them there, it is not clear what, multi-story or office centres, state or local self-government -- it is not yet known which or district councils or city councils, because it is not specified in the law -- will pay them money, buy them.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-19-m0.u64	30 seconds to complete, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-19-m0.u65	Buying from them this monument that they destroyed. And so, without a doubt, by supporting and understanding all the good intentions that lawmakers have put into this draft law, unfortunately, we will not be able to support it because it will not solve the issue of memory loss. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-19-m0.u66	Please welcome me from Fatherland, Igor Lucenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-19-m0.u67	Dear colleagues, I call on everyone on the first reading to support this bill, I remind you, this is the first reading. Those remarks that are now being made by our self-help colleagues must certainly be removed, of course, we must confiscate what has been stolen. But to do that, I'm asking you to support our colleagues with a bill on the extension of the ages because today everything that's been stolen has been stolen for too long. And we can't, by law now we're not allowed to confiscate it all, so now the only way is to buy it. Moreover, it now exists in legislation. The only thing that the central authority has the authority to do is to force the court to repurchase monuments. I want to extend to the local self - government authorities so that the resource is colossal in relation to the self - government they held in connection with decentralization, but Kiev now has sufficient resources to save its memory. Because now there's authority in the central government, but there's no resource, there's a resource in the local self-government, but there's no authority, let's eventually do better than there is. Thank you. We vote yes.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-19-m0.u68	Last statement, please, on this block, National Deputy Sergei Shahov, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-19-m0.u69	Sergey Shahov, the political power of Our End. Dear colleagues, "Our Land" will support this bill, because without a cultural heritage there is no Ukraine, we must join our country of tourists. I traveled from Lviv to Severodonetsk, and many teachers approached me, and those who taught us about this life asked me when all the monuments of architecture were being audited today. The Ministry of Culture spends hundreds of millions of dollars but has not yet conducted an audit of our architecture monuments throughout the country. We need to put out our embroidery today, we need to put out our pots today, we need to put our culture on display today, and we need to bring tourists here. And secondly, when our people are old enough to be standing under the cans and picking up trash, and there's nothing to buy, bread, we also have to take care of pensioners who are now practically beggars on the sidelines. Our position is to support this project and support the pensioners of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-19-m0.u70	Colleagues, it was a closing statement. Now we're moving on to making a decision. And I'm asking all the national deputies to come into the hall and prepare for the vote. I ask the heads of factions to invite all the deputies to the Hall and I ask the secretariat of the Supreme Council to invite all the deputies from the Kuluars to the Hall. So let's move on to making a decision. I'm just going to lay the groundwork, we're going to be able to make adjustments to the second reading of this law. Just the first reading, just on the ground. So, colleagues, I'm voting on a bill amending some of Ukraine's laws on improving the system of protection of cultural heritage (8202) as a basis. Colleagues, based on. Please vote, please support. Vote. Please support me as a base. Voting, supporting. [[11:32:26]] For-200 200. I'll put it back, colleagues, but you find compromise between yourselves. So I'm going to put it back. According to factions, I read: "Block of Petra Poshenko" – 86, "National Front" – 57, "Block of Opposition" – 1, "Help" – 1, "Pradical Party – 13, "Papačina" – 14, "Will of the People" – 5, "Party of Rebirth" – 3. So, colleagues, I'm asking you to come back, don't leave the hall. Go back to the draft Law 8202. Please vote, please support. Please be supportive. [[11:33:29]] For the 220. 220. I'll put it again, colleagues, I'll put the next one in. Okay, I'll put an alternative, and then there'll be a comeback, right. I'm putting the vote to an alternative, People's Deputy Vilkula, 8202-1. Anyone who supports an alternative, please vote. Let's vote, colleagues. Please vote. [[11:34:08]] For 165 165, I didn't get an alternative. And, colleagues, I'm asking you to go back to the 8202 vote, we're short six votes. Six votes. I ask everyone to take up their jobs, each vote has meaning during the vote. Please. Please take part in the vote, Andrew Volodymyrovich, colleagues, I am voting on the proposal to return to the draft Act on Amendments to Certain Ukrainian Laws on Improving the Cultural Heritage System (8202). And I ask everyone to participate carefully in the vote. Vote, please support the return. Please support every voice that matters, we vote. Please vote, vote. [[11:35:13]] For the 220. All right, guys, let's do it again. I'll put the third time, final, if there are no votes, I'll suggest you send it to the committee. So the authors of the law, help mobilize the hall, there are six votes missing. That's just on the basis, we'll be able to work it out for the second reading. Six votes. Colleagues, I'm done once, third time, I'm gonna put in some jobs. Please take your seats and prepare for the vote. I remind you, that's just the basis. And I'm proposing that we go back to the draft Act on Amendments to Certain Laws of Ukraine on Improving the System of Cultural Heritage (8202). I'll put the first vote on the return. Please vote, please support and ask everyone to take part in the vote. Vote, please. Vote, please. [[11:36:30.]] For 228 So we're back. Now I'm going to be the base of 8202, just the base. I'm asking you to back everyone up. We had a slow voice. So carefully each vote, based on 8202, just support it. Please vote, please support. Colleagues, let's support culture. Lord Ruslan, we vote. If you'll excuse me, I'd like to vote. We vote carefully, colleagues, each voice. [[11:37:14]] For 228 Decision taken. Colleagues, the next is the draft Act amending certain Ukrainian laws in connection with the entry into force of the Ukrainian Act on State Support for Cinematography in Ukraine (8251). Please support the consideration of the reduced procedure. Please vote and support the reduced procedure. Please be supportive. [[11:37:49]] For 176 Decision taken. And I invite the head of the Committee on Culture and Spirituality of the Princely Nikola Leonidovich to report. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-19-m0.u71	Thank you. On April 26, 2017, the Act on State Support for Cinematography, which introduced the term “Kinocomisision”, became effective. According to the law, it is a state or municipal institution that works to promote Ukrainian regions as attractive film locations and assists cinematographers in the use of Ukrainian cinematography. At the same time, it is determined that film commissions may receive state subsidies for their own actions, but the law did not provide for special regulation for film commissions, nor did it establish their legal status, order of formation, and competence. The bill proposes to remove this gap in order to allow the film commissions to run effectively. So the Act on Cinematography proposes to add a separate article 9 of the “Kinocommission” and coordinate it with the relevant provisions of the Local Self-Government Act. As a result, when the law is passed, it will be clearly defined as, by whom, in order, film commissions are created, the minimum amount of their competence, the general principles of their funding from the local budget, the funding from the state budget is regulated by the Act on State Support for Cinematography. The bill proposes to establish a legislative definition of the concept of "state cinema", allowing local self-government authorities to partially cover the costs of cinematography subjects for the production of films made with the participation of such film studios located in the respective territories. This will allow commercial cinematographers to cooperate with state cinemas more conveniently, allowing for the restoration of largely damaged complexes. It is proposed that the two laws that have become invalid due to the deadline for their introduction be repealed, namely the Act on the National Programme for the Development of the Film Industry for 2003-2007. It is proposed to introduce the legal status of national film studios, providing for the possibility of local authorities setting up priority systems to stimulate the activity of such film studios and banning the change of profile. Thus, honourable colleagues, the committee recommends that the bill be supported on a basis. He'll allow it.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-19-m0.u72	Please, 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-19-m0.u73	He'll let us arrange for the financing of films, a creative creative product, by local self-government. In fact, in many cities this is the case, as in Lviv, Dniper, or many others. At the request of these committees, which cooperate with local authorities, we propose this law. I suggest we back up, vote in favour. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-19-m0.u74	Thank you. Please record: two in, two in. From the Radical Party, Andry Lozový. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-19-m0.u75	Andrey Lozovy, Radical Party of Lazka. "Asthenic Syndrome", "Three Stories", "Long Lines", "Melody for Charms", and dozens of other films that have been seen by hundreds of millions of people have been made by Kira Georgievna Muratov. Recently, at 84 years of age, life in Ukrainian Odessa was gone. Mr. Head, I urge you and the session room to honor the moment of silence of the great Ukrainian film director Kira Muratov. [[A Minute of Silence]] Kira Muratov was with Yuri Illenk, with Sergey Parajanov, with Victor Gress was one of those followers of Alexander Long's "Ukrainen Poetic Film". In general, we Ukrainians are a deeply cinematographic nation. We've given birth to this number of brilliant directors, actors, producers, makeup workers, tech filmmakers. But unfortunately, such a bill, as it is now, is certainly true that it is late for 20 years. Because, among other things, film during war is one of the main tools of propaganda. Our enemy understands that. We're only beginning to understand this right now, unfortunately. Cinema is our soft strength. The cinema is our so-power.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-19-m0.u76	30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-19-m0.u77	In Ukraine, unfortunately, there are only 500 cinemas. This is very little for such a great state. And it's important to change this situation. It's not 500, it's 5,000. The brilliant Ukrainian directors should receive State support. We have an example of how Ukrainians really know how to make movies. Two palm branches for short films at the Cannes Film Festival. The fantastic image of "Cyborg" Ahtem Seitablayev. But there have to be dozens of paintings like this. And today, colleagues, it's up to us. Protect Ukrainian cinema, protect Ukrainian culture, protect Ukraine. Thank you for the Ukrainian film!
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-19-m0.u78	Thank you. From the Self-Help faction of Irina, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-19-m0.u79	Dear colleagues, surely this bill is important and necessary. It also consists of two parts. The first part about the operation of film commissions, which we already have in our legal field in the Film Act. And that's very necessary and right, because the creation of film commissions and the creation of a reasonable number of film productions and even numbers in Ukraine's regions or cities is what's going to create additional jobs for representatives, actually a class of creative industries: for writers, for video engineers, for everyone who's involved in the film industry. And it's also going to develop, open up our locations, which are rich in Ukraine, for the film industry, who are going to make movies or shows, or advertising products in Ukraine, that's also the development and support of the industry, and the restaurant business, and the agrotourism. So that's what we need, and it's going to open up our cities and locations. The second part of this bill tells us that we are repealing the law, completely unwisely adopted back in Tihypca, as I recall, to prohibit the privatization of the Odessa Film Studio. And I think that's a ban. This law should be repealed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-19-m0.u80	Thank you. Colleagues, we're about to make a speech from Fatherland. I said, is there anyone else? I'm going to Shahov. And from WFP. You haven't heard from the WFP yet? Okay. Sergei, please, Vlasenko from Fatherland.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-19-m0.u81	Thank you, Your Honor Andrey Volodymyrovich. The "Fatherland" faction supported all the laws related to the protection of Ukrainian culture. We consider these matters to be very important and will always support them. But, dear colleagues, the Supreme Council is faced with a large number of people who raise equally important questions: this issue of the return of benefits to black people, this issue of social protection for Afghans, this issue of the social protection of Ukrainian citizens in general, who have suffered from today's power for four years. And at the top of cynicism in this situation is a statement by a representative of the pro-presidential faction who comes out and talks about the plight of Ukrainian citizens. You're the one who canceled the benefits for the niggers! You're the one who canceled the benefits for the Afghans! It's your President Poshenko who signed these laws! You're the one responsible for this! Go out to the people and repent. They ask. I've been talking to people, they say: "Give me the fuse, let me hold him a little bit for the jacket, let me look him in the eye, let me hear why they canceled the benefits, why they don't return the social protection of people, why they're looking at other questions, why they're Pharisees, why they're talking about the need for social protection, rather than putting into the order of the day the issue of the return of the benefits and the blacks, and the Afghans?".. Let's now vote for the inclusion in the agenda of today's session of drafts that are registered in the Supreme Council and that return the benefits to Afghans. Let's vote them out right now, if we already do, let's see how many votes the Presidential faction will give for this. Let's look at other, other bills that this faction has voted on. And a simple question. You don't have to give up on the opposition and say that you don't have enough votes, as my colleague Alexander Abdullin says, "What about your coalition? Where are your 226 votes, which.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-19-m0.u82	Please repeat, one minute of Aresonkov.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-19-m0.u83	Dear colleagues, I ask everyone to calm down. I represent the All-Ukrainian Association of People's Deputies of Chernobyl, and I am absolutely responsible right now, representatives of all factions, including the Petra Prashenko Block, which they mentioned, and others have prepared and discussed drafts, some of them have been first read, prepared for second reading, and will be introduced into the session room. So I'm asking you not to add an asset right now if you have to bring it into the session room, and I absolutely agree with all the political factions. But let's do this legally in a constitutional way. Once again, all directions are in place: both pension insurance and social protection in terms of health care, child nutrition, and so on. So let's work on requirements, including people standing on the street. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-19-m0.u84	Thank you. From "The Will of the People" Shahov Sergey Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-19-m0.u85	Sergey Shahov, the political power of Our End. Dear colleagues, this is a very important law, and we will support it. Please pay attention to the Long Island Film Studio. Alexander Longzhenko is a Ukrainian genius who gave the German cinema a language. All Hollywood directors, Hollywood, promoted the United States and European countries through movies. And we have to use our Ukrainian cinemas and rebuild them. "Our End" will support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-19-m0.u86	Thank you. And now there's gonna be a closing statement from Peter Dusty's Block. Then we move on to making a decision. Please turn on the Fisherman for two minutes. And I ask everyone to come into the hall and prepare for the vote in two minutes, the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-19-m0.u87	202 constituency, Cherniewec district, Ivan Rybak. Our faction systematically supports all the laws that relate to the support and development of culture in Ukraine. Loud names: Long, John Mikolaychuk, whose birthday was literally June 15th, was celebrated in the territory of the Cherniew region in his garden. On June 15, he would have been 77 years old. But at the same time, we have a serious problem with cinemas all over Ukraine, which, as they say today, number about 500. Yes, the theaters of John Mikolaychuk and the theaters of John Mikolaychuk in Kitzman were virtually destroyed in the territory of Cherniewecko district in Chernivka. And today it is necessary to solve this problem so that the theaters are not a disgrace to either the city of Kitzman or the city of Chernivci. Today, there is an initiative of local self - government authorities in the city of Kitzman, who want to take money and invest in the balance sheet of the district council for their film theater, John Mikolaychuk. The crowd, the community itself, wants to invest in it, restore it in order to actually serve the local community, have the opportunity to broadcast films, Ukrainian films for the local Kitzman community. I now call on the local authorities to support this initiative and to put John Mikolaychuk's film theater on balance. And this bill, as a system bill, will be supported by our faction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-19-m0.u88	Thank you. So let's move on to making a decision. I'm asking everyone to come into the hall and take jobs. Heads of factions and secretariat of the Supreme Council, invite the national deputies to the Hall. I want to make this clear, I'm just putting it on the ground because I've been approached and asked by some faction deputies, including Self-Help and Fatherland, just on the ground. Everyone, please prepare for the vote. And I'm voting on the draft Act on Amendments to Certain Ukrainian Laws in relation to the Act on State Support for Cinematography in Ukraine (No. 8251) as a Basis. Please vote and please support, colleagues. We'll support the cinematographer, we'll support the Committee of Culture. We vote in favour. Based on the base. Please be supportive. [[11:53:09]] For 218. I'll put it on return, not yet. But, colleagues, I'm asking you to look carefully at who wasn't there and invite me to the hall. I ask everyone and the heads of factions in particular to see if all the factions are in place and voting. So, I'm asking you to prepare for the vote right now, take your seats, please come into the hall. And I'll put it on return. So I'm proposing to go back to the draft Law 8251. And I'm asking you to support the offer to return. Colleagues, each vote is carefully voted in favour of the return. Please vote, please support, vote for return, carefully every vote. [[11:54:20]] For 221 So I'm going to put it again, I'm going to see that we're not there, I'm going to put it again, but I'm going to need you to track everyone down. Five votes. Don't leave the hall, please come in. Colleagues, I'm asking everyone to come into the hall and prepare for the vote. Let me show you the factions so we can see. So by factions. Block of Peter Poshenko – 76, National Front – 63, Opposition Block – 0, Self-help – 17, Radical Party – 18, Fatherland – 8, Will of the People – 7, Rebirth Party – 7. Please, five votes is not enough, take your seats. Tetjana, please, Andrew Volodymyrovich. And I'm putting a motion to vote, going back to the draft Law 8251. And I ask everyone to take part in the vote. Stop the discussion now, and vote. So the return is 8251. Please vote for the return. Auntie, Arthur. We vote back 8251, we support the motion picture, we vote, every vote, please support, we vote. [[11:56:04]] For 229 So we're back. Now I'm putting draft Law 8251 on the ground. Please vote, colleagues, be on the basis of 8251 as a basis. Please vote, and I ask you to support this as a basis. We vote, we vote, we vote, we vote, we vote, we vote, we vote, we vote, we vote. [[11:56:34]] For 230 230-yes. Decision taken. Next we have the draft Act on Amendments to Certain Ukrainian Laws on the Settlement of the Activities of the Ukrainian Cultural Fund. I suggest you place your ratings, place your ratings, your colleagues, your attention? I'll bet. I'll set the ratings, and we'll come in after lunch. I'm voting on draft Law 8266. Please vote, please support is a rating vote. 8266 is just a rating vote. [[11:57:24]] For 186 186. My colleagues, look what I have to offer, attention! So that we can get into it right now, vote on the shortened procedure, and then we can talk about it after the break or not? What do you say? After the break, okay. Thus, the next law in the consideration of the cultural bloc is the draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine concerning the regulation of the activities of the Ukrainian Cultural Fund (8266). We'll go into it, into it, after the break. Now, according to the Rules, I announce a 30-minute recess. At 12:30, especially the committee heads, I ask you to be in the hall so that we can continue our consideration of the issues of the cultural bloc. It's a 30-minute break. At 12:30, everyone please return to the hall to continue our work.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-19-m0.u89	Dear colleagues, please come into the hall. Please come into the hall. Time taken for a break is exhausted. I ask the factions to invite deputies to the hall. I'm asking the head of the Princely Committee. Yeah, the Princess is in the hall. Please invite the deputies to the hall. So let's move on to the next order of the day. The next issue of the agenda is the draft Act on Amendments to certain Ukrainian laws on settlement of the activities of the Ukrainian Cultural Fund (No. 8266). My colleagues, I asked you to come into the hall and I was hoping that we could support the proposal for a reduced procedure, but I see that the MPs are not yet enough. However, I shall put it to the vote once. If there is no such support, we will consider the full procedure. So, colleagues, I'm going to put the committee's proposal to the vote so that we can consider draft Law 8266 by a reduced procedure. Please vote. Please be supportive. [[12:35:50]] For-68 The decision is not made. And I invite the head of the Committee on Culture and Spirituality of the Princely Nikola Leonidovich to report. Please, Mr. Mikolo.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-19-m0.u90	Dear colleagues! In March 2017, the Supreme Council of Ukraine passed the Ukrainian Cultural Fund Act. This law was sufficiently reformative because it introduced a new form of State support for cultural and artistic projects through a specialized institution, the Ukrainian Cultural Fund. The innovative nature of this approach has been fully predicted by a number of organizational and legal colleges, since not all laws in force in Ukraine are ready to accept such reform. The first year of existence of the Ukrainian Cultural Fund revealed these problems, which the bill is dedicated to. The aim of the bill is to establish transparent rules for the implementation of the basic principles of public policy in the sphere of culture established by the Ukrainian Culture Act, to promote the creation of a single cultural space in Ukraine, to ensure freedom of creativity, to create conditions for the creative development of the individual, to raise the cultural level, to satisfy the cultural needs of the Ukrainian people, to develop cultural institutions regardless of the form of property, to participate in the sphere of investment, to finance the provision of paid services, to charity, to other non-legislative sources of promoting Ukrainian national culture in all diversity abroad and to the world of cultural acquisition in Ukraine, to support a domestic cultural producer, etc. The law provides for clarification of the legal status of the Ukrainian Cultural Fund. In particular, it is suggested that the status of the Ukrainian Cultural Fund be clarified as a nonprofit organization capable of acquiring civil rights and obligations under civil law. There's a definition of the concept of "project," which is used everywhere in the law, but it hasn't been revealed in the original edition. There are general principles for the conclusion of financial assistance contracts, grants. A legal basis is being created to control the fund using grant conditions. The introduction of the definition of "project" used in the law, the improvement of procedures related to the support of projects by the Ukrainian Cultural Fund, the legitimization of contributions from foreign and international structures as sources of fund formation; the elimination of contradictions with the Ukrainian Culture Act and the Ukrainian Law on State Aid to Hostages. The Committee on Culture and Spirituality at its meeting on May 23, discussed the draft Law amending certain laws of Ukraine regarding the settlement of the activities of the Ukrainian Foundation (registration No. 8266), submitted by the People’s Deputies of Knieżicky, Podowak, Jelenski. The bill provides for the clarification of the legal status of the Ukrainian Cultural Fund, the definition of the concept of "project" used in the Ukrainian Cultural Fund Act, the improvement of procedures related to the support of projects by the Ukrainian Cultural Fund. Taking into account the need for proposed legislative changes in order to ensure that the recently established Ukrainian Cultural Fund is properly regulated, the Committee on Culture and Spirituality decided to recommend the Supreme Council of Ukraine to adopt Bill No. 8266 as a basis. At the same time, the Committee notes that, in its second reading, it is necessary to provide for changes to the Ukrainian Culture Act on the financing of socially important measures in Ukraine at the expense of the Ukrainian State budget allocated to the Ukrainian Ministry of Culture. If I suddenly decide to adopt this bill as a whole, and I think it's very important, and I'll explain later why, I'm going to ask you to accept it right away, to approve these transitional provisions of the Culture Act, in which financing of socially important measures in Ukraine will be put on the Ukrainian Ministry of Culture and conducted at the expense of the Ukrainian Ministry of Culture. This law actually took effect in April 2017. The law is truly innovative, and we really don't have the same separate structures in Ukraine. The very predictable practice of using it has revealed a number of ambiguities that should be removed by adopting appropriate changes. Well, for example, the law does not contain the definition of what projects it finances, how grants are issued, how the relationship between a cultural fund and a grant recipient is formed, how it is controlled by its execution, what actions the fund can take if the conditions are not met or are not met as envisaged. The bill proposes to remove these gaps in order to help the cultural fund work more effectively and develop Ukrainian cultural industries. So what's proposed. The following changes are proposed: clarifying, once again, the status of the fund as a non-profit organization; specifying which projects the fund is funding, which are only cultural and artistic projects as defined in the Culture Act; determining that the procedure for submitting and considering grant applications is laid down by the regulations of the Ministry of Culture and the Fund; establishing the general conditions for grant issuance, should be an agreement that clearly determines what grants are spent, the means of control; establishing the basis for breaking the grant agreement, e.g. if a grant is granted and nothing is implemented; complementing that voluntary contributions from citizens, government and non-governmental organizations of other countries may be the source of revenue. Once again, I would like to stress that the adoption of this law is very important. As you know, previously so-called measures were financed directly by the Ministry of Culture by the decision of the minister, the deputy minister, the heads of the relevant state enterprises. This led to considerable criticism. The Cultural Fund Act, which we have adopted, has indeed become revolutionary, because now any citizen of Ukraine, any civil organization, artists, artists can make their contribution to the Ukrainian Cultural Fund. And what I'm saying is that we've already started accepting funding applications for the fund. And the last application will last until 2 July. So I call on all artists, creative people to submit these applications, and then the fund has to work. For almost six months now, the funds that have been put into the state budget have not been used for cultural purposes. And if we don't adopt this law, we're actually going to lose this money, and instead we're going to lose a huge number of museums, cultural institutions, various cultural institutions, artists, performers, theaters, they can claim this state support, they claim it, and you and I have foreseen the funds to support it. Sadly, though, the absence of this law did not allow the cost to be spent. I very much hope that we will be able to adopt the law. I very much hope that my colleagues will now enter the hall to vote for him. I am pleased that this fund is very modern, efficient, and transparent management. As much as I can complain about the various circumstances involved in setting up the fund, I have had such claims myself, but I will be glad that the fund has become truly a European structure. A structure that can change Ukrainian culture and make it transparent and competitive. So, dear colleagues, I hope that this law will be adopted as a basis. Thank you. I urge you to vote for him. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-19-m0.u91	Thank you. Stay in the rostrum. Now, three minutes for questions from the national MPs. Anyone who wants to ask a question to the committee head, please sign up for the speech. Unguran, please ask questions.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-19-m0.u92	Praise Jesus Christ! Dear Mikola Leonidovich, using the fact that the Ministry of Culture is also present in the Hall, I would like to ask you whether these several national and patriotic, cultural and artistic festivals, which are foreseen by the National Budget of Ukraine for this year, but because of these gaps that you have called, they have been forced to finance themselves by changes in government decisions already in line with the parliamentary committee's profile on budget issues, will this happen in history, and we will be able to directly, effectively finance the holding of national and patriotic festivals? I am particularly interested in a very important festival called the "Ukrainen Bessarabia", which is to be held in the southern part of the Odessa region. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-19-m0.u93	Please, Mr. Mikolo.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-19-m0.u94	Thank you, colleague. I'll tell you the truth, I'm not personally a supporter of direct budgeting by one line of action. But I'm a supporter of law enforcement. And if the legislator has decided that these measures should be funded, it must be done. The other thing is that for the future, we're adopting this law so that it's governed not by the wishes of everyone in this room, but by a direct cultural foundation on competitive grounds that can support such measures. But we are also opposed to removing the responsibility of the Ministry of Culture, so we have entrusted the Ministry of Culture with the responsibility to finance those measures that are really important to the State. Because every year's Independence Day parade doesn't have to spend money on a grant to a cultural fund or other general government measures, it's going to be supported by the Ministry of Culture. But other measures, such as those and others, must be supported by a cultural foundation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-19-m0.u95	Thank you. So there are no more questions. I ask the committee head to take his place. And now come out of the factions. So, colleagues who intend to participate in the faction discussion, please record, please participate in the discussion. It's recorded in factions. From the People's Front, Bondar Mikhailo Leontijovich. Turn on the microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-19-m0.u96	Please pass the word to Yuri Berezi.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-19-m0.u97	Dear colleagues! The popularization of the Ukrainian word, the Ukrainian content, the Ukrainian music, the entire Ukrainian language in the last 26 years has been a major problem. We supported all the strangers, and we did little work on our own and the chieftains, including the Supreme Council, paid little attention to what had to do with Ukrainian. I want to say, as an example, now about the festival that took place in Siecheslavish territory called the Cossack Festival. In May-month, we celebrated the 370th anniversary of the victory of the army under the leadership of Bogdan Hmelnicki, united with Tatar, led by Tugai Bay, where the Ukrainians and the Tatars showed a great example of victory and not just victory, it was the first victory of the Ukrainian united army over the regular army of the Postopolita River. These moments, they're just saying, and they're giving us strength. We used to cry, talk about the moments where we were beaten. I will say that the nation, the Ukrainian nation, has the right to victory, and all the moments that are connected with the adoption of this law, they bring us closer to victory, to victory in the information hybrid war that Russia has fought against us since 1991, let us not forget, and war is fought by all means and means. And our work in this room, which is working on everything that is related to the Ukrainian word, to the Ukrainian art, to all the Ukrainian art, should be supported, first of all, in the hall. When the nation has its cultural history, its culture, this nation is unkillable, this nation will never die. So I'm addressing the entire room, and especially the colleagues who are outside the hall, and I'm asking you to come back and support our decision in this room. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-19-m0.u98	Thank you. From the Radical Party, Lozový Andry. Excuse me, turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-19-m0.u99	Valeria Zarzko, faction of the Radical Party of Oleg Lašek. Culture is the soul of every nation, it's a quintession of historical memory, it's a set of material and spiritual values created by the people throughout their entire existence, it's the historically acquired rules within the society that are important for their preservation and harmonization. Today I want to remind each of you that one of the cultural features of Ukraine has always been a great respect for the people of work. Unfortunately, this tradition is almost completely lost today, and the consequences can be heard by each of you under the walls of the Ukrainian Parliament. These are Ukrainian miners who need a return to cultural values, a timely payment, a decent wage. The Radical Party faction is co-sponsored by Bill 8362, which speaks of real energy-generating, real modernization of the coal industry in Ukraine. We demand from the government that this bill be adopted as quickly as possible, because there is no longer any patience in people to wait for this bill to be passed. The Radical Party faction unanimously advocates the return of Ukrainian cultural traditions in respect of proper respect for all people — miners, metallurgy, builders, peasants, doctors, and everyone else. We're about to finally bring people back to the country to work for the Ukrainian economy, so that they can build the well-being of their family right here in their homeland, so that they can work for the Ukrainian economy, and not go to work for the profits, so that they can feed their children here, so that they can see their decent old age here, so that they can buy not only drugs and some food there, so that they can buy their grandchildren so they can travel so they can see everything in their country. To build just such cultural traditions that we will not be ashamed to pass on to our offspring. That is what I call for, and I hope that all of you here today are ready to support us. Ready to support the Radical Party faction in all our wishes. Desires to create a strong country that will be respected worldwide and that will be proud of every Ukrainian. He'll be proud to be Ukrainian. Let's work together to make decent cultural traditions. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-19-m0.u100	From the Samohelp faction Sobolev Egor Viktorovich. Irina Gorgeous, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-19-m0.u101	Dear colleagues, I would like to urge you to support this bill as a basis and in general with the amendments that Mikola Knieżicki has made. Because in large numbers we can't say that it's technical, it's precise. And the problem that has arisen and provoked these clarifications is that we have members of the Kabmin, the executives of the executive authorities prefer that in one bill that regulates the existence or activity of the newly created institution there are virtually duplicates of certain norms that are in other bills to directly apply to the activities of the Ukrainian Cultural Fund, and in addition, there is no doubt that there is a need for settlement. Support through the Ministry of Culture, well, the individual actions that we call socially significant or public, because the philosophy of the creation of the Ukrainian Cultural Fund itself was that there should be competition, there should be competition, there should be expertise that any player in the field of culture and art can apply for their projects, both state and municipal institutions and individuals. That is, independent players, as well as nonstate institutions, institutions, public organizations, associations, individual artists, artists, or initiators. And in fact, in this competitiveness, the competition of ideas was the philosophy of the Ukrainian Cultural Fund. It's certainly new to our condition, it's new to the world, such principles of existence and support of culture and people of culture. And that's why this law needs to be clarified. So it is a very big request to support the independence of this Ukrainian Cultural Fund, to provide it with additional tools to enable it to operate properly without delay. And so I ask you to support this bill as a whole with the amendments that Mikola Knieżicky made in his statement from the rostrum. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-19-m0.u102	Thank you. From the Opposition Block is Dobrenkov Alexander Valeriyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-19-m0.u103	Respectable citizens of Ukraine, respected colleagues! Again, it seems that the Supreme Council of Ukraine is living its life. And what we're talking about right now in the plenary room, in general, I don't think I care about those people who have now actually declared a strike to the state, especially us, because the Supreme Council of Ukraine is an integral part of that state. The preservation of Ukrainian traditions. Ukrainian traditions must not be preserved or created; they must be respected. The Ukrainian people, in line with the preamble to the Constitution of Ukraine, are Ukrainian citizens of all nationalities, both Russians and Crimean Tatars, are Ukrainians. And accordingly, Ukraine is a polyculture state, and that's what we need to take into account. Connecting Ukrainianism in all spheres of life is not the right way out, it is not a democratic vector of the country's development. All national minorities must be respected, including 17 million Russian citizens living in Ukraine, but they are Ukrainian citizens, and they are building the country with Ukrainians and wishing for the welfare of the country, which is also something we need to think about and remember. There have been statements about the occupation since the 91st. I'm from Donbas, I'm a Russian-speaking Ukrainian citizen, I've studied Ukrainian, I can tell you that nobody wants antagonism and opposition in language. by the language mark. All citizens are equal and necessary. We don't need to be divided into those who are patriotic, more patriotic, because, on the one hand, we need to talk about the preservation of the Ukrainian Cultural Fund, and on the other hand, we need to ratify a bill that supports the French helicopter industry, destroying the domestic helicopter industry, it's somehow not glued, it's somehow wrong. We need to focus on the very first questions that concern people. What questions do they have? Cancelling the benefits to the black people, canceling the benefits to the Afghans, carrying out the pseudo-pension reform -- that's what we need to talk about. Because it's not developed. There will be no culture in the economically poor country. When people have nothing to eat, they unfortunately do not think about culture. One day these thoughts don't come to mind. That's why the opposition block faction won't support the bill, because the agenda, which consists of bills, is not a priority. We need to consider the renewal of those benefits that were cancelled in 2014 and the restoration of the country's economic development, because the country is actually in economic collapse.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-19-m0.u104	From the "Will of the People" group is Shahov Sergey Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-19-m0.u105	Sergey Shahov, the political power of Our End. Dear colleagues, from the very morning we are considering a bill: culture, culture, culture. Culture is very important to our nation. But when musicians, artists, museum workers in winter dress up in bed, they are taken off by rescue workers with meat, then taken to the morgues, which is not within the scope. Dear colleagues when people have nothing to eat. People, teachers who get three higher educations, stand on every corner with their hand out and ask for help on a piece of bread that's under the pharmacy, who can't buy themselves pills, say, "Riddy! Ask questions and feed the people, first of all!" When a creature in Naftogazu has one and a half billion dollars of premiums, takes 200 million dollars, sends them to America for their bills, and then the courts block that decision, "Our End" requires Koboljeva here on Thursday to report on where the million and a half dollars have been given at Naftogaz? "Our country" requires immediate attention, not even 60 percent of the increase in gas tariffs, we immediately demand that all factions turn to Afghans and Chernobyl and explain why we don't give them the benefit, why the Cabinet of Ministers hides behind our backs and can't give normal social assistance to Afghans and Chernobylers. And then when you look into the eyes of people in the neighborhood, when you go, people say, Sergei, can you please tell me when there will be order in the state when the mines are running, when the factories are running, when the chemical industry is running? Please tell us 400 million dollars in debt to miners. I have coal from America, coal from Africa, coal from Russia, and coal from our miners. Dear colleagues, culture needs to be supported and "Our Land" will do so, will vote in favour of this bill, but first of all the Ukrainian people need to be fed.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-19-m0.u106	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I have a message to make. John Fedorovich Durres, a poet, playwright, translator, public and statesman, Hero of Ukraine, died today. And I ask the entire hall to honor the moment of silence of the memory of the Hero of Ukraine. [[A Minute of Silence]] Thank you. Everlasting memory. Colleagues, it's coming from Peter Dustenk's Block and from Fatherland, and then we're moving on to the speeches from the MPs. I'm the only one who's asked to speak more flexibly, because we've pushed the block of culture too long, we've got a big block of inclusion in the agenda of the day session. By the way, I'd like to remind you that between him and the draft law establishing the Higher Anti-Corruption Court. And I think we should have these votes by noon. And so I'm asking for a more dynamic discussion. From Peter Prashenko's Block, Ishchenko Valeriy. From Fatherland, Alexander Kugel. Turn on the microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-19-m0.u107	Alexander Kugel, "The Fatherland" faction. What I'm saying is, given the overall importance and the challenges facing the Ukrainian Foundation, before the Ukrainian Cultural Fund, I can say that I was in Chercas that week and visited Chigirín and Cannes, how much government money was invested in restoring historical and cultural values, but there's no tourist, because there's no way to get there, because there's no way to get there, because there's no roads, there's no military trail. As far as this bill is concerned. The faction thinks it can't be supported because we understand that it's nice when there's extra support for foreign organizations for culture. But it is a warning that the project provides for the actual control of the state institution of the Ukrainian Cultural Fund by international grant organizations and foreign countries. This is contrary to the Constitution. We see what the result is when we have this number of grant organizations supporting the Ministry of Health today, and we see what the results and who this reform is working against are against the people of Ukraine. Therefore, according to article 1 of the Ukrainian Cultural Fund Act, the Fund is a budgetary institution that performs special functions to promote Ukrainian national and cultural development. And we think that if there's a direct agreement of some grant organization to help, it has to look at a specific fund, and if they win, it could be a public private partnership, it could be a concession, but it can control a state institution, no grant organization has the right. For processing.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-19-m0.u108	So statements from factions and groups are completed. Now, nine minutes from the National Deputies. Anyone who wants to take part in the discussion, please hold the record. I'd like you to sign up for the National MPs, please. The Romanovist Alexander Volodymyrovich of Unguryan gives the floor for the performance. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-19-m0.u109	Thank God for Ukraine! Thank God for the heroes! Praise Jesus Christ! Dear colleagues, we are looking at today very well that in the full procedure of cultural issues, the questions of national and patriotic festivals, artistic festivals, cultural festivals, and we hear that because of the bureaucratic problems that have been created, we do not have those events, those festivals that should serve the State, the formation of the national and patriotic spirit of Ukrainians, the upbringing of the young generation. But at the same time, another event took place this Sunday, which took millions of dollars from the Ukrainian budget, so that 20 minutes across the Volodymyrska Street, on the street of Lviv Tolstoy, literally one or two blocks went by some people accompanied by foreigners, accompanied by representatives of embassies, people who came from other countries to us to Ukraine to celebrate the introduction of a unified way of life. Dear friends, I have a question. Did taxpayers in Ukraine agree that millions, millions of dollars are spent on what does not result in the birth of children, which does not lead to the reinforcement of the Ukrainian army, which does not lead to the strengthening of Ukraine as such? In addition, by turning the streets and not letting people go home, almost all the city of Kiev, and also by beating the believers who went out against it and throwing them away for play. Who needs these things? I remember 2014, when a gay parade was filed in downtown Kiev, and then we all took a firm stand together and the Kiev authorities: Ukraine is fighting in a tough, hard fight, and no gay parade is the time. I want to ask you, what do we have, the war is over, colleagues? We need to strengthen our army, our culture, raise the culture and spirituality of the Ukrainian people and, in particular, the young generation, so that Ukrainians can be patriots and love their country, their homeland, their father, their mother, and not replace it with their mother, that's what's important. And so this is a very big request, and I ask you to consider my statement as a parliamentary request, to figure out why the budget, the taxpayers' costs in Ukraine are going to serve someone else's foreign demand. And the cultural fund and culture need to be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-19-m0.u110	Thank you. Bondar Mikhailo Leontijovich gives the floor to Mikola Knieżicki. Please, Mr. Mikolo.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-19-m0.u111	Dear colleagues! I would like to refute my colleague's statement right now that some international organizations are going to be in control of this institution. So the law doesn't provide for anything. Alexander Volodymyrically, I remind you once again that you had two lines, I can remember again, it would be three. And I need people to start getting money. No international organizations will control anyone here, they have the right to just add their money to the fund to get it from Ukrainian artists, artists, theater artists, Ukrainian artists, independent expert councils, who are appointed by the Supervisory Board to distribute it completely independently. There will be no foreign or any western influence on the operation of the fund – it is unacceptable, it is forbidden by law. Any insinuation on this subject is political insinuation. Vote or not vote – the fate of Ukrainian culture in your hands. If you want to destroy culture behind a political pianist, do not vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-19-m0.u112	Thank you. And a closing statement from the National Deputies. Please give me 3 minutes, and then I'll give you Kugel's line. And if you'd like to come into the hall, there'll be a vote in a few minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-19-m0.u113	The faction of the Radical Party of Oleg Lášk, Yuri Chižmar After the war, the economic crisis we really have in this room is very rare and very little to pay attention to our culture. And unfortunately, it's very unpleasant to hear from the Supreme Council's rostrum that some MPs say that people have nothing to eat, so not on the subject of culture, not on the subject of libraries and our national cultural heritage. But, I'm sorry, I'd like to ask these deputies what the East boys are dying for, what we're going to hand over to our children and our grandchildren, if we don't preserve our culture, and if we don't preserve our historical and national value, our folklore, our language, that's all that Ukrainians in the world are identified, we're not giving anything. If you want to destroy the country, destroy its soul and then there will be no need for war, and for the invaders. So today it is the right law, and it is true that we have spent the whole day on the subject of culture and the national heritage of its support. I support those factors when we on tender ground today give our artists a better opportunity to get grants and have the opportunity to develop their own cultural identity, regardless of the ministry's administrative procedures, it's very positive. But at the same time, the Radical faction supports the fact that we have to give greater support to the workers in this field today. Because if you go through our villages today, you'll see how poor and pathetic libraries are today, where children in cold conditions can't read books, believe me, we'll see how saturated they are, there's all Soviet literature and very little modern literature, Ukrainian literature, and world literature. You look at the state of the cultural centers in the villages and in the district centers, they're empty, there's no sports sections, there's no children anywhere to go. So today we stand for the position that we should give more to culture and preserve everything that the country of Ukraine has always been proud of, its culture and heritage to its children and grandchildren. That is why we support this bill and the initiatives that have been taken in Parliament today by the appropriate committee. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-19-m0.u114	Thank you. One minute left, so I give the next speaker one minute. Sergey Kaplin, then the minute is Kugel. Please, one minute. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-19-m0.u115	I just wanted to make a constructive point, Andrew Volodymyrovich, on a few things. First. There is a warning about the new right of the Fund's Supervisory Board to manage nearly two-mast millions of dollars, sanctioning some or other purchases that conflict with the State Procurement Act. That's the first one. The other one. I'd like to hear an expense report here at the Supreme Council. That's 200 million dollars again and 17 percent of that amount to keep this fund going. In fact, it's a human policy. And the third important ingredient. I wanted to thank you, actually, for the work of the team that made it happen in a year. In Germany and France, these funds were created for 3 and 6 years respectively. So it's really heroic work. And we should really thank a team that effectively, purposefully builds a new institution that finances modern and up-to-date cultural projects for Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-19-m0.u116	Thank you. So, colleagues, the discussion is over. Jura, the discussion is over. It was a complete procedure. We'll get there by the end of the day. On the following questions, you will be able to speak. Colleagues, there'll be a vote in a minute. I ask the heads of factions, the members of the committee to mobilize as many national deputies as possible, to see who is not there, to invite them into the hall, if necessary, to go to the towers and invite deputies to the hall. In a minute or two, we'll move on to making a decision. Now it's a line. Alexandra Kugel, please. Mrs. Alexander, your line, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-19-m0.u117	Thank you for being able to answer the reporter. But what I want to say is that the law provides that if an international organization makes a contract to grant a target grant, this organization will have a decisive voice. If someone else can interpret the impact on decision-making and decision-making by a state institution or grant, please read the bill carefully. In addition, I support the previous colleague's statement that it would be very interesting to look at spending on the Ukrainian fund. We have the Art National Museum here with you. I personally looked at the state he was in and how we are now losing serious canvases of national culture, which the previous authorities have most already unleashed. You have to do it, but you don't have to just put in grants and give them assets, you have to do it.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-19-m0.u118	Thank you. So, colleagues, I'm asking you to come into the hall. Please prepare for the vote. One minute, the closing words of Princess Mikola Leonidovich, one minute and a minute to vote. Please invite the deputies to the hall. Mikola Knieżicki from the rostrum, closing word. One minute, Mr. Mikola. And let's go to the vote. Please invite the deputies into the hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-19-m0.u119	Thank you, you know, I've really been in such a difficult state today, I'm asking for your forgiveness to my colleagues, not by name, maybe harshly speaking. Because really, the information, the report on the death of Ivan Fedorovich Durres, who has done so much for Ukrainian culture and for Ukrainian politics, is a really sad event today. I very much ask you to vote for this. These 200 million you've been talking about haven't been spent yet. That's why museums are in this state because we can't spend them. Let's all support this bill as one, so that even this money goes away, and then we control it together. Because to control something, you have to start the process. I very much ask you to support this both on the basis and in general. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-19-m0.u120	Thank you. So let's move on to making a decision. Colleagues, heads of factions, I see how many people are in the room, and now there's going to be a difficult vote. Please invite someone who is not in the hall, because we will not return indefinitely. Pick up your phones and call someone who's not around. So we've had a full discussion and we're moving on to making a decision. And I am voting on the draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine concerning the settlement of the activities of the Ukrainian Cultural Fund (No.8266). At the committee's suggestion, on the basis. Based on the base. Please vote, please support, on the basis. Vote. Please be supportive. Let's vote, colleagues. [[13:18:29]] For 193 We didn't make it. I'll put you on the way back, and you please invite those who have not arrived to the hall. I ask you to show by factions: "Block of Petra Poshenko" – 75, "National Front" – 57, "Resistance of the Block" – 0, "self-help" – 14, "Radical Party of Oleg Laska – 15, "Fatherhood" – 5, "Will of the People" – 7, "Party of Rebirth" – 4. I'm asking both members of the committee, and the factions' heads to mobilize the people as much as possible, or we're about to break the law. I'm asking you to maximize your mobility and invite the deputies into the hall. Go out to the towers and invite the deputies in the towers, I'll wait 10 seconds. Please, 30 seconds, Mikola Knieżicki.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-19-m0.u121	Dear colleagues, the problem is that we are now freezing the full financing of culture. And you're going to come yourself and you're going to want to do a festival and support creative groups, celebrate great dates, this year's money is not going to be for the BP, or for the Environment, or for the People's Front, or for the Fatherland, or for the Self-Help, or for anyone, because if we don't vote for it, we're not going to be able to support culture, because all the funds have been transferred from the Ministry of Culture to the cultural fund, and its activities are not regulated, and they can't start working for six months. Let's vote together, then together as the colleagues said, we'll really control every penny. I very much ask you to call your colleagues, acquaintances who have not yet arrived, come to the hall and support the vote, and all those who are here to vote in favour, please. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-19-m0.u122	So now I'm going to put it back. Take up jobs. I am voting on the proposal to go back to the draft Act amending certain Ukrainian laws governing the activities of the Ukrainian Cultural Fund (8266). Please vote, please support the return. Please take up jobs. We vote in favour of a return to the law. Please support, we vote. [[13:21:27]] For-200 Guys, I'll put it back on, but that's too much. Too many votes. Let me wait another 30 seconds. We exchange thoughts, well, it's only the deputies that will go even further if we exchange thoughts. Guys, I'm gonna put you back on the table right now. Don't leave the hall. I ask you again to include the factions. Show the factions to see the MPs where you can get the potential. Peter Poshenko's Block – 76, People's Front – 59, Opposition Block – 0, Self-Help – 14, Radical Party – 16, Father's Party – 5, Will of the People – 6, Rebirth Party – 6. My colleagues, well, I think we can mobilize more people. Members of the committee, speak in the hall, conduct the work, please. So for the second time, I'm voting on the proposal to go back to the draft Law 8266. I'm asking everyone to take up their jobs, come into the hall. I ask everyone to prepare for the vote. Please take up your jobs. So I'm voting on the proposal to go back to the draft Act on Amendments to certain Ukrainian laws on the regulation of the activities of the Ukrainian Cultural Fund (8266). Colleagues, so that we don't freeze all the funding for culture, I ask you to vote responsibly and please support the return to draft Law 8266, and ask everyone to vote. So please vote and please support the return. Vote. Please be supportive. Every voice! We're voting carefully. Please be supportive. Vote. [[13:24:43]] For 206 Tell me if you support the committee or not. [[B in m in s a l in]] The committee -- you support or you don't, tell me. Fellows, I'll put you back on the line. If there are no votes, the next offer is to the committee, and then to the committee. Yeah, so I'm going to make another offer to come back. If there are no votes, we will follow the following suggestions: the committee, the subject of the legislative initiative. And if there are no votes, the bill will be rejected. We have been in the voting phase for 15 minutes. We've been looking at it for an hour, and we've all had a chance to figure it out. So, please prepare for the vote, go into the hall. You're ready, aren't you? Did you call everyone from the towers? So I'm voting on the proposal to go back to the draft Act on Amendments to certain Ukrainian laws on the regulation of the activities of the Ukrainian Cultural Fund (8266). Please vote and please support. Colleagues, let's support culture. We'll support the committee. And I ask everyone to vote and vote for the return. We'll wait a second, Victor Bondar will come in. No, we'll be right back. Everybody's in, right? To return. Please vote and please support. We're voting for the return. Please be supportive. Vote. [[13:27:12]] For 211 211. 15 votes. Arthur, one card didn't work. Your colleagues, on the basis of your support, are you going back to the committee for your first reading? I'm asking that we don't lose the bill. Talk to the committee head to support at least a return to the committee. Talk to those who abstain. Alexander, will you support the committee for further work? Rybczynski, will you support the committee's work? Would you be able to support the committee for further work? Colleagues, so I'm going to make the next offer. Attention! So we don't lose the bill. The next suggestion is to send it to the committee for re-reading. And I'm asking everyone who's held back, who's against it, back up this proposal, it's gonna unite the hall, and it won't let us destroy the bill. Support her, colleagues. So, are you ready, everyone in place? I am voting on the proposal that the draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine concerning the regulation of the activities of the Ukrainian Cultural Fund (8266) should be sent to the Committee to prepare for the re-reading of the first reading. Please vote and please support. Colleagues, every voice. Careful! Don't leave. Victor, vote. Victor, take the vote, please. So to the committee to prepare for the rereading of the first reading. Please vote. Please be supportive. Vote. Colleagues, back up, this is a compromise decision. We're backing it up. Vote. Every voice, every colleague, matters. Vote. Vote. We're backing it up. [[13:29:42]] For 235 Decision taken. Colleagues, we now have a request from two factions for a recess, but they're willing to replace the break with a speech from the rostrum -- this is from the factions of the Radical Party and the Fatherland. Igor Mosiychuk is invited to the presentation. Three minutes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-19-m0.u123	Igor Mosiyczuk, Oleg Lachka Radical Party Dear colleagues! You are facing not only a national MP but a shepherd of the eighth generation. For the last few weeks, I've been getting calls from all the regions of Ukraine, from my native Poltavščina, from Montenegro, from Cherkashčina, from Dnipropetrovština, from Kharkishteina, from Volina about the mass plague of bees. Maybe someone will make fun of us for having bees? How ridiculed they are that the Radical Party insists on the rebirth of animals and the introduction of cow worship! But there's nothing funny. Because if the bees die, there will be no crops, the peasants will stay hungry, and at best you will eat imported chemical products from other countries. Why is there a mass slaughter of bees? Because our government has absolutely refused to control the import of chemicals into the country. There is no complete certification of chemicals that are used to protect plants and subjugate plants. The pollination not only kills the bees but also kills the cattle, and there are even cases of human disease. In this connection, the Radical Party faction, Oleg Láska, demands that the government review the matter immediately at the nearest meeting, restore the work of the sanepidemstation, recertificate the chemicals, and stop the smuggling of chemicals imported into the country. After all, 40 percent of the chemicals used in the agro-industrial complex are smuggled into the country and poisoned! It is not known what is being imported, which is not known what is sprayed, killed by bees, animals, and killed by Ukrainians. The Radical Party faction insists, demands the government, the power of immediate action on this issue, to protect Ukrainian bees, Ukrainian animals and Ukrainians! Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-19-m0.u124	Colleagues, now the drafters of Bill 6768 ask him to move it. And we are moving on to the draft Act amending some of the Ukrainian legislation on the professional development of artistic and artistic staff of the theatre (8222). And I ask you to support his consideration. [[B in m in s a l in]] Colleagues! So 8222. [[B in m in s a l in]] Okay. There's a break from two factions: the Self-Help faction and the Rebirth faction. And they're demanding a performance. And I invite you to Victor Bondar's performance. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-19-m0.u125	Thank you, Your Honor Andrey Volodymyrovich. Dear colleagues, I have just returned from a meeting with the veteran organizations of Afghans, Chernobyl, ATO soldiers and others, which was held here in the House of the Supreme Council. The conclusion is one, but once again the foolish government policy and individual ministers who, as ostriches buried their heads in the sand, did not go out to the people, promised a month ago to deal with their questions, to meet them, to flee today and to make hostages of the entire Supreme Council instead of burying all the issues that they themselves had created. The first question that people raise is the absolutely stupid monetaryization of the benefits. Basically, people have instead of the benefits they had on utility fees, on transportation, on travel and so on, they have to get 60 or 100 bracelets on their hands, and even local budgets. Question: how do they get these benefits, and how can they survive on these 60-100 dollars offered by the government? The minister's hiding, the answer's no answer, and we won't, and I understand it, because it's irresponsible politics, and it's stupid politics, in our view. The second questions that our rallying people are asking are the question of the execution of housing programs, the execution and creation of the Department of Veterans, which would really deal with their issues both land and housing, and health, treatment, and so on. It's not being done and it's essentially artificially sabotaging, that's the question. Many other questions that have arisen, which we have learned at the meeting, that we can sit down, are determined to make sure that ministers want to do so. And when I hear from the people who came here that the moon they're going after ministers and they can't catch them, and some of them from December to month, this is the irresponsibleness of individual ministers and it leads to a rally in downtown Kiev, to a closure of the movement. So I call on the government: get back to the people, send the profile ministers to talk, send them to the committee, and let them explain to people what they're doing and what they're planning to do for the next six months. All questions can be settled, solved. Everything can be resolved by changes in the budget and normally sat down and explained to people. And you don't have to do populism, but you can do it in a calm, balanced way to find compromises and solve these people's issues. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-19-m0.u126	Thank you. So we're moving on to draft Law 8222. Colleagues, we have 25 minutes, so I'm asking you to support the consideration of the reduced procedure, colleagues. I'm asking everyone to take up jobs so that we can finish our consideration of cultural issues by lunch. Please support the consideration of the reduced procedure. Please vote, please support. Vote. Please be supportive. [[13:37:23]] For a hundred and I'll put it again, colleagues, we're just not going to be able to look into it by lunch. I ask everyone to support the consideration of draft Law 8222 by a reduced procedure, please vote and please support. Vote. Please be supportive. [[13:37:53]] For-147 Guys, I'm gonna put it back on again, I'm gonna put it back on. You'll have to invite the deputies to the hall. You can explain the purpose and purpose of the project. Please enter the Hall and take part in the vote. I'm proposing that we support the reduced procedure and consider it by two o'clock. What's the intrigue? I ask everyone for their support, and I ask you to re-vote draft Law 8222 on a simplified procedure. Please vote and please support. Support me, colleagues, please vote, please support me, we vote. [[13:38:44]] For-154 Decision taken. And I invite you to the report of the Ukrainian national deputy Heratchenko Anton Yuriovich. Please, Mr. Anton, from the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-19-m0.u127	My greetings to the distinguished national deputies, the chairman. Dear Ukrainian people! What is this law about? This law is not typical of me as the author of laws relating to law enforcement agencies, it refers to the issue of the culture, the spirituality of our country. I, like you, realize that without culture and spirituality there is no Ukraine, there is no development of our people. And so it turns out that there are stars of the world's first magnitude in our culture and spirituality. For example, there's a Monastery singer, an opera girl who's been heard in New York, Milan, London. But under our labor legislation, the management of the opera theater should set it free, because unfortunately, our culture cannot finance the sums that our best singers or dancers can pay for in the world’s world-class theaters. So I proposed, along with Mr. Gerasim, to the invitation of representatives and the leadership of our country's theatres, a law that allows our first-world-sized stars to be on missions, and they will be counted in our theaters and will receive only as much wages as they do in us. Why is this necessary? If, for example, our world star, Mrs. Monastirska, stops working at the Kiev theater and when she performs in Milan, London, they will simply write Mrs. Monastirska, Ukraine. It is now written that a star from Ukraine is the best singer of the Kyiv National Opera. This is necessary in order for our world culture to be advertised in the world market in the best opera and ballet theaters. This law is technical, I ask you to support it. This is necessary to ensure that our culture and spirituality at the world level do not deteriorate. And when we make a rich country with you and we make the same fees that we have in London, Paris and New York, then we won't need technical laws that will keep our singers in our country.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-19-m0.u128	Thank you. The report invites the first deputy head of the Committee on Social Policy, Employment and Pension Insurance, Kaplin Sergey Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-19-m0.u129	Dear colleagues! The Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Social Policy, Employment and Retirement at its meeting on 23 May considered a bill submitted by the national deputy Heratchenko and others amending some of the Ukrainian legislative acts on professional development, artistic and artistic staff of the theatre. Amendments to article 84 of the Code of Labour Law provide that the authors propose to provide for the right of theatre managers to determine in a contract with employees the individual maximum period of leave without saving wages. And now essentially to make it clear to millions of our citizens what we accept. We're actually adopting a bill that we're sending hundreds of our highly talented and authoritative artists abroad. So it's the turn of the bill to assign welders, milkmaids, to assign vets there, in principle, the whole country, the entire labor potential of our state to deploy abroad. Why? Because we don't have money for a decent salary. Why? Because we have many billions, I emphasize, of course, the multibillion-dollar prizes of the Naftogazu manager. So the question is, either we stop pornography by handing over the heads of state-owned businesses millions of wages, the Naftogazu leadership bonus, or let them go here and dance and sing in the theaters. Glory to Ukraine! Please accept, vote on this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-19-m0.u130	Thank you. Please record: two in, two in. Thank you. Please, Kuprienka of the Radical Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-19-m0.u131	Oleg Kuprienko, faction of the Radical Party of Oleg Lašek. As my colleague Valery Zarzorgko said, culture is the acquisition of a nation, it's the acquisition of a nation, it's the spirituality of a nation, it's the spirituality of our grandparents, it's culture. It's a big day, we've been talking about culture all day, I don't remember it in Parliament. We have this culture to carry into the masses and we have to start right over here. And today, from the highest stage, don't come here in sneakers and T-shirts. To show people culture, spirituality, and to water with solo singing for a week from TV screens about some parades going on in Kiev. That's all they're waiting for. You've seen in our spirituality, in our history, what was on the weekends. No, it's not. Is it culture? No, it's not. It's cultureless, it's culture-free, we have to carry our own Ukrainian and into the world as well. This law is called upon in the world, when our artists, they speak abroad, there they listen, there they want to see and hear them, so that they carry the flag of Ukraine and the flag of our Ukrainian culture: the Kyiv Opera, the Kiev Dramatic Theatre and other Ukrainian cultural institutions, not just the name. And few will mention that it came from Ukraine, and when it is written in letters like these, that it is the soloist of the Kyiv Opera, not just the name and country, so it will be ours, Ukrainian and we have to vote, support and bear all the world.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-19-m0.u132	Thank you. From Peter Poshenko's Block, Barna Oleg Stepanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-19-m0.u133	Praise Jesus Christ! The nation doesn't die from bullets and fragments, the nation dies when culture dies, when traditions die, when language dies. The Ukrainian people have their centuries - old culture, established traditions, moral values, Christian values. So the formation of the Ukrainian family is the foundation of the formation of the nation as a brick of our society. And I'm obviously uncomfortable when some fellow MPs who aren't familiar with the bill give a critical assessment of the facts that they don't know about or are aware of. Because intimate relationships are secret and secret, which is the opposite of public relations. And when they go out on a public plane, it's about a party in the front, it's going out, it's turning the country into a public house. So I want to go to my colleagues first. The problem of the country, you know, is to some extent not the physical depravity, but sometimes more so in the perversions of the moral, moral, and depravity of society. And so when we talk about the restoration of our values, family values, traditions, we should first talk about a strong Ukrainian Christian, a traditional family, because it is the foundation of our society. "And what do you learn, but do not turn away from yours." Good luck chasing something fashionable, please, if it's better. But there is much more to lose — more family, more family, more national. And if there are parades to be held in Ukraine in our capital, there must be parades, but there must be a parade of our victory over the enemy. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-19-m0.u134	From the Self-Help faction, Babak Olena Valeriyevna gives Irina the word. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-19-m0.u135	Dear friends! I'm going to urge you not to support this bill, and I'm going to explain why. This bill is not about the Monastery; this bill extends to all participants in the artistic composition, that is. A simple example. For example, I am a theater worker, an actress, an opera singer. I have contracts in the world: Munich, London, as already listed. And in my summary, and in my portfolio, it says that I'm a soloist in Munich, London, San Francisco, the Kyiv National Opera. And this is what it is, because every actor is interested in being. Well, all his work was in his official portfolio. But I can't let a person count on a job get paid every month. Once again, it's not just about the stars they're talking about here, it's going to apply to every actor. Now the actor is going to want to get paid, and the actors are going, the singers are going, and he's going to say, "I have the same right as the Monastery or another star to go to London for two months." And we're going to tolerate all of this. We're going to have corpses. In addition, contracts allow us to write such conditions that our stars come to us as Mrs. Monastirska does (5, 6, 10 times a year), sing exhibitions and have such honors as are European. But you don't have to be in the state and you don't need to be in the state every month without being in Ukraine, for example, but on other scenes, you get a monthly salary.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-19-m0.u136	30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-19-m0.u137	So this question can be completely settled. Theatre managers should take responsibility for this. Instead, they want this responsibility to be passed on to us and say that in the theater corpses they will now be equal and even more equal. Once again, this law is not with names, it applies to everyone, and its nature is bad. So I'm going to ask you not to support him. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-19-m0.u138	Thank you. From the "Fatherland" faction, Ivan Krulko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-19-m0.u139	Ivan Krulko, "The Fatherland" faction. The Fatherland faction will support this bill. And really, we have to go back to the face of culture and to those theatrical actors who have been waiting years for their issues to be resolved, including the merit of paying for their work. There can be no successful theater when our actors live there. Just as we have discussed today a number of cultural issues, let's, the honourable Head of the Supreme Council and the honourable deputies, one day we will devote ourselves to the consideration of the social issues that have already matured in this room. Because I totally understand the people, the veterans who came out today on the grounds that for years their benefits have not been resolved, but their benefits have been reduced! When they come and say, "Take back for the families of the losers what they had!" About setting the proper conditions for the disabled to maintain them, to provide them with housing, and to resolve the social issues that have accumulated over the years. About the state financial support of veteran organizations. State health insurance for veterans. They all go out and say, "Why is that? Because they tell us that we've chosen a course to live in a new way." So here's a new way to live I'm going to show you in one very small example. It's a bracelet alone when there was no "live in a new way" class. And that's the bracelet when they started to "live a new life." Compare it. Two Ukrainian bracelets, how it happened and how it happened. So, if it's such a reform and it's so new, then I'm sorry, they've reformed! That's enough! Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-19-m0.u140	From the Opposition Block to the word, Natalia Kraljevska is invited. Two minutes, please. And, colleagues, in two minutes we're going to vote. I ask all the heads of factions to invite deputies to the hall and members of the committee to invite everyone to the hall as much as possible. Please, Mrs. Natalia.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-19-m0.u141	Dear colleagues, this is a rare case where we support the right proposal of coalition representatives and the Opposition Block will vote in favour of this decision. It's an important question, but you and I are very well aware that there is a social collapse in the country right now. And it's not just happening under the walls of Parliament where the Chernobyls, Afghans, veterans, military, and it's happening in every city in our country, in social protection offices, because the government has taken a new decision to review subsidies. And this will mean that millions of families in our country will be deprived of the last opportunity to pay for their housing. And now in every department of social protection, there's a real Armageddon, because hundreds of thousands of people are lining up to be re-assigned, and they're more likely to cancel it. So we demand that the government report urgently on what they are now creating, and urgently review the government's decision and automatically re-assign subsidies to people. Well, you don't have to create social collapses every day, you don't have to create conditions for people to lose faith in any future. Well, why are you doing this? Well, who did that to make a new grant decision and now 5 million families in the country re-assign grants? So the Opposition Block requires the government to urgently review the grant decree, automatically assign subsidies to people, and calm people down now, and let people work in the country and look for jobs. We will support this determination. But, unfortunately, this is not the main issue today, but the main issue today is the social protection of people.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-19-m0.u142	So, colleagues, we've finished the discussion. I'm asking everyone to come into the hall, please ask the factions to invite the deputies into the hall, please let the Supreme Council Secretariat know that we're moving to the vote. So leave the beds, we're going to make a decision. And I'm voting on the draft Act on Amendments to certain Ukrainian legislative acts on the Professional Development of Artistic and Artistic Personnel of the Theatre (No. 8222) proposed by the Committee on the Basis. Please vote, please support. Just on the ground. Vote. Based on the base. Please be supportive. [[13:56:37]] For 209 I'll be back. I'll be back. Please invite someone who's not here. Look. I ask you again, I will not bet endlessly many times. Look to the right, to the left, and invite someone to the hall. The factions, please. Block of Peter Poshenko – 83, National Front – 54, Opposition Block – 23, Self-Help – 2, Radical Party – 18, Fatherland – 8, Will of the People – 7, Rebirth Party – 2. I think we can mobilize and go back. So I'm going to make an offer to come back. I ask everyone to be careful about voting and not leaving the hall, Victor. You're ready, aren't you? I'm voting on the proposal to draft Law 8222 to go back to the committee. Please vote and please support the return to consideration. Please be supportive. Let's vote, colleagues. [[13:58:00]] For 207 If I put a committee to work, would you support me? You'll hold it, won't you? So we don't lose the law. Colleagues, I'll put it back on, if there are no votes, then I'll put it on the committee to work. So once again, I propose to return to the proposal of a committee, which is the basis of draft Law 8222. Whoever supports this proposal, please vote, please support. Vote. Please support the return. [[13:58:41]] For 211 211. And now I'm going to make the following proposal to the committee for further work. Colleagues, I ask you all to prepare so that the bill is not rejected. Don't leave the hall, colleagues, it's 30 seconds. Don't leave. So I'm proposing draft Law 8222 be sent to the committee to prepare for the re-reading. You promised to support it. On the rereading of the first reading, you promised to support it. We're voting 8222 -- for re-reading to the committee. Please vote, please support. So we don't lose the bill. Vote. We support everyone, but we have a deal. [[13:59:31]] For 216 The last is the subject of a legislative initiative. Colleagues, please come into the hall. Don't leave the hall. I propose a third proposal to draft Law 8222 to return the subject to the right of legislative initiative for further processing, please vote, please support, please vote. Colleagues, we vote, every vote, please support. You promised to support it. [[14:00:12]] For 218. 218-yes. Let me put it back again, colleagues. If there are no votes now, the law will be rejected. So I'm going to go back to 8222. Igor, why don't you vote? I repeat my proposal to return to draft Law 8222. Please be supportive. Please vote. Please be supportive. Please come back and I'll put you on the committee. Please be supportive. I'll put it on the committee. Vote. I'll put you on the return committee. [[14:01:04]] For 219 No voices. Law 8222 was rejected. I want to tell you that we have lunch. We'll start with Law 8293. Alexander Trelyakov, this is your committee of 8293. And then we'll put the day session in order when the hall is mobilized. So after lunch, we're going to draft Law 8293. Now, according to the Rules, I declare the morning session of the Supreme Council closed. And at 4 p.m., I ask everyone to come to the hall to continue our work. Thank you.
