ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-04-m0.u1	Good morning! Ladies and gentlemen, please come into the hall and take your seats. National deputies of Ukraine are requested to prepare for registration. So please ask the Ukrainian National Deputies to register. Turn on the registration system. [[10:03:43]] 375 national deputies registered. Honourable National Deputies and Visitors of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, at a meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, participate: Prime Minister of Ukraine Vladimir Borisovich Groysman and members of the government welcome the leaders of the central executive bodies, the leaders of the judicial branch, the officials of the Supreme Council of Ukraine who are elected, appointed and authorized by the Supreme Council of Ukraine to serve, the representatives of the public and the media, the heads of diplomatic representations of foreign states, other officials. [[Applause]] We welcome all the guests of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. [[Applause]] Thus, honourable national deputies and guests of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, in accordance with article 83 of the Constitution of Ukraine, the ninth session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine declares the eighth call openly.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-04-m0.u2	Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-04-m0.u3	Dear colleagues, distinguished guests of the Supreme Council of Ukraine! The head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Andri Volodymyrovich Parubius, is invited to attend. Please, Your Honor, Mr. Head.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-04-m0.u4	Dear colleagues, I would like to welcome you at the beginning of the ninth session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the eighth call. This is the beginning of our work at a time when Ukraine faces very important, sometimes even critical, internal and external challenges. And of course, the biggest challenge facing Ukraine is to continue Russian aggression and protect the Ukrainian state. And so I have no doubt that this issue should be the key to the work of our session. The internal challenges that are often highlighted are the nearing of elections, we enter a year when the elections are both presidential and parliamentary. And many say that political emotions can hinder the full and full work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. But I'm sure it's going to be a period of opportunity and window of opportunity when we can continue the system's work and respond to the challenges that lie ahead. I'm sure that the sense of responsibility in most of the deputies who are present in this room, the sense of statehood and the interests of the state are more important than any political emotion. And that's why I'm sure we can work in this room systematically, systematically and effectively. And of course, to my conviction, the key issue that we need to focus on is the issue of national security and the support of the Ukrainian Armed Forces as a guarantee of independence, but also the continuation of security sector reform in accordance with NATO standards. I'll remind you that in our previous session, we passed the National Security Act. Systemic, framework law, but which provides for the implementation of a number of other laws. Among them is the Ukrainian Security Service Act, and I know that it is being prepared, this is also the Intelligence Authority Act, the Military Industrial Complex, but also the Law that is to be prepared by the Cabinet of Ministers, the Special Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, which would strengthen parliamentary control. Of course, on the way to NATO, and the Euro-Atlantic choice for Ukraine is crucial, we have to give a meaningful answer, but we also have to give an answer in form. So I'm stressing that I support the proposals so that we can consolidate the Euro-Atlantic trend in the Constitution of Ukraine. And even though some say that this action is more important in form, I'm sure it's very important and meaningful. Because I remember, in the tenth year, when I was a member of the military and many of you were deputies, how in this room in a few minutes was thrown out of the Law on the Principles of Internal and External Politics, any mention of NATO. This happened in a matter of minutes with the hand of one person. We can't let our Euro-Atlantic trend ever be revised by anyone. And the changes to the Constitution provide a guarantee and claim that this trend will be preserved regardless of what the politicians in Ukraine or in the presidential office or in this room will be in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. This is our responsibility and this is our mission. Of course, the next key question for this autumn is the adoption of the budget. And it's very important for us to preserve this tradition that was introduced last year. And in collaboration with the government, the work of our committees and the government so that we can go through all the stages of the adoption of the budget according to the law in the discussions here in Parliament between the government and be able to adopt the budget not under the new year, not under the tree, but the legal term provided for in the agreed atmosphere in this room. The next block is just as important as the election block. We enter the electoral year, and we are under an obligation to reform electoral legislation. [[Applause]] I would like to remind you that in this room, in a difficult discussion, 226 votes were adopted in the first reading of the Electoral Codex. An electoral code that introduces open lists and enables citizens to influence political party lists. The record number of rights, over 4,000, is an important and difficult committee work, but I hope that the committee will be able to complete this work in the next week. And I'm convinced that by October, no later than October, the Supreme Council of Ukraine should be in the voter code. He's systematizing a number of laws. And the laws on election to the Supreme Council of Ukraine, and the laws on local elections and the Central Election Commission. We must go through this discussion and make a decision, no matter how long it takes for the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. And of course, our responsibility is to update the composition of the Central Electoral Commission. On August 9, the Central Election Commission on ending the elections in the territorial communities became a very disturbing signal for all of us, and this was another important signal that we cannot drag on with this question. I'm sure we'll be able to find agreement in the near future, and by going through all the procedures, we'll update the Central Election Commission. Also, colleagues, we have two blocks that are important for the external and for the internal politics and development of the country. A very important block next is the laws of European integration, the laws necessary for the implementation of the Association Agreement. Last year, together with the government, we did an important job and put together a road map, making the system of all the laws necessary for European integration. I also want to thank the committee, and I want to thank the government, the vice-premier, for their systematic and planned work. And this summer, when they were so-called canicules, there was a system of work going on and this package of bills was being worked out. In fact, the work is almost confirmed, the final plan will be presented. We have over 50 laws, of which 21 are ready to be considered. And it's very symbolic that we're starting the first week of the ninth session, actually, out of the laws that are strategically in terms of European integration. The next direction is the economic block. Remember our joint block of economic laws -- TOP-35, part of which we went to the previous session? And we need to identify the prerogatives with the help of our committees, with the help of the government, and jointly present and continue to work on this plan. And I think that's our mutual commitment. And also, colleagues, I'm sure in this session it's important for us to consider the Ukrainian Language Act, the State Language Act. [[Applause]] I remembered the tenth year when NATO was mentioned, but I should also mention the days when the Koleschenka-Kivalova Law was held in this room. We did everything we could to ensure that these laws were not adopted. In violation of all procedures, this law was allegedly passed in the Supreme Council of Ukraine, but the Constitutional Court concluded that it had been adopted illegally. And now it is our duty to be able to adopt the new Language Law in a systemic, democratic atmosphere. This is a fundamental question for the life of a nation, for the life of a nation. There are about five bills registered, and I also hope and believe that we will be able to make a positive decision. And what is important to us this fall, to my conviction, is the question of reform of Parliament. I'll remind you, our mutual commitments, which were made by all the heads of factions about the bill: the number of committees, the distribution of committees by the d'Ondt method. Let me remind you, we haven't been working on the TSC issue, and I think we should have a discussion on the interim commission of inquiry. And I will also recommend that we arrange for the mechanism and procedure for the registration of draft laws to be stopped by the legislative spam, which unfortunately exists in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. And, colleagues, this fall we have the opportunity and we need to consider the changes to the Constitution on parliamentary integrity. I know what difficult discussions are, I know there are different opinions, but the Constitutional Court has made its decision. Two laws are sent to Parliament, and the Committee has concluded its proposals and proposals. And this is also, in my opinion, an important position for our work in the autumn. We have many tasks ahead of us, but most importantly, to my conviction, it is a system of work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. I'll remind you, in all the difficult times, in all the electoral years, Parliament was actually the center of stability. And when the state crisis was actually here, there were enough deputies in the Supreme Council of Ukraine to solve these crises. The Supreme Council of Ukraine is the center of stability and is the center of decision-making. The Supreme Council of Ukraine is working, and everything will be fine in our country. I believe and believe that the level of responsibility that we live at will be higher than any political emotion. And I'm sure we can demonstrate that to Ukrainian society. A successful job, and I want all my strength and strength. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-04-m0.u5	Thank you, Mr. Head, for your speech.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-04-m0.u6	Dear colleagues, the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Vladimir Borisovich Groisman, is invited to the floor.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-04-m0.u7	Mr. President of the Supreme Council, Your Honourable Presidium, Your Honorable Fellow Members of the People's Parliament, welcome you to the start of your new session. The beginning of the new session is new opportunities and certainly new challenges. First of all, I want to thank the Supreme Council of Ukraine for, in my view, the productive past sessions where we have managed to find understanding and make decisions that matter to the State. This next session is crucial, as two elections will take place during this period: the election of the President of Ukraine and the Ukrainian Parliament. Clearly, political processes and electoral campaigns will have a direct impact on the quality of decisions and on the country’s life. But I know exactly that any political interest cannot stand above the interest of Ukrainian citizens and our state. I think we should use this period to make Ukraine stronger this year in terms of resistance to external aggression, from the point of view of solving the internal problems that have been accumulated for decades. I know as well as you that there will be many willing to destabilize the situation. As in previous times, we're going to stand up to "the naked populism," which is going to be multiplied by the pre-election struggle. And I think we're going to be witnessing a new phenomenon in Ukraine as political cynicism. And I think that people feel that when politicians talk to them in an open, open, open way, they try to impose on them what they may not be going to do. The task of the government and me as Prime Minister today is to do everything in our power and authority to make the situation stable. We can only do this with the President, with the Ukrainian Parliament. I think that during this period we have to prove to everyone that in the final line before the new competition we can achieve success. As far as priorities are concerned, it should be stressed that it is at this session that historic decisions by Ukraine regarding the consolidation of the right of membership in the European Union, NATO, can be made. They will be anchored, in my opinion, very symbolic words about "Glory to Ukraine!"which were once a literary view for us, and today are words of honour, valour and blood of our warriors. [[Applause]] So I am deeply convinced that historical decisions will be made in this room. I support the President's initiative and convince them that they must be considered as soon as possible. We have the task and the building of a strong Ukrainian state, but there will never be a strong state without a strong economy. So the first priority remains the same: we have to make the necessary decisions together to make the country's economy stronger. And the 135 laws that we've been looking at in the previous period have proven that we can make decisions together regardless of who they are. A strong state, a strong economy, a decent salary that we're talking about, but we have to do it, and a just pension. These are the goals that we can achieve by developing a national economy. And today's economy shows that 3.6 percent of the third quarter is a good signal for all of us. We need to strengthen investment opportunities in Ukraine, support entrepreneurship, make further deregulation, create a proper business climate for us to be competitive. Next. The second priority is European integration, and here we have a common action plan. But our task is not to ensure technical decision-making to get closer to the European Union, we need to make decisions that will open up opportunities for Ukrainian citizens to live better than European standards today. So I think that our consistent position on decision-making that is approaching the European Union is and will remain our common priority. I'm also concerned about another priority that we have today as a threat to the continuation of one of the most successful reforms, the reforms of decentralization of power. And I think that the Ukrainian Parliament needs to respond to the improvement of legislation and a new breath in the process of decentralization, because it allows people to be stronger, it allows people to unite, it solves their issues, and it ultimately transfers the funds from the state budget to the local level. This is a strong step in supporting Ukrainian communities. And another question that's extremely important, and I wouldn't want it to be a hostage to future elections. This is a question of the national budget, of the state budget. It has to be balanced, it has to be fair and it has to be realistic, because for every number we're going to be responsible with you. I think it's time to show again that we are able to make responsible decisions. And these responsible decisions will have a positive impact on the lives of Ukrainian citizens. And it should be noted that we will face various challenges, including making complex decisions, but these complex decisions are precisely caused by the fact that we have a huge debt of our state to third countries and international financial organizations. I haven't talked about this once. From 2005 to 2013, Ukraine borrowed almost 50 billion dollars from outside — 1 trillion, 300 billion dollars. We only have to spend one safe, protective budget each year to service these debts. Finally, we have in the medium term to get rid of the country's external debt. My government didn't take it, most of it wasn't, and the Ukrainians certainly didn't blame it for making such decisions. But our job is to take responsibility and do everything we can to make sure that our external debts are paid out so that we can get rid of the debt bonds on the hands of every Ukrainian citizen. And that's going to mean that we're going to get stronger. I want to urge all of us to think about people and think about how to look them in the eye. Because I am deeply convinced that these elections will be an exam, and I would very much like this, for truth, for honesty, for openness and for the ability to make the right state decisions, which make Ukraine stronger. I'm counting on you and me to be the same. Thank you and wish you a successful job.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-04-m0.u8	Thank you. Dear colleagues, let us thank the government in charge of the Prime Minister and all those who participated in the opening of the ninth session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Thank you. Thank you. [[Applause]] Colleagues, the morning plenary meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, declare open. And I remind you that in accordance with article 25 of the Rules on Tuesday, we have 30 minutes for statements by authorized representatives of the MPs and groups with proposals, announcements, reports. The factions and groups would like to sign up for the performance. Please. From the Peter Prashenko Block to the word, the head of the Arthur Gerasimov faction is invited. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-04-m0.u9	Dear Mr. Head! Dear colleagues! Dear Ukrainians! First of all, I welcome all colleagues from the beginning of the ninth session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the eighth call. As you know, there was a meeting yesterday between the President of Ukraine and the leaders of parliamentary factions and groups during which strategic tasks were discussed for this session. The meeting was attended by the Head of the Supreme Council and the Prime Minister of Ukraine. The consolidation in the Constitution of Ukraine of a permanent NATO and European Union course, until full membership, is almost unanimously defined by Parliament's key task. The power of the political forces and the people's deputies who supported the President of Ukraine is more than 300 votes, i.e. a real constitutional majority on the issue of Ukraine's foreign policy course. I would like to remind you that the changes to the Basic Law on NATO and the EU will confidently protect the Euro-Atlantic choice of the Ukrainian people, for which our best citizens fight and give their lives. The aim of President Peter Prashenko's reform of the Constitution, clearly and transparently to consolidate Ukraine's Euro-Atlantic and European integration, is a concrete and decisive step that will have direct legal power. At the same time, all applications for memoranda, other so-called 'literacy filks', are attempts by any means to undermine Ukraine's accession to NATO and the EU. So once again, the consolidation in the Constitution of our Euro-Atlantic and European integration is another powerful step towards the complete irreversibility of Ukrainian independence. Voting for such changes will clearly demonstrate who is in favor of the Ukrainian State and who still wants to bring us back to the Kremlin’s imperial orbit. We are also obliged to expedite and amend the Constitution regarding the Ukrainian Crimea. In this session, we must finally vote for the changes to the Constitution in part of the restrictions on parliamentary integrity. All present here, in the session room, promised their voters that the inviolability would be lifted. The President passed such a bill, the Constitutional Court approved it, enabling Parliament to adopt this historic decision. Our next task is to legislate the slogan "Glory to Ukraine!"The Hero of Glory!" As an official military welcome. This year at the Independence Day parade, our soldiers first used the patriotic slogan instead of the outdated greeting of the Soviet model. This slogan was and is a symbol of our people’s struggle for their independence. We also need to keep in mind our debts. During the summer, Parliament failed to update the composition of the CLTC, despite the clear position of our faction. It is therefore necessary to update the constituency as soon as possible and to appoint judges of the Constitutional Court regarding the unity of the Ukrainian Orthodox Church. During the days, Ukraine received another very good signal from Constantinople. In spite of all the efforts of our northern neighbor, another twofold step was taken on the way to getting Tomos. 30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-04-m0.u10	Please, 30 seconds. Talk to me.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-04-m0.u11	Regarding the unity of the Ukrainian Orthodox Church. During the days, Ukraine received another very good signal from Constantinople. In spite of our northern neighbor’s efforts, another twofold step was taken on the way to getting Tomos. We believe that the dream of many generations of Ukrainians will soon come true. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-04-m0.u12	Thank you. From the Radical Party to the word Lazko Oleg Valeriyovich is invited. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-04-m0.u13	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Dear colleagues, on important but daily matters, we forget things that are excessive. Today is the anniversary of the death of the great Ukrainian poet Vasil Stus. I ask Mr. Head to honor the moment of silence of the great Ukrainian.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-04-m0.u14	Dear colleagues, I declare a moment of silence. [[A Minute of Silence]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-04-m0.u15	Culture, language, the church, the army are the foundation of Ukrainian independence. That's why our team supports Ukraine's course and NATO's security space, into Euro-Integration Space. At the same time, though, we insist that we keep in mind that the world is not confined to Europe. There are going to be our partners and China and many other powerful countries. They need to be maintained, strengthened, and strengthened in order to make Ukraine stronger. But the best European integration is when people live decently in their own country. Because when Foreign Minister Klimkin admitted yesterday that a million people leave Ukraine each year, why do they leave? Because they do not see the prospect and fate of their home country. They seek happiness in foreign lands. And that's why Parliament's task, when the leaders were here, was to do this session, the task of both the President, and the government, and the Parliament, is to give people hope and opportunity to live in their own country. A radical change in economic policy, a radical breakthrough to a bright future, not to the 19th century. When people raise their space prices today, as a result, people are forced from their homes to move to the booth room to save money and not pay those space prices for gas. That's why we're asking the government, the President, who's responsible for the same thing, by signing a memorandum with the International Monetary Fund, by making a commitment to raise gas prices, will give up this "dragon" idea. The increase in gas prices in exchange for the International Monetary Fund's next loan is the preservation of Ukrainian poverty, the deindustrialisation of the Ukrainian economy, the reduction of the competitiveness of our production, resulting in the reduction of people and the re-entry abroad. My policy is to bring the Ukrainians home, to lower the prices of gas for industry, to be competitive, to raise wages, to recalculate pensions, when millions of Ukrainians, colporteurs of former, Montenegrin, military officials have not yet received their pensions. And then people won't come out of the country when they see what they can do, work what they can do, and that the state doesn't rob them on account of what they can get into each country's pockets. What is needed to bring about a system of things in the country? Powerful. When it comes to changes to the Constitution, the first change we propose to this Constitution is the abolition of the post of Prime Minister of Ukraine under the American model of power, when the President will lead the government and reduce the number of MPs to 200. Less officials, more workers! Fewer swallows, more than those who create Ukraine, who restore it, who rebuild it. The Light Plan: Creating order in the country, restoring the economy, new jobs for Ukrainians.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-04-m0.u16	Thank you. From the "Fatherland" faction to the word, Timoshenko Julia Volodymyrna is invited. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-04-m0.u17	Good afternoon, dear colleagues. 2019 is the year of the presidential and parliamentary elections. And we remember very well in 2010, when counterfeiting, deception, violence broke into the power of a completely anti - Ukrainian force, changed the course, and it ended in war, loss of territory, end in the Revolution of Dignity and destruction. And that is why I now call for the start of all of these elections to sign all the policies that are running for the presidency, as well as for the Supreme Council, a memorandum on the continuity of the course for European and Euro-Atlantic integration, the restoration of territorial integrity and the sovereignty of Ukraine. The memo looks like this. "The Ukraine is clearly aware of the enormous personal responsibility towards the Ukrainian people and Ukraine, deeply respecting the historic choice of the Ukrainian people for the restoration of Ukrainian independence, done on 24 August 1991 and confirmed by the All-U.S. referendum on 1 December 1991, as well as the two revolutions, giving tribute to the Russian Federation's military aggression against Ukraine, interfering with the internal affairs of our country, impeding on the peaceful and happy life of the nation's
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-04-m0.u18	Please, 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-04-m0.u19	"which are illegally held by the Kremlin and terrorists in eastern Ukraine. The above priorities are firm and untouchable for all the political forces that signed the memorandum. They can neither be an object of speculation nor an audit, either during election campaigns or after taking office. " I urge everyone to sign this memo and become the only national team.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-04-m0.u20	From the People's Front faction to the word, Burbak Maksim Yuriovich is invited. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-04-m0.u21	Dear colleagues, we are entering a challenging and responsible period of electoral competition. At the same time, the country will need important decisions every day. The People's Front is convinced that at this time the Supreme Council is obliged to become a center and an example of political stability. Above all, we must prevent and counter Russia's involvement in the presidential and parliamentary elections. The Kremlin is systematically involved in elections in EU and NATO countries. Moscow will try to do the same in Ukraine. Russia is now openly and insolently controlling Ukraine's media space through Medvedchuk. That is why the People's Front will insist on the immediate adoption of Bills 8494 and 6762 on transparency in the financing of electronic media. We also insist on a return to the bill of responsibility for denying the fact of Russian aggression, banning Russian participation in the share capital of the television company, and extending the powers of the Nacradia on the issue of radio broadcasting. The Ukrainian army is holding back Moscow’s invasion on the front, but the enemy is attacking every Ukrainian through a television screen. This has to be stopped. In the leading states of the West, which are a model of freedom of speech, the fight against Russian propagandists has already begun. The Kremlin is trying to make it an offensive to journalism. No, it's not journalism. These are informational armies of the Kremlin in a foreign territory disguised as free media. That's the same thing I do with presidential candidates. Competition and debate during the election race should not work against the country. We remember that every minute. Only in the only front can we defend and develop Ukraine. The People's Front is also convinced that we must respond to Russia's next provocation against Ukraine in the Azov Sea. The answer to Ukraine’s maritime blockade should be to increase our military presence. Increasing economic sanctions from the world community is the price Russia is to pay. And this issue needs to be discussed at the highest international level. Among them, the People's Front believes that in the fall we must work effectively, adopt a series of important decisions that relate to national security, economics, finance, reforms, and the Euro-Atlantic choice of Ukraine. Among other things, this fall, we should vote for the new Central Election Commission. Conducting elections with an old CDC will automatically mean their illegality. We have to update the Electoral Code. The document is complex, voluminous, and needs attention. Among the authors of our faction. But we need to get a quality document in order to form a new and reform state administration and build a country of equal opportunity. Among the required documents is the state budget for the following year. The People's Front faction won't allow the budget to be held hostage by the electoral battalions. The budget cannot become a ring for populism and demagogia without rules and accountability. At the same time. 30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-04-m0.u22	Please give me 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-04-m0.u23	At the same time, in the Armed Forces, everything must be in order to protect the country from the aggressors. Military, teachers, policemen, doctors, government officials should receive salaries, pensioners. Because as a responsible political power, members of the coalition, we support all decisions and actions of the coalition government aimed at creating a balanced budget for the following year. Dear colleagues, I urge everyone to work hard and prove once again that the Supreme Council has been, is and will be an island of stability and democracy in Ukraine. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-04-m0.u24	Thank you. Welcome to the speech of the National Deputy Bondar of the Rebirth Group, from the Rebirth Party. Right? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-04-m0.u25	Dear colleagues! Dear friends! We have heard many stories, especially in recent times, about how things are developing well and many prospects in this country. We are constantly being searched for external enemies, told why there is no way to build fine processes and create the right conditions for the lives of Ukrainians, for they are constantly being hindered. First of all, they are hampered by their internal problems, their strife, their inability to work, and their unwillingness to work, and by the fact that completely unprofessional teams are recruited in ministries, offices, and governments themselves. Our Rebirth Party requires us to start looking at and looking at these little issues that we've been asked to deal with in the daytime, hundreds of questions, such as the Physical Culture and Sports Act, is probably important, but not a priority for Ukrainians today. Start by reviewing the Cabinet of Ministers, listening to every minister, calling here to the rostrum, and listening to what they have done for Ukraine and the Ukrainians in recent years. We suggest that we personally spend time, but listen to 3-5-7 hours -- as long as it takes -- every minister he's done in recent years, how his cadence ends, what he's done for his field and how these reforms ended. I think that every Ukrainian already feels that nothing really changes, anarchy, disorder and vachanalia in every ministry continues. Take a look at health care, the virgin acting minister of Suprun’s duties, and how she ends her kennel: nothing! Absolute failure and collapse of the health sector, the inability of Ukrainians to heal. Look at every other sector: transport -- we're buying locomotives for a billion dollars in the United States instead of building a billion dollars plant in Ukraine. And so every branch! I think every minister needs to take a personal look at the situation, and here, in the hall, make decisions about what to do with them. In my opinion, an absolute majority can be released immediately from the Hall of the Supreme Council and appointed normal professional people who will take responsibility for these six months will begin to bring the country out of the crisis. You see what this government policy is offering us: raising tariffs. After nearly 10 times the gas tariffs have been cynically increased, nearly 3.5 times the electricity tariffs have been raised, almost four times the heating tariffs, they are once again offering to raise the tariffs. Let's hear what monetary policy is going to be. We see what kind of currency mess today, and normal industries don't know how to plan their activities. Let's hear what happens to the budget, let's hear what happens to the government at the State Fiscal Service, at the Customs Service -- total collapse, the fight of the clans for smuggling flows, the fight against the law enforcement agencies, and so on. This is the activity of today’s government. So we suggest we start with a key.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-04-m0.u26	30 seconds, please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-04-m0.u27	So we suggest we start with a key question. Humans and humans form perspectives. Today’s composition of government, today’s composition of people in ministries, offices that perform duties instead of being principled leaders, must be updated. And then the order will begin, and then the economic recovery, the industrial recovery, the job creation, and the country's order will begin. Everything else is the butaphoria that the authorities are offering us today.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-04-m0.u28	Thank you. And I invite you to the words of the People's Deputy Villkull of the Opposition Block faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-04-m0.u29	Dear people of Ukraine! Today at this rostrum at the beginning of the new session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, we are not talking about the beginning of the new political season, we are talking about the continuation of the fight. What is this fight for? For the health of our citizens, for the education of Ukrainian children, for the pensions of our old. It's a struggle against those who have been driving our country into chaos and despair for almost five years and the Ukrainians into depression, it's a struggle for a peaceful, prosperous and prosperous country. That is how we, as opposition, define our basic goals and objectives. Now comes the final phase for active power. Because in the next election, we're sure, the people will give her their grade and send her to the dump of history. Sadly, though, in the six months left, this team, especially this government, can accomplish many things that will have to be long gone by those to whom the people of Ukraine will trust to rule the country further. Not a secret that the authorities are preparing to increase gas prices for the population, they are going to continue the social experiments that they mistakenly call reforms. Without a clear economic agenda, the government plans to continue its mindless and stalemate policy of accumulation of external debt. Instead of supporting industry, they're again asking the IMF for billions of loans, calling it the only chance to keep the economy going. But the real state of the economy, unfortunately, tells us that there could be an even greater collapse of the exchange rate, and the country could face a crisis of non-payments of pensions and salaries, as we have seen in the summer. This is all the result of this unprofessional state policy that we've been seeing for the past four and a half years, as well as the record in the days of the independence of corruption. And our task as opposition is to make sure that the last six months of this power do not prove fatal to our country and our people. I would also like to take this opportunity to welcome teachers, students, and their parents today on behalf of the faction, with the start of a new school year, with Knowledge Day. I assure you that when we come to power and win elections, we will not close schools, we will build schools. We're not going to cut down educational and educational programs, but we're going to do everything we can to make Ukrainian education one of the best in the world, and our specialists stayed here in Ukraine and help support our state.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-04-m0.u30	Please let me finish for 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-04-m0.u31	I also took the opportunity, as I promised, to personally say hello to my first teacher, and I promised her, the Stone Valentina Dmitrievna. I wish you strong health, long years of life and grateful disciples. And we will do our best to ensure that the teacher's profession is honorable and dignified. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-04-m0.u32	Please, you asked for 30 seconds to speak Russian, didn't you? I think she'll understand you and Ukrainian, your teacher, if she's an intelligent person. Thank you. Welcome to the speech of the People's Deputies of the Self-Help faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-04-m0.u33	Ladies and gentlemen, listening to some Ukrainian politicians, feels like they live in Switzerland, in a parallel life. And in real life today, we have obvious things -- this is a major impoverishment of human beings, this corrupt authority that uses force organs to fight those who fight corruption, and this is a rematch of Russian and pro-Russian forces, including in the Parliament Hall. Why is this happening? Because someone does not perform his or her functions. What is the function of Parliament for this year? Parliament's function is to adopt the law. And I believe that there are 226 people in this room who are ready to press the button and give the next chance to develop the Ukrainian institutional state: to adopt the Elections Act to the Supreme Council on a proportional basis with open lists. Because it is a tool to combat the oligarchic government and power in Ukraine. This is problem number one. The other one. President of Ukraine. The delay by the President of Ukraine in passing the Anti-Corruption Court Act and the non-Court of Anti-Corruption Court today has left the government dependent and has led to a huge financial deficit in the country! A government dependent on oligarchs, the government cannot perform its functions by paying pensions and salaries to teachers. Parliament's task is to push and force the creation of a high-quality Anti-Corruption Court. And while the government is dependent on the oligarchs, it fills the budget, the budget deficit from where? From the hands of ordinary people. Retirement delay, depriving 60 percent of people of subsidies running to the counter, and watching them cook food so as not to overcharge themselves for months with gas. Where does he take the money? The government takes money from local budgets. Fuel Excise - Level 2016, everything else - to the central government. The government figured out to pay 75 percent of the rent on the land of Cruise and Skrnafti. Kruknafta is already robbing the Ukrainian budget without extracting oil, destroying the oil sector, losing gas in the air -- hundreds of thousands of cubic metres per day at all birthplaces. It's money from people's pockets. Instead of poverty, we want to produce conditions in which a person will live in prosperity. Instead of corruption, justice, instead of rematch, will. That's our job. And at the beginning of the century.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-04-m0.u34	Please, 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-04-m0.u35	Early in the century, our ancestors had a tool. They said, "Our power is our own. The world is one of the strong!".. By this power of will, I want a parliament that must defend the interests of a person in the Ukrainian independent institutional free, economically prosperous state.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-04-m0.u36	Thank you. So the factions are finished and I ask all the national deputies to return to the Hall. I address the heads of the factions, invite all the deputies to the hall. There will be a vote for the agenda. And I ask the secretariat of the Supreme Council to invite all the deputies to the Hall. So yesterday at the Conciliation Council, I announced that not all the committees had submitted their proposals on the agenda for the entire session. Accordingly, not all the factions have been able to identify and submit their proposals, so we have decided to allow all the committees to submit their proposals within the next week and today to establish the order of the day for the week. And now I'm going to propose that we establish the agenda for the week. The order of the day is designed in such a way that the interests of most factions are taken into account. There is a block of intellectual property issues that is also important for the implementation of the Association Agreement, also a block of national security and defence and a large number of ratifications for which we have debt. And that's why I have an offer to the hall, to the factions to maintain the order of the day for the week, and for the entire session, the order of the next Tuesday, so that we can vote. Any support for that position, colleagues? If we don't support it, we can only consider second readings, only second readings can we consider. I ask you to proceed to the vote now. Do we exchange thoughts on factions? What is the position? So, I emphasize, colleagues, the proposal for a weekly agenda. Look, here are the proposals of most factions. Let's support it. Colleagues, please, take up jobs and prepare for the vote. This question does not provide for discussion. It provides for a vote. The weekly agenda. I'm asking you to back everyone up, take jobs. So, are your colleagues ready to vote? So I ask you to support the weekly agenda of the plenary meetings of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on September 4-7, where is the ratification block, the Euro-integration cluster and the National Security and Defence Block. I ask everyone to prepare for the vote, to take up jobs. Guys, don't make me call ten times. I'm asking the factions to help us mobilize. And I'm asking you to maintain your schedule for the week from September 4th to September 7th. Please vote and please support. So, colleagues, every voice matters, please support. Vote. Please be supportive. Vote. [[11:00:50]] For 176 We didn't make it. I'll read the factions. "Block of Peter Poshenko" – 80, "National Front" – 44, "Resistance Block" – 0, "self-help" – 17, "Radical Party" – 9, "Fathership" – 13, "Will of the People" – 1, "Party "Resurrection" – 2. My colleagues, I would like to point out that there are no problems for me, we can move on to the questions of second reading. And if there are no votes now, that's how the work is going to be built. This way we can't look at part of intellectual property issues and part of security and defence issues. I'm asking everyone to mobilize. I'll put it to the vote again. And I'd like you to come into the hall and take your jobs. So, the heads of factions! Ready to vote? I'm re-voting the weekly agenda for the plenary sessions of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on September 4-7. I remind you that it takes into account the proposals of most factions, and we just won't be able to look at them if we don't support them. And I urge the deputies to take up their jobs now, not to leave the hall and maintain their agenda for the week of September 4-7. Please vote and please support. So, if you'll excuse me, please vote. Vote. [[11:03:21]] For - 194. 194. One more time on the factions. I'm going to put the closing down once, the third one now. If there are no votes, we go only to the second reading and ratification issues as well I can put without getting into the agenda of the day session. So, Block Peter Poshenko is 84, People's Front is 51, Opposition Block is 0, Self-help is 21, Radical Party is 13, Fatherland is 12, Will of the People is 1 and Rebirth is 1. I would like to point out that your drafts, which you recommended, are in the order of the day for today, are in the order of the day for today. I just don't understand this position. Now I'm addressing the factions again, because then the factions' heads will come up to me and ask for certain bills to be placed in the order of the day, because they're very important. If we don't confirm the order of the day, it won't be possible, I must say, impossible. And Arthur and Maxim, I'm stressing that, then it's impossible to include. Don't leave the hall. I'm going to put it to a vote. I'm asking everyone to take up jobs. Please return to the hall, colleagues, from the bed, Mr. Yuri, Mr. Vladimir, Mr. Yuri, return to the hall. It's a matter of national security. Support me, Mr. Vladimir. So let's go to the vote. I'm asking everyone to take up jobs. And I'm putting to the vote the weekly agenda of the plenary sessions of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on September 4-7. It's a security and defence block, a block of Euro-integration and ratification. And I ask everyone to take part in the vote now, everyone to take their jobs. And I'm stressing. Then I will feel the same way about your requests. And please maintain the schedule for the week 4-7 of September. Please vote and please support. We vote, every vote. Please be supportive. [[11:06:19]] For 206 So we didn't have enough votes to be able to back up the week. So we have the opportunity to address only the issue of second reading and ratification. I'll read the finals to make it clear. Peter Poshenko's Block – 87 votes, People's Front – 60, Self-Help – 20, Radical Party – 12, Parenthood – 12, Will of the People – 2 and Rebirth Party – 1. So the first question of the order of the day is the question of intellectual property (second reading) (4571). The bill is consistent, it has only a few rights. So I ask you not to leave the room, because the vote will take place quickly. And I invite the First Vice-Chairman of the Committee on Science and Education of Singer Alexander Volodymyrovich to report on the draft Act amending article 5 of the Ukrainian Law on the distribution of audiovisual works, phonographs, videograms, computer programs, databases (No. 4571). Please, Alexander Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-04-m0.u37	Good afternoon, dear colleagues. Congratulations to everyone on Knowledge Day. I hope that the adoption of laws that are based around the law that we have already passed with you, 7466, and we need to adopt seven more laws. Unfortunately, we have not voted on the agenda, and today we are only considering one bill, 4571. I want to inform you that at our session of our Scientific and Educational Committee, on May 23, 2018, we considered this issue and unanimously voted in favour of receiving it in the second reading and in general. As far as the contents of this bill are concerned. The purpose of the bill is to ensure legal protection of the rights of authors, performers, phonograph manufacturers, videograms, computer programs, databases in the distribution of their works and performances, to overcome piracy, and to improve the investment climate in Ukraine. The bill proposes to clarify the order of submission of applications for stamps, as well as the requirement of mandatory publication on the official website of the central executive body, which implements public policy in the field of intellectual property, applicant information and relevant audiovisual products on the decision taken to issue control stamps, quantities, dates and so on. Dear colleagues, only two amendments were made in preparation for the second reading, from which the committee proposes that the amendment of the Ukrainian national deputy, Mr. Yuri Lewchenk, be taken into account in an editorial manner and that the amendment of the Spiowakovsky people’s deputy be taken into account in full. As a result of the committee discussion, we discussed the matter with the committee members, decided unanimously to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine a project to be adopted on second reading and in general. Dear colleagues, this is one of the seven bills we must adopt. This is a structure that will ensure a civilized attitude towards intellectual property rights in Ukraine, and this means that the involvement of relevant investments in Ukraine will take place. So this bill is compromise enough, it doesn't affect anyone's interests, it just sets civil rights in the intellectual property market. So please support the decision of the Ukrainian Science Committee and vote in favour. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-04-m0.u38	Thank you. So let's go to the right. I remind you, there were only two revisions, and in fact both were included. So let us immediately move on to making a decision. And I'm asking everyone to come into the hall and get ready to vote. And I would like to stress that the right hand is only two, and they're accounted for, and we're moving on to making a decision. I ask everyone to enter the workplace and prepare for the vote. Heads of factions, I'm asking you to invite the deputies into the hall. And I'm voting on the draft Law on Amendments to Article 5 of the Ukrainian Law on the Distribution of Audiovisual Copies, phonograms, videos, computer programs without data (for overcoming piracy and improving investment climate) (No. 4571) at the request of a second-reading committee and in general. Please vote and please support. Vote. Please be supportive. [[11:11:58]] For 202 I'll ask you again. And now I'm going to all the factions to see who's not around and invite the national deputies to the hall. It may be difficult to go to plenary meetings and work, but I ask everyone to mobilize as much as possible, organize deputies, adjust to work. I'll read the factions. Block of Peter Poshenko – 88, National Front – 55, Opposition Block – 0, Self-help – 14, Radical Party – 10, Fatherland – 11, Will of the People – 3, Rebirth Party – 1, non-fractional – 20. Postfaction gives an example. I'm asking everyone to take up their jobs, come into the hall. I'm going to put, if there's no votes, the bills I'm just going to reject, I'm just going to reject, because it's not about political will, it's about banal discipline in the hall. Heads of factions, please, see who's not here, and invite us to the hall. So I'm voting on the draft Act amending article 5 of the Ukrainian Law on the distribution of audiovisual works, phonographs, videograms, computer programs, databases (to overcome piracy and improve investment climate). I am the first to return to his consideration. Back to the draft Law 4571. Please vote and please support. Please take part in the vote. Please vote. Vote. Andrew Volodymyrovich, don't you vote? You don't mind, do you? [[11:14:25]] For 219 I'll do it again. And I can't imagine what happens in people's heads when I put a European integration law to the vote. And they come out of the hall or they have discussions with each other, I just can't imagine. This can be said on the air about European integration and agitation, and when you have to be in the hall and make decisions. So, colleagues, I'm going to put it to the vote again, and I'm going to ask everyone to take up their jobs. So, Igor, please prepare, you see, every voice matters. I propose once again to return to draft Law 4571, the European Integration Law. And I ask all my colleagues to take part in the vote and support the proposal to return to draft Law 4571. So, please vote, please support, every vote. Please support, we vote. [[11:16:01]] For 224 Two votes. Two votes. Just two deputies came in. Colleagues, so two votes, I'm asking everyone to take the job. Please prepare and assist the faction committees and heads. So we vote, we vote in favour of returning to draft Law 4571. To return. Please vote, please support, vote. Please be supportive. Vote. [[11:16:55]] For 235 We're back. And I'm voting on draft Law 4571 in second reading and in general. If you'll excuse me, I'd like to vote. Vote! Please be supportive. [[11:17:21]] For 240 The law is passed. I welcome everyone to the question that we have adopted the first law of European integration. And Peter Dustenka's Block, and the People's Front, they're asking to re-set the weekly agenda. There's mobilization in the hall, I'm asking everyone to prepare for the vote. I'm going to re-supply the weekly schedule and ask everyone to support me, colleagues. We have recommendations from all factions taken into account this week. I ask you, colleagues, to participate as much as possible in the vote to support it. And I'm voting on the proposal to support the weekly agenda of the plenary meetings of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on September 4-7: a block of Euro-integration, security and defence and ratification. Please vote and please maintain the weekly agenda. Every voice! If you'll excuse me, I'd like to vote. We're backing it up. [[11:18:35]] For 219 Seven votes! We didn't make it! Please come into the hall, colleagues, I'll put it back on. That's it. Colleagues, look at the weekly agenda! These questions were repeatedly addressed to me: national security issues, equality of women and men in the army, issues relating to Euro-integration. On all airs, everyone supports these questions. Why do I suddenly have other reasons when I vote? I'm asking everyone to take their seats now. We have two more questions about the order of the day: intellectual property, but these questions are in the first reading, and we can't look at them until the approved order of the day is weekly. So that we can get to their consideration right now, I'm asking you to support everyone. So take up jobs. So please, everyone, prepare for the vote. And I'm voting on the proposal to maintain the weekly agenda of plenary meetings on September 4-7. Please vote and please support, every vote matters. Andrew Volodymyrovich. Please vote and please support. We vote, we vote, we vote. [[11:20:01]] For 214 What's the matter, colleagues? What's the matter?
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-04-m0.u39	One minute at a time. Let's give the faction heads one minute at a time. We can't move on to other intellectual property issues until we establish the weekly agenda. But, Mr. Arthur, now we're going to start a discussion, and once again, we're just going to lose votes again. Let's do it again, colleagues. I'll read the factions. By factions, please turn me on. "Block of Petra Dustenka" - 90. I think there might be more. People's Front - 66, Opposition Block - 0, Self-Help - 18, Radical Party - 8. I'm asking for your support, colleagues. "Fatherhood" - 12, "Will of the People" - 3. I would like to point out that your bill is in order of the day. "Rebirth Party" is 0. Colleagues, let's re-mobilize and vote on the weekly agenda. So please take your seats, please prepare for the vote, and please maintain the agenda for the plenary meetings on September 4-7. Please vote and please support. Vote, please support, vote. National security, European integration, please support everyone. [[11:21:35]] For 217 So we can't start the following laws of first reading intellectual property, unfortunately. So we move on to the second reading, the block that stands next. Mr. Spiowakovsky, we're going to try again, and if we vote, we're going to put questions of intellectual property on the table when they do. When there's a mobilization in the hall. Thus, in the second reading box, the draft Law amending certain Ukrainian laws on cross-border cooperation (No. 6085) is the first. And I invite the head of the European Integration Committee's subcommittee, Jurinec Oksana Vasilovna, to report. Please, Mrs. Oksana.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-04-m0.u40	Dear Mr. Head, distinguished national MPs! The Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on European Integration at its meeting discussed preparations for the second reading of the draft Ukrainian Law on Amendments to Certain Ukrainian Laws on Cross-border Cooperation (Registration No. 6085). On June 6, 2017, the draft Ukrainian Law amending certain Ukrainian laws on cross-border cooperation was considered by the Supreme Council of Ukraine in its first reading and adopted as a basis. According to article 116 of the Ukrainian Rules, 33 amendments were made to the Committee on European Integration. On the basis of these amendments, the Committee on European Integration has decided to take 18 amendments into account, of which 4 amendments have been taken into account in part and 15 amendments have been rejected; and to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine a bill for registration number 6085 to be adopted in the second reading and in general as a law taking into account supported proposals in the proposed last edition in the comparative table to the bill. In making such a decision, the national deputies of Ukraine came from the fact that the adoption of the bill would ensure that there were legislative grounds for the formation and operation of Euro-regional cooperation, European associations of territorial cooperation, and the introduction of transparent conditions for State support for cross-border cooperation projects. It is worth noting that the state of affairs of cross-border cooperation is regulated by the current Ukrainian Law on Cross-border Cooperation, which was adopted in 2004, with the following changes that require updating and detail. In particular, Ukraine’s current law does not contain provisions for the activities of the European Regional Cooperation Unions, which are provided for in Protocol 3 to the European Framework Convention on Cross-border Cooperation between Territorial Communities and the Authorities concerning the Unification of Regional Cooperation. Also since the adoption of the Law on cross-border cooperation by the European Union, new legal acts have been developed to regulate the activities of European associations of territorial cooperation in which Ukraine can also participate. Also a problem area is the way and form of state support for cross-border cooperation. In practice, there is often a situation where European partners are willing to allocate funds to finance certain projects or objects, but the Ukrainian side cannot meet its own obligations to co-finance such projects or objects at the same time and to the fullest extent. Accordingly, such projects are not being implemented at all, or their implementation is delayed in time. Therefore, there is an urgent need to improve the legal framework noted in order to enable new forms of cross-border cooperation to take place.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-04-m0.u41	Please, 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-04-m0.u42	That, in turn, will contribute to development in this area and have a positive economic and social impact on natural border areas. The principal legal office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine has expressed its comments on the bill that has been passed. That is, under the transcript, the formulation of article 6 of the first draft of the law in the next edition (note!: "General coordination of cross-border cooperation and monitoring of cross-border legislation."
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-04-m0.u43	Let's add a minute to Mrs. Oksani. Please, just a minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-04-m0.u44	Again. To article 6 of the first draft of Ukraine's law, the following edition reads: "General coordination of cross-border cooperation and monitoring of compliance with legislation on cross-border cooperation is carried out by the central executive body, which ensures the formation of national regional policy, with the participation of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Ukraine, in accordance with the powers determined by the Ukrainian legislation and international agreements governing relations in this area, the consent and obligation of which is given by the Supreme Council of Ukraine." Part two of the new article 9 reads as follows: “The sources of financing for the integration of Euro-regional cooperation may be: one-time or periodic contributions, the counting of founders and members of the union; funds and other assets that are in line with international technical assistance programmes; costs of bringing together the Euro-regional co-operation of core activities; passive revenues; other incomes that do not conflict with legislation.” Please support using the editor's stenogram.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-04-m0.u45	Thank you. So let's move on to the right-hand side. I ask the right-wing authors to prepare, and I'll read the corrections that are rejected. 1st, Dove. Don't insist. 3rd, Solvar. Don't insist. 8th, Branzovich. Don't insist. 9th. Don't insist. 10th. Don't insist. 12th. Don't insist. 14th. Don't insist. 15th. Don't insist. 20th. Don't insist. 23rd. Don't insist. 24th. Don't insist. 30th. Don't insist. So, colleagues, the committee's been working on all the paperwork, and we can move on to the decision-making process. And I'm asking you to invite all the deputies into the hall. We're moving on to making a decision. I ask the heads of factions and the Secretary of the Supreme Council to invite all the deputies to the Hall and please prepare for the decision. So I'm voting on the draft Act amending some of the Ukrainian laws on cross-border cooperation (No. 6085) in second reading and in general. Please vote, please support. Vote. Please be supportive. [[11:29:40]] For 211 I'll be back in a minute. I see they're not all there. I'm asking you to come back to the National Deputies Hall. Please take up your jobs. So I propose to go back to the draft Law amending certain laws of Ukraine regarding cross-border cooperation (No. 6085). Please vote, please support the return. Everyone please take part in the vote and please support. We're voting for the return. Please be supportive. Please vote. [[11:30:42]] For 225 Okay. Take up jobs. Vote when making a decision. I'm asking you to support the return to Bill 6085. Please vote, everyone, please take part in the vote. Vote. Please be supportive. Please be supportive. [[11:31:14]] For 226 We're back. Colleagues, I'm asking everyone to come into the hall and take jobs. And I'm voting on the draft Act amending some of Ukraine's laws on cross-border cooperation (6085) in second reading and in general. Please vote and please support. Colleagues, carefully, ask everyone to take part in the vote. Vote. We're backing it up. Please vote. We're backing it up. Vote. [[11:31:57]] For 234 The law is passed. This is the second European integration law. Colleagues, the following is the draft Act amending article 11 of the Ukrainian Act on the Management of Property Objects (No. 3131). And I invite the head of the Economic Policy Committee, Ivanchuk Andriy Volodymirovich, to report. The committee head! I'm inviting you to report. Please report. There aren't many laws in this law, so I'm asking you not to break up.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-04-m0.u46	Dear Mr. Head! Dear National Deputies! Welcome, everyone, to the beginning of the session. Bill 3131 is being submitted for your consideration. Nine amendments were made, four of which were taken fully into account, three were partially taken into account, and two were rejected. We propose, in the light of the above-mentioned proposals, section I of the bill, to add the words "and also to decisions of state-owned enterprises, institutions and organizations, economic societies, 100 per cent of which are owned by the State in the statutory capital of which 100 per cent of the shares are owned by the State, about the deprivation of housing of employees of such enterprises, institutions, organizations and households by means of a sale that is carried out to meet the conditions of collective agreements without the application of competitive principles." Dear friends, the proposed edition of article 11, paragraph 2, of the Ukrainian Law on Management has been changed, namely, that the restriction on alienation is not widespread when such alienation is effected by decisions of state enterprises, institutions, and organizations of households, with 100 percent of the statutory capital of which belongs to the State, to its employees. It has been clarified that there is an association of households with 100 percent of statutory capital in the state, since the companies are only shareholders. Taking into account the committee’s decision, the clarification is that housing is only for sale. The words "competitive procedures" are replaced by the words "competitive principles" that take into account the terminology of the law. Furthermore, it is worth noting that the prohibition of alienation set out in article 11 of the law does not apply to the free distribution of housing in accordance with the Housing Code and that further privatization of the State Housing Fund is not subject to the regulation of the bill. Therefore, honourable friends, Mr. Golovo, the Committee on Economic Policy proposes to further support Bill 3131 as proposed by the Committee. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-04-m0.u47	Thank you. Let me remind you, the right is a little bit, two or three revisions. So I'm going to ask everyone to come into the hall, and I'm going to be sounding the changes that have been rejected. 6th. Don't insist. 8th. Lechchenko insists. Turn on the microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-04-m0.u48	Lewchenko, Freedom, 223 District, Kiev City. The fact is that housing belonging to state enterprises, institutions, and organizations is usually a state housing fund. And the state housing fund, in turn, should be alienated from the order set out in the Ukrainian Act on Privatisation of the State Housing Fund, not by a collective agreement, as envisaged in the project. So first of all, we suggest that we add, in fact, a proposal to this bill that alienation take place under this law. This is the first time. And secondly, it's appropriate to specify that alienation is done free of charge only to those who are in charge of citizens who need to improve their living conditions. Because, as you've just stated, what's not going on in competitive alienation rules for employees of enterprises, so the employee of an enterprise can be, for example, the manager of an enterprise, right? Maybe there's a deputy business manager who still has an apartment, maybe even a five-bedroom apartment, some principals, right? So why would they have to have a free alienation, if this is prescribed in a collective agreement, incomprehensible? Therefore, this should be exclusive to those who need improvement in living conditions. Please, Andrew Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-04-m0.u49	I fully support the amendment. But we think it's settled in the law. And not enough when we were talking, we were having a round table with all the state companies, so believe me, no principals are involved, it's a fantasy. It's only about those people who live in a well-known apartment right now. And we give the right simply to guide these people so that they can be satisfied, Jura. They have been waiting years for us to make this decision. So I'm asking you very much, let's support it. And believe me, we've balanced both with the dormitory and the Housing Code and the law are completely balanced. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-04-m0.u50	Thank you. So we've talked about all the revisions. We can move on to making a decision. And I ask the factions to invite all the deputies into the hall. And I ask the Secretary of the Supreme Council to invite members of the House. So now I'm putting to the vote number 8 of the People's Deputy Levchenka. The committee turned her down. Whoever supports Amendment 8 please vote. Vote. And please come into the hall. [[11:38:54]] For-151 The decision is not taken. And so we can move on to the adoption of the law. I urge everyone to enter the hall, prepare for the vote. Colleagues in beds, I ask you to come into the hall. We're moving on to making a decision. And I am voting on the draft Act amending article 11 of the Ukrainian Act on the Management of Property Objects (No. 3131). And at the suggestion of the committee, in the second reading and in general. Colleagues, return to the hall, please. Andrew! Eugene! Guys, get back in the hall! Please vote and please support 3131 in second reading and in general. Vote. We're backing it up. Please be supportive. [[11:40:26]] For 243 The law is passed. Hello. We went to this for a long time, and there was much discussion, and we returned it, but the law was passed. And, colleagues, two factions again asked to set the weekly agenda. The committee's head is the greatest man who's ever prepared this law. But now, colleagues, let's mobilize the weekly agenda. The next law is the law that the Rebirth faction used to refer to me. And I've taken your offer into account, just like I've taken into account the "will of the people." Let's maintain the weekly agenda, the weekly agenda: security and defence, and Euro integration under that sign. Let's support, colleagues, mobilize, I hope to support all factions, all those who are hurting for security, for Euro-integration. By the way, I'll remind you, your bill counts what. from the first reading. We won't be able to look at it. Let's support it, colleagues. Mrs. Irina, come back, please. So, colleagues, I'm putting to the vote a weekly agenda. I ask everyone to take part in the vote. I'm asking all groups to support factions so that we can fully review all Euro-integration laws. So each voice, we lacked literally a few votes. Take the jobs, and I'll put to the vote the weekly agenda of the plenary sessions of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on September 4-7. Please vote, please support everyone, colleagues, please support everyone. We vote for security and defense, for Euro-integration, for every vote, we support. Vote. Please be supportive. Vote. Please be supportive. [[11:42:29]] For 241 Decision taken. Colleagues, I want to let you know. I want to let you know that we're going to keep going through the second reading, so it's going to be in the daytime, and we're going to continue as indicated in the weekly agenda. Our next draft law, which is under review daily, is a draft of the Act amending certain legislative acts of Ukraine (as regards the investment attractiveness of the construction of renewable energy objects) (No. 8015). And I invite you to the report of the first deputy head of the Committee on Construction, Construction, and the Andrieev Dmitry Josephovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-04-m0.u51	Dear Andrew Volodymyrovich! Dear colleagues! The committee submits a draft Law amending certain legislative acts (for the investment attractiveness of the construction of renewable energy objects) in the second reading. — No. 8015, dated 08/02/2018. This law is called upon to make the most investmentable renewable sources of electricity, primarily wind generation and solar generation. The law proposes that the sum of the investor’s own damage be excluded as a criterion for referring objects to the SS1. That's the whole point of this right here is that it's an investor's own risk, and the state's not responsible for it. In addition, it is mandatory to exclude the classification of air-powered objects that are subject to environmental impact assessments, provided that the environmental impact assessment results are validated by an expert on environmental impact. So we clearly control the impact on the environment, but we're allowing you to build renewable electricity under a reduced SS1 procedure of "significant consequences". Wind-generation objects can only be assigned to the SS1 if all other criteria meet the SS1. So automatic wind generation to SS1 does not apply. There were six rights to the bill. The technical regulation of the national MP, One, is taken into account. Two amendments have been rejected that have proposed not to make exceptions to wind generation but to take away the rest of the objects that are subject to environmental impact assessments. Two rights of the Solovia National Deputy, 4th and 6th, which complements the law with special conditions for the production of energy from biogas, biomass, geothermal energy. The committee concluded that these objects are of great complexity and that they are dangerous to SS1. The law of the People's Deputy Levchenk and others who proposed to exclude from the Transitional Regulations the possibility of introducing in a simplified procedure objects that are already being built in the third category of complexity. I would like to point out that we do not even have a definition of the third category of complexity for today’s legislative changes, so these objects refer to the SS1 category. The Board’s point of view referred to unequal conditions, but which began to be constructed in the third category, is that in the future these objects, independent of the results of the impact assessment, will fall under the SS1 according to existing legislation. Dear colleagues, I ask you to support this law in the second reading, as a matter of fact, as a law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-04-m0.u52	Thank you. I'm going to read the corrections that were rejected. Right is not much, and the decision will be made in a few minutes. I'm asking everyone to come into the hall. 1st. Don't insist. Third. Don't insist. Four. Don't insist. 5th. He insists. Turn on the microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-04-m0.u53	Lewchenko, Freedom, 223 District, Kiev City. This bill proposes to transfer objects that produce electricity from wind energy, to exclude them from the SS2 class "average effects", and this automatically refers all of these objects to the SS1 class "significant consequences". But according to paragraph 7, paragraph 4, of part 3 of the Ukrainian Law on Environmental Impact Assessment, paragraph 4, to the second category of planned activities and objects that may have a significant impact on the environment and are subject to environmental impact assessments, include wind parks, wind power stations that have two or more turbines, or a height of 50 meters or more. Wind power plants should also transport electricity to the consumer. It means that the infrastructure built around them should be appropriate. For this reason, it should be noted that according to paragraph 20 of Part Two of the above-mentioned article 3 of the Ukrainian Environmental Impact Assessment Act, the first category of activities planned and objects that may have a significant impact on the environment are subject to environmental impact assessments, such as the construction of 220 kilovolts or more.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-04-m0.u54	30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-04-m0.u55	Appropriately, if we analyze, in fact, the rules of the Environmental Impact Assessment Act, it's obvious that the appropriate objects that produce electricity from wind energy cannot refer to the "significant effects" of SS1 objects, but they should at least refer to the SS2 class as "average effects", as a minimum. Actually, it's common logic to explain to the human being that there can be no minor consequences. So I'm going to propose that we clear these changes and still leave them behind.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-04-m0.u56	Please, Mr. Dmitri.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-04-m0.u57	Thank you. Dear colleagues, once again, I would like to point out that an object of wind generation cannot be attributed automatically to the SS1 under these criteria. And the fact that we take the mandatory introduction into the SS2 of wind-generation objects that are subject to environmental assessment is only provided that the results of environmental impact assessments are validated by expert analysis. So this is not mandatory, but there will definitely be an expertise to go through. So in fact, according to the content of this meaningful part of your amendment, it's actually included in the body of the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-04-m0.u58	Thank you. So I'm betting on the vote number 5 of the national MP Lewchenk. The committee turned her down. Whoever supports it, please vote. [[11:49:11]] For 105 The decision is not taken. And the closing line is number six. I invite you to say "Riback," turn on the microphone. And after that, the vote, everyone please come into the hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-04-m0.u59	Dear colleagues, in the sixth right was suggested in section 2, paragraph 2, and after the words "wind power," add the words "biogas, biomasses, geothermal energy, as well as micro, mini or small hydropower plants." Here the committee rejected this right in this formulation, but maybe you can look at it in part and consider it in part after the words "wind energy" add the words "biogas, biomasses." Because the environmental impact assessment law clearly states that it poses a threat to the environment, including electrical objects. Hydro. Electricity, heat, which is more than 50 megawatts. So please place this amendment for confirmation.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-04-m0.u60	Thank you. Please, Mr. Dmitri.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-04-m0.u61	Dear colleagues, the committee has come from building, for example, the laws of a biogas plant, biogas extraction, this cannot be done by simplified procedure, according to an SS1 report. These are the directions that need to be considered in accordance with the permits, in order to get both the relevant expertise and the permits. By Law 8015, we make it easy to build objects of wind generation and solar generation. So, dear colleagues, I'd like to take that into account with the committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-04-m0.u62	Thank you. So we're done discussing the rights and we're moving on to the adoption of the law. I'm asking everyone to take up their jobs, come into the hall. We move on to the decision-making process, the discussion is closed. Please return from your beds to the hall. And I'm voting on a bill amending some of Ukraine's legislative acts (about the investment attractiveness of building renewable energy objects) (No. 8015) in the second reading and in general. Please vote, please support. Vote, please. [[11:52:05]] For 256 The law is passed. Welcome! Next, the draft Law on Recognition, which has become invalid, some laws of Ukraine regarding State regulation of production and implementation of sugar (4532). There are only two amendments. I'm asking everyone to stay in the workplace. And I invite you to report to the deputy head of the Agrarian Policy Committee, Mr. Grigory Mikhailovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-04-m0.u63	Dear colleagues, you have been introduced into your consideration by a second reading of the law. draft law on recognition of those who have lost their validity, some Ukrainian laws on State regulation of production and implementation of sugar. The committee during this time of preparation for the second reading reached 13 suggestions and amendments made by the national deputies, of which nine were taken into account, one and three were rejected. I'm just going to stop editing for a second read. The project solves the very important problems of the sugar industry, which cancels quotas for sugar production and minimum prices for its implementation. With regard to an issue that was not supported in the past, a zero - dollar bribe for sugar beet production equipment was rejected by the committee. So as a result, we have a project that deals with purely technical issues of cancelling quotas and minimum prices for sugar. The Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Agriculture Policy and Land Relations at its meeting considered the bill and decided to recommend it to the Supreme Council of Ukraine in a re-second reading and generally as a law. The principal legal office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine called for a draft law without notice. Dear colleagues, I just want to give you two digits, and you'll understand the point. The fixed minimum price by September 1 was 11 grams 20 copies, and today the market price was 10.50. So we can't even get to the minimum price, and that's why manufacturers can't implement because there's a government decree that prohibits selling at a lower price. That's why it made sense. And I very much ask all of you, colleagues, to support at the beginning of the turquoise production a bill that has the number 4532. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-04-m0.u64	Thank you. I would like to point out that the committee's most debated version is rejected, and it's not there. And I'm now the name of the corrections that were rejected. Third. Don't insist. 9th. Don't insist. 13th. Don't insist. So, colleagues, we can move on to making decisions. And I'm asking everyone to take up jobs. The discussion is over. I ask the heads of factions to mobilize the national MPs. And I'm voting on the draft law on recognition that has become invalid, some of the laws of Ukraine regarding the state regulation of production and the implementation of sugar (No. 4532) on the proposal of a committee on re-second reading and in general. Please vote. Please be supportive. Vote. Let's vote, colleagues. [[11:56:18]] For 263 The law is passed. Colleagues, I want to tell you that at the morning session we've already passed five laws in general, five laws. This shows the effectiveness of the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the first day. But now, colleagues, there's a statement from two factions for recess and I have to announce it immediately, this statement. In accordance with part seven of article 51 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules, on the demand of two MP factions, we announce a recess that is ready to be replaced by a platform from the People's Front and the Prashenko Block, but are ready to replace it with two factions. And I invite you to Andrew Levus' speech. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-04-m0.u65	Good afternoon, dear colleagues. Today, 33 years have passed since the death of the great Ukrainian patriot, the dissident, the poet Vasil Stus, who died in Soviet, Russian concentration camps for speaking the truth, for not trading his conscience, and for remaining a free man even at this time of hopelessness. I suggest that Parliament honor the memory of Vasil Stus for a moment of silence.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-04-m0.u66	I invite everyone to remain silent for a moment in memory of the great Ukrainian poet Stus. [[A Minute of Silence]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-04-m0.u67	Thank you. I just want to add a few words. Stus died for 33 years. We have essentially a fifth year of war. There is one person who has a connection between these two facts. This man is called Victor Medvedchuk. Then in the 1980s, when Vassil Stus was tried, Medvedchuk actually, as a lawyer, supported the charges of a repressive Soviet prosecutor. And now this person, who, during those decades of restored independence of Ukraine, is actually the main locomotive of the pro-Russian ideas in Ukraine, the person who opened the door to Russian aggression, the person who proclaimed the slogan of the federalization, the bilingual language, the anti-European slogans, is now feeling free in the country that has survived the Dignity Revolution, and thousands of people have already died for this independence from now on, since 2014. Two years ago, many of the national deputies supported our appeal to the Attorney General to investigate the anti - Ukrainian activities of Medvedchuk, the visa, and so forth. But more than that, Medvedchuk is now making a public return to politics. The bear took the 112 channel, bought it. By the way, I'm addressing all the national MPs who have at least a little bit of conscience and conscience and what's called patriotism, boycotting the 112 channel, NewsOne, Inter, all the channels that belong to the pro-Russian oligarchs and who are now doing everything they can to make Ukraine part of the Russian Empire. If you have a conscience, if you wear embroidery, if you call yourself a patriot, you shouldn't be involved in this game, in these manipulations of this "VATA TV." We now call on the Attorney General, the Ukrainian Security Service, to take all necessary steps to investigate Victor Medvedchuk's anti-Ukraine activities. And we think that the fact that he is free to carry out his anti-Ukrainian actions in Ukrainian politics is a challenge not only to common sense, but to excuse me, to spit on the grave and Stus, and to thousands of Ukrainian patriots and just Ukrainian citizens who have died at the hands of a Russian aggressor since 2014, starting with the Dignity Revolution. I believe that, first of all, I refer to the patriotic factions of Parliament: the Fatherland, the People's Front, the Peter Poshenko Block, the Self-Help, the Radical Party, with you and me passing Midan, we are now responsible for this country. Let us forget for a while our contradictions, especially the days before the elections, and focus on stopping the regents who are sure to walk.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-04-m0.u68	30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-04-m0.u69	We need to stop this rematch. We see that these people who openly support the aggressor, these people who ignore everything Ukrainian, are now preparing to regain power and change our foreign policy course and take our independence. Let us not play with them in any contract games or anything else, unite around our core values, and at least stop this rematch. Thank you all. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-04-m0.u70	Heroic glory! Thank you. Colleagues, now I'd like to consult you briefly. Please take your seats. We have the next draft of Law 4074. If there's general support, it just has one piece. We can just accept it right now. But in order not to put him at risk, I'm about to run a rating vote. I ask, colleagues, for the time being, a rating vote on the draft Law amending article 9 of the Law on Medical Devices (on access to the results of pre-clinical study and clinical trials of medical devices) (No. 4074). If there is sufficient support during the rating vote, we will consider it immediately. I ask everyone to take up their jobs and take part in the rating vote. So I'm voting on draft Law 4074. Please vote and please support. Please vote. [[12:03:18]] For-191 Let's not put it at risk. One correction. All right, I'll do it again. My colleagues, I'll take you back, I've resumed the meeting in the morning. There are only two amendments to this bill. Now we can quickly accept it if there's general agreement. And I was told that there was a reconciliation of all factions. By the way, please show me the last factions of the vote. And it's suggested that we look at it now. And that's why I'm betting on a rating vote so I don't put it at risk. If there are voices-- let's look at it now, there's no-- I'll call it a break, and we'll look at it after the break. Now it's your choice. But I urge you to consider it and accept it now. And I'm voting on the draft Act amending article 9 of the Ukrainian Law on Medical Devices (No.4074) for the rating vote. Please vote, please support. Vote. [[12:04:34]] For 204 We won't risk it, I think. At any given stage after the break, we'll be able to look at it, because I see that all factions actually support it. After the break, yes. I'm telling you, after a break. And, colleagues, I would like to inform you that the question that has been raised today in both the People's Front and the Petra Prashenko Block, the issue of information security, is extremely important to the Ukrainian state. We cannot allow, by protecting against Russian tanks, Ukrainian borders so that Russian information tanks can operate in our ashes and in our country. We must do so, and we will need to adopt legislative acts to prevent and prevent the destruction of Ukrainian information space. Information security in the aggressive war waged by Putin against Ukraine is no less important than military security. We talked to the committee. I hope the committee will prepare legislative proposals. And I'm sure we'll join them together in support of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. And I'd like to give you one more minute for a message. Please, Mrs. Irina Heratchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-04-m0.u71	Thank you. Dear colleagues! A group of national MPs from the Self-Help faction came to the fore and asked for the announcement of the following. That my colleagues weren't there, the cards weren't working. And they are asked to add to the vote Bill 8015 "for" the following national MPs: Babak, Didenko, Demchenko. Danchenko, excuse me, Danchenko, Zubac, Sidorovich, Scripnik, Sotnik, Markevich, Opanasenko, Podujak, Romanova, Semimenha. These national MPs are asking you to consider your vote "yes" as Bill 8015. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-04-m0.u72	Thank you. So, colleagues, according to the Rules, I announce a break of 30 minutes to 12:35. And after the break, Mr. Spiowakovsky, we'll be able to look at the bill on intellectual property. At 12:35 I ask everyone to come to the hall to continue our work.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-04-m0.u73	Dear colleagues, the time for recess is over. I invite all the national deputies to the hall. I would like to remind you that we have suspended the consideration of intellectual property issues due to the fact that the order of the day session has not been approved. But then we were able to heroically consolidate it and reconcile it, and so we can continue the intellectual property cluster. Two questions for the first reading. I know there are discussions in the hall the second time. During the discussion, we may be able to find understanding in those discussions, but both of those laws are Euro-integration laws, both of which are extremely important for both Ukraine and our international obligations. And that's why I'm announcing the continuation of the intellectual property cluster. The first of those laws is the draft Act amending some Ukrainian legislation on improving the legal protection of inventions and useful models (No. 7538). I'm going to invite the hall to take a brief look at the procedure. If there is no support, we will go into full consideration to be able to consider these laws in more detail. So I'm putting to the vote the motion to review draft Law 7538 under a reduced procedure. Please vote. [[12:39:32]] For-66 As I predicted, the room is set up for system work, constructive work. We're moving on to a full procedure. And I invite you to the report of Minister of Economic Development and Trade of Titarczuk Mikhail Ivanovich. And I would like you to prepare for the co-report of Spiowakovsky Alexander Volodymyrovich. Please, Michael Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-04-m0.u74	Dear Head, honourable national deputies, first of all, I would like to welcome everyone from the beginning of the session and point out that a reform of intellectual property has been initiated during the previous session of Parliament. The Supreme Council has passed a law that actually applies to collective governance, relaunching the Royalty Payment Mechanism in favour of the authors. And I would like to add that today this reform is not just one bill, it's seven, and it's six more. And today, 7538, this bill is designed to harmonize the requirements of the current Ukrainian legislation on the protection of the rights to inventions and beneficial models with European Union law. The project proposes to amend existing legislation to allow applications to be submitted electronically; it gives any person the right to object to the application within 6 months of the date of publication of the notice of the application; it specifies the order of the issue of the certificate of additional protection of the rights of inventions and also the tools that make it impossible to issue so-called forevergreen patents; it is when the monopoly on patents in the pharmaceutical field continues artificially and as a result the price of medical devices is unduly high; the possibility of recognition of the right to invention and a useful model is not valid only. Not only in court but also in the Chamber of Appeal (post-grand position). In general, the adoption of the law will promote innovation activities in Ukraine, achieve a balance of interests between a patent monopoly and the right of everyone to access medicines, improve legal protection of inventions and beneficial models in accordance with world standards. Request to support the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-04-m0.u75	Thank you. Please sign up for a question to the reporter. It'll take three minutes. Please hold the recording. Opanasenko, please. Sissyenko Irina.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-04-m0.u76	Please, Sisoyenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-04-m0.u77	I have a question for the government. Tell me, please, why among the European norms included in this bill is also the law that deals specifically with pharmaceuticals, this excludes new forms of legal protection known from the level of medical technology, including salt, complex ethers and so forth, and so on, all that applies to this standard. Why did the government include this rule under the flag of European integration? At the same time, such standards are applied only in third - world countries and in India. And including what you're saying right now is that you're fighting for the availability of drugs, this rule is totally excluding Ukrainians from getting innovative medical tools, new development, all that can cure oncology today, tuberculosis, AIDS. So you're completely banning the entry into Ukraine by this terrible norm. This is the norm in Indian legislation. Do you want to turn Ukraine into India?
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-04-m0.u78	Please respond. Please respond.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-04-m0.u79	Thank you for asking. On behalf of the Ministry, I can say one thing. The fact that we don't have the task of turning Ukraine into a third world country, as you said in India, is actually to make medicines affordable in terms of price. And today, when, for example, large pharmaceutical companies patent certain medical devices for 20 years, they continue for 5 years, there are risks that these companies are constantly being handed over. So young people, let's say, scientists don't have access to development and cost. On the committee, when we looked at it, we also had the support of various international organizations, and I think that between the first and second readings in the working group on the committee we can work on this issue if you have a comment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-04-m0.u80	Please, the next question. Will there be any more questions from you, Mrs. Sisoyenko? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-04-m0.u81	I would like to point out that what you're saying about European standards, I want you to know that 70 percent of the medicines that continue to have updated manufacturing processes that improve their production with innovation are doing new clinical research and are again subject to legal protection in European states. In the United States there are the same standards that you are now trying to exclude from Ukrainian legislation, and that is unacceptable. That's why we insist that the self-help faction will vote in favour of this bill, only if these rules are excluded. Because the question of access to innovative medical devices, to new technologies, is to really have the most effective medical tools in Ukraine, not just to be able to produce anything and anything. This must be government policy first.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-04-m0.u82	Please answer, Your Honor, Mr. Mikhailo.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-04-m0.u83	Thank you for asking. I'd like to repeat once again what I think we'll always be able to rule out, let's find a balance where, really, we can help our citizens how to spend and make medicines available. Secondly, we understand that patenting is a very difficult process and it takes time. Today, according to our statistics, we have a higher rate of application in terms of useful models. It's not actually the product that it is. So our goal is to increase the statistics of more patent inventions and the cost of drugs. So I'm going to suggest that in the working group on the committee between the first and second readings, this is the question to be worked out, and there will be a clear result. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-04-m0.u84	Thank you. Please have a question from John Sporish. Mr. John, may I have your word?
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-04-m0.u85	Ivan Sporish, Winnichtina, Peter Dusty Block, 15th District. Of course, there are no issues, we have to agree, we have to reconcile and anticipate all of these provisions of the current legislation of Ukraine, because we are going to Europe, to protect rights and inventions and useful models. And that's my question. Of course, today we have something in common with the positions and regulations of the European Union. And whether there's some part of it, I'd like to say that there's something in common today that we have with Europe or very large differences. If we agree on all of this, will God give us that we will still be able to take a big step forward in this development. And we will be supporting the bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-04-m0.u86	Please answer, Mr. Michael.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-04-m0.u87	Thank you for asking. I would also like to point out that the legislation of the United States and the legislation of the European Union are different, and not always positions can be related to intellectual property, as practice has shown. On our part, of course, we're trying, in fact, all the bills that directly refer to intellectual property to match associations. And clearly, there are certain Ukrainian realities where we have to look at what we have today. So I would like to say that all of the issues that are contradictory or need reconciliation are ready to be considered. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-04-m0.u88	Thank you, Your Honor, Mr. Undersecretary. Please go to your workplace to the proper rostrum, to our bed. And I invite you to the report, to the report of the First Vice-Chairman of the Committee on Science and Education, Alexander Spiowakovsky. Please, Mr. Alexander.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-04-m0.u89	Good afternoon, dear colleagues. The debate has already begun around this bill, so I just want to talk about the content and the form of how we work. Our Committee on Science and Education in this sense works in a very transparent way, we involve absolutely all the experts, we give the opportunity in an open, honest discussion to hold the appropriate ones. appropriate discussions around this bill. I want to say that before the committee meeting and the committee meeting, there were really very difficult discussions, and above all, it was about the standards that Mrs. People's Deputy is about to raise, Mrs. Sisoyenko. They're very important because we had to actually find a balance, a fair balance between who creates this intellectual property and, accordingly, produces the product primarily in the pharmaceutical direction, and those who consume it. We need to understand that the abuse of patent rights is, say, if it's used there for more than 15-20 years. I'm using those expert conclusions that are there. Thus, during the committee’s meeting, it was only a small discussion. On the committee, we unanimously decided that if we understood this position, we would go to the hall, we would vote in favour. Then, as was the case at 7466, we're creating a powerful working group. I promise myself that we're not in any case, as it was, and we've really done everything absolutely, we're going to find a compromise between what those who are developing, and those who have, have exclusive rights and patents for these assets, and those who consume them. I just want to make it clear who supports this bill. These are the expert findings of WHO, UNDP, a community charity that unites patients in Ukraine. It's an international social organization called the Child With the Future, the All-Ukrainian Network of People Living With HIV/AIDS, the Trust Fund for Patients of Ukraine, and so on. This is fully supported by the Ukrainian Ministry of Health. I want to go back again, and the Supreme Council's Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration has also made the right points. But I promise we'll take them into account and we'll be able to work out and find the right consensus. In general, if we don't have a solution to this issue at the legislative level, we're still going to continue the exact situation where in Poland, for example, we see this medicine there, let's say, for $5, let's say, and in Ukraine, we sell it for $15. If this situation is normal, if we don't want to settle this issue as the Supreme Council, we have a responsibility to our electorate, to the ordinary Ukrainians who are just eating these things. That's why we all know with you, all of us, that we go to pharmacies that the cost of medical supplies in Ukraine is much higher than in the corresponding countries. So I'm asking you to find a compromise that we are now voting with the understanding that there is a problem of protection. When we're done, we're going to invite all sides to the task force. And I promise we will. If we don't find compromise, we're not going to take it out on second reading anyway. We have the right experience, and I think we've always found these things. But what we need to do to resolve these issues is vital. What's more, we understand that the seven bills that we, one has already considered, yes, today 4751 we have already passed, six bills that we should adopt, and we are actually building an intellectual property protection infrastructure in our territory in Ukraine. Therefore, taking into account our positions and recommendations of the Committee on Science and Education, we ask that we vote in favour of this, especially that the committee members represent virtually all the political forces -- both Self-Help and Fatherhood and the People's Front, and the Peter Prashenko Block. So we ask you to support it anyway, and we promise that between the first and the second readings we will find a compromise. Thank you for understanding.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-04-m0.u90	Thank you. Please remain in the rostrum. Dear colleagues, I'm asking you to sign up for a question to a distinguished reporter. Please, a question from the National Deputy Sergey Kaplin, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-04-m0.u91	I wanted to address you first and foremost as a senior, as a national deputy, and only secondly as a leader, as a colleague, as head of the committee. You don't think that at the beginning of the political fall, of the political season, when the country has a very serious challenge of depriving nearly six million of our fellow countrymen of subsidies, when there are already official government statements on the freezing of wages, the "perspective" (in paws) of raising tariffs, we are looking, in my opinion, at the socio-economic interests of citizens, at secondary issues? And don't you think that all the faction leaders who during the pre-election campaign would have declared loyalty to the Supreme Council would have come to the rostrum? And to invite the Supreme Council, first of all, to the full, because today only 25 percent of the deputies in the workplace, to focus primarily on social policy issues. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-04-m0.u92	Please respond.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-04-m0.u93	Thank you, Mr. Sergei. I want to say that just if we accept this bill that we're currently considering, we're going to see that a certain number of drugs are definitely going to have a low price. For one thing, these are medical devices that are designed for those with cancer and so on. Where there is really a powerful component of intellectual property, that is, countries and manufacturers that have just provided. Unfortunately, I agree here, we continue to lose the human capital of talented young intellectual people who should create this intellectual product in Ukraine, create through startups, through the creation of appropriate capabilities. Unfortunately, we have a policy when young talented people leave Ukraine, and we should continue to buy it accordingly. And this bill actually states that intellectual property, which is built somewhere, we have to do everything we can to make it lower for our people. So the moment involved developing your own intellectual property base should be.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-04-m0.u94	Thank you for your answer. Please have a question from the national deputy Andria Teteruk.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-04-m0.u95	This bill 7538 is very important, in my opinion, because we are taking a step forward in order in the medical field. We remember the terrible things that happened when our pharmaceutical mafia was in charge, and this bill draws us closer to more civilized rules of intellectual property, patents. And the main thing is that in the end, the Ukrainian has to understand that he's going to take the drugs, that eventually the price of the medicine will go down. So I have not as many requests as I do to accept this bill as a basis and as a whole, so that we can put order in this very sensitive area for every Ukrainian who needs to improve his health as soon as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-04-m0.u96	Please, your answer, Mr. Spiowakovsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-04-m0.u97	Thank you for your performance.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-04-m0.u98	Please have a question from the National MP, Alexia Rybchin. That's the last question. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-04-m0.u99	Alexy Rybchin, "Fatherland" faction, Donetsk. In general, on intellectual property, this government failed because on April 26th of this year, the United States suspended the operation of a generalised preferential system for Ukrainian exports, where we are duty-free, made a duty-free export to the United States of America in 155 commodity positions just from piracy, precisely because of the violation of intellectual property rights. I hope this deal is for our exporters, it's going to be returned. I have a question that I wanted to ask the officials, but perhaps the honourable chairman of the committee knows why there was a refusal to accept the draft law from the Ministry of Finance and the State Regulatory Service? Because the differences were not settled. Why is there no clear position in the government regarding such an important direction as the protection of intellectual property rights? What's the reason? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-04-m0.u100	Please respond.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-04-m0.u101	Thank you. To tell you the truth, we have to get used to delimiting the powers of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, of the President of Ukraine, of the Supreme Council. What we did on the committee, I just reported. What's happening in the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, some disagreements, for example between the MoH, Minfin, MERT and so on, is the question of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. I definitely can't be responsible for what's going on in Cabmine, who's supporting whom, who's not. And I think that Mr. Mikhailo Titarczuk can quite clearly answer the nuances of what's going on, and what disagreements there are. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-04-m0.u102	Thank you, Your Honor, and please return to your workplace. Dear colleagues, according to the regulations, all factions and groups will now be able to join in the discussion of the bill. I'm asking you to sign up.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-04-m0.u103	Welcome to the speech of the National Deputy Irina Sisoyenko, Self-Help faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-04-m0.u104	Irina Sisoyenko, Self-Help Unit. Dear colleagues, the issue that we are currently considering is indeed a great bill, it is fundamental and indeed contains a lot of European norms and implementation of European directives. Sadly, though, the government of our country is as good as ever in a barrel of honey but a spoon of tarts. That's the spoon I want to stress again. An extremely serious norm regarding the pharmaceutical industry. Nevertheless, it is vital to preserve our nation’s ability to register innovative medical devices in order to allow our patients to receive the most advanced medical treatment. Indeed, if this bill is adopted with the same standard as it is now presented, there is a threat that there will be a large production of generic medicine, while at the same time manufacturers of innovative, new medicines will simply not enter the market in Ukraine. I also want to point out that in the current Ukrainian legislation, maybe the government doesn't know about it, there's a definition of compulsory license. It is a compulsory license that enables the government, the Ministry of Health, the Prime Minister of Ukraine, if there are signs of possible epidemics, diseases, if there is an inaccessibility for citizens of the state of certain medical devices, that the government may decide to grant a compulsory licence to national farmers who can ensure the production of a large number of innovative, including lower-priced medical devices, and thus satisfy the needs of the population in one or more other medicines. And I would also like to point out that the norm that is really to be patented for new innovation is the norm of all European states, as well as the legislation of the United States. And we, as Ukraine, if we are really moving towards European, implementing European legislation, have to pay attention to this, and the whole bill is in line with the Agreement with the European Union, not just part of it. So I believe that work together is going to fix the government's mistake and change it to second reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-04-m0.u105	Thank you. Welcome to the speech of the People's Deputy Rybkin of the Fatherland faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-04-m0.u106	Alexy Rybchin, "Fatherland" faction, Donetsk. As I have already stated, the question of the development and protection of intellectual property rights by this government has been broken down, so there are now some disadvantages in trying to improve the situation. What's the matter? The United States of America, after the Dignity Revolution, improved Ukraine's rating, hoping for the promises of power, and overcame us into a promising category in their relations. Yet, when they saw that the laws to be passed were not approved, they made the first warning, and last year they gave us three months to correct the situation. The government did nothing, and in April there were certain sanctions against us. Think about it: Allied countries that help us impose sanctions on us for failing to meet international obligations. So "Paternity" will support those laws that aim to restore justice to the protection of intellectual property. Today, one bill has already been adopted in the second reading and two more government bills, I hope they will pass, although in this discussion I see that there may be certain issues if the committee does not agree on these things before the second reading. However, we ask that the National Academy of Sciences, which is requesting amendments to article 28 of the law, expand the list of technology objects to which legal protection does not extend. Please submit and consider the proposal of the Scientific Research Institute of Intellectual Property of the National Academy of Legal Sciences. That is, the second reading needs to be thoroughly worked out by all the things that will compromise the international model and protect national interests. The Fatherland faction will support in the first reading and we will work on the bill if it goes through, the second reading, so that intellectual property issues are taken into account and our country is not considered a second or third world country, a country that supports piracy, etc. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-04-m0.u107	Thank you. There are several other factions from the factions that have failed to register. I'd like to ask of the Radical Party the national deputy of Halasyuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-04-m0.u108	Thank you. Dear Madam Chairman! Dear fellow national MPs! A study conducted by USAID in Ukraine regarding drug prices shows absolutely shocking results. 94 percent of patients described the main problem as high drug cost. The drugs in Ukraine are 2-4 times more expensive than in neighboring Hungary and Georgia. Moreover, in fact, every other patient in Ukraine refuses treatment because the medicine is extremely expensive. So the Radical Party team is initiating a comprehensive bill for drug costing in Ukraine, which will allow prices to be reduced by at least 20 to 25 percent. I'll call the basic mechanisms that we're proposing to do this. Zero VAT on drugs. In Spain there is a 4 percent rate, in Canada and Mexico there is a zero rate, in a number of other countries the rate is also significantly lower than that in Ukraine today. The second is the demonopolization of pharmacies. For there to be no such thing as an adversarial excess of medical value, and there is nowhere for the patient to go. Limiting the legislative price of drugs, both in optah and in splinter. Profitability must be regulated. Moreover, we're going to put in place a reference pricing mechanism that will work not only through affordable medicines, but also in pharmacies in general, because similar mechanisms are used by Australia, Austria, Belgium, Czech Republic, Germany, New Zealand, Norway, Turkey and other countries. We need to take care of our own citizens. Fourth money is a recipe with only an international non-proprietary name. Because the prices of identical drugs may vary, and it is necessary to treat rather than earn health benefits. Of course, the fifth is the expansion of the "Affordable Drugs" programme and the increased funding of this program from a billion, as it is today, to at least 5 billion dollars. And it's very important that this is budget co-financing. Canceling the corruption of alcohol for pharmaceutical companies, which will ensure transparency and eliminate artificial stress. And finally, canceling an additional five-year patent drug protection. Which will make it possible to make native generics cheaper than the originals. And I emphasize that the Radical Party team supports this bill, which we are currently considering, because it contains this standard. This means cheaper drugs for Ukrainians. This is a key social policy issue that needs to be addressed immediately. And let me finish?
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-04-m0.u109	Please, 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-04-m0.u110	And I heard criticism here today at India's address. So I want Ukraine's medicine to be as powerful as India. Because those who criticize India, China and other countries -- who are highly developing, who are changing the lives of hundreds of millions of citizens for the better -- are examples for Ukraine, which should be followed, to go there and see how they increase the income of their citizens. We need to grow so much rather than be a raw colony and an exporter of frames and talents!
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-04-m0.u111	Welcome to the speech of the People's Deputy Kaplan of "Peter Prashenko's Block."
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-04-m0.u112	In addition to my colleague's thesis on the protection of India, I'm going to say that in the past year, a party of ordinary people in India gained almost 70 percent of the support of citizens in Delhi. In continuing our discussion, I would like to say that, indeed, supporting such a bill, voting for such an initiative is certainly relevant and necessary today. At the same time, when speaking to colleagues who will vote in favour of the initiative, I also have to support Mrs. Sisoyenko as part of the increase in innovative dynamics in matters related to the circulation of medicines and pharmaceuticals in general, imports of medicines. In particular, I would like to point out that this bill will help us to avoid unique economic co-operations when one of the patent holders retains ownership of it, which means that the sale price may be increased by 10, 15, 25 years. A simple Ukrainian then overcompensates for drugs more than simple Romanian, Polish, German, French, and so on. Everyone knows that, in addition to everything else, this bill will actually open up a whole new era in the fight against counterfeiting and drug smuggling. Today it is a key problem and a key challenge. In addition, let us ask: Is this bill resolved by a number of other issues related to the development of pharmaceutical production and the establishment of order in the circulation of medical supplies? No, he doesn't. What does he decide? The focus in the hands of the state of three key clusters in this area is research, science, production and circulation. And in this part, I'd be more radical than even the Radical Party in the order part. We need to discuss the urgent need to nationalize drug networks in the country. They have to belong to communities, they have to belong to the state, and the price has to be no more than 1-2 percent exclusively to maintain this network. Simple Ukrainians should not charge their last expenses, pensions, wages to a barrier that, using its power, usurped the control of drug networks in the country. I'd like to make one last point. The Supreme Council of Ukraine of the fall, before the heating season, has the same important challenges: subsidies, this increase in pensions and wages. I demand that the coalition start a discussion and finally take on systemic structural bills that will increase pensions, pay and grant subsidies to the 6 million Ukrainians who have taken over the government today.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-04-m0.u113	Thank you. We're moving on to the speeches from the people's deputies. I'm asking you to prepare for the recording. Please hold the recording. I'd like to invite you to the floor of the People's Deputy Kaplan, six minutes in a row. He was handed over by a national MP. delivered the word to the People's Deputy Sugonako.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-04-m0.u114	Distinguished compatriots! Dear colleagues! I would like to devote the second part of my report to the very questions that I had completed my previous speech on a socio-economic issue. Simple Ukrainians will obviously need money to buy drugs after the reforms we are going to make, especially because of the changes that will be made to existing legislation, to buy them after the reform. And today in today's parliament, in coalition and opposition, and there can be no opposition to the common people and their fellow countrymen, to the state, there are a number of totally uncompromising and clear challenges. The first is pay. We've been told over the years that it's impossible to increase wages, because it's going to be a serious step in our industry, that it's going to be a step in a small business, an average business. We, for example, started a fight a few months ago for an increase in wages at a company, a former venture called Crevystall, now ArcelorMittalSteel. They've been telling us for a long time that it's absolutely impossible to increase the pay-as-you-go fund. After the joint protests of the union, the consolidation of the subsidiaries, ourselves, managed to obtain a declaration from the employer, and increased the payroll fund by almost 2 billion. There was a very serious and difficult discussion. Lakshmi Mittal was going to complain to the President, the Prime Minister, the members of the Supreme Council, and his rashes in Bloody Rose were conducting entire discrediting campaigns to stop us. We were consistent, we were unbreakable, we were uncompromising, and we were able to make a $2 billion enterprise, almost $2 billion in wages. Then 2 billion dollars of living money will not be left in Britain in London. They won't buy a football club, they won't build palaces all over Europe, they'll serve the villagers in Bloody Rose. They'll pay for the VAT, they'll pay for the excise, for the utility. That money will work for the national economy. This is a synergetic result of only the national economy, the ordinary Ukrainian, the same employer, the same small business. So our committee today is stressing, focusing on the need to adopt a European bill, an initiative about a 20% share of the labor fund in the cost of production. Today, it is about 6 percent in Ukraine. Think about it! Even in Russia, which we are rightfully criticizing, that's 22 percent. This is a serious systemic injection of the national economy, the development of the consumer market, the internal market, and then the indirect support of small and medium - size retail and employment. The second important bill, which will help ordinary Ukrainians to buy the drugs they have lost after the bill, is to order the single social contribution from the high wages. Think about it, dear fellow countrymen. A normal worker, a regular doctor, a peasant, an ordinary person, a simple person pays off his entire body from his meager salary of 22 percent of the only social contribution to the Pension Fund. And now the one who gets more than 40,000 dollars in salary, and this is the head of the Cruise Station, this is the manager of Naftogazu from his $2 million salary, paying only 40,000 and that's it. In no other way is he involved in filling up the Pension Fund. In our view, this is totally unfair. We had a proper discussion with the Ministry of Social Policy, and we figured that the additional arrivals after such a fair, well-supported, by the way, and the People's Front, and the BP, and the Fatherhood and Self-Help, all the other factions in the Supreme Council, but not yet in the House of Parliament, would give the state budget 11 billion dollars. It is not enough to resolve the issue of financing the recalculation of pensions for military pensioners. It is not enough to solve the issue of overcalculation of aid for Afghans, black people, to start paying off the very fair debts that millions of children of war in our country are looking forward to. Support the reintegration of Donbas, his reindustrialization, and so forth. I am deeply convinced that we are on this. This autumn, dear colleagues, we will be able to resolve this issue and take this extremely right and just step. Next. During this summer, our committee held a series of field meetings throughout the country. Question number one is subsidies. Today, 6 million compatriots, nearly 40 percent of those who received subsidies last year are deprived of such rights. Once again, we had a very serious responsible conversation with the Prime Minister, the professional vice-premier and the Ministry of Social Policy. It refers to three categories of grant rights. The first is oncology, about a million of them. I think they have the right to receive the grant automatically. The second is those who are in debt on wages, then on the European Union. I think they have the right to receive subsidies automatically because it's not their fault that they don't pay their wages. And of course, the third category, which is due to technological problems, namely the establishment, which is formally prescribed and other family members in the area of the apartment, do not live there without such a right. I'm the Minister of Social Policy.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-04-m0.u115	Ten seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-04-m0.u116	We promised to solve more than 2 million of our fellow countrymen, the categories that I have identified. And I am addressing the Prime Minister. Have a responsibility to the Lord God.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-04-m0.u117	Thank you. I'd like to invite you to the floor of the People's Deputy of Sporish.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-04-m0.u118	John Sporish, 15th District, Winnitzkin. Please give my word to my colleague John Melniczuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-04-m0.u119	Please, National Deputy Melniczuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-04-m0.u120	Good afternoon, dear fellows! It's not really the bill, it's my speech, it's my spirit. You see, today we're looking at very important bills again, and I want to draw your attention once again to the fact that we don't have Volodymyrna Timoshenko again in the hall. It wasn't when we were considering strengthening the security of our country, it wasn't when the Russian Federation was recognized as an aggressor, it wasn't there now, and it wouldn't be on any of the key issues. So I have a question for a kind member of the faction that you can pass on to Julia Volodymyr. First, remember that this year alone, why did the beloved son - in - law of Julius Volodymyrovna Timoshenko, Mr. Chechtkin, fly to Moscow seven times? And the second question is, what was he talking to Putin's emissaries about? I have everything for you. Please give Julius Volodymyrna an answer, either on direct air or in the conference room. I'm waiting for answers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-04-m0.u121	Thank you. I invite Irina Sisoyenko to the floor. Please have an eight-minute delay.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-04-m0.u122	Dear colleagues, back to the substance and content of the bill that we are currently considering, there have been discussions in this room that really do seem to suggest that the adoption of this bill will reduce the cost of medical supplies. I want to point out that this doesn't actually fit the reality. The question of intellectual property and the preservation of the ability to maintain patent protection for inventions regarding medical devices is in no way relevant to the cost of medical supplies for the final consumer, so let's not manipulate it. With regard to the cost of medical supplies, the Self-Help Federation faction fully supports what is needed in our country by new laws, which are also passed in Parliament, which apply to the restrictions on the monopoly of pharmaceutical networks, to regulate at last the enormous cost of medicines that are in Ukraine compared to European states. But it's another bill that we're counting on to be adopted as soon as possible in this Parliament. As for how to make sure that Ukrainian citizens do have access to quality and effective medical supplies. First of all, as I said before, if there is a reason for a large number of diseases from oncology, the reason for the outbreaks of certain diseases, then the government has a legal norm on the compulsory license that the government can use. The issue of reimbursation is also important. What Is Reimburgment? Reimbursation is compensation at the expense of the state budget for the cost of a medical device to every person who comes to the pharmacy. So in a drugstore, a person gets free money, and the state pays for it. So this is exactly what the government is supposed to be working on today most – an increase in the number of medical devices that the state is paying for. However, the question of reimbursation still applies to the issue of public budget costs. So I want to point out that, unfortunately, the government is spending very little money, this year is just one billion dollars. At the same time, as we all know, crazy schemes, including the Rotterdam Plus scheme, are the monthly government's spending on tax payers' schemes to the oligarchs instead of increasing the program for reimbursing medical supplies. Similarly, taxpayers’ costs are ineffectively used when no amount is financed by an emergency medical care program. So in terms of Rotterdam Plus, the government is finding funds, and for emergency medical care, there is no reimbursing of medical funds in the state budget. These are all things that have to be resolved right in the government walls and directly become the foundation of state policy. When I go back to the bill, I want to point out that every person who comes to the pharmacy is primarily counting on buying a medicine that's effective and quality. It's very important that every person buy a high-quality medical device, so that it's the kind of medicine that's really going to treat it, not the crazy amount, sorry, the fuflomycin's so-called and the chalks that are being sold on drug networks all over Ukraine today. Thus, the issue of accessibility and quality of quality medical supplies is of great importance today. And just in the second place, it's already a matter of the value of the drugs, which I also, I agree with all of the speakers, is extremely high. And to that end, the Self-Help faction has drafted a bill that is in Parliament that aims to remove the drug monopoly of networks that today form a high-quality medical tool for the final consumer. So let's distribute these standards of patent protection, accessibility to innovative drugs, quality drugs -- that's very important. I think we're going to correct this in terms of the bill between the first and the second readings. And what we're going to do about the cost of the drugs directly is we're going to do it in another bill that's directly aimed at resolving this issue. Indeed, the bill currently under consideration has a large number of new rules relating to the implementation of European legislation on the protection of intellectual property rights in industrial models, on beneficial models, on inventions, on trademarks. And we will clearly support this bill as a whole and continue to participate actively in its work. The question that this bill may create conditions when the number of generic medical devices that will begin to be produced in Ukraine increases. This is really a good initiative, but we still have to understand that a national farm has to produce medical devices that have the highest quality. Experience has shown that those manufacturing companies that invest billions of dollars in innovative development are today the ones that produce the best quality and best medical efficiency. So it is very important to preserve the opportunity for Ukrainians to have unique medical tools that can treat Ukrainians with new technologies from oncology, hepatitis, AIDS, and not just the outdated technologies that may be used by those companies that produce generic medical devices. So this bill, I think we should all support it in the first reading and continue to work very seriously between the first reading and the second reading. And I would also like to request a training committee to be included in the working group on the work of the Health Committee’s professional deputies. Since the bill contains important standards regarding the quality of pharmaceuticals, not only should the Committee of Education and Science participate, but it should include the inclusion of members of the Health Committee. Thank you all for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-04-m0.u123	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I ask you to return to the sitting room. We'll move quite quickly to making a decision. In the meantime, I'd like to invite you. Again? Please, there's been a Faction of Fatherland. Please, repeat one minute, National MP Sobolev.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-04-m0.u124	When state proponents like Melniczuk allow themselves at a time when Medvedczuk is allowed to fly to Moscow to talk about other flights, I don't think it'll even save your boss, Dusty. Mr. Melniczuk, why don't you go to the office and ask me how much money they make with Medvedczuk? Why don't you go to the office and ask him how much he paid off his business to the Russian budget? Go to Dusty and ask how long will he be trading in Ukraine’s interests? And I don't think you'll have any questions. The key evil that sits on Banks will soon leave this office. And, Mr. Melniczuk, then let's see where you're going: back to Fatherland, where were you before, will you repent? No one will believe you unless you have powder.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-04-m0.u125	Thank you. We have two closing remarks. Please, who will be the reporter? Will there be a closing statement? Deputy Minister. Please, Deputy Minister for Economic Development Mikhailo Titarchuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-04-m0.u126	Once again, I would like to thank the people’s deputies for their comments, recommendations. But I would like to clarify some things about the speech of the People's Deputy Rybkin in relation to sanctions. I'd like to say it's not a sanction, it's a preference -- a generalized system that gives Ukraine up to 5,000 types of goods, a duty-free blur. Today, really, April 26 was used to take some preferences, not more than 150 items, so I wouldn't want to, well, say that we completely lost them. The bill on collective governance was adopted and signed, if I am not mistaken, by the President of Ukraine on 22 July 2018. To date, we are moving forward in reforming a very complex sphere that has not actually been reformed by Ukraine's independence. And we have a really historic opportunity, a chance to settle this, and so that we, as an independent country, as a sovereign, show the world that investment has priority for us, and any investment that enters into a state is directly linked to how protected intellectual property rights are. So I would like to urge once again the distinguished national MPs, all the heads of factions to support this Bill 7538 in the first reading on the basis and we will work it out with you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-04-m0.u127	Thank you very much. So, dear fellows, there will now be a closing statement from the committee. In about three minutes, we'll move on to making a decision. During a thorough discussion, in fact, everyone supported the law, so I strongly ask all the factions of the factions to invite deputies to the Hall, the Secretariat of the Supreme Council to inform the people's deputies who are in the towers that the discussion is over. Three minutes later, we move on to the decision-making process. I ask everyone to come into the hall and take up jobs. And I invite you to the report of the First Vice-Chairman of the Committee on Science and Education of Singer Alexander Volodymyrovich. Please. And I urge everyone to enter the hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-04-m0.u128	Dear colleagues, there have been discussions on this bill. In general, we saw a common view of the need to vote. Unfortunately, what we now see in the hall shows that there may be a lack of votes. What does that mean? This means a very simple thing: someone who doesn't vote, doesn't give, doesn't open the door for us to actually reform, on the one hand, respect the rights of those who create intellectual property, and on the other hand, respect the rights of people, ordinary people, people who go to pharmacies every day, buy medical supplies, go to hospitals, unfortunately, buy these medical devices at their expense and save their lives. Dear colleagues, from the committee, I promise that there will be a very fair discussion between the first and second readings, with the involvement of absolutely all experts, the doors for the working group will be open to all, we'll hear everyone's opinion. We can create a consolidated document that can be accepted in a second reading. I'm asking you very much not to create an artificial blocking of this issue for the benefit of the people. We have to confirm once again, on the one hand, to ordinary Ukrainians, on the other hand, our partners from the United States, from Europe, that Ukraine has chosen to protect intellectual property, respect for what human brains create. Dear colleagues, I ask you to support this bill and tell the world that Ukraine has protected, protected and will always protect intellectual property and authors' rights. Thank you. And we vote yes.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-04-m0.u129	Thank you very much. So the discussion is over. I'm asking everyone to come into the hall. Both the committee's profile, and the committee's members, and the heads of factions, I'm asking you to maximize the mobilization of national MPs. Please, from the bed and the government, and the guest's also please come into the hall. It's a bill made out of a package of European integration laws. And I hope that all groups and factions will support it. In addition, I remind you that this is the first reading. All suggestions and corrections can be worked out, and the committee undertakes to work out and consider all the suggestions between the first and the second readings. So let's move on to making a decision. I am voting on a bill amending some Ukrainian legislation on improving legal protection, inventions and useful models (No. 7538) on the basis of a committee proposal. I ask everyone to prepare for the vote. And please support 7538 as a base. Colleagues, please support. Vote. Please vote. We're backing up, boys. [[13:36:04]] For 171 I'll be back in a minute. I see they're not all there. Please, I'll read through the factions, and this will allow me to see who doesn't exist and mobilize. I'll be back. Now I'm asking the faction heads to maximize the special warehouse. So, Peter Dustock's Block 75, Mr. Arthur, 75. "The People's Front" – 44, "The Opposition Block" – 0, "The Self-Help" – 15, "The Radical Party of Oleg Laska – 8, "The Fatherland" – 9, "The Will of the People" – 0, "The Rebirth" – 0, "the Non-Factional" – 20. I'm asking everyone to prepare now and I'm going to make an offer to return to draft Law 7538. So I'm asking everyone to take up jobs. Members of the committee are also asked to mobilize as much as possible. Everybody ready? I just have a question: is there a principle of non-vote support? Do you support me? You'll support it, won't you? Is the government supportive? Call me. So I am voting on the proposal to go back to the draft Law on Amendments to some Ukrainian legislation on improving the legal protection of inventions and useful models (7538). Please vote back to draft Law 7538. I'd like to give you a heads-up, please. Vote. We're backing it up. Please be supportive. [[13:38:29]] For-183 Guys, I'll put it back on. It's too big a breakup. I'll do it. Please come into the hall. Perhaps the proposal to return to the committee will be supported? I'll put it back again. Please show by factions. In fact, all factions support. It's just a need to mobilize the people's deputies. So, colleagues, please come into the hall. If the proposal is not supported, I'll suggest it again first. But, colleagues, I'm sure on the first reading this is completely a compromise and a good offer. Please come into the hall. I'm asked by factions to wait 30 seconds. Please prepare for the vote. If I don't get the proposal on the ground, I'm going to put the proposal back on the first reading. But I'm sure that the first reading is going to be the right position for the Ukrainian Parliament. Please prepare for the vote. I repeat my proposal to return to the proposal for adoption on the basis of draft Law 7538. Please vote and please support. We vote for the return to the vote on the basis. Please vote. [[13:41:05]] For 190 The factions. Peter Poshenko's Block – 82, People's Front – 48, Opposition Block – 0, Self-help – 16, Radical Party – 8, Fatherland – 9, Will of the People – 0, Rebirth Party – 0. So, colleagues, now I'm going to make the next proposal that the Rules provide, this is going to be sent to the Committee to prepare for the re-reading of the first reading. And perhaps this proposal will be consolidating and we will be able to unite around it. Please analyze those who abstained, those who opposed, and support the proposal for a rereading of the first reading. So please prepare for the vote. Please be prepared. And I'm voting on the proposal that the draft Law amending some Ukrainian legislation on improving the legal protection of inventions and useful models (No. 7538) should be sent to the Committee for Re-reading. Please vote and please support. It's a compromise offer. And I hope it will be supported. Please vote and please support. Rereading the first reading. Vote! [[13:42:53]] For-189 And the final proposal envisaged by the Rules is to return the subject to the right of the legislative initiative to work. If not supported, the bill will be rejected. So, colleagues, those who didn't vote, to return the subject to the legislative initiative -- that's a compromise position, I'm asking you to support everyone. Please vote everyone. If, once again, the last sentence does not receive votes, the bill will be rejected. So I am voting on the proposal that the draft Law amending certain Ukrainian legislation on improving the legal protection of inventions for useful models (No 7538) should be returned to the subject of the right of legislative initiative for further development. Please vote and please support. Vote. [[13:44:10]] For-188. Unfortunately, votes are not enough. Draft Law 7538 has been rejected. And I would like you to remember by factions the number of deputies who were present at the meeting and actually have a conversation with them about the European integration laws that were awaiting our decision, and now the committee will have to rework them. Let's move on to the next question of order of the day, this is also an intellectual property block. Draft Law on Amendments to Certain Legislative Acts of Ukraine on Improving Legal Protection of Intellectual Property (5699). Anyone who supports its consideration under a reduced procedure, please vote. [[13:45:22]] For-92 The decision is not made. And we're moving on to a full procedure. And I invite you to the report of Deputy Minister of Economic Development and Trade of Titarczuk Mikhail Ivanovich. Please. Please, Mikhail Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-04-m0.u130	Dear Head, distinguished national MPs! The draft Law amending certain Ukrainian legislation on improving the legal protection of intellectual property (industry) has been developed to ensure compliance with Ukraine's obligations under the Association Agreement between Ukraine and the EU as part of the harmonization of the requirements of Ukraine's legislation on the protection of trade marks rights and industrial models with European Union law. The draft law proposes innovations on industrial samples: the possibility of filing an application in electronic form; the additional security criterion, individuality; the legal protection of unregistered industrial samples; the validity of rights not exceeding 25 years, at the moment 15; the type of security document from the patent to the certificate and the possibility of pretrial cancellation of the testimony in the Appeals Chamber. The last norm is very important for fighting the so-called patent trolling, an phenomenon that is based on the abuse of unscrupulous persons of the industrial rights of patterns that are not new, and mostly takes place on the customs border. For the purpose of combating this negative phenomenon, and for the purpose of its warning in the future, the bill proposes an additional administrative way of canceling registrations, the so-called post-grand position mechanism, to invalidate industrial testimonies in the Appeals Chamber of Mine Economic Development. This way of cancelling is applied in many EU offices, as well as in the intellectual property of the European Union. The basics of money on trademarks. The possibility of filing an application in electronic form; the reasons for refusal of registration or recognition of invalidity of registration of a trade mark; the registration of a collective trade mark; the procedure for granting legal protection under international registration (the Madrid system); the strengthening of sanctions for infringements of trade marks. So once the law is in force, it will be ensured that an effective mechanism is in place to combat patent trolling by introducing an administrative complaint procedure against patents issued, by implementing Ukraine the requirements of the Association Agreement on the Protection of Trade Marks Rights and Industrial Samples. And also, the bill was essentially a broad public discussion involving national, international experts, business associations, trustees, experts, scientists, intellectual property professionals. Requesting support for this important bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-04-m0.u131	Thank you very much. Please record the question to the reporter. Thank you. Please, Irina Sisoyenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-04-m0.u132	I have a question for the author of the bill. I want to point out that in general we are very supportive of this bill, because it really contains a lot of European important norms. But at the same time, I have a question about the application database. Do you not think it is important to open the database of applications for intellectual property in order to build a more transparent and public health system? Maybe also create this on a paid basis for users, but still give public access to the possibility of getting acquainted with applications submitted for legal protection. This is important for the signs of goods and services, in order for those who can see that their rights are being violated or applications on an industrial basis, so that third parties can respond at the right time to non-refundable applications, which are very large in Ukraine, and thus ensure the protection of the rights of real intellectual property authors.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-04-m0.u133	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-04-m0.u134	Thank you for asking. In fact, we're not against your offer. Make a proposal to the bill. And the main purpose of the bill is to make it transparent, that is to make it clear, and not just there, the author, who has some work, has access to this base. Today, it's the Crippet. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-04-m0.u135	Thank you. Opanasenko Alexander Valeriyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-04-m0.u136	Dear Deputy Minister! Mikhail Ivanovich, first of all, would like to thank you, because we have actually received a good bill, a good text that should also address the issue of such a disgraceful phenomenon as is in Ukraine, and a "proprietary trolling" and, in principle, to establish in the legislation of Ukraine the principle, the international principle of the exhaustion of trade marks. But over time, I'm looking directly at the committee, as far as I know, the second question has now been removed from this bill. I'd like to get directly like you, from the authors, your attitude towards this moment -- why? And the answer is why the committee directly removed the issue of fixation in our legislation of the international principle of exhaustion of trade marks, which is necessary for us not to have a monopoly, but a competitive market directly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-04-m0.u137	Thank you for asking. In fact, the issue of exhaustion is very difficult. And what status should be in the state -- international or national -- is under consideration in another bill. Why was this decision taken? It was on the committee of discussion, and today's bill, which concerns 5699, we didn't want to reload it. overload. And there's a proposal that we're going to create a new bill that will clearly define the position of the Ministry of Economic Development. It was an international exhaustion of rights.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-04-m0.u138	Thank you. And the final question is the Kugel Alexander Volodymyrna. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-04-m0.u139	The Fatherland faction will support this bill in the first reading. I think we understand with you how late it is that we've been serving with independence in the country for 26 years, we've just started implementing civilized standards of protection not only of property, but of intellectual property, we've started with songs, from authors, now we're moving on to science. But what I'm saying is, unfortunately, in a country where there's no competition and there's no judicial system, the protection of intellectual property rights is impossible even if I registered a patent. Second, there's a lot of patent workers, there's a lot, there's a lot, there's a lot of firms that don't make jobs, there's a lot of them that's created firms that are near the Ukrapatent, and they're making money on it without giving any of the authors a chance to protect them. And we don't have a protected author. When he sends his information, such as to industrialists, they steal it.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-04-m0.u140	30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-04-m0.u141	They steal, they use, and they have no right to defend themselves, just because of the court, and we have very low court practice. And that's why we're going to support it, but for the second reading. Let us seriously strengthen this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-04-m0.u142	Please, Mikhail Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-04-m0.u143	Mrs. Kugel, thank you for your kind comment. In fact, the final of the reform is the creation of a specialized court to deal with intellectual property-related issues. Unfortunately, he is. This question is not in the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, it will be discussed by the President's Administration. And according to our latest information, there's already a jury contest going on. So in principle, when there's a package of documents. Bills accepted, that'll be the basis. And of course, for it to work effectively, we have to have a court specialized in intellectual property. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-04-m0.u144	Thank you. Thank you for the report, Mikhail Ivanovich. And to my co-report, I invite the first Vice-Chairman of the Committee on Science and Education of Sperm Alexander Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-04-m0.u145	Good afternoon, dear fellows! I mean, the first thing I want to say is that the previous vote has once again shown that we have a full room only when we're discussing gas, oil, when we're distributing some material resources. Unfortunately, this once again shows, unfortunately, from a level. I don't want to be insulted. And people see that intellectual property, unfortunately, in Ukraine never became a strategic resource, that's what they should say. So, Andriy Volodymyrovich, it's not even a problem for people, it's a problem of how they react to their work, it's the first. Now, secondly, because Mikhail Ivanovich has said a lot, I just want to add. We had an appropriate hearing on the committee, an appropriate discussion. We understand the difficult points that exist there, and we agreed. And first of all, this is the question on which Mr. Opanasenko asked questions, the issue of exhaustion of rights, either international or national. We understand all the contexts that exist there. We also understand that since, in fact, we have rightly said that we haven't considered these issues in 27 years, and once we have been affected properly, we have begun to consider this, there was a bill by Mrs. Victoria Ptashnik, who is very, very much in fact suited to the analogy of the document. That's why we found a compromise: to take into account the Mertian Bill, to take into account the relevant observations that exist there, and to find compromise. What's more, we agreed that I'm under the transcript, I think it's before the vote, so I understand? I'm going to read an agreed, agreed position, it's going to be a very short position that we have in common right now -- Mert, a group of national MPs, that's 10 national MPs with appropriate comments -- so that with these remarks that we're going to vote on the transcript, we're going to go through the first, second reading. And then by creating an appropriate working group, as Alexander Volodymyrna suggests, we'll be able to work through the task force. But if fate and 5699 in voting is the same as 7538, I just want to say that we can put a dot in the building up of systems of protection and respect for intellectual rights. We're going to redefine for everyone that we're not even a third country, maybe a fourth world, because respect in the 20th century for what a person produces at the expense of his education, based on fundamental knowledge, is the basis of development. Look at the countries that are in the top. These are countries where the left-hand side of what they produce is intellectual property. Therefore, the honourable colleagues, taking into account the opinion of the committee, taking into account the opinion of our fellow national deputies, the experience of Mrs. Victoria Ptishnik, taking into account the opinion of the Ministry of Economic Development, the trade of Ukraine, I propose to accept this in the first reading, under the transcript I will read a very short joint proposal, and then to go into the first second reading. And there I promise that we will look at this issue in a very transparent way, and we will find a common solution, not for any corporate interests, but for Ukraine to have respect for intellectual property. Thank you all for understanding. And I ask you to invite all your friends to the House of People's Deputies so we can vote in favour. Thank you all.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-04-m0.u146	Thank you. Please record the question to the co-rapporteur. And while the recording goes on, obviously we're going to enter the vote after lunch, and it's going to be time for everyone to rethink and mobilize as many national deputies as possible for work. Kishkar Paul. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-04-m0.u147	Please hand over Victoria the Bird.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-04-m0.u148	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I would like to draw your attention to the first reading of this bill, unfortunately, there have been some rather strange changes and suggestions that I think we should clear up. In particular, there's a reference to the fact that, five years after the registration of a certificate for goods and services, any person loses the right to charge this testimony with a court. What does that mean? That many individuals who register trademarks, companies that they have no relation to. These, for example, are now signs like "Economy," "Interfax", "Ukranafta", "Dali," "Naftogaz", "Starbax." Then they cannot, the companies themselves, when entering the Ukraine market, appeal and accuse this illegally issued testimony if it has been five years. Obviously, such standards are unacceptable, and we must exclude them from our first reading. And there's another question, I'm asking you to unify. If you don't mind, I'd like to talk about another rule.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-04-m0.u149	Mrs. Victoria, you're next until after two performances. I'll give you 30 seconds and you can fill in. Please, 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-04-m0.u150	Thank you. And the second moment, also in the first reading, was the rule that the owner of the already registered trademark, if he wants to go to court and admit to a invalid other brand that violates his rights, must first prove that his brand he uses during a particular period and only after that can he appeal. That's nonsense at all! This is not the case in any European state. And so obviously, these standards don't even have to go into the first reading, and so we suggest we exclude them from the first reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-04-m0.u151	Thank you. Before I give an opportunity to answer, I want to announce that I'm going to continue my morning session for literally five minutes, well, before I finish the questions, and everyone who's done the recording will be able to ask a question. Please, Alexander Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-04-m0.u152	Thank you. Thank you, Mrs. Victoria. I completely agree with your comments. You saw, we got to know them again in the morning. This is a perfectly normal practice, especially for Ukraine, when they occupy the appropriate domain names in the domain. UA and the trade marks that are going to come in here, they're actually not going to be able to work legally on this market. It's perfectly understandable. I think that absolutely, well, first of all, we've now actually agreed on the positions that we're going to find compromises on now, and I'm going to read the transcript. But all the inadequacies that narrow down the rights of really well-known firms, legal companies that go into the market in Ukraine, I think we're all going to consider and I think we're going to do very clearly with this. It's perfectly normal.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-04-m0.u153	Thank you. Please, Capplin Sergey Mikolayovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-04-m0.u154	Well, I'd like to say two of these. First, voters, citizens just need to know that not voting for the previous bill has caused the country's budget to lose 2-3 million dollars only during the voting stage, because the assistants were working, the secretariat was working on the committee, there was discussion, gas, light, the doors were closing and protecting the premises and so on. So this is every vote, and this failure to work leads to direct loss. What would a village do for two or three million? What could be done at the company? It's better to give a small business a loan or just to spend it here, you know? So the second question. Please discover, however, the depth of competitiveness and protection in terms of intellectual rights protection, how important it is for the economy, to raise the level of investment in the national economy from the second, where we are now, at least, at the third and fourth. We're really lagging behind today, the rear row from this point.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-04-m0.u155	Thank you. Mr. Sergei, thank you for asking. That's absolutely right. Our vote once again has shown that we are an orphan state, absolutely. We've proven once again that intellectual property doesn't concern us. So to expect investors who first use intellectual property to come in, you can't expect that. That is why young people will leave here because they have no respect for intellectual property. These six bills, which we should now adopt, are just solving the problem of what's building the right space. I agree that the judiciary should work after this. Because you can make any laws, but if the court doesn't work, we're gonna have a problem. But this is the first step -- legislative security, the next step -- the Cabinet's rulings, the corresponding orders, the third step is protection in the courts. But we're starting this work, which unfortunately we haven't done in 27 years. That's why we have to vote for it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-04-m0.u156	Thank you. The time for questions is exhausted. Colleagues, I have such an offer (thank you, Alexander Volodymyrovich) that we would make a recording of the factions now, we knew the sequence, but I'll give the word after lunch. Agreed? So, colleagues, I'm asking the factions to record a draft Law 5699. Please hold the recording. We're just defining the sequence now, and then I'm calling it a break. So there's only two of them currently, from the People's Front and Self-Help. If other factions are willing to participate in the discussion, I will give them my word. Now, according to the Rules, our time is over. Despite all the discussions, we were able to pass five laws, important laws. I think our work has begun effectively. But it's very important that we be able to consolidate after lunch, and those issues that stand in the order of the day, reach and successfully vote and, in particular, this law, which concerns intellectual property, is one of the important laws in the bloc of European integration. This morning's meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, I declare closed. At 4: 00 p.m., everyone is invited to attend the evening meeting. At 4:00, please meet me in the hall.
