ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-08-m0.u1	Good morning! Dear colleagues, please come into the hall and prepare for registration. Please take your seats and prepare for registration. So, colleagues, please hold the registration. Please register. [[10:06:14]] 344 national deputies registered. The morning plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Dear colleagues, yesterday we adopted a historic decision that will no doubt have a positive impact on the future of our nation. And I would like to thank the members of the Venice Commission and, in particular, its President JanniBukkio for helping to develop and approve the Higher Anti-Corruption Court Act. I keep in contact with the members of the Venice Commission and, in fact, under all the laws of judicial reform, we have received a very high-quality expert evaluation from them. And yesterday, after we passed the law in accordance with the recommendations of the Venice Commission, the President in his speech highly appreciated our work, which answers many of the concerns that were here yesterday in the hall. Also, colleagues, I want to report that next week, June 14, Russia is starting the FIFA 2018 World Cup. The championship is supposed to be a great sports festival for all football fans, but unfortunately this year it is going through Russia, which continues aggression against both Ukraine and Georgia and against Moldova. And I call upon all the countries of the free world and their citizens to boycott the world football championship in Russia. And I warn Ukrainian citizens and citizens of civilized countries from travelling to Russia, because there is a real danger of being captured by Russian terrorists. Today we begin our day according to the Rules of Procedure of "the Hour of Question to the Government." And I would like to inform you that there is a prime minister of Ukraine and members of the Cabinet of Ministers present. Let's welcome the Cabinet of Ministers and the Prime Minister. [[Applause]] I'll remind you, we're going to have a performance. Today, there will be a speech by Ukrainian Justice Minister Paul Dmitrovitch Petrenko, who has been very much involved in the drafting of the Higher Anti-Corruption Court Act, and then there will be questions: first, from factions and then from deputies, as usual. So I invite you to speak with the Cabinet of Ministers of Justice of the Ukraine of Paul Dmitrovitch Petrenko. Mr. Paul, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-08-m0.u2	Congratulations, distinguished national MPs! Congratulations, Mr. Head! I really want to say that yesterday was a historic day and the Ukrainian Parliament first confirmed that it is able to change the country, make important systemic decisions and make decisions that affect millions of Ukrainians. I would like to thank every national MP who joined the process of adopting and establishing an anticorruption court in the country yesterday, which will complete the formation of anticorruption infrastructure in the country, and to confirm to the Ukrainians that there is justice in the country and that the person who committed the crime has committed corruption will necessarily be punished in the form of imprisonment. But the Ukrainian Parliament is actually showing a systemic attitude towards many changes in this country. I want to remind you that less than a month ago in these walls of parliament, you and I adopted equally important legislation in the first reading concerning the protection of the rights of Ukrainian children. This legislation was actually developed by all members of the Ukrainian Parliament, representatives of both coalitions and opposition. I would like to thank the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, AndryuParubia, for his personal actual patronizing and accompaniment of the bill. Irina Lucenko, Andrew Ivanchuku, and dozens of national deputies who have become authors of the second package of laws, which are already called in a society of "no foreign children." The committee that prepared the bill for the second reading literally took place yesterday. After a heated discussion with Parliament's representatives, we have drafted this bill for a second reading, and I believe that it has the right to be accepted and to be one of the most systematic legislative initiatives that will regulate the rights of Ukrainian children in the Ukrainian legal field. How important these initiatives are, you will ask. Last year, together with you in this session room, we adopted the first package of laws "no foreign children" which was aimed at protecting Ukrainian children and increasing the responsibility of irresponsible parents who had forgotten their children who had shirked their responsibilities. What did we get? The result was staggering. Thanks to our initiatives in a few months of work, hundreds of thousands of Ukrainian children, over 400,000 Ukrainian children have received debts from alimony accumulated over the years, 1.6 billion dollars have been collected for the benefit of Ukrainian children. Compared to last year, it's an increase of 70 percent. This means that there is a human destiny, there is a specific family, there is a particular mother or father who raises the child on his own, and there is a particular child who has received additional opportunities for normal parenting and maintenance. And that's not just words. Let me tell you a few stories. A mother who raised her own child came to see me. Her son has been 18 years. He entered the university, and his father never paid a single penny to support the child. Only after introducing legislative changes that imposed a whole series of burdens and restrictions on this grieving parent and the arrest of his assets did he fully pay off his debt to this son. This is a large sum that is actually now helping this family to raise a son and complete a higher education facility. Literally this week, in the mainstream media, there was news that the Ministry of Justice had taken and confiscated an expensive Ferrari car from one of the parents and sent it into effect to pay off the debt to children in the amount of 260,000 dollars. Another example. For more than five years, a man did not pay alimony to his child, and after receiving a ban on going abroad, he was turned from an airport with a mistress with whom he went for a vacation, and he was forced to pay the full cost. And the last example is very interesting. Lviv district. A father who had avoided paying alimony for 10 years, who had transformed all his assets into relatives who allegedly had no income, was sent to socially useful jobs to replace the streets. On the third day of his community service he came to the office of the Ministry of Justice and fully repaid his debts. There are many such stories, but in every case, the real human destiny, in every such story, is real sadness and unreal hope. But in every such story, there is now a sense of children and those parents who live with them, of the restoration of justice, of the justice that every Ukrainian citizen expects from state institutions and from the state. That is why, together with you in the second package of laws, we offer a series of money that will put an end to such a phenomenon as the avoidance of alimony payments, such a phenomenon as irresponsible and irresponsible abandonment of parental responsibilities. I want to give you a bunch of money that I'm sure we're going to vote for next sessional week and that will benefit Ukrainian children. The first is to increase the minimum alimony size. This is an extremely important money that will be directed toward making more money for children to be raised. The second money is the introduction of a system of financial sanctions into debtors who avoid alimony payments. For failure to pay alimony for more than a year – 20 per cent fine, over two years – 30 per cent fine, over three years – 50 per cent fine. And it's going to be on the child's account. The next one is the criminal responsibility of those parents who scoff at their responsibilities until they are deprived of the will and duty of such parents to work in colonies and prisons and pay their children’s expenses. The third is to limit or deprive parents of their debt to their children of their ability to take up managerial positions and to take up public service. Not a place for such persons in management positions, beginning with the minister and ending with the head of the law enforcement body. Another important money that millions of Ukrainian parents are expecting is the opportunity in a civilized European way to go with a child abroad from a parent who lives with a child, without any rudimentary licenses, notary statements, and these are actually ways of blackmailing the parent, the other parent. We've made a balanced standard that will allow each parent to live with the child and to live with the child, but not with the child. And another norm, it's actually an opportunity for that child who was a victim of academic violence, who by the time he was a child, did not receive help from one of the parents when he was growing up, not to provide for such a grieving parent and not to pay alimony if he hadn't done his parenting duties for over three years. In addition to these sanctions, we are also introducing a lot of incentives and motivations with you. Ukraine’s Prime Minister, VladimirGroysman, has prioritized the issue of family protection, parenthood, responsible parenthood, and child protection. Literally a few weeks ago, the Ukrainian government presented innovations that will stimulate responsible parents, stimulate birth in the country and stimulate the very basic, comfortable and secure space for small Ukrainians who will shape our future, the future of this country. Among such money and aids, which are now being provided and supported by the Prime Minister of Ukraine and the entire government, is the provision of tax benefits to responsible parents who invest in their child's development, in the upbringing and education of the child. The second money, which I think is absolutely revolutionary, is the support and assistance of every Ukrainian family that gives birth to a child. And literally from September of the month around the country, there's a government initiative to give every newborn baby package. This is the first necessary package of things and goods that mothers need in the first months of a child’s life. In virtually all civilized countries, this format is introduced for the very main purpose of reducing child mortality. Ukraine, unfortunately, has actually taken first place in Europe at infant mortality in the early months following birth. And now the government, the parliament, and the entire state institution actually have to concentrate their efforts so that we can overcome this disgraceful phenomenon. Another money that Vladimir Groysman's government has offered and will be introduced is the motivation of local communities to create comfortable children's space. And from the following year, those local communities that meet the requirements for a comfortable childhood space defined by UNICEF will receive additional financial resources that will actually target the creation of new kindergartens, new sports complexes, new playgrounds for the safe living and development of Ukrainian children. There have been many discussions and many manipulations as to the fact that these harsh sanctions will lead to the persecution of men and that families will fall apart. It's a complete lie and nonsense. The primary goal that we are pursuing with you as coauthors of these initiatives is to create a strong responsible Ukrainian family in which the protection of the rights of the child and its upbringing are key to each parent. So I'm very deeply convinced that all of our initiatives with you will be directed at the motivation of Ukrainian citizens: to give birth, to make a family, to love, not to think about documents and bureaucracy, but to think that every Ukrainian child is a contribution to a great, bright Ukrainian future. I want to thank all the people's deputies, all of them without excluding all the factions for your active participation and co-authority in these initiatives. I would like to thank the Head of the Supreme Council for having become one of the priorities in this session room for the theme of child and family rights. And we are systematically, in fact, taking very important initiatives every quarter that bring Ukraine closer not only formally but also fundamentally to European civilised space. So there's a huge request for all of us to focus on the next week and adopt a package of three two-pronged laws -- those laws that protect children's rights. And as Minister of Justice, I promise that from the first day that these laws begin to work, we will use all the innovations and mechanisms to ensure that every Ukrainian child, every Ukrainian family, is protected in part by the rights, freedoms and guarantees set by the Ukrainian State, the Ukrainian Parliament. I would also like to thank the President of Ukraine, who has defined this direction as one of the priorities of the National Project "I Have the Right." The first package of laws was signed immediately. I am convinced that the second package of laws, which is a fundamental and necessary Ukrainian state, will be signed and will be protected by the President of Ukraine. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-08-m0.u3	Thank you. Thank you for your active and fruitful work, Mr. Paul. Now we're going to the next chapter. First the factions of factions and groups, and I ask all the factions and groups to prepare themselves for an enrollment to question government members. And I'd like you to record it. Please. From Kisse Anton's Rebirth Party. I can't see. Kiss, you take the microphone and tell me.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-08-m0.u4	Dear friends! Volodymyr Borisovich, I am addressing you, for distinguished colleagues on the old issue of the road Sarata-Arciz-Tarutino. Volodymyr Borisovich! Volodymyr Borisovich, may I have your attention? Two weeks ago, there was a delegation of community representatives from all parts, so far there is no action. I very much ask you to send representatives of the Cabinet of Ministers to the Tarutin region to meet with the people. The delegation represented 15,000 signatures, all signatures were sent to you. Once again, Reverend Vladimir Borisovich, I very much ask and hope for your support. In the region of understanding, there is no understanding on this issue. In Tarutin, we are ready to meet a delegation from the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. We're waiting for an answer when that happens.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-08-m0.u5	30 seconds to add. There's no need. Please add, right? Give me 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-08-m0.u6	As a national deputy, I was approached by the people of the two villages of the Arctic region, the village of Kamyanské Arci district and Roštá. More than a thousand hectares of pastures have been stored. I very much ask that the minister of the agrarian ministry be instructed to send a commission to find out on the spot who did and who did.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-08-m0.u7	Please, who will answer?
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-08-m0.u8	Thank you. Your Honourable Mr. Head of the Supreme Council, distinguished colleagues of the national MPs, Your Honor Anton Ivanovich! I thank you for asking, we have discussed this with you not once. I'm also very concerned that there are still very, very many roads in Ukraine that have been destroyed. I am very objective about this problem, but, as you know, for me personally as Prime Minister and for our government, the construction, reconstruction and reconstruction of Ukrainian roads is one of the most important priorities in terms of approaches to upgrading the country's infrastructure. And in particular, our road rehabilitation program touched the Odessa region. Unfortunately, we cannot do all the repair work on the road at the same time, but you and I have agreed that in the first half of the year, we will see how the work is done, and if we can somehow redirect resources, we will. So we should probably wait another month, and in a month we can tell you whether we can do something or not this year. If not, this road will be in the next year’s plan. But I would like to point out that I feel no less pain, but today any MP can say where the roads are repaired and where the roads are neglected. But they've been neglected not today, not this year, they've been neglected because for decades at least no one has looked after them, and the money from the road fund has just been stolen. But we broke this shameful practice and began to rebuild our roads. We need time for roads to have sufficient quality. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-08-m0.u9	Thank you. From the Self-Help faction of Romanov Anna Anatoliyevna, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-08-m0.u10	I pass the word Tetjani Ostrovi.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-08-m0.u11	All right. Pass the word to Tetjana Ostrecki.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-08-m0.u12	Dear Mr. Prime Minister, last time you stated during the "hour of questions to the government" you're struggling with customs schemes. But how do you fight them if you ask us names, names, facts, and points of a pass? The whole of Ukraine knows about this, the know-it-all investigators, it feels like an honest business, it's known to national MPs, and your government seems to be struggling with schemes, it doesn't know where, it doesn't know what's going on. So if you're not able to get a customs order, build a powerful customs administration, I'm personally and the Self-Help faction is willing to publicly inform you of the facts of customs offences every day. And the name and the responsibility of the violators, the fight against smuggling and the increase in payments to the state budget, we expect from you. And in the meantime, I'm handing you 155 papers that I've informed your government and that are being talked about today by investigative journalists in all media outlets. And I'm waiting for the result.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-08-m0.u13	Thank you so much for your question, dear Aunt Georgieva. You keep asking very hard questions about the fight against customs corruption. What I'm saying is that yesterday, when you came out of this rostrum, you were talking about customs corruption. A deputy comes to me and says, "Well, who's to say?" With that in mind, you have a very good understanding of this subject from the point of view of your professional activities in the past. But that's the thing. I ask you to do one thing, Tetjana Georgievna. Please inform me of this and inform the public. I'm not the kind of person who covers up customs. I'm a person who really fights customs schemes and has real results. And you call things your names from the point of view of coming, from the point of view of action that we are taking today to reduce the level of corruption on customs. But I obviously agree with you that customs corruption is present today, as in many other areas. And that is why I thank Parliament today for making an extremely important decision to create an independent anti-corruption court, which will be a real mechanism of punishment (may become a real mechanism, and I am convinced that it will become) for corrupters, including in customs matters. So please, I would ask you for information without waiting for Parliament meetings and questions to be sent to the National Anti-Corruption Bureau of Ukraine to take the necessary operational action, to detain smugglers, or those who are engaged in Syrian imports. And in this way you'll help block any problems. And if the Self-Help faction wants to take part in the fight against corruption, please invite you to set up public reception facilities at every crossing point in Ukraine and check customs declarations and documents that are required today at the border crossing. If that's what you want. I understand it's none of your business. But if you want, I'm ready for that.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-08-m0.u14	Thank you. From Fatherland, Kugel Alexander Volodymyrna, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-08-m0.u15	Vladimir Borisovich, very short three questions. First. I would very much like to draw attention to the ATO Ministry, the management of areas that are under our control. Every air of a few dozen calls comes from people from the eastern regions because they're not being formed by refugees this year. I am very much asking you to examine these questions because they are not unique. The other one. A terrible panic among the population over the change in the granting of subsidies. There is no explanation. Especially, please, Vladimir Borisovich, you know that children in many areas have gone to work in other cities, such as Cherkaščina, others, and children are prescribed by their parents. I'm talking on the air about how to do protocol, but I think Mr. Reva can do it. And the third question. I'm stressing again, it's not your jurisdiction, but we're all. Small and medium-sized entrepreneurs who met with Oxana Prodan and other self-help representatives stressed it.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-08-m0.u16	30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-08-m0.u17	The NCRECR has passed a decree in which it obliged everyone to put modems on gas counters by 25 June, and for small businesses, it was worth 10,000 dollars, for medium and large, 50 dollars. We ask you to insist that they advance this requirement for at least a year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-08-m0.u18	Thank you, Reverend Alexander Volodymyrable, for your questions. On the first question, I take a job. The second question is about subsidies. In fact, the work is running, and I have heard your concern, and it is important to strengthen the clarifying work. But I would like to point out that this is about increasing the targeting of the subsidy and support programmes themselves. And there's no way it's trying to shorten someone out there. You just have to make sure that someone who doesn't have the opportunity to pay for it is paid by the state, and whoever has the opportunity has the right to pay. Because we have a lot of abuse when people have both income and normal property, and they buy something there for huge sums, and they have a subsidy. Well, that's just unfair. And that's why this job is going on, it's going on. I'm convinced that in the next heating season, we're going to enter completely normal and fairly, which is the main thing. People themselves even care about it and often ask the question that, look, he has a car and a normal income and so on, and so on, and he's also on subsidies when, for example, there's no other income and there's no subsidy. It's better here to step up this job and we're doing it. Regarding the NCRECR. You know, the NCRECR is not subordinated to the government. But I'm taking into account what you said, this is really a question, and I'm going to go officially to the new head of the NCREKP, who was chosen by an independent body to take this issue into account and respond to business calls so that there are no additional bureaucratic things. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-08-m0.u19	Thank you. From the will of the people of Shahov Sergey Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-08-m0.u20	Ladies and gentlemen, the honourable ones are here! Please tell me that in Luhansk this winter the morgue was filled with bodies that died of a chill. It's not the people who freeze in winter near the garbage dumpsters, but the people -- the doctors, the teachers -- who, of course, can't pay today for the HKG, can't pay for the gas today. In August, there will be an increase in the price of gas to 11 dollars, as far as we know. Please tell me, in which country in the world does a pensioner receive 1,200 dollars, and one official receives 28 million dollars? Please tell me you're going to the IMF for money, you're going to take a billion dollars, you're going to take the whole country with your hand out, when Naftogazu officials only take $46 million for their bonus. "Our End" requires immediate action.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-08-m0.u21	30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-08-m0.u22	"Our country" immediately requires that we address this issue in Naftogaz, which was given 46 million dollars in premiums while the state is at war. With this money, 200,000 children were able to rest in the camps of the elderly. Children today suffer from measles, children today suffer from tuberculosis, children today suffer from oncology, and no one can solve this issue while stealing from the Cabinet of Ministers.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-08-m0.u23	Thank you for asking. I want to point out that the government has not made any decisions about any awards, including what you're talking about today. Accordingly, NAC is a company managed by an independent supervisory board. And it's not the government's jurisdiction, it's independent councils. I was also concerned, and I remain concerned about such a decision. So I sent an official letter to the independent supervisory board to review their decision and inform the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. I look forward to an answer to that question. And I don't support that kind of high-reward policy, because I think they're out of time. Although it must be admitted that NAK Naftogaz Ukraine and its management won a serious victory in Ukraine's interests in size – attention! - $4.5 billion. So the point is that we won a $4.5 billion Gazprom lawsuit today, and that's why the Supervisory Board itself has awarded such a reward. Although I emphasize that my position here is quite clear. This curve, I think, and I corrected this appeal to the Supervisory Board. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-08-m0.u24	Thank you. From the Radical Party, the word is Laško Olegu.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-08-m0.u25	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Mr. Prime Minister, last Wednesday at the government meeting, our faction came to you demanding the resignation of the Deputy Minister of Health of Lynchevski, who said there was no need to treat the ill Ukrainians, because they would die anyway. I want you to let the Ukrainians know when you resign this person who allows himself to make such a statement about the Ukrainians. And the second. Mr. Prime Minister, what is your government doing to lower the cost of drugs for Ukrainians? Millions of people cannot buy drugs. Miserable pensions, meager wages, but huge prices. I want to tell you that we're proposing a plan, and I'm counting on you to support it and implement it together. The plan for the cost of drugs, the cancellation of VAT, the introduction of a reference price, the limitation of profitability, the introduction of dragon's liability for the falsification of medicines, the expansion of the list of free drugs to save Ukrainian lives.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-08-m0.u26	Thank you, Your Honor Oleg Valeriyovich, for your question. On the first question. You know, just like you put out that statement, it also worries me and confuses me as a person, because I think we have to have compassion for someone else's misery. And the main thing is not just to be compassionate, but to be willing to help, to deal with the difficulties that anyone can face, especially when it comes to cancer, is enough serious challenges for people. And that's why the government of Ukraine is allocating funds for the support of parliament to treat such patients, including abroad, in clinics that are more technological. But I also want to point out that I wasn't standing outside the problem of building a Ukrainian hospital for the children of OHMATDIT. And we first built, we made a linear accelerator, all that's necessary today for effective treatment of babies. And I want to emphasize that this is an important priority for me. I want people to be healthier so that people can live longer, and for that we really need to do a lot. And for a long time, people have been and are under difficult living conditions today, and they have to simply limit themselves to basic things. And that's not what happened yesterday, or a year, or two, or three years ago, that's what happened systematically in our country. Yesterday I participated in a conference on our country's economic future, just a discussion. That's right, since we were 21 years old. 22 years of our independence, by 2014, we had 13 years of growth in our economy by about one percent per year, and we had 8 years of decline. This was a drop in the standard of living, and people were refusing more and more under normal conditions. And that's all the credit, in "deservation," is all the fault of those who ran the country and those who had a bearing on making the right decisions. We have no right to jump into the past, we have to provide an economic level.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-08-m0.u27	One minute, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-08-m0.u28	We're going to make economic growth, and all we're going to do is convert what we're going to do into the quality of life of Ukrainian citizens. So I want to say the following. I have referred to the High Court Commission, I ask all deputies, please listen to the entire speech, there's an order of ten minutes that's been on the board of this deputy, and we'll make a fair decision with you. And the only thing I would ask for is justice. The second question is about medicines. Oleg Valeriyovich, in this room we have taken the program together, including your support and with the support of colleagues, the introduction of the "Affordable Medicines" program. And I want to say that this program works real. Indeed, you are right to expand the list, to increase people’s access to these drugs. But together we're doing two programs, on the one hand I'm buying drugs, and I'm preparing a big report on the state of the world's drug purchases, and believe me, it's not as bad as anyone wants to impose on us. I have a feeling they want to impose.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-08-m0.u29	30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-08-m0.u30	Wait a minute, if you don't mind, Andrew Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-08-m0.u31	Give me a minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-08-m0.u32	Thank you. And I have the impression that they want to discredit this program by buying drugs through international organizations, like buying the world, and returning the schemes that have been available to Ukraine for many years, where billions have been washed away. I'm not going to go against this, I'm never going to go against those who want to steal from those who need medical treatment, because it's, I think it's just a human crime against people. On the one hand, we're buying, and the report is going to be. On the other hand, today more than 20 million Ukrainians have received prescriptions for free drugs, that's about 240 drugs that we give free of charge in those basic nosology where there is a problem, bronchial asthma, second-type sugar diabetes and hypertension. And we know that heart disease and heart disease in general, today we have mortality leadership for Ukrainian citizens, so we're implementing, including the new cardio centers programme, which will be more than 25 units this year, 26 units all over the country. We have positive signals of decline in calls to chronic patients, mortality and so on, in this category in some regions. But I think every year we'll get better results.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-08-m0.u33	Thank you. From Peter Prashenko's Block, Savrasov gives the word for a question to Spiowakovsky, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-08-m0.u34	Dear Volodymyr Borisovich, a question to you. It refers to Ukraine’s prospects for development. You know that human capital is actually crucial to Ukraine's development and to its prospects. Migration that's happening, both externally and that migration that's happening between regions, shows that we now have an unbalanced policy on the development of human capital. In this regard: Do you, in the government, have a strategic vision of the solution to this problem, or is there a specific program with specific tools, and who does it from the government? Because I'm going to say this: if there's even money, but there's not going to be people in Ukraine, we're not going to solve these problems. The main problem is that young people, especially young people, leave Ukraine. I realize that there are problems in the education sphere, but it's very important to see it balanced through education, through social moments and through the economy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-08-m0.u35	Alexander Volodymyrovich, thank you. What is the most precious thing in our country? It's human capital, people. And why we have enough today. I'd say constant labour waves, even migration. This isn't the first time: in the '90s, in the '2000s, we had a lot of labor migration and people going out looking for a better life. And the latest survey shows that 37 percent of Ukrainians who go abroad are going out looking for a better salary for their skills for their work. And I think they kept people on the minimum wage, they ignored the interest in paying for the work of working people. And this is also the fault of the past. We started to correct it with you, raising the minimum wage. The minimum wage has started to raise the average wage, which is now over 8,000. But this is the way to go. How? As a matter of fact, the next one. We need new investments in the national economy. To do that, we need to create conditions and guarantees for investing in the Ukrainian economy and ensuring the preservation of these investments, guaranteeing the right to privacy in private capital. That's all countries went through, including post-socialist space. What we're talking about is that what we're going to do, what we're going to do, what we're going to do, what we're going to do, and what we're going to do is we're going to have to reinvest in the quality of people's lives, in education, in health, in the cultural environment, in spirituality building -- in a lot of things, including the development of capital to make our country strong. This is the plan of action of our government, which is fully linked to the decisions we make, in terms of the structural reforms we are making today, and in terms of our focus on economic growth. The issue of education. Today.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-08-m0.u36	One minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-08-m0.u37	I'll deal with the education issue. I'll bring it right here. The issue of education is the example of politics, which is led by the Minister of Education, Lilia Greenevich, for full coordination with you, with the Committee and Parliament. We started a course to eliminate the queue in children’s kindergartens in Ukraine in the first place. You can imagine little Ukrainians standing in line for a nursery. This is a huge problem, and I think we're going to solve this problem together with the local authorities by 2020. The next position is the new Ukrainian school. We're changing programs, changing security, starting with this year's 1-4 class of completely new competences to develop and environment in Ukrainian children. But only 12 years from now will we get the result of the first graduates of the new Ukrainian school. Occupational education. Training for skilled workers. Along with the real sector. That's all we do today with you. Clearly, questions and problems of higher education, science is all that matters. which has an impact, including the development of human capital. But I think we understand clearly where we're going, and we understand clearly that the result of our work is success. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-08-m0.u38	Thank you. I am addressing the Prime Minister personally and the government with great respect, and I ask you also to follow the rules, because there is only one minute left for the deputies to question, and the government for even two minutes. I think that this time is enough to provide an answer. Please, from the People's Front, the People's Deputy of Teteruk.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-08-m0.u39	Dear Volodymyr Borisovich, I turn to the MP's faction of the People's Front. We are deeply outraged by the situation that is now taking place in our nation's information space. Where the Ukrainian people are able to claim completely free of charge, they claim to be completely lying to the Kremlin that the Ukrainian director OlegSentsov is a terrorist and one who commits crimes against the Ukrainian people. [[Applause]] We're asking you to give the appropriate ministries instructions to improve the protection of Ukraine's information space from external information influence. I also appeal to the Head of the Security Service of Ukraine to give a proper legal assessment to those statements that are echoing from some of the TV channels that are completely repeating the propaganda of these Kremlins. Also, the National Television Council, radio talk, should study this issue carefully for the shortest.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-08-m0.u40	30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-08-m0.u41	And in the shortest time, look at the issue of granting licenses to channels that contribute to the distribution of false Kremlin propaganda and Ukrainianophobic expressions by individual deputies to such a member of Murayev. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-08-m0.u42	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-08-m0.u43	Thank you for your question. I totally agree with your latest grades. This should not be the case in the home country where you were born, where you walk, to allow yourself to hear expressions that are totally unacceptable to a normal person. But I don't think there's any value at all, except probably money that darkens your eyes. But that's the thing, I think history will put everything in place. Yes, there are indeed many Kremlin advocates today who are subjected to unprecedented torture in the 21st century in a world that declares the protection of democracy, values. But unfortunately, we have huge challenges today, and we have to give them back. I say we are the whole democratic world. And that's what the question is right now. The question is not that Russia invaded Ukraine. The question is not that they entered. Some kind of aggression against Ukraine. No, it's not. They attacked Ukraine, they attacked the entire democratic world, they want to change world order, they want the whole world to be surrounded by terror, and that's all their politics. Indeed, all those who play them today in the information space are real enemies of Ukraine, of our statehood, of our independence. They are those who are unable to do anything to make Ukraine stronger, and they are accustomed to always standing on their knees that are uninhabited with the Ukrainian people. So I'm deeply convinced that we need to take all the hard steps to those who create crimes in relation to our citizens, who commit crimes, including those of an informational nature.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-08-m0.u44	30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-08-m0.u45	which undermine the foundations of our statehood. I believe that both the Nacrad and the state's legislation in a democratic way should be hard and with strict responsibility for those who do. It's no less a crime than what's happening in Donbas today and what's happening in the hands of the Kremlin today. Thank you for asking. I fully agree with your position. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-08-m0.u46	Thank you. In order to perhaps also refer to this topic in Parliament, I support my fellow MPs, I support my colleague Teteruk. And I think this is the position of most of the national MPs. I think that given the requirements of the Constitution, given article 79, which regulates the oath of a national MP, we all took an oath with you, and I think that, in view of that, we should go to the Committee on Rules and Ethics to investigate this case and draw our own conclusions so that we can discuss it. If we ourselves as MPs don't consider and appreciate our work from an ethical point of view, it's going to be very difficult for us to demand action from any other organ. Thank you. And the question from the Opposition Block. Please, People's Deputy Skorik. National MP Skork, please. [[B in m in s a l in]] I'm sorry, I haven't been informed. Goose, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-08-m0.u47	Goose, yes. I have a question for the Minister of Energy and Coal Industry and the Prime Minister of Ukraine. Dear government officials! Igor Stepanovich, you've been minister for more than two years. And during that time, it was repeatedly said that debt on government mines was unacceptable. But debt is today. That's hundreds of millions of dollars. One last example. Two weeks ago, my colleague SergeySzako asked about the repayment of the debt on Selidewwugil. Deputy Minister Korzun has promised that this debt will be repaid. However, debt is outstanding. And coal miners continue to strike. The constant problems on Wolinwoogie, on other government mines. During these two years, the government reports that Ukraine has gone on. Can I have some more time?
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-08-m0.u48	30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-08-m0.u49	At that time, the government reports that Ukraine has seen economic growth. Throughout the country, roads have indeed begun to be restored. And there's not much government shafts left. But why can't we make sure that Ukrainians on Ukrainian government mines get paid on time for their very hard work?
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-08-m0.u50	Thank you, Mr. Goose. I'll start with the last one. The number of government mines that remained remained unchanged has not changed by one. The other one. The government of Vladimir BorisovichGreysman received mines with 18 billion debt and 850 million debt on salary. Today, in two years and two months, the debt is 350 million. What does that mean? Not only did we put out the permanent salary but we also paid off the debt we were owed. Position of the second. In formation. And they got more than 1.5 billion in debt on the grant, and I'm sorry, more than $2 billion. Today, in the formation of our nation’s budget, miners have been reduced from 2 billion 600 million to 900 million. Mikhailo Leonidovich Bondar twice asks the Supreme Council to support the inclusion of the Act on Increases in Grants and doubles only 160 votes.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-08-m0.u51	We're voting.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-08-m0.u52	Except for the Radical Party. Thank you. It does, yes. That's why I have a request. Ukraine's national deputies, it's extremely difficult for us, we haven't received a single piece of modernization in four years, and just recently, when the Prime Minister joined the process, we've accepted billions of coins for mine transformation and another 460 million for modernization. Ladies and gentlemen, Tuesday will be the issue of increasing donations. I'm asking you from the government, from the Ministry, from the miners to maintain this position. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-08-m0.u53	Thank you. Mr. Prime Minister, if you please, 30 seconds, because we're out of schedule. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-08-m0.u54	Oksana Ivanovna, I think you'll continue for 10 minutes if you think that's necessary, but I can't answer a question in 30 seconds that concerns Ukrainian miners who have huge problems today, and these are people who are really hard at work. So I wanted to say. In fact, I don't want to look into the past there, but in fact, the Ukrainian mines, especially the state mines, were just left completely systemicly free. What year did we see mine upgrades? The final juices were extracted from them. People who work in slaughters in terrible conditions, without basic security, get a penny for their work, with a ton of coal being worth more than private mines. That's where the debt on the salary comes from. Because it's conditional. I'm saying that what's sold for a bracelet in the market costs two bracelets in their production. That's the difference, we're making it out of the budget. So what's the alternative? The option of involving resources for the modernization of government mines is absolutely, perhaps, the involvement of private capital, the ability of people to get jobs normally, and the Ukrainian state to get coal that we really need. Do you think I'm happy that we're importing it into Ukraine today? That doesn't fit our strategy. Our strategy is that we have to be a completely energy-dependent country. The question is difficult. And so as long as we're doing change, we're going to have to do it. But this must be done quickly, including those changes that need to be done quickly. Unfortunately, some bureaucrats in the government who are no longer working have been holding back this position, for almost five or six months we've been talking about decommissioning tools for state guarantees that might be sent to upgrade mines. Let's all go together. I understand, there's, there's political stories, let's work together to get the situation out of a difficult situation that we didn't create, and not the government of Arsenius Yatsenyuk, because it's the government of Arsenius Yatsenyuk that, at the time of the execution, these huge trials that he's managed perfectly enough to reduce the debt that we're continuing to reduce. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-08-m0.u55	Thank you, Mr. Prime Minister. I just want to say once again that this is an hour of questions to the government, and because more questions are going to come out, it's probably going to be more fair. And now we're moving on to questions from the national MPs. I invite you to speak to the people’s representative, Derevyanka.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-08-m0.u56	Yuri Derevyanko, "The Movement of New Forces". Dear Vladimir Borisovich, we very much appreciate your efforts towards decentralization that you have been making in recent years, and we would like to ask you a question on behalf of the communities that have now suffered from an invalid. Since the government's misbehavior, first of all with regard to the reduction of revenues to their budgets, which relate to voting at the end of last year's amendments to the Budget Code on the fact that monopolies, such as Skrnafta, such as Skruzalznica, pay not 100 per cent of land taxes to the local budget, as it was all past years, but only 25 per cent of taxes for this year. I underline, 25 percent of the 100 percent to pay. This has led to the fact that a huge number of communities have not received the revenues planned for this year. And even that part of the community, especially in the mountainous region that got the extra cost of renting gas, they just have huge problems in underfunding their programs because of the fact that these benefits were somehow artificially created.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-08-m0.u57	Thank you for asking. You know, for me personally, the reform of decentralization of power and the development of local self-government is, if you speak from the point of view of government management, it's a top priority for me, and in the 14th year, I came to work in the central government, the government of Yatsenuk to start this reform, and we started it. So there's no destructive action that we could take to somehow limit local self-government, at least from the government that I run, will never be. I've been protecting and protecting local self-government and creating conditions for its development. As far as financial instruments are concerned. Today, financial instruments are broad enough to fill budgets. But given that there are government companies that pay their taxes to local budgets, including, in fact, a decision has been made to gradually increase their burden, because it can then be passed on to consumers of these services. But in no way does this have a major impact on local budgets. Because there are other tools today. Taxes on the income of natural persons, excise duties, part of the payment of rent, in the areas still remain taxes on the income of enterprises. The tools today are not just enough, but more than enough. And now what's important to realize is that the problem of decentralization is not just taking the funds out of the central budget and transferring them to the local budget, but the task of decentralization is to create conditions for those financial resources that we've passed down from above to be multiplied and reinvested in the development of territories, including economic development. So in this case, I don't think we've made any decisions that essentially limit anything. But the fact that there are sufficient tools for self-sufficient communities today is an obvious fact. If there's a specific question for specific communities, I'm willing to just look at it separately, maybe there are some more qualities that need to be taken into account, please, I'm ready. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-08-m0.u58	Thank you. Paul Constantine.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-08-m0.u59	Pavlov’s national deputy. Please pass the microphone to the People's Deputy Dolženko.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-08-m0.u60	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-08-m0.u61	Dear Volodymyr Borisovich, I asked you a question about the creation last time. I've asked a particular question, and I think it's painful for millions of Ukrainian citizens to worry about the possible rise in natural gas tariffs. One of the conditions -- very much in the media -- we can see this information -- is that the allocation of the IMF's next tranche is the increase in natural gas tariffs, up to 50 percent, so now about 7 000 per thousand cubic meters, and it's going to be up to 10, up to 11,000. Last time I asked a question, you were talking about the current heating season. But I have a specific question. Is this year, this year, for the next heating season, which will start in October of the month, an increase in natural gas tariffs will be planned for the population. That's the first question. Please give me 20 seconds for the second question. And the second question.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-08-m0.u62	Please add 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-08-m0.u63	Thank you very much. The second question is that, unfortunately, budget decentralization has led to changes in the Ukrainian budget code for the removal of local budgets of villages, villages, district cities, 25 percent of PFCs. You were just talking about PDF tools. At the same time, 60 percent were directed to areas and fiscally integrated communities. The next question is: The 25 percent that.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-08-m0.u64	Please, Vladimir Borisovich. (You can't, the regulation won't allow) Please, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-08-m0.u65	Thank you for asking. Let's talk about gas prices. It's a very sensitive question and you know, you know, it's very complicated, you know, it's perceived by a very negative society, you know, that this is a requirement of international partners to level prices within the country. Because the gas for production costs more than 7,000, and you know it, too, in the market. The question is very difficult. Last year it was up in July, and then I took a stand, and I said we couldn't afford it, because it's a very sensitive question for Ukrainian citizens and there's no simple answer to that question. Yes, it's true that we need foreign international financial support because from 2016 to 2013 it was raised, by almost $50 billion, the debt of the country that we are serving with you today and we are hostages of this debt with you today, and that is to be acknowledged. But on the other hand, I see that we can continue reforms in the country, the economy will grow and we can grow to 5 percent plus in the coming years. This will enable us to improve the quality of life of Ukrainian citizens. Of course, it's very important, there's the question of the ability to pay for gas by Ukrainian citizens, and for me today this is the main question. In principle, I think that for many Ukrainians it doesn't matter how much gas is going to cost inside the country, and it's important how much they're actually going to pay in Ukraine, and that's a very important question to me. I'm looking for a way out of this, so that, on the one hand, there's no way for Ukrainians with low incomes to handle debt outside, and on the other hand, there's no rise. If you have some innovative approach to this, you can suggest it, even I.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-08-m0.u66	30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-08-m0.u67	If you have an innovative approach to this question, you suggest it, I'm willing to support it. But what I'm saying is, dear fellows, I'd like to ask everyone not to gloat about gas prices. I think that the real statesmen, I'm not talking about you, I'm sorry, I want to say that the real statesmen, they weigh, not populism and good words, but the stability of the state, its development and its consolidation in the outcome. And on the way out of a very difficult situation. So that's how I see this problem right now. And with regard to decentralization, I can tell you that today the financial decentralization system works very well, and people get not 25 percent, but 60 percent. In order to maintain a garden, a school, a clinic, people must be able to do so, and they must be united. The whole country has gone into this movement, 705 communities are now united, we are now passing on more. 250 communities of united people have already acquired land to own it. We fully support them and support them. And they separately have government support of 1.9 billion dollars this year. Thank you. And I ask everyone to support decentralization and move forward. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-08-m0.u68	Thank you. From the opposition block, Šurma Igor Mihajlovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-08-m0.u69	Igor Šurma. Dear colleagues, in May in the United States, there were active debates over Gina Gaspel’s appointment as head of the CIA. At a closed meeting, there was Kelly Sadler, who is the official assistant to U.S. President Donald Trump, who invited officials to ignore Senator McCain's opinion that he would die so soon, he died, he had oncology. Next. Kelly Sadler doesn't work for the President's Administration anymore, said White House White House deputy secretary Raj Shah. No one has appointed any commission or intensification, so make your decision. And thank you for keeping this afloat, because today, thanks to Linchevsky's performances, you're pulling you to the bottom with all the benefits of your work. It's my wish that you understand how different we are from them. Thank you. Answers.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-08-m0.u70	Thank you for asking. I want to tell you that. I said my attitude to this question, and it hurts as much as you do. I think I gave an exhaustive answer when I was asked by Reverend Oleg Valeriyovich. And as for bottom-down, you know, in order not to get to the bottom, you always have to walk on the ground and understand human pain. That's my answer. And I pray to the Lord that I will always walk on the earth and never part from it, that is the key. That's how I live. Thank you for asking.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-08-m0.u71	Revega Alexander Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-08-m0.u72	Alexander Revega, 63th constituency. Vladimir Borisovich, I have a painful question for the city of Berdichev, in the city. Please step in again so that the funds are allocated to finance the work that has been done. The following question is also a painful question. The city of Berdichov, the Red Mountain, is an unfortunate house for military personnel who are not being built for the third year. All of Ukraine has seen this problem. Please also intervene. And such a painful question, these are the roads between the district centers. I have a Russian district, the Kremenec Road is the Bila Church. The passengers admitted that the road needed capital repair, well, you can't go there. Please note, capital repairs are made to make. Help me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-08-m0.u73	Thank you so much for your question. From a point of view, we talked to you about a natural disaster. I'll see if there's any basis for compensation, as if we were preparing documents there. I'll see if that's possible. As far as the roads are concerned. We've transferred 11 billion to the local roads -- 11 billion. And the plans are the areas that are the roads to build, which are to repair and so on. We do national roads, and you see that they are built in all areas, and Zitomirska is not an exception. So I'm going to hand over your address to the head of the administration -- so that he can look at it -- a district where he can influence this problem. And as for the construction of military buildings, it's a matter of the Ministry of Defense. I'm also asking you to answer the need for such a construction and what they're going to do about it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-08-m0.u74	Thank you. You see, Ljubomir gives the floor to Tetjani Ostrovi. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-08-m0.u75	. Prime Minister. As a highly educated person, I want to inform you that today's customs law clearly determines that there can be neither national deputies nor any other person in the customs control zones. So when you propose to us to open public self-help in areas under customs control, you suggest we deliberately break the law. We can't afford that. At the same time, the government is self-declared in its failure to implement customs policy, to build a strong customs administration. You know, Volodymyr Borisovich, the transition to personality always weakens the discussion. And I would like to advise you: either answer for your words or apologize.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-08-m0.u76	Thank you for asking. Aunt Georgiyevna, look, I know exactly what makes the transition to personality less difficult, and that's why I don't recommend you do it. But on the other hand, what did I say? I didn't say customs. I said it's out of the zone of customs control. It was actually your initiative. You said we were ready to help you. If you're ready, then please, I'm willing to help you to be effective in your activities. Outside the customs control zone, we can set up public reception facilities. We can create in the customs office. Whatever you say, we'll do it. The only thing that makes you effective is that you work in such a way that we can be more effective. I'm fighting corruption on customs. I'm opening you up: please come, check it out, check it out. You're just gonna help me. And do not break the law in any way, for the law cannot be broken. It's pretty obvious. I'm just thinking, when are you objective? When you criticize us publicly or when it is not public. Are you giving us a high level of appreciation for our activities? From her. I've got a separation of my thoughts here. Thank you for asking.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-08-m0.u77	Thank you. And, colleagues, the final question. Livich. Okay, two more questions. Livik and Mathichenko. Livictra’s wife, Solova, is one of Jehovah’s Witnesses, [[B in m in s a l in]] And Dzublik. And these will be the final questions. Okay. Solovay. Idublik, final question.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-08-m0.u78	Yuri Solovay, 89 constituency, Gutzulščina, and Pocust. Dear Volodymyr Borisovich, I want to say and remind you of 2008. And remember, there was this notion of the Tender Chamber that was successful in eliminating it. But unfortunately, this concept is again today, and I have to say that as a member of the Economic Policy Committee, they were resurrected today. And this Chamber of Commerce, Vladimir Borisovich, today is the so-called Antimonopoly Committee of Ukraine. I know and heard your position, your firm position, six months ago after the work of the Ukrainian Antimonopoly Committee on State Procurement. What's more, I'm being approached by a lot of customers who claim that they're not, namely, the Antimonopoly Committee decides who's going to be the winner, who's going to be allowed or who's going to be rejected. Vladimir Borisovich, I ask you immediately to give an order to the State Service to carry out the work of the state-authorized tender purchases.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-08-m0.u79	30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-08-m0.u80	carry out an analysis, a thorough analysis of the work of the state-authorized tender purchases. And like you, Prime Minister, you have the exclusive right to release these candidates, to take organisational and disciplinary action to release those people who are engaged in this division on the Antimonopoly Committee of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-08-m0.u81	Thank you, Mr. Yuri. You know my attitude towards the work of the Antimonopoly Committee, I also think that in many cases they are, they don't contribute. Although I can tell you that the head of the Antimonopoly Committee is trying to change a lot of things in it, it's not entirely up to him, either, because it's a very difficult management system. Yes, in the quotes "democratic" when each of us begins to build some kind of control system. And that's why there are problems. We meet them now and during government purchases and when decisions are made, we stop government purchases. Then there. Well, what you said was true, to my conviction, too. That is why we need to fight it. But I also want to point out that the President of Ukraine has made amendments to the law to Parliament, and they will contribute positively to the systematic elimination of these problems. I would very much ask, if possible, that this bill of president would be considered in one of the most recent plenary days, perhaps even on a basis, there, well, in a reduced procedure for second reading, because this is the Rules, and we understand that. And then take it all over, and the sooner the better. As for your idea of an assignment. True, there will be a government commission to conduct this audit and audit in Wednesday’s State Service. I want to say that more and more of the actions of the Cabinet of Ministers and the Prime Minister to these things will be tougher. I'm sick of it. I'm bored, you know? We're trying to build normal business conditions here in the morning before sundown. Here one official or another is trying to destroy all of this for us. Last night at the same conference that I mentioned today, I said 80 percent of the time, 90 percent of the time, I'm doing some sort of destruction of the non-standard situations that make up every day a new one. So I could say that we would be reactive velocity now in a lot of other processes if I wasn't distracted, distracted by the things you're talking about today. So let's fight together. I fully support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-08-m0.u82	And the final question is Dziblik. Turn on the microphone. Please, Paul Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-08-m0.u83	Paul Jublik, 66 constituency, Žitomirščina. Dear Vladimir Borisovich, on the roads that are being built throughout Ukraine, but are not being built in the territory of the Zitomir region. No tenders have been made to date. M-03, M-21 -- these roads are in terrible shape. And I would like to draw your attention directly to the roads of national importance that are on the roadside balance. Management ignores pit repair problems. I would like to draw attention to the road that Radomisl connects with Kucher’s 50 - inch [50 cm] hole. For example, the direction of the Highway Service in the area of Zitomir is not coping with their obligations. I would ask you to intervene in the situation and finally on the road, thanks to us the Road Fund, which has been accepted, so that the ways of Lifetime begin to be built. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-08-m0.u84	Thank you so much for your question. It's very urgent. I want to emphasize that I went through Lvivsk, Ternopilsk, Hmelnick, Vinnitsk district, 4 districts and, indeed, under the same conditions, the state of road construction is completely different. Lviv is a qualitatively organized work. Ternopil is a qualitatively organized work. Winnie is a quality job. The hop is zero. There's money, there's nothing. Now there's a change in the head of the district government, the situation, I think it'll make it much better. The Zitomir region, too, cannot yet boast that they are doing well. They're lagging behind, they're bad at things. I'll see if there's any problems, we'll make appropriate management decisions on this. But I emphasize: money, machinery, plans -- everything is, just take it and do it. But unfortunately, it's not. I'll take them into account, I'll take them hard. You know, as they say, nothing speeds up like a push in the back. We'll help speed up the work in every direction. Thank you for asking. May I have the closing word?
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-08-m0.u85	Please include 3 minutes for closing word.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-08-m0.u86	Mr. President of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, thank you very much for the opportunity to speak the closing word. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank you for all the important decisions made yesterday. And what I'm saying is that yesterday's vote of deputies for an anti-corruption court just led to the fact that the Ukrainian Parliament is absolutely capable of making important and necessary decisions, different but important. And that's what's causing respect. And I think we still have a lot of important votes ahead of us, which, without looking at the pre-election maybe populism or pre-election low-quality politics, we can adopt in these walls. In particular, I want to thank you for supporting my submission on the release of the Minister of Finance. I would like to inform you that at 9 a.m. this morning, I presented the Acting Minister of Finance, Oxana Sergiynovna Marcarova, who is the first deputy. I'm asking you to stand up. She's very competent, she's professional, she understands government finances, she's basically a fairly serious reformer. I gave her full support in forming, if necessary, a team of the Ministry of Finance. I am deeply convinced that we are. The speed of our changes will be absolutely clear, and the Ministry of Finance's work with the deputy corps will be fully set up. So I would like to thank you again and say that yesterday's vote on the release of the finance minister has not in any way weakened the government's team, but rather strengthened the government's team in this very important financial bloc. So once again, thank you very much for your support, and I wish you and I all the best of luck together, your fellow national MPs. Thank you. Thank you, Mr. Head.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-08-m0.u87	Thank you. We thank the Prime Minister and members of the Cabinet of Ministers for taking part in the government's "hour." I wish you a fruitful job, Mr. Prime Minister. "The year of questions before the government" is over. And we're moving on to the question-and-questions announcement. But before that, there's a statement from two factions. Yes, I'm sorry. From the faction of BPP and the People's Front, yes, there is a statement. And to the performance of the two factions, the Pashinsk is invited. Please, Sergey Pashinsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-08-m0.u88	Dear Lord Chairman! Dear colleagues! Yesterday in this room, we adopted a decree to support our citizen, our hero, Sonsov, and other political prisoners. Moscow’s reaction was instantaneous. The being who carries the mandate of a deputy of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the news channel One in the name of Muraev made a statement that the sun is not so simple, this man is ready to set fire, blow, and time will put everything in place. If some acid or some other said it, of course, it's Russian propaganda. But this Russian propaganda word for word echoed the Russian accusations of the aggressor country, repeated by the deputy of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. And I'm sure as the Supreme Council of Ukraine, we can't react. I publicly address the Head of the Ukrainian Security Service with a statement to file a criminal case against Muraev under article 111 of "State Betrayal". I publicly appeal to the Attorney General of Ukraine, Yuri Lucenka, to file against Murray's criminal case under article 383 of "The knowingly false report of the commission of a crime." That's a legal question. It's a matter of protecting our interests. But there are still political issues, and there are still moral-ethic issues. Dear friends, how long will we endure the official pitfalls of Russia’s propaganda in Ukraine? Will long - selling clowns tell us about freedom of speech, while the enemy at this time, without covering up through News One and other uncleanness, will wage war with us? And also, I'm going to Murrayev. Not my honor, I've done a lot to make everything legal in this room. I've done a lot to build a democratic state. You will not enter this hall until you offer public apologies to the Sun and the State of Ukraine. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-08-m0.u89	Thank you. And allow me, as chairman of the session on behalf of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, to join the demand, the Nardepa. It is a disgrace that this man bears this title. And to the Opposition Block, which represents this naphtha, to apologize immediately, immediately. Yeah, he's non-fractional, I'm sorry. We demand a nard. Excuse me, I'm sorry. But you brought him here on the list. And we demand that NardepaMurai apologize to the Sun, apologize to the Son’s family, and to all political prisoners. And I, as Ukraine's national deputy, am also declaring my next position as a protégé. I won't take any. [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear colleagues! Dear colleagues! Yura, Yura! What are you doing?Oh, my God! Dear colleagues, please don't be like Murray, I'm asking everyone! We request Murray’s apology to the State of Ukraine, in front of all the political prisoners, in front of all the political prisoners and hostages of the Kremlin. And, indeed, we will not allow the deputies of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to allow themselves to be humiliated by the state of Ukraine. As Ukrainian national deputy, I also want to say that I will not accept any invitation to the study of Channel News One, with all due respect to some journalists in this channel, until the owner of this channel apologizes to the Sun. And I urge all my political colleagues to join this boycott. Please, Mr. Chubarov's word on the matter of conduct, and let's move on to enquiries. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-08-m0.u90	Dear colleagues! I think we are to some extent guilty of Murayev’s continuing this treatment of Ukrainian political prisoners and of the Ukrainian State in general. Murayev was the first so - called Ukrainian politician or so - called politician to justify Russia’s annexation against Crimea, but he had nothing to do with it. After that there were elections, he was re-elected, he was allowed to vote. So I think our apology requirements should not just be before Muraev. Yes, he has to apologize publicly. However, there must be a requirement for the Office of the Attorney - General of Ukraine, the Prosecutor’s Office of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, that, as a result of those claims that not only contradict objectivity, but which deeply offend Ukrainian citizens, especially the families of political prisoners in Crimea. Murayev must be condemned.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-08-m0.u91	Thank you. Colleagues, we're moving on to MP's questions. I apologize again for the fact that I misrepresented this gentleman's belonging to the faction. It has nothing to do with the opposition block faction. I apologize to my colleague from this faction. It's emotion, and really, it's a very difficult situation. This is no way to behave to the national deputies of Ukraine. And I also ask all my colleagues that we treat each other properly in the hall. And we're expecting an apology from Murayev right away. The Supreme Council of Ukraine also received two applications, colleagues. First of all, a statement from the People's Deputy, asking to announce that on Thursday, June 7, during the vote under Law No. 0189, it was the Ratification of the Agreement with France on Helicopters, he voted "against," he did not vote "in favour," he voted against that statement, and just so that his vote would be counted against that ratification. There is also a statement and an announcement by the national deputy, Oksana Bilozer. In accordance with article 60 of the Ukrainian Act on the Rules of Procedure of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, I report on the creation of the Eighth Interfractional Union "National Minorities of Ukraine: Unity in Variety" in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Headquarters, the head of this union, were elected the National Deputy of Ukraine, Oksana Biozor, and the Deputy Meparishvili of Hvich Nodarovich. We welcome the creation of this interfractional union, the desire for fruitful work. Well, the traditional part is now, it's the MP's question. There are 246 requests registered today, and I'm moving on to their announcements, colleagues. From Viktor Razwadowski to the temporary duty of Minister of Health, the head of the Zitomir District State Administration for the allocation of funds for the rapid intervention and replacement of the ball joint of the Chaplin Hope and Janiewska Vitalia, residents of the village of Bykovka Romanov district of Žitomir district. Victor Razwadowski to Deputy Prime Minister, Minister of Regional Development, for the allocation of funds from the State budget of the Saddowska Rural Council of the Žitomir Region for the reconstruction of the heating and heating system. SvetlaniZalichtuk to the Minister of Culture on the need to carry out an out-of-plan verification of compliance with the Ukrainian Cultural Heritage Act during the construction of the Žiljanska Street, 96 A in Kiev. SvetlaniZalichtuk to the Director of the Department of State Architecture and Construction Control of Kiev on the need to carry out a pre-planned review of the project documentation on land construction with cadastral number 8000000:72:082:0019, construction address of Žiljanska Street, 96-A, Kiev. Dmitri Lubinz to the Prime Minister on the construction of the road area of general use of the local T-05-20 Mariupol-Urzuf (km 8+300-km 12+300). Valeria Pisarenko to the Prime Minister for not allowing a reduction in the investment costs of the territorial community of Kharkiv. Michael Bondar to the Prime Minister on the settlement of the issue of compensation for the indemnification of separate categories of citizens on urban, suburban and intercity routes. Michael Bondar to the Chief of State Fiscal Service in the Lviv region for the verification of the activities of the Rock and Bouquet Regional Society of Hunters and Fishermen of TMR Cross. Anatolia Denisenka to the Prime Minister for the establishment of the Board of Audit and Quality Inspections for the implementation of the Ukrainian Law on Auditing Financial Reporting and Auditing. Anatoly of Denisenka to the minister of youth and sport for the implementation of the State’s targeted social program for physical culture and sports. Jacob Bezbach to the Cabinet of Ministers, the National Commission, which regulates state energy and utilities, the Ministry of Energy and the coal industry in the area of improper energy services. Jacob Bezbach to the Cabinet of Ministers, the Ministry of Internal Affairs, the National Anti-Corruption Bureau, the Council of Business and Buildings, the State Fiscal Service, the Security Service, the Attorney General's Office on the need for a comprehensive review of the appeal of the director of the private enterprise "ANSI" Mikoli Agapowa on the seizure of unidentified persons by his property. The Court’s arturature until the temporary duty of the Minister of Health regarding medical devices is not proven to be clinically effective. Igora Shurma to the head of the National Anti-Corruption Agency of Ukraine, Head of the BSC on the rightfulness of granting access to the so-called Minister of Health of Ukraine Uljana Suprun to work with secret documents Artema Witka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, acting as head of the State Property Fund on the need to determine the rightfulness of cheating and the further alienation of state property — the protection of civil defence. Vladislava Sevrukova to the minister of youth and sports on forms of state support for the Olympic movement in Ukraine and distribution of state support between various sports. Vladislav Buhareva to the head of the Committee of the Supreme Council on Budget Issues, Prime Minister, on the allocation of funds from the State budget of Ukraine for the 18th year for the capital repair of the road of state importance of Ohtyrka-Lebdin, which passes through the settlements of the newly created Chupakhiv village united district community of the district of Ohtyr district of Sumi district. SergijaLywoczina to the Prime Minister on the need for steps to overcome the crisis in the transport sector. Vladimir Aresonkova to Prime Minister for Recalculation of Pensions to State Officials VladimirArešenkova to the Prime Minister for providing information on the legality of the transfer of gas components to the OSB balance. Alexia Lensky to the Prime Minister for the provision of funds for the timely maintenance of Preschool School No. 10 for the purpose of ensuring normal conditions for the upbringing and development of children. Alexia Lensky to the Prime Minister for the allocation of funds for the purchase of an emergency car for the Corstostisov City Municipal Company Vodkokanal. Fedora Negoya to the Attorney General for possible illegal actions by the Senior Prosecutor's Office of Kiev Samoylov. ValentinaNiciporenka to the Minister of Internal Affairs, Attorney General, for investigating the illegal activity of a group of persons. ValentinaNiciporenka to the Prime Minister, Minister of Internal Affairs, temporarily acting as Head of the State Service for Geodesy, Cartography and Cadastre, Director of the National Anti-Corruption Bureau, Attorney General, Prosecutor-General of the Cherka District on matters of land auction infringements Nos. 11238 and No. 11512, which could result from a corruption plot. MaximaBurbaka to the Minister of Internal Affairs on the investigation of tax evasion and deductions to the Pension Fund of Ukraine by Progress Agro in the village of Vashkovci in the region of Chernivecka. MaximaBurbak to the Minister of Education and Science on the shameful actions of the Rector of Cherniewec National University named Yuri Fedekovich Stepan Melniczuk. Victor Ostapchuk to the Cabinet of Ministers on the status of implementation by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, paragraph 2 of the Final Provisions of the Ukrainian Law No. 2260-VIII. Vladimir Parasyuk to the Chief of National Police in the Lviv region, Head of State Environmental Inspection in the Lviv region for the inspection of the section of the Vreštyec River, which flows within the area of Jaborov, particularly in the territory of the Poričany Rural Council, for illegal fences of the coastal protection lanes and illegal forgetfulness within the water protection zones. Alexander Gehrega and Andrija Šinkovič are under the executive responsibility of the head of the Government of the Public Association of the Ukrainian Railway Association for the establishment (renovation) of land boundaries within the village of the Danube Danube-like Danube region of the Hmeljna Region. Borislava Rosenblata to the Prime Minister for urgent action to address the threat of environmental disaster in Ukraine. Vladimir Litvina to the Prime Minister for the practical promotion of State policy in the field of territorial governance. Mustafa MassiNayem to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the recognition of LNR and DNR by terrorist organizations. DmitraDomova to Minister of Agriculture Policy and Food of Ukraine, Deputy Head of the State Forest Resources Agency for the appointment of the Director of the Ljubomli Forest Economy of Volin Region of Volodymira Turevich. Dmitra Dobrodomov to Deputy Prime Minister-Minister for Regional Development, Head of the Žitomir Region, Prosecutor of the Žitomir Region, Head of the North Office of the State Audit Service in the Žitomir Region for the unfinished installation of water-conducting communications and for the construction of a water supply network in the village of Benedivka and the village of the Soviet Berdichov region of the Žitomir Region. IgoryaGuza to the head of the Supreme Council Committee on Construction on the non-admission of Bill No. 7266-1 of 20.11.2017 on the amendment of the Ukrainian Law on Urban Activity Regulation, which teaches local self-government authorities in the context of architectural and building control. IgoryaGuza to the Head of the Supreme Council on the non-adoption of the adoption of Bill No. 8124 on the amendment of certain Ukrainian legislation on the promotion of investment activities in Ukraine, which harms local self-government authorities in the context of fuel participation in the development of the infrastructure of the population. Sergey Leshchenka to the prosecutor of the Kyiv region on the investigation into the death of Ukrainian citizens as a result of a traffic accident on the road to the Kiev-Harkov connection. Sergey Lechchenka is under the executive responsibility of the Head of the State Fiscal Service for possible offences committed by officials of the Odessa Customs of the DFS regarding the Intertrans 2000 TOV. AlexiaRubkin to the Minister of Environment and Natural Resources, temporarily acting as Head of the State Environmental Inspectorate, to ensure that the citizens of Mariupol are entitled to a safe environment and that local metallurgical combinations are tested for compliance with atmospheric restrictions. Tetian Blackwall to the Prime Minister for the regulatory development of the natural gas supply market. TetyaniCornovol to the National Commission, which regulates national energy and utilities regulations on the need to improve acts that regulate the functioning of a fragmented natural gas market, removes conditions that contribute to market monopolization. Groups of National Deputies (Gerashchenko, Ionova, Frez) to the Prime Minister for the creation of a single national register of data in the field of the calculation of violent deaths and injuries committed by Ukrainian minors during or as a result of armed conflict in eastern Ukraine by militants. Groups of National Deputies (Geraschenko, Friz, others) Only 4th) to the Prime Minister for the establishment of a permanent inter-ministerial working group to develop and maintain a Register of Journalists' Rights Violations in temporarily occupied areas of Ukraine since 2014. Groups of National Deputies (Ionova, Heraszczenko, Frez) to the head of the National Police of Ukraine on the use of urgent measures to investigate the situation of death in the area of armed conflict of juvenile citizens of Ukraine, Dmitr Matsui and Daria Kazemyrova. Igorya Shurma to the Prime Minister for the violation by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine of the rights of the Ukrainian National Deputy guaranteed by article 15 of the Ukrainian Law "On the Status of the People's Deputy, the Law of Ukraine "On the Rules of the Supreme Council", the Law of Ukraine "For the Cabinet of Ministers". Irina Konstankevich to the Prime Minister for requirements for the rating of scientific publications or scientific publications. Irina Konstankevich to the Minister of Energy for the provision of sufficient electricity and approval by the National Commission for State regulation in the areas of energy and utilities of the new ex-arrangement contract for electricity supply. Alexander Kugel to the Prime Minister, temporarily acting as Minister of Health, the Kiev City Head for the lifting of the Ukrainian Ministry of Health order No. 781 of April 25, 18th. Alexander Kugel to the Prime Minister for the Cabinet of Ministers Decision on Amendments to the Cabinet of Ministers Order of February 21, 18th, No. 117. Paul Rizanenka to the Prime Minister, the Ministry of Finance, the Head of the National Bank, the Head of the Government of the Public Shareholder Society, the State Export and Import Bank, the Head of the Government of the Public Shareholder Society, the State Savings Bank, regarding the non-abuse of legal persons by debtors in carrying out financial restructuring of liabilities to state banks. Edward Matthewchuk to the Ministry of Social Policy, the Ministry of Health, the Odessa District Ministry, the Odessa Region of Odessa, regarding the need for an objective examination of the collective appeal from residents of House 58/1 on the street of the Academic William of Kyiv district of Odessa regarding the need to provide comprehensive social, medical, and material assistance to the family of the first group of Melnikov Viacheslav, who lives in the specified building and needs health care. Eduard Matviychuk to the Head of the Supreme Council, Head of the Committee of the Supreme Council on Economic Policy, First Deputy Head of the Committee of the Supreme Council on Financial Policy, Head of the Committee of the Supreme Council on Construction, Head of the Committee of the Supreme Council on Tax and Customs Policy, Head of the Committee of the Supreme Council on Budget Issues, Prime Minister on the need to consider the need to address the concerns of the public of Odessa, proposed by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, the draft of the Ukrainian Law on amending certain legislative acts of Ukraine on the promotion of investment activities in Ukraine, as proposed by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine on 15 March 2018. This would have a negative impact on the development of the infrastructure of Odessa and could lead to a balance and deficit in local budgets in the state as a whole. Andrija Lopushanski, Michael Doubbenk, Minister of Agriculture Policy, Minister of Ecology, on the issue of protecting citizens in violation of rules on the processing of crops by means of plant protection. Victor Ostapchuk to the Prime Minister for the use of the power of domestic producers of mobile railways for the needs of PAT "The Crucible". Sergio Melnika to the Hmelnicke Town Head on the prohibition of building a residential building on the street of Ternopil, 34 A in the city of Hmelnitsky. Dmitri Kolesnikov to the Prime Minister on Ukraine's participation in the Kyoto Protocol. Mr. Dmitra Kolesnikov to the Prime Minister, Minister of Ecology, on the lack of a new national target programme to protect and preserve the forests of Ukraine. AndriaShipka to the Deputy Prime Minister of Regional Development to resolve the issue of fair distribution of subsidies for the unified territorial communities (including the Red-Gregor OTH), taking into account the population and other essential factors. AndriaShipka is under the temporary responsibility of the Minister of Health to take steps to ensure that health establishments are provided with disability sheets. ArturaMartovicko and Igor Shurma headed by the National Police of Ukraine, director of the National Anticorruption Bureau on the inefficiency of the use of 286 million sums of public budget allocated to the Ministry of Health for the treatment of Ukrainian citizens abroad by the Court of Auditors. ArturaMartovicko and Igor Shurma to the Secretary of the Security and Defence Council for hiding the Ministry of Health information about 18 child deaths as a result of immunization and neglect of the management of the ILO against its obligations that threaten Ukraine’s national security. Alexander Kodola to Henprocuror for the verification of the legal basis for the sale of state-owned property. Alexander Kodola to the Prime Minister for the creation of a state-of-the-art conservation reserve in the town of Nizhin Chernigiv. Andrija Galchenka to the Prime Minister for the cessation of violations of the constitutional rights of citizens to adequate pensions. VitaliaCupria to the Prime Minister, Henprosecutor of Ukraine on the facts of the violation by Chief Military Prosecutor Anatoly Matios and others of the so-called Mask Show Stop Act in criminal investigation. Vitalia Gudzenka to the Prime Minister, Ministry of Finance, on the need to allocate funds (subsidies) from the State Budget for the financing of the Municipal Institute "Stavischensky District Centre of Primary Health Care" of the District Council of Kyiv Region. Vitalia Gudzenka to the head of the Kyiv government for the allocation of funds in the 18th year for the construction and capital repair of socio-cultural objects and the roads of municipal importance of the Tarostian region of the Kyiv region. Jury Bublika to the Prime Minister, Head of the National Commission for State Regulations in the Field of Energy and Municipal Services, Head of the Antimonopoly Committee on the violation of the rights of the "Poltavavoblanner" of the rights of economic operators when amending prior payment contracts for the use of electricity, abuse of the monopoly (dominant) position in the electricity market, lack of proper response to the situation of the relevant public authorities. Jury Bublika to the Prime Minister on the dangerous situation that has arisen for the print media because of the rapid travel of newspaper paper, its deficit and dependence on the Russian producer, the risk of stopping newspapers. Julia Yooffe to the Prime Minister on the need for an urgent solution to the issue of the payment of arrears on salary to the employees of the Production Department of the "Gyrian" Department of First Maiden Coal". Julia Yooffe to the Prime Minister on the need to optimize passenger transports in the Luhansk region, to establish a railway connection along the direction of Odessa-Rubizna. Groups of National Deputies (Shinkovich, Gerega, Macola) to the Minister of Ecology and Natural Resources, Krasilovich’s Urban Head, on the environmental problem caused by discharges from clean facilities to the Svet River. Groups of National Deputies (Shinkovica, Gerega, Macola) to the Minister of Education and Science on the need to provide the first classes of the new 2018-2019 academic year with the necessary equipment for the start of the New Ukrainian School project. Olega Barezyuk and Tetjana Ostrickov to the head of the Cerkas District Council for information on the transfer of blood transfusion stations to the rental. Victor Krivenk to the Kiev Regional Bureau of the Antimonopoly Committee of Ukraine on the status of the parliamentary inquiry. Victor Vuka to the Prime Minister on the failure of Ukraine's Cabinet of Ministers to comply with Ukrainian legislation on the establishment of an inter-ministerial coordinating body to prepare Ukraine's consolidated claim to Russia for the implementation of its international legal responsibility for armed aggression against Ukraine. Victoria Vojtsiecki to the Prime Minister, National Shareholder Company Naftogaz Ukraine, for information on parliamentary activities. Aunty Bachevi to the Prime Minister for the reorganization of the National Children's Hospital Ochmadit. OlegKulinich to the Prime Minister for the financing of territorial roads. OlegKulinich to the Ministry of Finance on the need to review the size of the reverse grant for the Mirgrad District State Administration. Alexander Nechayeva is in charge of the Head of the State Road Agency of Ukraine, Chief of Roads in Sumska District, on the urgent solution to the repair of the road by road to the general use of state value in the Sumska region. Igor Kotwiczky to the head of the Ukrainian State Security Service for transport on measures to prevent the deterioration of road coverage by large-scale means of transport. Vladislav Doub to Prime Minister, Minister of Ecology for the Reconstruction of the Drying Systems of the Building of the Witness Protection Massive. Vladislav Doube to the Prime Minister, the Attorney General, the Minister of Internal Affairs, the head of the Cerkas District Government, on the situation that has arisen in connection with the reduction of dairy farms and the elimination of jobs in the territory of the Złotonia region of the Cherkas region. Jury Pavlenko to the Prime Minister for violations of the rights of children who have suffered as a result of military action. Jury Pavlenko to the Prime Minister on cases of non-legal actions by officials in the area of adoption and placement of orphans and deprived of parental care for family forms. Savchenko's hopes for the Director-General of the Ucroborprom State Concert regarding the presence of corporate risks and manifestations in the UKROBORONPROM in connection with the work at the concert by Anton Sergiyovich Pashinsky, the native son of Pashinsky Sergy, in the state foreign trade company SpetzTechnoExport, the participant of the concert. Savchenko's hopes for the Head of the Security Service for information on the measures taken to respond to the facts reported by Boris Herman on his report on the financing of the people of the People's Republic of Ukraine by Sergei Pashinsky of the personal fund of dictator Putin. Alexandre Co-partner to First Deputy Prime Minister - Minister of Economic Development in charge of headship of the Demmeine Foundation, Ministry of Finance on the acceptance of the free transfer from state to municipal property of the territorial community of Kiev to the construction of a pre-school facility in the Darnicki district of Kiev. Gregory Times to the Prime Minister, President of the National Academy of Agricultural Sciences, for the removal from the permanent use of the Transnistrian Research Station of the Institute of Gardening of the National Academy of Agricultural Sciences of Ukraine for the further distribution and transfer of land to residents of the village of Godilov and participants of the ATO of the United Territorial Society of the Stražinetsk district of Czerniewec. Anna Romanov to the Minister of Infrastructure, acting as Head of the State Road Agency, head of the Cherkas Observatories for the repair of the R10 "Kremenchuk" Road. Anna Romanova to the Director of the Department of Tourism and Resorts of the Ministry of Economic Development and Trade for the implementation of an effective public policy in the field of tourism. Mikhail Golka to the director of the National Anticorruption Bureau of Ukraine, head of the National Agency for the Prevention of Corruption, the Attorney General, on the report of corruption by the head of the National Property Fund of Ukraine, Vitaly Trubarov. Mikhail Golka to the Prime Minister, Minister of Education and Science, Ministry of Finance for full pay to teachers of the town of Kremenac Ternopil district. Romana Matzoli and Andrija Shinkovič to the Prime Minister, Minister of Social Policy, acting as Head of Social Protection for the people of Slavus City Council on the provision of a citizen, Vitalia Alexyuk with an electric bed. RomanaMazoli to the Minister of Infrastructure, acting as Head of the Government of the Public Association of the Ukrainian Railway Association for the Conservation of the Working Group of the Locomotive Depo Shepetovka in the process of reforming the PAT "Ukrzaliznica". Romana Semimenha to the Prime Minister on the issue of transfer to the municipal property of Chuguywa, the Ukrainian Ministry of Defence, which is located within the jurisdiction of the Chuguyov City Council. Roman Semenha to the Prime Minister for the non-closure of grain loading stations and for the development of a comprehensive strategy to improve the efficiency of such stations. Alexander Marchenka to the Prime Minister on speeding up the transfer of the State Institute of Scientific and Scientific Research to the Ministry of Health of Ukraine's Ministry of Economic Development and Trade. People’s Deputies — Batenka, Shevchenka Only 8 of our colleagues) to the Prime Minister to cancel the anti-national decision of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and to restore public budget funding to all modes of transport of general use on urban, suburban and inter-urban routes. People’s Deputies — Batenka, Shevchenka A total of 8 of our colleagues) to the National Commission, which regulates national energy and utilities regulations as soon as possible to amend the Gas Disposal System Code, as part of the difference between the obligation of owners of commercial gas hubs to equip them with means of remote transmission at their own expense. Igor Popov until the temporary duty of the Ukrainian Minister of Health regarding the situation of botulism serum in Ukraine as of June 1, 2018. Tetjana Ostrikov to the executive responsibility of the head of the State Fiscal Service of Ukraine for the payment of rent for special use of water in accordance with the standards of p.p. 255/4.1. 255.4 p.m. 255 U.S. Tax Code The girls on the balcony, please remember that we work here in Parliament. Thank you. And in Ukrainian, please. Groups of National Deputies (Durčina, Kuchera, Davidenka) to the Minister of Internal Affairs for the Protection of the Activities of the State Enterprise "Research "Passic" Scientific and Production Center "Soya" of the National Academy of Agricultural Sciences of Ukraine. Borislava Bereza to the Minister of Education and Science of Ukraine on the verification of the fire alarm system at the educational institutions of Kiev. Borislava Bereza to the Minister of Defence of Ukraine for the improvement of the conditions for the functioning of the District Military Commissioner of the Righteous District of Kiev. Andrea Illenka to the head of the Kyiv City Public Administration, Head of the Right District in Kiev State Administration, Director-General of the Specialised Water Management Company of the Kyivrad Executive Authority of Kiev City Administration, Kyivvodfund, Director-General of the Public Shareholders Company, Kyivvodkanal, to restore the work of the bilateral complex No. 62 on Scholm-Aleichem Street, 14. We continue to publish our requests. Andrija Illenka to the Minister of Foreign Affairs of Ukraine, Head of the Ukrainian Security Service on the participation of the Ukrainian football team in the so-called World Championship for teams of "unrecognized countries, regions, minorities and territories". Alexander Wielkula to the Prime Minister on the threat of environmental and technological disaster due to the Chernobyl fire, which took place on June 5, 2018 at 10 ha of forest in the immediate vicinity of CAES and the development of a set of appropriate measures for warning, detection, immediate location and non-admission in further similar emergencies. Alexander Wiekula to the Prime Minister, the PAT Supervisory Board of the National Stock Exchange Company Naftogaz Ukraine, to cancel the decision of NAC Naftogaz Ukraine to pay $46.3 million in premiums to employees of the company (or about a billion two hundred million dollars) and to return some of the already received premiums to the total amount of $46.3 million for social purposes. Sergia Soboljeva to the head of the Kiev City Public Administration for establishing the reasons for the repeated transfer of the open trade procedure to the purchase of the works "Building of the Syrian-Peterian Metro Line from Sirec Station to the Winegrower Housing Facility" in Kiev." OlegaOsukhovsky to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, head of the National Agency for the Prevention of Corruption, director of the National Anti-Corruption Bureau, temporarily acting as head of the State Service for Geodesy, Cartography and cadastre, Minister of Interior of Ukraine, Prosecutor General of Ukraine for Illegal Landings. OlegaOsuhovsky to Prime Minister, Minister of Infrastructure, Acting Director-General of the Public Shareholders Association "Krošta", Head of the Ravenna District Public Administration, Head of the Ravenna Arch, Head of the Plains Directorate of Pat Ukrašt for the restoration of the post office. PavleKishkar to the head of the State Aviation Service, Head of the International Air Transport Association, acting on behalf of the International Air Transport Association, Head of the Foreign Enterprise AMADEUS UKRAINE, on the appeal of TOV "AQUAVIT." Alexander Dombrovski to the Head of State Environmental Inspectorate in the Vinnitsk Region, Director of the Department of Agro-industrial Development, Ecology and Natural Resources of the Vinnitsk District Administration, Head of the General Administration of the State Food Service in the Vinnitsk Region for the establishment of causes and conditions for contamination of drinking water in the town of Vinnitz and further measures to ensure its proper quality. Alexander Dombrowski’s temporary responsibility as health minister to provide treatment for the seriously ill Sergio Rainchuk. RuslanaDemczak to the head of the General Administration of the State Food Service in the Vinnitsky region, the head of the Daughter's Company, the head of the Lipovecvocanal Lipovec City Council of the Vinnitsky district, on the unsatisfactory quality of drinking water in the city of Lipovec of the Vinnitsk Region. Aloni Babak to the Minister of Security. I'm sorry. Aloni Babak to the Ukrainian Defence Minister for the provision of reliable information on the size of non-residential premises held and auctioned by the Ministry of Defence at the end of the street. Donetsk, 8 in Kiev. Vasilyanicki to the Prime Minister, Head of the National Bank, Head of the National Commission for State Regulation in the Field of Financial Services Markets, Ministry of Finance on the use of measures for the proper functioning and servicing of the branch of the Savings in the village of Borov in the region of Rivna region. Vasilyanicki to the Prime Minister, Minister of Energy, Minister of Social Policy, Head of the Equal Government Administration on the use of measures to ensure the proper security of the inhabitants of the Dubrovnik region of the Plains region by natural gas for domestic purposes. Colleagues, there are still questions, I'm continuing our meeting for 15 minutes to publish requests, and there are still statements. There are also statements from national MPs that have expressed dissatisfaction with the answers that have come from other institutions to their address. We continue to announce requests. DmitraŠenceva to the Prime Minister for the creation of a working group for the adoption of appropriate legislation on the settlement of the issue of write-offs from higher educational institutions of state form property of multiple apartment buildings. DmitraŠenceva to the Prime Minister on the non-regulatory issue of decommissioning from higher educational institutions of the state form of property of multiple apartment buildings. SergijaVlasenka, head of the National Stock Exchange Company Naftogaz Ukraine, to pay off NAC Naftogaz to herself and the employees of the company of a premium of more than $45 million, while increasing the price of gas for consumers. Sergia Kiwalova to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the need to cancel the rent for special use of water for natural resources. Alexander Gehrega, Andrija Shinkovič, head of the National Commission for State regulation in the field of energy and utilities to achieve a fair balance between consumer, host and state interests in the process of equipping commercial natural gas nodes with means of remote data transmission. RobertaGorvato the Prime Minister for the comprehensive processing of legislative initiatives aimed at stimulating the development of the electricity sector in Ukraine. The Group of Deputies (Gorva, Lunchenka, Petovka) to the Prime Minister on the development and introduction of a bill on the inclusion in the budgets of local self-government of rent for the use of nadrama for the extraction of useful fossils of public value. Mary Ionova and Irina Herashchenko, under the temporary responsibility of the Minister of Health for the use of the Ministry of Health of Ukraine as an emergency for the organization of treatment abroad of the oncological resident of the village of Bilozur of the Cherkas region of the Cherkas region of Oleg the Carrier. JuryLevchenka to the head of the Kyiv City Administration for preventing the dismantling of nonresidential heating systems in Kiev’s municipal property and for providing an inappropriate response to a previous parliamentary appeal. JuryLevchenka to the head of the Kyiv City Administration for not allowing the construction of garbage refineries near residential homes, which may pose a threat to their inhabitants. John Melniczuk to the head of the Public Shareholders' Association of the Bank of Ukrgazbank for the provision of information. John Melniczuk to the head of the Provincial Regional Administration of the Vinnitsk Region for the resolution of problems with passenger transport in the Tivrov region. JuriyaTimoshenka to the Attorney General for the objective investigation of criminal conduct Sergey Rudika to the Cherkas city head about the state of implementation in Cherkasa of the program I initiated to support the development of children's and amateur sports in Ukraine. Sergija Rudika to the Prime Minister, acting as Head of the National Property Fund of Ukraine on the urgent settlement of the issue of repayment of arrears from the payment of salaries to employees of the private equity company "The Cherkasa Fitting Plant" in Cherkasa County and the non-admission of the enterprise to bankruptcy. Ruslana Solvara to the temporary duty of Minister of Health, head of the Kyiv Authority for the care of patients undergoing hemodialysis with the necessary drugs guaranteed by the State. Jaroslava Markevich to Henprocuror for criminal conduct Jaroslava Markevich to Henprocuror for violating the land allocation procedure for renting. Olesia Long to Deputy Prime Minister, Minister of Regional Development, to define more well-founded standards for heating costs. Victor Romanyuk to the Prime Minister on the need for immediate release from office of Head of the State Agency of Ukraine for the management of the alienation zone of Petruk V.V. in connection with numerous large - scale fires in the area of the alienation zone. PaulDublika to the Prime Minister to solve the problem of supplying compressed gas to residents of the Žitomir region. PaulDublika to the Prime Minister on the irregularity of the actions of the officials of the Dergeokadastr, which has led to the collapse of the privatisation of the former DP "Ukraine" and the under-receiving of land use funds to all levels of budgets. Oksana Bilozer to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the use of appropriate facilities in the Herson area of checkpoints of entry/exit into the territory temporarily occupied by the Russian Federation of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea. Oksana Bilozer to the head of the State Migration Service on taking steps to ensure the rights and freedoms of internally displaced persons while documenting in the structural units of the State Migration Service of Ukraine. IriniConsensual to the Head of the Ukrainian Security Service for the provision of information on the number of female military personnel of the Ukrainian Security Service and the social leave they used during the years 2014-2018. Yurya Derevyanka to the Cabinet of Ministers, head of the Ivano-Frankov District Government on the need for immediate repair of the road to the general use of the local value of O090802 Jabloni-Deletin in the region of Sudwiernjan and Kosovo of the region of Ivano-Frankov and the bridge in the village of Delatín of the region of Ivano-Frankov on the road to the general use of the national value of N-09 Mukachevo-Lviv. Victor Vuk to the Prime Minister for sabotage by the central authorities of the executive authority of the protection of the State's property interests and for damages to the State due to the unlawful alienation of PAT's "Nord" industrial assets acquired at the expense of the World Environment Fund grant and the involvement of guilty persons in liability. Igor Luzenka to the head of the National Agency for the Detection, Search and Management of Assets received from Corruption and Other Crimes on the urgent resolution of the issue of effective responsible custody of the arrested, within the criminal jurisdiction of November 1st, 16th, No.420160000001070, property of KVC "Parkow". Igora Lucenka to the Secretary of the Security and Defence Council on the immediate and effective response of the National Security and Defence Council of Ukraine to the threat of Ukraine's national security in Odessa. And Yuri Solovya to the Ministry of Finance of Ukraine for financing the reconstruction of the swimming pool in Rozniwski KVK "Hutzulščina". Dear colleagues, we have concluded with you the announcements of those questions that have been registered at the Secretariat at this time in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. 246 requests came in. But we would like to draw the attention of our colleagues from various executive bodies, that the MPs are largely dissatisfied with the answers that come to these questions. And now it's me. I've got a lot of these here. Please, Mrs. Gore. Mr. Vlasenko, please have a word. Colleagues, we have 10 minutes left. I beg you, there's plenty. Two minutes, please. [[B in m in s a l in]] Well, I can't then. That means only those to whom we give the word. Please, the Rules are set for three minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-08-m0.u92	Thank you, Your Honor Irina Volodymyr. Three minutes is provided by the Rules, and you've rightly pointed that out. And the Rules set out the exact size of the performance. Yes, I've sent two questions to the Presidential Administration about the next question. On February 27, 2018, President Dustenk’s decree to the Constitutional Court appointed Sergey Petrovich the Head, a well - known, well - known man in both the legal circles and the political circles. Why did the question arise? In accordance with article 11 of the Constitutional Court Act, the requirements of the Constitutional Court judge: "The Constitutional Court may be a citizen of Ukraine who speaks the national language on the date of his appointment to the age of forty years, has a higher legal education and a professional activity in the field of law for at least fifteen years," and then, attention: "high moral qualities." How this criterion relates to Sergei Petrovich the Chief, I don't know. I want to remind you that Sergey Petrovich the Head is a person who has changed five political parties during his political life. Well, these are probably high moral qualities. This is the person who voted in favour of the Harkow Agreements, and here, I have a copy of the vote. During this period, he was in Strasbourg, and his card voted. That is, a person has not even made a declaration that he refuses this shameful vote. The chairman and I remember that day in the sessional hall of the Supreme Council, beating the opposition when there were smoke checkers and so on. And Sergey Petrovich voted in favour of the Kharkiv agreements and is thought to be normal. Besides, I have a constitutional application in my hands. This is a constitutional application that has given rise to the usurpation of power by Yanukovich. It is a submission that was considered and satisfied by the Constitutional Court. On the basis of this decision, the Ukrainian Constitution was amended. And this decision today is obviously considered both by society and by the state as it is, I will say so softly, questionable from a legal point of view. But if I were an ordinary person, I'd say it's criminal. Here, under number 38, Sergey Petrovich the Head. So the person who has repeatedly violated the Constitution, the person who helped Yanukovitch usurp power, the person who forged this submission, (and, according to my information, he is the author of this submission), is now being appointed Dusty to the Constitutional Court of Ukraine. Once again, high moral qualities are a good sign. And I'm in charge of the President's Administration, which was recommended by some dark-mining commission. I want to remind you that according to 106 articles of the Constitution, it is the President's personal, individual mandate to appoint candidates to the Constitutional Court, I mean my part. So I demand an answer essentially, not a write-off.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-08-m0.u93	Please welcome AnnaGopko, too.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-08-m0.u94	Good afternoon, dear Ukrainians. I would like to say that this week, really, very important, we were able to pass the Anti-Corruption Court Act. But between what we did yesterday in Parliament -- by passing the law, and before it starts its work and society sees the first sentences, especially the high-holders -- there's still a lot of time and a lot of unity. Also welcome diplomats with the approval of the Diplomatic Service Act. It is a shame that we have failed to return parliamentary control to the appointments of ambassadors, but nevertheless the law is important. And now I'm going to the subject of discontent. On April 5th, I asked the head of the Public Administration of John Kuzik about the temporary placement of the Museum of the Dignity Revolution in the Ukrainian House. The Dignity Revolution has become one of the most important events in our modern history, which has so far generated considerable interest not only in Ukrainians but also in people around the world. In 2016, the State Memorial Complex was created by the Hero of Heaven's Hundreds, the Museum of the Dignity Revolution, who created an active team and collected more than 3,000 artifacts from Maidan. There is now an architectural contest for the museum building that will be built on the street of the Institute next to Memorial Hero of the Heavenly 100, but the building of this building can take several years. Today, the museum has no permanent exposure for the third year, thus not being able to present the phenomenon of the Dignity Revolution and the memory of the Heroes of the Sky to the general public, the guests of Kiev, and official delegations. There is no place where participants in the revolution themselves can share memories, sink and revive the atmosphere of Maidan himself. The museum’s funds are scattered and temporarily stored in several museums in the city of Kiev, in unsuited facilities. This makes it virtually impossible for a full description, research and systematization of museum objects, not to say that they are simply corrupting. So the best way to do that was to put it right in the Ukrainian House. In response to my request, the head of the DUS is trying to prove that there is no possibility to place an exhibition of the Museum of the Dignity until the premises of the Ukrainian House, which consists of the Museum of History of Kiev, are liberated. That is not the case, however, in the Ukrainian House there are free rooms, including 280 square feet [180 sq m] on the 5th floor, which are perfectly suited to the museum’s exposure. DUS is simply trying to make the memory of Majdan and all the people who need it, the hostages of their commercial interests and the relationship with the Kiev History Museum. I call upon the Head of the DUS, as well as the President, his administration, which is subordinated to the DUS, to stop these games and finally allow the Museum of the Dignity in time to build its own premises at the Institute's house, so that at least on the fifth anniversary of Maydan this autumn the Ukrainians and visitors of our country can finally attend this exhibition. I propose to the head of the DSS that we stop sabotaging and finally place all the exhibits, which have been chosen, are over 3,000 artifacts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-08-m0.u95	Thank you. Please welcome IgorShurma. He's got two complaints of discontent, but we're only giving him three minutes. Please, Igor.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-08-m0.u96	Igor Šurma. I, as Ukraine's national deputy at the Supreme Council meeting on March 2nd and May 18th, 2018, were asked by the Prime Minister of Ukraine to give the original documents on education and the President's decree on the granting of citizenship on the basis of which they were appointed. The wife of the first Deputy Minister of Health On June 4, a second reply was received that the application was submitted for consideration by Suprun himself. I note that my rights as Ukrainian national deputy are systematically violated because the Prime Minister of Ukraine does not comply with the rules of current legislation, with the experience of the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. In particular, the 15-day deadline for responding to a parliamentary request in accordance with part one of article 15, paragraph 5, of the Ukrainian Law on the Status of the People's Deputy; the procedure for responding to a parliamentary request is being violated because, in accordance with article 15, paragraph 7, of the Ukrainian Law on the Status of the People's Deputy, the head of the public authority to whom a request has been addressed is required to inform the national parliament of the day of the hearing of the questions which have been violated in advance, but not later than three days of consideration. According to Part Three, paragraph 8, the question is answered in a mandatory manner and directly by that authority of the State to which the request for the name of the request was sent. That is, Vladimir BorisovichGroysman is obliged under the law to give such an answer. Such actions are considered unacceptable and illegal, which violate my legal rights as a national MP, guaranteed primarily by the Constitution of Ukraine. The Ukrainian National Deputy has the right to receive information from questions about the exercise of his parliamentary powers from public authorities that are obliged to provide him with such information. In accordance with article 19, paragraph 3, of the Ukrainian Law on the Status of the People's Deputy, the People's Deputy has the right to consult any confidential information and confidential information on the question of parliamentary activity. I demand, in accordance with article 15 of the Ukrainian Law on the Status of the People's Deputy, the Constitution of Ukraine, the Law of Ukraine. The rules of the Supreme Council. The Ukrainian Act "On the Rules of the Supreme Council", the Ukrainian Act "On the Cabinet of Ministers", provides information on the availability of the original documents on education and the President's decree on the granting of citizenship on the basis of which it was employed as the first Deputy Minister of Ulyan Suprun. At the same time, I demand an answer as to who is responsible for processing and receiving documents in the Cabinet of Ministers, as well as for the results of the examination of admission to work. Please consider the speech my MP's request. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-08-m0.u97	Thank you. I request that Shurma make his statement now to the Parliamentary Secretariat as a parliamentary address. My colleagues, we're actually running out of time to take a break, but there are two more speeches by Mustafa Nayem and Sergey Leschchenka. I'm going to go to this violation of the Rules, I'll give you six minutes, the more we had emotions here. And please, Lechchenka Sergey is invited to the floor. Then there's Mustafa Najem. Then we'll take a break.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-08-m0.u98	Good afternoon, Ukraine. As a deputy, I often help the Kyiv community and activists to combat either illegal construction or the destruction of architectural monuments, or other cultural heritage in the city of Kyiv. In particular, I was approached by an initiative group called Savekyivmodernism, or people who are fighting to destroy the modernism of Kiev. And in particular, the situation is what they're reporting, it's very violent, I've been addressing them, and I've got answers for which. I can't say I'm satisfied. It's about trying to transform one of the monuments of Kiev's modernism, it's called the Flying plate house, but it's officially called the Ukrainian Institute of Science and Technology. To turn this house into just an input group to a new shopping center that is about to be built in Kiev, this is the second turn of Ocean Plaza, located on the Libya Metro. In fact, without a competition, this object was handed over to the developer of this commercial entertainment complex. And according to a project that was nowhere officially presented and published for public consideration, but which we have seen, this monument of architecture is just being transformed into an entry group into this commercial entertainment complex. In principle, there are investment commitments that the builder assumes, and we can support it in the fact that he, for example, will reconstruct this Ukrainian institution. But again, it was done, first of all, without a competition. And secondly, this reconstruction, it doesn't have to be a basis or a lawyer to actually make this house turn, I'll repeat, into part of a commercial think tank that's going to be, then lose its architectural value and its scientific value. It is now planned to create a museum, and it is also the right thing to do, but this should not be an argument for us to lose another house of Kiev modernism in pursuit of the building and for the efforts of the Kyiv entrepreneurs, who, at the expense of this building, are receiving profits, to lose one of the houses that should be a reason for tourists to come to Ukraine to become one of the monuments of the Ukrainian landscape and so on. Similarly, we were given answers about the fact that no documentation was obtained from the State Architectural Inspection of these works, and so we demand that these works be stopped in time for the project to be published and that the relevant documents be obtained so that all Ukrainian citizens do not become hostages just for another job. And the last 15 seconds. I want to talk to all the public activists and those who are fighting corruption in Ukraine, who were able to get another intermediate result yesterday, is the creation of an anti-corruption court. Without your participation, it would be impossible to thank you for this. Thank you. Let us continue to fight corruption in Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-08-m0.u99	And the last performance. Please, Mustafa Najem. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-08-m0.u100	Dear friends, I'd like to turn to you. It's not really about politics. Last week, I asked the Attorney General to define the status of the Land, the DNR, as terrorist organizations. But now I want to talk about those people who ended up on the front line and near the line of delimitation. Last year we brought some 600 children to Kiev who were here in Kiev learning English in our camp. This is GoGlobal, GoCamp, which we created three years ago. Our main goal was to have Ukrainian children learn English. Sadly, we have 70 percent of children who have never been abroad. When we brought foreigners into small villages and cities, very many children in general were surprised that there are people of different skins, that there are other languages, that there are other traditions and other countries. I think that what's going on in the east is one of the main reasons that our generation didn't have critical thinking, and critical thinking wasn't because we didn't have a tool to communicate with the world that we're integrated into. We're all talking about integration with the European Union, but some of our leaders and some of our officials are coming to negotiate with the Europeans along with the translators. This is a shameful situation that we need to fix, but we need to start with the children. Now we have a million and a half children 10 to 15 years old who need to be taught English. Our program is aimed at bringing foreign volunteers to Ukraine, and last year we brought about 600, plus a hundred volunteers, which is the largest volunteer program in Eastern Europe.GoCampiGoGlobal. And we drove with them all over the country, and through these little English camps, 60,000 children went through last year alone, this year we want to plan 69,000 children, and we wouldn't be able to do it if we didn't help. Of course, we were assisted by the Ministry of Education, the Ministry of Youth, a great request from the minister, and thanks very much to Alexander Jarem. Thank you, Lilia Greenevich, for helping us, the Crucifixion Company, Kyivstar (this is a commercial story, but she was also very helpful to this initiative, giving mobile phones. I thank, indeed, Petra Chernishev), the United States Embassy, Canada, Britain. All these people who helped our program come true. We'll keep going. And we want our dream of 1.5 million children to come true. And the last thing I'd like to say. This is about the education of our Ukrainian children. And I wish that ever such initiatives as GoGlobal, GoCamp were made at the expense of Ukrainian businessmen and Ukrainian officials. And I very much thank our great team: Oksani Silent, Oksani Neciporenko, to all those who are in GoGlobal, GoCamp- you're great, you're the best. And I'm grateful we did. And I hope that someday we'll make our dream a reality, and 1.5 million Ukrainian children will know English. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-08-m0.u101	Colleagues, we've had such a little bit of a long, longer time today than usual, an article on the announcement of parliamentary requests and speeches after the disgruntled. Once again, I appeal to all authorities to provide competent and full answers to requests from Ukrainian national deputies. I'll call it a 30-minute break. And at 12:50 a.m., we're going to start our work, and we're going to get the MPs on the "Variance" line. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-08-m0.u102	Dear colleagues, we continue our meeting, we continue our work. And I ask you to return from the parliamentary towers to the session room of all the national MPs who wish to take part in the presentation under the heading "Rizzne." I ask you to return, we wait 30 seconds for this to be fair to those who have not been able to approach. And we're announcing a recording under the heading "Distinguish." Please sign up. Please, the national deputy Sverk gives the word to his colleague John Sporish. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-08-m0.u103	Dear Chairman! Dear National Deputies! Of course, I wanted to raise a lot of problems today from this rostrum, but first of all, I'd really like to raise the problem today, which is our roads. As a major, my five - district electorate, I would like to be able to make the best possible move this year. I'm not talking about bad roads today. Because we have a lot of them. I'm not talking about these roads that connect our district centers today. Because they are built, they are very beautiful. I want to speak, not for the bad, but for the very bad, or they're not. I would love to do that today, but I have repeatedly asked this rostrum to Ukrawtodor. Unfortunately, nothing helps. I'd like to remind you of The Stolendoor, and I'd like the headmistress to write it down. I counted it as my request again to make them so. Well, at least for one minute we're on the way to the limestone, the tall one that connects such a small plot, and just if they had a conscience, they'd come and look at it. I'll be honest, everyone's ready to contribute. In the village, the High Children are already worth 10 bucks, 20 bucks, and the Retirees are made up. Today, the village council is allocating funding. Today, the enterprise located in the village of High also costs money to co-finance the further road, but unfortunately, the visa and now there. If it were possible, they would have traveled hundreds of miles to avoid going on that road alone. But I think we should work together to make sure that there is no road that hasn't been repaired for more than fifty years. And this is the road of national importance, this is the road of Vinitsa – Odessa, Vinitsa – Kishin – is not just a link between areas or a link between villages. And so I'd really like to get some kind of takin' of "Stodor" to pay attention and come and look, send someone out of the district of "Stodor" and do everything I can to get the road fixed. So I want this to be again my request from the Supreme Council's rostrum, and I want the Stolentodor to do it all in that direction. And a few words I would like to say that, as the head of the family subcommittee, the young and the child, we would like to pay great attention to the children who are now going to summer camps to rest. Let us not feel sorry for the cost, but let us do our utmost to make our children rest. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-08-m0.u104	Thank you for your performance. Please describe it as a parliamentary address. People’s deputies are invited to attend. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-08-m0.u105	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to draw attention to a very unfair situation with consumption standards for the population over the years and still unregulated. In Ukraine there is an annual practice of shutting down hot water during the summer season. So far, the gas consumption rate is 3.3 cubic meters per person per month when there's a gas plate. At the same time, there is a standard of 5.4 cubic meters per person when there is a gas plate and there is no hot water supply. So when there is no hot water, the consumption rate for humans increases by more than 60 percent. There is no secret that a large number of households are equipped with electric water heaters. There is no mechanism for the registration of such electric water heaters. In order to avoid rising standards of consumption, people have not had to pay higher prices for a certain period of time each year, so they have to pay higher prices not only for electricity due to the operation of an electric water heater, but for some reason a higher standard of gas consumption is being established in households where there are no gas meters. Please consider this part of the speech to be a reference to the Prime Minister of Ukraine. And I wanted to talk about the counters separately. So far, the insolent and illegal activities of Harkovmiskgas in Kharkiv are taking place, which refuses to comply with the law and to compensate people for their own expenses for the acquisition of individual counters in those buildings where they have a large-scale computer set up. My MPs say that there is no money for compensation. From this question, I have asked the Prime Minister and I look forward to having an appropriate response to my parliamentary request. Furthermore, in Kharkiv, in some homes, a gas company has been trying to obtain consent from residents to install general - building counters. I want to ask people not to do so, not to give such consent, not to sign anything. Because the gas company's frauds are trying to trick us into setting instead of individual counters a public building that will lead, first of all, to a significant increase in the price of gas payments, let's not let that happen. And secondly, whoever has already installed the individual counter will no longer get their compensation, to compensate them. So what's happening now and not only in Kharkiv, with gas counters, needs personal attention at the level of government, because they refuse to comply with the law, refuse to install individual counters, refuse to compensate the costs of those who have already set them up. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-08-m0.u106	Thank you, Your Honor. I am forced to briefly interrupt your lively discussion in the hall for an important message concerning the submission to the national deputies of Villukula, Kolesnikov and Dunaev by the Attorney General of Ukraine. Because there is a detective story that I have to make clear and clear. Thus, in connection with the introduction of May 25 this year by the Attorney-General of Ukraine of the application for consent to be brought to the criminal responsibility of the Ukrainian national deputy, Mr. Kolesnikov Dmitry Valeriyovich, and the submission of the consent to be brought to the criminal responsibility of the Ukrainian national deputy, Mr. Vilekula Juriovich, as Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, submitted a written explanation to the Committee on Rules of Procedure 219 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine as soon as possible, on the day of submission, he suggested to the noted national deputies that they should submit a written explanation to the Rules Committee within five days. The Supreme Council of Ukraine used the necessary measures to deliver the letters of the Head with appropriate proposals and copies to these national deputies. In view of the fact that, to date, national deputies were not on the committees they are members of, and their assistants refused to receive the material, and this was done repeatedly and on record. It is a method of not accepting taxes, not being at work, and giving assistants the commission not to accept the application. And then by arguing that they weren't familiar with each other. So I'm now officially informing the National Deputies of Kolesnik Dmitry, Wilikul Alexander, that they are able to personally receive copies of the corresponding submissions made by the Attorney General of Ukraine in his responsibility as Head of the Bodnar Petar Olegovich Apparatus. He's at work in the morning, he's got these applications. And I'm asking you to come and get these applications. And I urge the people's deputies not to violate the rules of procedure. You want to defend yourself -- read, write an explanation, explain your position, but avoid responsibility, I think it's not appropriate for a Ukrainian citizen and it's inappropriate and a national MP. At the same time, I'm informing you that copies of the petitions are in your personal mailboxes, Your Honorable People's Deputies. And I want them to hear me and understand their responsibility. Similarly, I inform the national deputy of Dunyev, Sergey Volodymyrovich, who appealed to the Head with a complaint about the impossibility of receiving a submission made concerning him that a copy of the reported submission could be obtained under the executive responsibility of Bodnar’s Chief of Staff, Petar Olegovich. That is to say, avoid filing, then write a complaint about why they have not been handed over, and then insist that the committee be profiled, regulated, make no decision, thereby blocking. You know, any submission that comes to me, whether it's negative or positive, I'm bringing it into the hall for consideration. They found the method of not giving me any suggestions so that I, as Head, without a committee decision, would not be able to offer the room accordingly for consideration. This technique needs to be stopped. This technology won't work. And that's why I'm publicly addressing the People's Deputies of Vilucula, Kolesnik and Danube, or the mailboxes, or the assistants, or the governing matters, if necessary, they'll have me, these submissions, come and get these submissions, and don't try to slow down these cases. Thank you. And I invite you to continue your lively discussion.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-08-m0.u107	Thank you, Mr. Head. We're continuing our work. I invite you to the words of the People's Deputy Shurma.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-08-m0.u108	IgorShurma, the Opposition Block. There are many discussions about the comments of the Deputy Minister of Lynchevski at the Court of Auditors. Many say that information has been provided. We've got to get out of context. I'm offering you people, listen, I don't know what the quality of the sound will be, what he said himself and what he said to the intensification. Further, make your own conclusions.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-08-m0.u109	Now you've heard it all yourself. Now, think about the logic of the actions of our power, the moral and ethical composition of the Ministry, the Cabinet of Ministers. After that, it's not like you have to resign. What do we have instead? I'd like to listen to all those who have democratic values that go to Europe. Tell me, please, the farthest country where a person in such a position does not even have the right to sound something like that, is brought on a commission, and on a committee they say, "And he thought one thing, and on a committee he said the other, and when he said, he said it wasn't like that." Andrey Volodymyrovich, they're here to give a word to those who are being insulted. I don't want to offend you. But would you like to answer where is Decree 5642 on the Suprun report in your office? Get her into the hall, people. The MPs will give an assessment. And I'm telling the Prime Minister. As long as you keep them at work, you work under the motto, "It's cancer, they're all going to die." It's your motto. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-08-m0.u110	Thank you. I invite you to the speech of the People's Deputy Zuba.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-08-m0.u111	Lubomir Zubac, "Memergence Self-Help" faction. In the Lviv region, abuse of the community of the city of Zoločiva continues. On the 25th day, the city’s head, Golden Igora Grinkov, was starved as a protest against the powerlessness of state and judicial power. Let me remind you what the problem is. The Shahrai stole part of the central square into the communities of Zoločiva to put some kind of halabuda there, in the direct sense of that word. The central area of Zoločiva, part of which is owned by so - called entrepreneurs. Not the community in the city council, but the decision is taken by the court. The district government then issues construction conditions and restrictions to the state authority, after which the state’s DABI issues the right to construction work. I have a question: where is the decentralization that our government and the President are so eloquent about? Next. What is the reaction of the district council? It's not, you know, organs like the thing in itself. In fact, their function is to represent the interests of the communities that are located in the area or in the area. Instead of joining the community of the city of Zoločiva, the district council condemns the so - called destabilisation. Next. Today it is known that so - called public activists have blocked the garbage dump of the city of Zoločiva. Why so - called activists? Because they're actually bandits at a district government facility used for similar raids. Unfortunately, our central authority has learned nothing after trying to stage the city of Lviv's garbage blockade and destroy Ukraine's largest city in the country. But they didn't get it, they got it in their teeth, and so they're going to be given the community of the city of Zolocheva. I publicly appeal to the head of the district government to calm the head of the RDA, or I will think that this is done under his direct direction. And so I demand from the Minister of Internal Affairs of Mr.Awakov that the law enforcement authorities immediately unlock the garbage dump, otherwise the residents of the community of Zolocheva will do so, and that would not be the case. Otherwise, the question arises: Why do we need law enforcement as such? I would like to address the head of the Lviv ODA and the Minister of Internal Affairs as a parliamentary address. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-08-m0.u112	Thank you. I invite you to speak to the people’s representative of Solovia.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-08-m0.u113	Yuri Solovay, 89 constituency, Gutzulščina, and Pocust. Dear colleagues, a respected Ukrainian society watching television. Already today, this yesterday’s euphoria was a little sleepy from the adoption of an anticorruption court. And I want to say, both to those national MPs who are present in this room and to the entire Ukrainian society, that Ukraine is very much engrossed in fighting corruption. Today, this fight against corruption costs the Ukrainian State more than corruption itself. NABU, NAMK, the Specialised Anti-Corruption Prosecutor's Office, the State Bureau of Investigation, the Asset Management Agency, the recently created Anti-Corruption Court are already costing Ukraine over 6 billion dollars. Dear colleagues, that's a hundred times more than the Ukrainian state spends on building housing for young people, that's twelve times more than the Ukrainian state spends on the treatment of oncological children abroad, that's twice as much as the Ukrainian state spends on sports support. So it's a thrill to stop, because the fight against corruption ends where the economically developed country begins. Show me one rich country where corruption exists, but in every poor country, corruption is normal. And so if we want to eliminate it, we have to go beyond creating another anti-corruption body or another anti-corruption court, but we have to go through systematic, structural, global, economic reforms that would make our Ukrainian state stronger. In four years, we have unfortunately failed to cut down from 3.5 thousand state-owned enterprises, a list of state-owned enterprises. Unfortunately, we were never able to adopt the Land Market Act, so we failed to implement tax reform through the adoption of the Ukrainian Capital Tax Act, we are far away in Ukraine from the introduction of insurance medicine. But what I'm stressing is that we're very close, our nation is very close to implementing a key, socio-economic reform, this is the introduction in Ukraine of a mandatory accumulation of pension systems since 1 January 2019. This reform will allow once and for all to give up the loans of international institutions and to use the internal Ukrainian investment resource. This reform, which can be the driver of the development of the Ukrainian economy tomorrow. Bill 6677 is, unfortunately, repeatedly placed in an impenetrable part when we vote for important laws. That's why I'm addressing the Supreme's leadership.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-08-m0.u114	Ten seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-08-m0.u115	That's why I'm from this grand rostrum, the high rostrum, and I'm addressing the leadership of the Supreme Council in the next plenary week, and I'm putting Bill 6677 as one of the top priorities.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-08-m0.u116	Thank you very much. Welcome to the speech of the People's Deputy Vuka. Please follow the rules very carefully, you know that everyone in the room wants to speak, so just respect each other's time. Thank you. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-08-m0.u117	Victor Wolf, the faction of the Radical Party of Oleg Laska. Dear citizens, for more than three years as deputy to Oleg Láska on international issues, I have sought from the government to comply with article 12 of the Constitution that Ukraine cares for Ukrainians who live outside the country. The Law on Foreign Ukrainians provides for a state programme of cooperation with them, as well as the creation of a central executive body on issues of cooperation with foreign Ukrainians. However, the authorities have been systematically ignoring the requirements of the law for a long time. The government likes to mention some 20 million Ukrainians who live outside the country but do not want to work for the consolidation of the world’s Ukraine and for the development of effective relations with it. Only in May this year, after three shamefully wasted years, numerous parliamentary requests and appeals and administrative appeals in the courts, the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine finally managed to accept the long-awaited State Programme of Cooperation with Foreign Ukrainians for the period to 2020, even though he had put in a state budget for its execution this year a ridiculously small amount of money — only $1 million. At the same time, the government and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs continue to sabotage the law’s requirement to create a special authority, such as agencies working with foreign Ukrainians. Instead of creating a modern state-wide system of cooperation with multimillion-dollar world Ukraine, such as the one that operates in Israel, Poland and other countries with significant diasporas, the authorities are working to create an illusion of cooperation with foreign Ukrainians, including by signing various fictitious memorandums with small representative organizations. I stress that ensuring effective co-operation between mother Ukraine and nearly 20 million foreign Ukrainians is a sacred duty of government. Parliament has created a proper legislative framework for this. The government and the MCC should implement it in practice, not seek revenge for its sabotage. Oleg Lášk’s team, coming to power, consolidates the world’s Ukraine, develops effective ties and cooperation with foreign Ukrainians, and forces the world to count with Ukrainians. Moreover, we will turn Ukraine into a land promised to millions of Ukrainians scattered around the world who will invite their children home after years of earnings and mistrust abroad. In their homeland, Ukrainians eventually realize all their dreams and God - given talents. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-08-m0.u118	Thank you. And I invite you to the speech of the national deputy of Lozov.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-08-m0.u119	Andrey Lozovy, Radical Party of Lazka. "No one in the world of Ukraine, no other Dniper. In a foreign land, do not ask if there is neither in heaven nor only in a foreign field. In his house, he wrote his truth, both his power and his will, "the immortal Cobzar Taras Shevchenko. The one who has practiced the values that our iron team today is -- the Radical Party of Oleg Láška -- so that Ukrainians can be masters of their land, so that we can rule in our own country, not hear instructions from where. What do we see, unfortunately, and the reason for this weakness of power for almost all of our years of independence? Some of Moscow’s communes were governed as in Soviet times, others today, sorry, on run to the embassies of Brussels, London, Washington. We agreed to consider what our nation heard yesterday from the rostrum of Parliament. The minister comes out of the former finance key ministry and tells us that the entire minister's speech about what a good IMF, like the IMF, protects us like everything else that we are. The logic is clear from his statement that Ukrainians should not earn money but borrow money and live on the International Monetary Fund. The logic of the Radical Party is to make money on your land, not live on taxes, it's to protect your production, it's to protect your people, it's to protect your village, it's to protect your cow from the influence of external agents, it's to protect the Ukrainians' right to be masters. The Prime Minister answers, and the Prime Minister says, "I would resign if the Council did not accept an anti-corruption court because the IMF required it." So we see that among those who run the country today, even in their discussions, they're already open, they're already directly saying that they want to be run by a cleaning lady from the embassy. It doesn't have to be that way, or we're gonna lose the country, or we're gonna turn into a raw colony, or we're gonna take the future away from our children. We see, unfortunately, that because of this weakness that I have already mentioned that our so-called Western partner wants? So that we can sell Ukrainian land, so that we can cut into metal scraps, so that we can sell a round, not a product that is consistently protected by our team, especially Oleg Lazko, Victor Galaszuk. For them to write the laws they need so that we may always be, not a younger brother, but a layman. The Radical Party won't let that happen. We'll be masters of our own land. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-08-m0.u120	Thank you. And I invite you to the speech of the People's Deputy Silantiev.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-08-m0.u121	Dennis Silantiev, the Radical Party of Oleg Lachka. In my statement, I would like to draw the attention of representatives of the executive branch of power, my fellow national deputies, to the problem of people with disabilities living in Ukraine. The Radical Party team insists that reforming social protection for people with disabilities should be a key priority in implementing democratic, social and economic reforms in Ukraine. This reform must be as close as possible to the real needs and interests of people with disabilities. I would like to point out that there are currently about 2 million people living in Ukraine, 800,000 of them, and a thousand. And 170,000 children with disabilities. According to some independent estimates, the number of people with disabilities exceeds three million in Ukraine. At the same time, there is a tendency, unfortunately, to decrease birth rates, and unfortunately, the number of children with disabilities is only increasing. Today, the State system of social protection is closed to such people. Can a person with disabilities go to a minister, an official of the Ministry of Social Policy, social protection authorities? No, he can't. Does the Ministry of Social Policy today hold a dialogue with social organizations of disabled persons and veterans? No, he doesn't. Are the needs and interests of every disabled person truly appreciated in the State today? No, not appreciated. It is as if the state lives a separate life, and a person with a disability has his own life. During the last period, a number of social reforms have been declared in Ukraine, but unfortunately they have proved ineffective. The fundamental disadvantage of such reforms was that they were simply torn away from the real life of Ukrainian citizens and that they had not been included in the leading social law science schools that are now being formed at the national universities of Ukraine. The virtuality of the reforms of our government today only deepens the socio-economic crisis in Ukraine. The Radical Party considers reforming the social protection of people with disabilities to be the first to develop an inclusive society. Secondly, this is the development and approval of a national concept of social protection reform with disabilities involving civil society institutions, scientists, experts, the goal is to improve the quality of life of such people. The third is based on the national concept of the draft Law on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities. The fourth is the discussion of the relevant bill and the conduct of public and scientific expertise. And the fifth, most important and important is the approval by the Supreme Council of Ukraine of the Law on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities and the continuous monitoring of its observance. The Radical Party team requires the government to take real steps to create conditions for people from.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-08-m0.u122	Thank you. I'd like to invite you to the floor of the People's Deputy Kocheljev.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-08-m0.u123	AlonaKošeljeva, faction of the Radical Party of Oleg Lášk. Dear Madam Chairman! Dear Ukrainian people! Today, from this high rostrum, I want to ask a question that is primarily addressed to our government officials. Can a person live without oxygen? No, of course not. Similarly, millions of Ukrainians who suffer from diabetes cannot live without daily insulin injections. Regrettably, it has not been a year and a year since Ukraine has repeatedly experienced a negative financial situation with the provision of free insulin for diabetes patients. Information on the lack of funding comes from all regions of Ukraine. Eastern regions, such as Kharkishina, the Susten and others, are particularly vulnerable to funding shortages, where by the end of the year, funding deficits can make up about 50 percent of the needs. In 2017, the funding scheme for diabetes patients was changed through the introduction of a system of reimbursation and an electronic register of insulin-dependent citizens to regulate the funding system. But today we have a situation where insulin addicts are forced to buy these life - sustaining drugs at their own expense to survive. As early as last year, Bill 6317 was proposed and registered for the radical party initiative of Oleg Láška, which proposed the provision of expenses for the treatment of patients with diabetes in the form of a full, 100 per cent medical subsidy. The Health Committee supported the adoption of the bill only on the first reading as a basis. Sadly, though, a different model of funding was chosen as a result of the adoption of medical reform. The Supreme Council has never considered this bill. A parliamentary appeal by members of the Radical Party was made by the State Service authorities to monitor the use of budget funds for insulin financing, and during 2017, some 55 monitoring measures were taken to detect countless violations. Unfortunately, insulin prices and other essentials remain almost inaccessible to anyone who needs them. The health of the Ukrainian nation and every citizen in particular is the highest social value and priority of the radical faction team led by Oleg Ljashk. We will not allow anyone to take advantage of the health of the Ukrainians. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the irregular use of insulin by diabetics not only causes major complications of illness or disability but can lead to fatalities. My colleagues at the Radical Party are calling on the government not to allow a critical situation and to provide 100% funding for insulin, as well as to expand the list of free medicines under the "Available Drugs" program. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-08-m0.u124	Thank you. And I invite you to the words of the People's Deputy of Parasius.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-08-m0.u125	Looking at the session hall now, we can confidently tell Ukraine that it can go to work on Friday as they wish.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-08-m0.u126	[[Unheard]]
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-08-m0.u127	No, no, I'm not talking about someone selective, I'm talking about a general impression.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-08-m0.u128	[[Unheard]]
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-08-m0.u129	I'm talking about the hall. [[B in m in s a l in]] Okay, I'll say: Oleg Light's radical party is in full stock. Now I want to talk about the roads, I'm very sorry I couldn't ask the Prime Minister a question. I feel like everybody's saying they're pulling off the juice, but we're getting closer. I noticed this trend in Lviv, where seniors, the President of Ukraine, don't go, they do the roads right away, they do everything and they do everything and they do everything. And where they don't come, there are villages in God's sight, there are roads in such a state that it's not even possible to get through. If we talk about the strategy of building roads on a national level, maybe it is somewhere, because something is happening, and we see it. But the question of repairing the district roads, I think it's embarrassing and it's turned into some kind of "hotel" of district administrations that they do not do the roads where it's needed, they don't connect strategic cities, areas, they do where MPs come and tell you what to do, because that's where I need to do it. And the main thing that I wanted to talk to the Prime Minister, maybe he'll see this speech, is the question of control. How can we control companies that belong to esbeachers, people's deputies, and who can we go to in this country to just-just control them, to say that they don't make roads? Unfortunately, I haven't found such an organ in our system of government. And it's a very big disaster. I want to talk to everyone. You have the full right to go out on the street and ask for direct action at your home, in your cities, in your areas. Because cessabregnating and this owl has just, like, gotten it all worked up. Once again, it was about the whole Parliament and how it went to work on Friday. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-08-m0.u130	Thank you. I invite you to the speech of the People's Deputies of Galasukh.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-08-m0.u131	Victor Galasuk, Oleg Lachka Radical Party. Dear Ukrainians! Dear National Deputies! We are convinced that there are no alternatives to IMF loans. That's not true. The alternative is the development of its own industry, it's the start of Ukraine's national economy to the full. Only one of us and Oleg Lášk, a radical team and thinkers, has kept the steel industry law at the country’s trade balance of $1.5 billion. That's as much as the exchange rate between the International Monetary Fund, which is so much to talk about. Or a 10-year moratorium on the export of roundwood, which we chose in Parliament. He's already brought over 6 billion dollars of extra investment and non-sovereign exports to the Ukrainian economy. We need to adopt an industrial package of RPF reforms, and it's going to involve more money in the economy than all of IMF's loans combined, with healthy costs, investment, manufacturing and export taxes, not debt taxes. Industrial parks are over a billion dollars in investment in production each year. "Buy Ukrainian, pay Ukrainians" is an import for billions of dollars every year. What does the authorities do? Sadly, the authorities are doing the opposite today. They buy almost a billion dollars of U.S. dollars, with all the costs, French helicopters. Kiev buys Polish tram cars instead of buying Ukrainian cars. All over Ukraine, Belarusian, American tractors are now buying Ukrainian. We propose a quality other economic policy: "Buy Ukrainian, pay Ukrainians." Or another completely revolutionary economic law on free integration into engineering networks. It will allow the removal of artificial, bureaucratic, corruption barriers and the involvement of billions of U.S. dollars annually in the creation of new productions, in the payment of European wages, in the lives of Ukrainians. The creation of the Export Credit Agency, which the government, the Ministry of Economics, has been sabotaging for over 330 days, imagine. These are billions of additional non-profit exports of Ukrainian producers, i.e. billions of taxes, wages and the worth of Ukrainian lives. Anti-trafficking on customs. That's at least $2-3 billion a year. Each of these initiatives, the anti-crisis plan for the economy proposed by the Radical Party, is more than 1 percent of GDP for economic growth. It is a real mechanism to move from the debt slavery of the International Monetary Fund to a dignified economy, state and perspective for Ukrainians in their own country. Maintain a new economic course.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-08-m0.u132	Thank you. I invite you to the floor of the People's Deputy Sobolev.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-08-m0.u133	Once again, I want to draw attention to Kiev's Postal Square -- a unique place where, in large numbers, our nation began. Kyiv, like many other European cities, was created by a river, and the river at that time was connected to the earth, to the place where the first Chinese were strong in the Postal Square. All the Chinese know that it's been there for several years now, and the construction of a trade and office centre. During this construction, archaeologists found unique evidence of what even the writings spoke of, unique artifacts of that time. It's about the ancient Russian Kiev, about the age, about the gold for us in the time of the Kiev Russia, when we had a powerful, successful, military-strong, European state. And for us, as countries that now stand for our independence, it is very important to preserve this place. It's important from every point of view: from a political standpoint, from a cultural point of view, from a tourist point of view. You can imagine what it would be like to make a museum, as archaeologists suggest, and how it is in many European cities, when a man falls in the 19th century and sees the remains of sidewalks, the rest of houses, the workshops of those days. All of this has been preserved and done. The trouble is, Kyivrada, the city's head, until they find enough votes to make that decision. I remind you that even in the dark days of Yanukovitch, the Chinese have already won such a victory when the construction of the same shopping centre over the Teatralna Metro because of our position, because of our demands, because of our actions, resulted in the fact that, instead of the shopping centre, there appeared the Kiev Museum where people go today, and the museum has its own premises. I think it's very important for the mayor of Kiev and the elected deputies to set an even better example and to create a place that you'll really be proud of for the rest of your life, saying that I helped make Kiev's story so glorious that it was preserved forever. I urge all the Chinese to follow Kyivrada's vote. Of course, we'll do the same, control helps MPs work for the community.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-08-m0.u134	Thank you. I invite you to the speech of the People's Deputy, the Mantis of Olga.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-08-m0.u135	Dear Ukrainians, dear colleagues, you know, when I went to Parliament, I had a very clear purpose in life, my goal in person. This goal and purpose are to increase the life expectancy of the Ukrainian people, every Ukrainian citizen, as a minimum, to 80 years, not just to increase life expectancy to live, survive, beggar, but a happy, worthy, happy life. And I didn't just have a dream and a goal and a goal, I had a clear strategy and a plan. And now I'm a hostage of the system, because I have to watch the system kill my own people. Only last year did the Ukrainians become 200,000 less, the virtual Ternopil, the virtual Ivano-Frankivsky, disappeared from our map, and it was supposed to be quite different. Why is this happening? Because today the lives and health of Ukrainian citizens are responsible for people who are unprofessional, cynical, and callous. And this transcript that sounded today from this rostrum, this colleague, this is cancer, they're all going to die, it's not taken out of the context of a word, it's not a political provocation, it's the ideology of a team that is today conducting a new education in the health system. Only one deputy, Mr. Lynchevski, was afraid to tell the truth what they really think. Without fully relaunching this Ministry of Health leadership, which has to carry out the mandate of the Supreme Council to make and submit to the Supreme Council a program for the treatment of oncology, these words are not just words, they are the ideology of the Ministry. The oncology program is destroyed, there is no chance that Ukrainian cancer patients will recover in this state, with no leadership. The system should be restarted. We need to change the team. We need to introduce the compulsory medical insurance prescribed in our Constitution, and that is when every one who has heart attacks, strokes, diabetes will have a chance not just to live but to live a decent, happy life at least up to 80 years of age. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-08-m0.u136	Thank you. I would like to invite you to the floor of the national deputy Jarinich.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-08-m0.u137	Dear Ukrainian people, dear colleagues, Madam Chairman. I'm forced to continue with the medical topic that many of my colleagues are talking about today because it's worth it. And we really have to put a dot in this story. I'll start with sad statistics on disease, cancer. We have over 1 million patients in Ukraine today who are diagnosed with cancer. At the same time, we have 160,000 new cases each year, while 90,000 patients die. This is a sad statistic that, compared to European standards of treatment and medical care, cannot withstand any criticism. I will tell you the sad statistics that the World Health Organization has presented in the future. If this situation persists in Ukraine, the death toll from cancer will come first among all causes of death by 2025. What is happening to us today? We really don't have Oncology. And I have repeatedly addressed the Ministry of Health with my colleagues, with experts in this case, which I am also a politician, and as a doctor-oncologist who has worked for a long time in oncology, with representatives of the Cancer Institute, with representatives of the Oncologists Association of Ukraine. What do you think? Regardless of the fact that we accepted the concept at the oncologists’ meeting, we wrote an oncology program, and it is still in the Ministry of Health. We did not have an extracurricular specialist who cared for programs and was the city that combined health practices and organizations. We have no opportunity and no opportunity for today to allocate not only money but oncology. Oncology in Ukraine is on schedule. And now everyone has heard that "everyone will die without a choice." I don't know what options Mr. Lynchovsky was talking about, but at the same time, I want to tell you that if we have a disciplinary commission that decided to find out what kind of intensification.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-08-m0.u138	Ten seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-08-m0.u139	I'm going to tell you, as doctor-oncologist today, that a million patients have been lost. [[Unheard]]
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-08-m0.u140	Thank you. I invite you to the speech of the People's Deputies.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-08-m0.u141	ValeriaZardenko, the Radical Party of Oleg Lachka. I was asked a very strange question on the morning air. I was asked what is the attitude of our faction towards the fact that the IMF is very outraged by the drafting of the anti-corruption court bill that was adopted here in this important hall. The question is odd, because the Radical Party is taking care of completely different things. We are outraged by the low standard of living of ordinary Ukrainians, and we are outraged by the low rate of economic development, particularly the catastrophic state of the coal industry. It's a state-owned firm called Selidivwogil, which is four huge mines: 1-3 Novogrodska, Kurahivska, Ukraine, Kotlarevska, 8,000 employees. Please note, I have a call from over 1.5 thousand miners of this state-owned enterprise who are in a terrible state right now. Why? Because they have regular wages. Because they stole layers from these state-owned enterprises. Because no funds are allocated for new equipment. They do not pay the full amount of taxes and payments to the Social Security Fund and the Pension Fund. Employees are not compensated by hospitals. They can't retire. They're losing their insurance. Debts for utilities are accumulated. The miners and their families are starving. Hunger riots have begun, people have nothing to feed their children. It's a tragedy. That's why we demand the government, the Radical Party team requires the immediate disbursement of funds to pay off wages, the immediate allocation of equipment funds and the deployment of the 12th South Lion on the 1-3 "Novogrodovska" which has been in operation for more than a year now, but it still doesn't work. I want to assure Mr. Nasalik, who said there was a problem in this room, why it didn't happen. That the entire Radical Party team, led by the leader, will support Bill 8362 on amending Ukraine's State Budget for 2018 on adequate financial security for the government's coal sector. Because our team is the only team that cares about real energy engineering, about real energy dependency, about supporting the coal industry, about Ukraine buying Ukrainian coal, about paying wages to Ukrainian miners, and not to some miners abroad. So we've proposed an industrial reform package with industrial parks, this is the Ukrainian Buy, Pay Ukrainians Bill, this is a bill on export credit agencies, about an increase in customs for the transport of metals. Because we want every ordinary Ukrainian to have a decent job, a high salary, and prosperity for every Ukrainian family. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-08-m0.u142	Thank you. I invite you to the speech of the People's Deputy, Sotnik.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-08-m0.u143	Thank you, Madam Chairman. I want to talk about romantics and cynics. In fact, yesterday's very large number of votes in this room, which was devoted to an anti-corruption court, is one of those unique moments where some people, including opposition, voted as romantics, unreservedly believing that they had no hope. And some of the coalition voted cynically, realizing that there was nothing to expect. Unfortunately, what we saw yesterday will still need to be rethinked, analyzed, and monitored. But I went to this rostrum to immediately warn the authorities that we understand very well where and what the problem is in this Anti-Corruption Court Act, and where and how power can actually usurp the selection of judges. First. We fully realize that on purpose yesterday, there were fabricated criteria for who might be international experts. You're actually suggesting that international experts become judges or prosecutors. Ukrainian judges or prosecutors. The other one. We are fully aware that you have completely cut off the mandate of the International Council of Experts. You've denied them the opportunity to conduct a preliminary examination of the candidates. You've deprived them of the ability to analyze all the candidates. You've deprived them of the ability to actually do a proper analysis of the information. Third. We are of course aware that on purpose, the only function that you have given to the International Council of Experts, including initiating joint meetings on the recognition of candidates who meet the criteria, was to try to nullify the veto of international experts and not allow them to review all the candidates and speak about all the candidates. Obviously, it will be very difficult under such circumstances for the International Council of Experts to have a real impact on the selection of candidates. Obviously, the Higher Qualifications Commission of Judges under this law is not just assigning these experts, it is likely to determine how they work. We know all about it. We recognize risks, including risks when making decisions. And we're not going to be watching this in time. We're going to be in every step of the way to control the government so that the selection of judges to the High Anti-Corruption Court is not usurped over all of these risks.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-08-m0.u144	Thank you. I'd like to invite you to the floor of the People's Deputy. I'd like to invite you to the floor of the People's Deputy Laska, six minutes in a row. He was also given the word of a national deputy to Lensky.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-08-m0.u145	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party, the only team that works hard in Parliament to defend the interests of the electorate. You hear the performances of powerful members of our team, it's my future government after you, Ukrainians, elect me president. And I want to assure you that there has been no better president and there will be no better president. Because I was raised in a children's home, in boarding school, and I know what life is like, and I know how millions of Ukrainians live. And I know what needs to be done to make people live better, unlike the little boys, the daughters who bring together families here, both in parliament and in power, instead of allowing the children of ordinary Ukrainians in their country. The key thing for our country is justice. Justice in all things: both in courts and in real judicial and anti-corruption reform, and a fair distribution of social goods, primarily by increasing the welfare of Ukrainians due to higher wages. And justice is that a person can realize whether he has a bag of money or a hairy hand or a pope, a judge's mother, a prosecutor. I am happy for children with popes, judges, prosecutors, presidents, and deputies. Sadly, however, such children in Ukraine are much less. And most children are like Easy: either from a child's home, or from a boarding school, or from a multi-childly low-income family who work, earn, try, earn, and believe in their own country, and believe in their own children. That's why we're fighting for these millions of people. As you can see today, at the rostrum, our colleagues Mosisiychuk Igor, Link Dmitr, are missing, because today in Ternopilska together with a team of a powerful local Radical Party led by Bogdan Yatzikovsky, we have chosen the right of local residents to create our white community. Thousands of people rose up, denied justice, and were entitled to live in their community. The Radical Party team has helped people to choose justice. And these little streams of the struggle for truth, for justice, will be made up of a great river of undeserved kindness. As a result, the good land of Ukraine will flourish; people will live on it with dignity. Today, unfortunately, because of self - indulgence, powerlessness is not the case. In my native Lugansk, Bilokurakina district, the village of Sharovka, almost below the border, across the river border with Russia, was gutted, and taken to the peasants -- more than 200 hectares. A local thug named Child under the cover of one of the pro-domestic deputies was stolen from the village synogagics. Seventy cows in the village. Today, there is nowhere for people to be exiled to a herd of cows. In my native village of Lisavka, in the same country, there were three farms. Not one today. So the fight for justice is to get the land back to the peasants they took. Both in the village of Sarovka in Biokurakin, and in hundreds of other Ukrainian villages throughout the country, where the swallows take land from people, they fake contracts, they deprive their cows of their ability to feed and feed their children. The fight for justice is the restoration of state programs, the support of animal production, the processing of land, the processing of agroprocessing to trade, not grain, but ready products to trade, not land and peasants, and their children, but our people. The fight for justice is available medicine. Because millions of Ukrainians today are deprived of treatment because they do not have the pension they deserve, they do not pay them, but they pay a penny pension, and people cannot buy a cure. The fight for justice is the release of this Deputy Minister of Health of Lynchevski, who said that oncology patients should not be treated because they will die. Sergey Nikituk of Level 5 years of age is fighting oncology, he's fighting despite what officials think he's going to die. And Miroslava Tretjak of the province of Breznivya is also fighting, even though officials say they will die. Let us fight for justice.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-08-m0.u146	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we have three final appearances, since I will not be able to continue meeting longer in connection with the planned arrangements. Therefore, I invite you immediately to the words of the national deputy of Yemen, to whom the word of the national deputy Lechchenko has been delivered. And the next two performances are the People's Deputy Levchenk and the People's Deputy of Skorik. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-08-m0.u147	Good afternoon! Leonid Jemetz, People's Front faction, Interfractional Eurooptimist Group, Majority District of Kiev. Dear voters, dear colleagues! Yesterday we set up an anti-corruption court and now we expect the President to pass the law that will allow this court to be put to work. And maybe six months later, we'll finally have a court that will plant those top officials who think that the chair that the Ukrainian people give them is the "beneficial" where they can get their noses and their dirty hands into and pull into their own pockets the money that was made by Ukrainian workers, workers, and the money that is spent through taxes is theoretically spent on our nation's ability to function properly. So these top officials who are used to spending this money on their own yachts, cars, houses, now they know they're facing an anti-corruption court, now they're in prison. And the Ukrainian people will be very careful to monitor how the anticorruption court is being held. And the fears that sound today are absolutely just. The corruptionists didn't exactly give up, the corrupters certainly didn't lose hope of staying behind their "corrosive" and doing everything they could to "a" – avoid responsibility and "b" – distort the work of an anti-corruption court. We are careful to see how the competition for an anti-corruption court will be implemented. Those measures that will have to be implemented in order for this competition to be fair and transparent, we will announce at the next sessional week, and we look forward to social support. Now for the second question. The voters are asking, well, with the anti-corruption court, we've worked it out, it's created, and when do we have an anti-corruption parliament? A very fair question, the only legislative body we have, is not that permeated by corruption, it's that corruption through laws that are passed by corrupt MPs, it's spreading around our nation's entire vitality. Two things need to be resolved in order to turn this parliament from a corrupt to an anti-corruption one. First, remove the touch. That law that I and my colleagues have registered as amendments to the Constitution in part of the withdrawal of parliamentary immunity has been examined by the Constitutional Court. The Constitutional Court said: the law corresponds to the Constitution, move on, national MPs. We have a few more sessions in this session, and in this time we have 226 votes to vote in favour of these changes to the Constitution in part of the withdrawal of parliamentary immunity, and then in September we can fulfill the promise we made to the Ukrainian people by going to the elections, all the political parties in this Parliament, and by September we can remove the parliamentary integrity. This will definitely motivate.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-08-m0.u148	Ten seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-08-m0.u149	corruption in this Parliament. And another issue that needs to be addressed is the change in electoral legislation. Let's make this parliament anti-corruption. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-08-m0.u150	Thank you. I invite you to the speech of the People's Deputy Levchenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-08-m0.u151	YuriLevchenko, "Freedom", 223 district, Shevchenkovsky district of Kyiv. Today, I would like to speak as the principal of Kiev, as the Kiev Majorate, and I would like to address the Chinese first, and I would like to draw the attention of the Chinese to the fact that they are trying to overwhelm them on their own. Half of Kiev has been without hot water for a long time. People don't have the ability to live normally because they don't have the basics. The basic necessities that everyone has in the 21st century. Vitaly Volodymyrovich Klitschko says that Naftogaz is guilty of this, that Naftogaz does not provide gas for the Kyiv nomads. I'd like to say, first of all, that Naftogaz is a terrible structure, run by Naftogaz, terrible people, and they get millions of prizes for nothing when half of the Ukrainians barely make ends meet. And I completely underestimate both this structure and its leaders. But this is exactly where it's not about them, and this is the question to Vitalia Volodymyrovich Klicka, who, knowing that the corresponding agreement with Ahmetov on control of the thermal energy complex of the capital, instead of preparing for the conclusion of this treaty, continued it indefinitely, and again, by the way, recently extended it, yes, and when this agreement ended suddenly he said, oh, sorry, and we don't know what to do. And there was only one thing to do: to adopt one little bill for one paragraph, one paragraph, which would clearly state that all the debts of the previous one. The previous legal person who controlled the thermal energy complex remains with this legal person, remains with the Ahmedov Kiyevenergo, rather than being transferred to the municipal enterprise of Kiev. So one small paragraph would solve this problem, and today all of them would have hot water. Vitaly Volodymyrovich Klitschko is the head of the BPP party, and if anyone forgets, I remind you, he has dozens of deputies here in the Supreme Council. So the question is, where is the blockade of the rostrum by these deputies, so that this bill is adopted, where the Klick's requirements for this bill to be adopted, where Klick's request to all members of the BP party to have this bill adopted. You might ask, ‘ Is there such a bill? ’ Yes, he is. I registered Bill 8341 a month ago, which solves this problem, but it's not being considered. He's on the committee and he's not going to the session room. Instead, Klitschko tells us that radical action will be taken, that Naftogaz will be diverted from the light, from communication, and all have already been taped. They're starting to label people's frontal approaches with announcements that it's Kobolev and Naftogaz's fault. They're guilty of a lot of things, but in this particular case, the city's head is directly responsible, and it's more interesting to "breathe" its fellow prodigals than to work on kyans.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-08-m0.u152	Ten seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-08-m0.u153	I'm talking to all the Chinese right now. Ladies and gentlemen, don't be so hard on yourself, turn to your city head, and ask him to resolve the matter, because it's in his power. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-08-m0.u154	Thank you. And the last performance. People's MP Skork.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-08-m0.u155	Thank you, Madam Deputy Head of the Supreme Council. Dear citizens of Ukraine! Honorable Colleagues! Taking advantage of the occasion to speak from this high rostrum, I would like to draw the attention of law enforcement agencies, the leadership of the state, the Ukrainian public, the entire Ukrainian society, media representatives to an event that took place exactly two weeks ago in my hometown of Odessa. There was another tragedy when, just two weeks ago, a former military officer named John Kuznetsov, who had a family, was killed in the quiet streets of Odessa. This crime is based on the suspicion of a so-called professional activist named Sternenko, and in reality it's not an activist, it's a small "pooper" that systematically, consistently, openly and insolently ignores the current Ukrainian legislation. And where am I leading? Now there's a campaign about distracting attention from getting, really. A fair, honest, transparent investigation of this crime took place. I'm not a prosecutor, I'm not a judge, I'm not a law enforcement officer. I don't have to determine who is responsible for this crime, but by that informational background, by the letters that even some of my colleagues in this room have signed about the seemingly unscrupulous process of unscrupulousness going on in Odessa and linking it to Mr. Sternenko's assassination. That's not true at all. The data available in the free press allows you to say that Sternka is suspected of this crime on a reasonable basis, I will say again. I am grateful and would like to express my support for the National Police, who are making an effort to inform society about this. I must point out that the law is one for all, it must be done. And one more question. Mr. Speaker stole some time today to inform my colleagues of the opposition block faction in violation of the law, as if they had come from the Attorney General's Office. I have to tell Mr. Speaker from this rostrum that everything is to be done within the framework of the current Ukrainian legislation, and informing my colleagues should be the way, in the way that is foreseen by law, not the way anyone wants it. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-08-m0.u156	Thank you. Before concluding our meeting, I have short information from National Deputy Victor Krivenk requesting that his voice be taken into account in connection with the failure of the card, a vote in favour of Supreme Council Order No. 8446 concerning the judgment of Roman Suschenka. Victor. This is Victor Krivenk's statement. And in conclusion, I would like to inform you that the next plenary meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine will take place on Tuesday, June 19th, at 10 a.m. Thank you all for your work. I'll see you later.
