ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-08-m1.u1	Colleagues, please come into the hall and prepare for registration. So, colleagues, please come into the hall. I'd like you to sign up, please, honorary colleagues. [[16:02:45]] There are 346 national deputies registered. I declare the evening plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine open. I remind colleagues that by noon we had begun a review of the draft Law on Amendments to the Customs Code of Ukraine and some of Ukraine’s legislation on the import of vehicles into the customs territory of Ukraine (8488). At the same time, I would like to remind you that by noon we had voted in the first reading of the amendments to the Tax Code. But it seems to me that not all national MPs have understood or supported the reduced procedure for consideration for second reading. So I have a call for everyone, colleagues, I ask you to listen carefully. For a balanced budgetary process to enter into deadlines, we need to shorten the procedure for preparing for the second reading of the Tax Code. And so after we've considered the Customs Code, I'm going to put this proposal to the vote again. I have a feeling, and I have information that not everyone has been informed of what we're voting for. So I'm going to explain this in advance and inform you that in order for us to be able to look at the November 22 budget, which is what Ukraine's economy and macro-financial assistance depends on, we need to go through the discussions and revisions to the Tax Code. And so immediately after considering the Customs Code, I will propose to vote again in favour of the short-term procedure for the second reading of the amendments to the Tax Code. It's a deal, isn't it? So everyone knows what's going on this time. I now invite the head of the Committee on Tax and Customs Policy, Mr. Nina Petrovna, to continue the discussion of the Customs Code and some Ukrainian legislation on the import of vehicles into the customs territory of Ukraine. I'm asking the right-wing authors to prepare for the discussion, and we're starting a second reading of the bill. Nina Petrovna, I urge you to come to the rostrum. So, colleagues, let's start looking at the rights. No, it's a performance first. I invite you to address Eugene Nina Petrovna, and then we'll move on to the right, first one will be yours, Sergei. Please, Nina Petrovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-08-m1.u2	Dear colleagues, we now have to consider in our second reading a draft law that just provides all the additional functions that should work after the introduction of the liberal norms that we have just voted with you. We need to form that interaction between the income and congregational authorities with the State Border Service and the National Police, which will ensure that we avoid further such violations and such irresponsibility, this broken chain on the interaction of organs. So most of the draft law, you know, is dedicated because the only base that's going to combine information between the three bodies is going to contain all of the information about cars that are going to be placed in the temporary import or transit customs regime. Then we inform each other's body and the right to stop the car in order to check such a car for the right to control and stay, and the traffic on Ukraine's highways takes place in an orderly manner. The second part of this bill is, indeed, to raise existing fines to more significant amounts and to remove this rule, which allowed for violations throughout the year of customs rules and to be held accountable only once, in the amount of 8,500. Large fines are not called to raise more money from people but to avoid such violations that are currently being observed in the country. So when it comes to amendments, they are presented to the second reading of 67 suggestions. At the committee meeting, the committee agreed, supported, in part, or essentially ten proposals, the remaining 57 proposals were rejected. And this is not 57 proposals that have a separate meaning, all of these 57 proposals can be combined into two. This is a removal from the interaction of the National Police itself so that in the future it is not possible to stop violators of customs legislation. And secondly, it's a significant reduction in fines to trigger again. To provoke, you might say, a violation of legislation, because punishment will be small. Therefore, after considering the bill at its meeting on November 6, 2018, the Committee decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine that it be accepted on second reading and, in general, as a law with the proposals of the legal entities of the legislative initiative, which are considered by the committee. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-08-m1.u3	Please finish 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-08-m1.u4	So, dear colleagues, if we're going to discuss all the amendments again, I'm asking those moments where I'm not going to comment, they're going to explain exactly what I just explained. The change in fines has not been accepted and the cancellation or beating, as we say, from this thought-out ring, how the foreign service, customs and the National Police will cooperate, has also not been accepted. That's why.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-08-m1.u5	Thank you. So let's move on to the right-hand side. 1st, Sergey Mishchenko. Turn on the microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-08-m1.u6	Dear colleagues! Well, my application does not refer to either the first category or the second category that the committee head said. My job is to clean up the corruption component that exists today when cars are swept away. So everybody knows that contracts or invasions or bank payment documents are what citizens represent in order to clean up cars, then VAT and customs. Thus, there is now a subjective factor in which a tax collector does not accept these payment documents, such as the invasions, but rather receives indicative prices. He may or may not take it. I mean, you know, this includes the principle of corruption when it has a luft: either I accept a citizen's document or I don't accept it. So my amendment clearly states: accept these.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-08-m1.u7	30 seconds to complete.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-08-m1.u8	Accept these documents in order to establish the real value of this car and then count VAT and government duties. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-08-m1.u9	Thank you. Please, Nina Petrovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-08-m1.u10	Dear colleague, this amendment is really not about what I'm explaining, but I'm going to try to tell you right now that your intentions are good, but you can't do that. You're saying that if the declarant provides information that the customs officer asks about the price, you're offering other documents. Provided by the declarant for price, accept clearly as those who provide grounds for making a declaration. So you even rule out that a tax collector can make comments about these documents, you've even ruled out that we have such a verification system as a builder, which may also have observations. And by the way, not always these documents are so real even, I'd say. That's why we rejected your amendment. But really, we talked to the Customs Subcommittee that there's something to think about, because they're very often stopping our declarants, and this price that they're offering is not perceived at all, and sometimes it's inherent, fair and what it has.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-08-m1.u11	Thank you. You insist on voting, don't you? So I'm putting to the vote 1 of the People's MP Mishchenka's draft. The committee turned her down. Whoever supports it, please vote. [[16:12:56]] For-55 The decision is not taken. 2nd. He insists. Lapin. Please turn on Lapina's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-08-m1.u12	Dear colleagues, the point of my amendment is to this point. First of all, the period of temporary importation of goods according to part one of this article and/or the means of transport for commercial purposes or. may be extended by an appropriate body of income and congregations. And it's not stated that on the basis of that. There is an extension of this term. It must be governed by legislation. So what we're doing here is, in my opinion, we're putting in a corruption component, when, despite the legislation, someone wants to continue at a cost, and someone might not want to continue on a low-cost term.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-08-m1.u13	Please, Nina Petrovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-08-m1.u14	Dear colleague, your amendment looks the other way around. There are now direct rules of the Customs Code, according to which the customs regime may be extended, declarations by the declarant. And that's the reason. For example, a car got into a car accident. He can't leave Ukraine. And if such help is provided by the competent authorities, that is the reason why these terms should be extended. In times and circumstances, and in cases established by law. So there's nothing else to add.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-08-m1.u15	Do you insist on voting? Yeah? So I'm voting on amendment number two of the People's Deputy Lapin. The committee turned her down. Whoever supports it, I ask you to vote. [[16:14:49]] For-35 The decision is not made. 3rd Amendment. Don't insist. 5th. Don't insist. 6th. Don't insist. 7th. Don't insist. 8th. Don't insist. 9th. Don't insist. 10th. Don't insist. 13th. Don't insist. 14th. Don't insist. 15th. 16th. 17th. 18th. Please, Mrs. Ostrikak. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-08-m1.u16	Dear colleagues, the 18th amendment refers to cases where the vehicle will be imported into the customs territory of Ukraine in transit by a Ukrainian citizen. But those who live permanently abroad have a permanent place of residence abroad. The point is that we have been approached by many employees who live permanently in territories of foreign states who visit their relatives once or twice a year and, accordingly, would like to be able to enter a vehicle registered in a foreign country into the customs territory of Ukraine. In fact, today there is a norm of the Customs Code that allows this within 60 days for our fellow citizens who are in consular accounting in foreign lands. But we know that not all of our employees, not all the Ukrainians who live abroad, are on consular accounting. So please consider the amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-08-m1.u17	Please, Nina Petrovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-08-m1.u18	Dear colleagues, I want everyone to understand that really putting cars in transit or temporary importation to Ukrainian residents will be prohibited, except for those on consular accounting. And when you say let's just let the customsman watch it, he's checked out the help they can give to citizens about the type of place they live in. So when we analyzed this rule with the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, it became clear that in every country, it could be different, it would appear to be different organs. There's no typical form to speak and wear. And a new scheme is being created, because staying at a hotel is also a place of residence. And you can also get help saying, "I've been living in a hotel for 30 days, and I, please, miss me in the customs regime allowed for a non-resident of Ukraine." That is why the norm that is at the heart of this law allows.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-08-m1.u19	30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-08-m1.u20	Allows Ukrainian citizens who are temporarily working outside Ukraine and not only residents, but who are still living there, to apply the rules of the law.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-08-m1.u21	Thank you. Deputy Ostrikov, do you insist on voting? The MP insists. I'm putting to the vote the amendment of the 18th National Deputy Tetjana Ostrikova, and the committee rejected it. Whoever supports this, I ask you to vote. [[16:18:27]] For-39 The decision is not taken. Nineteen, no insistence. 20th, not necessarily. Twenty-one, no insistence. 23rd, Mrs. Tetian. Please turn on Ostrich's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-08-m1.u22	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to draw your attention to the 22nd amendment. I thank the committee for being partly involved in the import and presence of the person who imported it directly. It applies to cases where a vehicle is placed in a mode, such as temporary importation by a non-resident of Ukraine, for example, by Polish, and this Polish has transferred a transport device to the administration of a Ukrainian citizen. So this amendment is aimed at, and it's partly taken into account by the committee, that if it's sitting in a car and a Pole and a Ukrainian citizen who runs a transport vehicle, it's not considered a violation of customs rules. If this non-resident person is not in the car that imported the vehicle, then the Ukrainian is considered to have violated the customs rules. So I'm thanking the committee for taking part, and I'm asking you to take further account of the reduction in the fine from 2,000 untaxed minimums to 1,000. Please put to the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-08-m1.u23	Please, Nina Petrovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-08-m1.u24	Well, Auntie Georgievna said that we counted what was appropriate. And the reduction of the fine, I started from the beginning. All of our efforts are not to raise any additional costs, but only to be free of, even, such opportunities or desires to violate, the rules of further customs.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-08-m1.u25	Please be sure, 22 revisions. Who is responsible for taking it fully into account? [[16:20:40]] For-51 The amendment remains in the version in which the committee accepted it. The next amendment is the same as Ostrick's, 23rd. It was partially counted, but the author insists on its version.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-08-m1.u26	Dear colleagues, the 23 amendment also refers to a reduction in fines, in particular: the words “one thousand” should be replaced by the words “seven hundred fifty” NMDGs; the words “five thousand” should be replaced by the words “one thousand” NMDGs; the words “ten thousand” (i.e. it is in fact 170 thousand dollars) should be replaced by the words “five thousand” NMDGs and the words “or their confiscation” should be deleted. I would like to draw your attention to the responsibility for the violation provided for in Article 470 of the Customs Code, which provides for the responsibility for exceeding the time limit set in Article 95 for the delivery of goods placed in transit. So I think the proposed sanctions are inadequately large for these types of violations. And please consider their possible decline. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-08-m1.u27	Please comment to the committee head. Dear Mrs. Nina, this is the 22nd amendment, it's part of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-08-m1.u28	I'm sorry I was a little busy.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-08-m1.u29	This is 22 amendments that were partially taken into account by the committee. Mrs. Ostrikova insists on taking full account.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-08-m1.u30	We're past the 22nd. We said that this amount of fine that we had previously supported with you in the first reading, we should leave.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-08-m1.u31	Please identify yourself for this amendment, colleagues. [[16:22:40]] For-63 The correction is being rejected. Next up, 23rd. Mrs. Ostrikova. My colleagues, I'm sorry, I misnamed you. We've just been assigned 23 amendments, not 22nd. I mistitled the number of the amendment. 24th. Mrs. Oksana Sold. Don't insist. 25th. Mrs. Alexander Kugel. Don't insist. Thank you very much, colleagues. I ask you to return to the session room, we don't have a lot of amendments to this bill, and the voting time is very soon to come. Oksana Prodan, your 29th amendment, you don't insist. And you don't insist on the next. Now, my dear colleague, I am looking for amendment 26. Yes, she is. In fact, 26 amendments, she was just at the end of the page, she didn't notice. 26th, please, Devyanko, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-08-m1.u32	Yuri Derevyanko, "The Movement of New Forces". Dear colleagues! Dear Ukrainians! My amendment concerns fines, and this is article 470. As far as fines are concerned. The committee's editorial proposals include stricter fines, and the committee's editorial proposals include large fines, including the confiscation of means of transport. I propose that these fines be very large, but not as pathetic as the committee has now proposed. That's the first one. And the second. I want to draw your attention to the fact that the law that was voted before lunch, which doesn't actually solve most people's problems, means that people are likely to be figures of this law, these fines, these confiscations and all that. So it's also going to create new additional different corruption things, if we're talking about the possibility of losing a car, do something else. That's why I'm offering to support the fine on high fines, but no confiscation. And I suggest you review, well, the approach to this, considering that most people will not be able to unscramble a car as you think by the law that it was.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-08-m1.u33	Please comment to Ms. Nina Jujanina.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-08-m1.u34	Dear colleague, I want to tell you that I have worked with those people on the street for more than two years. And for more than two years, it was a basic requirement for the elimination of eco-standards and the blurry to make at least 500 euros worth. When this rule became possible after we passed the law today before lunch, it turned out that, according to our colleague, it did not fit that standard. I want to let you know that all the people who were standing on cars with a small engine capacity of up to 2,000 centimeters have already gone home because they realize that we've just given them the opportunity to blur. Perhaps someone was dissatisfied with the car’s 4,000 - inch [4,000 cm] - cubic, 5,000 - foot [5,000 cm] diesel engines, a little more complicated for them, and a little more. But they can afford to buy gasoline this big. So I'm sorry. And the first law that is passed will satisfy the entire human race. More than 90 days with a 0.5 reduction in payment.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-08-m1.u35	Thank you, Mrs. Nina. 30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-08-m1.u36	Quickly. And you're proposing to amend the proposed new fines under article 470 of the Ukrainian Customs Code? So there's a maximum fine of 8,500 dollars. What did we use? It's the most common violation, transit, transit, travel all your life, and pay 8,500. It's about the confiscation. This is the only measure that has really led to law enforcement in the Republic of Moldova. And it's not the decision of someone, it's the decision of the court. I think so.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-08-m1.u37	Thank you, Mrs. Nina. I'm asking you to make 26 adjustments. [[16:27:12]] For-44 44th. The correction is being rejected. Next amendment 36, Ostrikak. Part of it was counted. Are you insisting? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-08-m1.u38	Dear colleagues, Amendment 36. I thank the committee for taking it into account in part to remove the responsibility for violating the time limit for the temporary importation of means of transport for personal use. This is also the situation in which the vehicle is managed by such a temporarily imported Ukrainian, but it is managed by a non-resident person who placed the means of transport in the temporary mode of importation. Thank you, committee. And I'd also like you to take into account in the second part about a small reduction in fines. Because I think that if you exceed the time limit for temporary entry into the period of more than 30 days to impose a fine of 5,000 untaxed minimum citizens' income, that's too high a price to pay. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-08-m1.u39	Please identify yourself on this amendment. Please, colleagues. [[16:28:36]] For-54 The amendment remains with the committee. The next 40 amendments. Derevianco, 40th.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-08-m1.u40	Dear Nina Petrovno, you have just very clearly explained to me firsthand that we have adopted a law with a maximum amount of 500 euros. So if we take the two-litre diesel engine that most people use, and we multiply it by the existing rate (75-diesel) we get 150 euros. We're multiplying by 10 years, the average age of these cars we get. For 12 years, we get 1,800 euros, we divide by 2 is 900 euros. It's just excise. Plus the VAT, plus the bribe, plus the military, plus the pension fund. So when we talk about 500 euros is the maximum amount of blurry, it's sorry, but it's a lie. Because people have to pay more than 2,000 euros later, and first it's going to be a thousand 500 euros, at least, a car that costs 1.5-2 thousand euros in total. So this is more than 60 percent of the cost of a car. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-08-m1.u41	May I have your comment, please?
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-08-m1.u42	Dear colleague and all your colleagues, listen! Now it was a 3,000 - inch [3,000 cm] diesel car. You don't think most countries. That most countries have refused to use diesel cars at all. That's the first one.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-08-m1.u43	Let's do 2,000. 75 times 2 is the base rate 150. 11-12 years old. And the stakes are 900 euros. So I'm counting: a car 2,000 in volume, a gasoline car. Count it, please. I count even 15 years of cars. That's 1 thousand 500 euros divided by half -- 750. And we have all the proposals that were made by the MPs about people who own cars, 1800. So I'm telling you, once I have the numbers, I don't have to show the calculator, because I know all the numbers by heart. So I explained to you that the car you need is really socially vulnerable.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-08-m1.u44	Dear colleagues, I ask you to make 40 adjustments, please. [[16:31:18]] For-44 Please, 44 bucks. The correction is being rejected. Colleagues, we've made 41 adjustments with you, it's been counted by the committee. But in view of what we have adopted in the previous 90 - day law, clarification is needed. I now give the floor to the honourable Mrs. Ostrich.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-08-m1.u45	Dear fellows, dear lady of the committee! The point is, in the Tax Code, we've made a 90-day benefit period, where the 0.5 coefficient is used to clear up everyone without excluding means of transport, both those on foreign registration and those that may be imported by citizens and businesses in Ukraine. So I'm also asking you to take into account editorially that in 41 revisions this deadline for applying 0.5 also has to be 90 days in order for it to be the same as the tax code. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-08-m1.u46	Please, Mrs. Nina, what is your position on this amendment? 41 amendments, taken into account by the committee. But Mrs. Ostrikova insists that it now be brought into line with this standard in the previous Law on Importation of Vehicle.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-08-m1.u47	Look, I don't see a factor of 0.5 here, first. It says here, there's no Tetjana Georgievna, the ratio of 0.5 to the tax rate. So there's an invariable editorial that's been worked with you on the committee. There's something you didn't say. So we leave it unchanged.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-08-m1.u48	Mrs. Ostrikova, don't you insist on voting? Anything not to balance the law. Great. Next 42nd, Lechchenko. Please, Mr. Yuri.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-08-m1.u49	Lewchenko, Freedom, 223 District of Kiev. Now, I would like to draw the attention of all the conscious MPs and who listens to us and looks at the perverse logic of this bill. First of all, this Supreme Council creates a gap in legislation that allows, in fact, people who have no choice but to import these so-called Europly. And now the Supreme Council only gives 180 days, just 180 days, to legalize, to solve the problem that it itself has created. But what's interesting? These 180 days are calculated from the moment the bill becomes effective, but the order of legalization should be prescribed by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, and when it is prescribed by it, the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine is not known whether it will prescribe it two weeks after the bill is passed, either a month or two months later. So you have this order, these 180 days you have to count from the order of approval of the appropriate legalization, or do as I say in my amendment, give people a year, at least a year, so they can legalize.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-08-m1.u50	One and a half thousand, of course, the total cost of customs payments, it will be.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-08-m1.u51	Thank you for your clarification. Please, Mrs. Nina, your comment.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-08-m1.u52	As for 180 days, I don't understand you at all. When it was said to be a secluded period, cars that had already entered the territory of Ukraine should be cleared for a certain period, perhaps less than 180 days. Activists say, "No, we don't agree with the cut-off period, because it makes it difficult, we want to fight for everyone, and you only do it for us." And if it's for everyone, it's the current budget losses, you know. So this blur with the application, the more the tax coefficients, can only be 90 days and 180 days, otherwise there's no content in these norms.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-08-m1.u53	Please identify 42 amendments. [[16:35:40]] For-51 The correction is being rejected. Next, 44th, Ostrikak. Don't you insist? And so, Mrs. Ostrikova, 47th. Please, Mrs. Ostrich's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-08-m1.u54	Dear colleagues, the 47 amendment also refers to some decrease in disproportionately large, high fines, and some of the rights and duties of the National Police. That's when they're detaining vehicles that are in transit or temporary imports, and they're actually being used by Ukrainian citizens, not by non-residents. We suggest that, after such a temporary detention, a police officer should inform the income and assembly body, i.e. the tax authority, of the detention of such means of transport, and then transfer it to the revenue and assembly body to establish signs of a breach of customs rules and to establish the relevant protocol. Why? Because this is a violation of customs rules, and the authority authorized to draw up protocols and to take responsibility for it is solely the revenue and assembly body, that is, the government’s fiscal authorities today. I'm asking you in this part.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-08-m1.u55	Please comment, Mrs. Jujanina.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-08-m1.u56	This part cannot be taken into account simply because we are amending the Code of Administrative Offences. We are making changes to the necessary law of profile in order to give the right to administrative responsibility to the National Police. This is an administrative offence committed by a man who drives a car, or a resident of Ukraine. But at the same time, the police are bringing data into the single system, and customs know that under this car the non-resident who put it in the regime has also violated customs legislation. And with regard to customs law, only the customs authorities will be called to account. No one is given this function.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-08-m1.u57	I'd like to make 47 adjustments, colleagues. [[16:38:11]] For-53 53 "for", the amendment is rejected. The next 52 amendments, as well as Mrs. Ostrick's. Please, the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-08-m1.u58	Dear colleagues, the amendment also applies to the authority of the National Police. In particular, it is proposed to add the words that the National Police report on such means of transport to the revenue authorities and to the congregations for further transmission to the authorities of income and to the congregations to establish signs of a breach of customs rules and to establish an appropriate protocol. And it is also suggested that the police, the police, can stop a vehicle registered in another country if it needs to be checked to comply with the requirements set out in the Ukrainian Customs Code. These include: temporary or transit periods, prohibitions on the use of such means of transport for business purposes, prohibitions on the transfer of such means of transport to the possession, use or disposal of persons who have not imported it. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-08-m1.u59	Please identify yourself by 52 amendments, colleagues. [[16:39:35]] For-48 48 "for", the amendment declines. Next up is 53rd, Drevyanka.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-08-m1.u60	Dear colleagues, dear Ukrainians! It was with the head of the committee here that we calculated what good we had done for the people before lunch. So if we have a two-litre gasoline car, as Mrs. Yuzanina insists, and if we have a car that costs 2.5 thousand euros and 12 years, then in our good work, we're going to pay 1,000, 720 euros if we get 90 days to clean up. And if he doesn't make it, he'll pay 2,000 420. So it's not 500 euros, Mrs. Nina Petrovno, who you said was blurry, and that's 1,000 720 euros for a 12-year-old gasoline car two liters of volume and cost 2.5 thousand euros, and that's what all people have been up against since the beginning. They were willing to pay 40 percent, plus minus. But the cost of your car today at 2.5 thousand euros is either blurring or 1 thousand 700, or 2.5 thousand, that's almost 100 percent or 70 percent. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-08-m1.u61	May I have your comment, please? May I have your comment, please?
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-08-m1.u62	It's very interesting to hear that comment. The car that was just named -- 2,000 cubic centimeters, 12 years -- total excise duty -- 1,000 200 euros, half 600 euros. A person sits and counts all the payments that the VAT we pay with you for bread, for medicine, for children's goods. We're only taking changes on excise taxes right now. You see what bets there are in the current legislation -- they're bets that go up to 10,000 euros. We reduced them to a thousand 200 full bets, and you say, "And then?" And then, comrades, kindergartens and schools are to be held for nothing.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-08-m1.u63	I'd like to make my mark on amendment 53, colleagues. Please. [[16:41:52]] For-39 The correction is being rejected. Colleagues, there are a number of amendments made by national deputy Igor Lapin. He's going to take two minutes to make these adjustments. And while we're moving on, I'm just warning you right now. And now 56th, Rybchin. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-08-m1.u64	Alexei Rybchin, Fatherland. My 56th amendment returns an environmental standard that has now been lifted by a previous vote. At the end of our discussion, I would like to give the floor to the Deputy Ministry of Ecology to tell you what a difference in environmental standards can lead to. We also see that there is a minister of finance present. Why is this bill important to the Ministry of Finance? Because this bill is going to fill the budgets. At the expense of the Ukrainians, the full budget and the Pension Fund will be available to all Ukrainians who will breathe that air. However, you are not told that technology will be returned from the age of 21. This is our European integration, these are the requirements that will be, and with this technology, the people who have now bought cheap cars, which are not environmentally friendly, will pay much more. It's not the MPs who decide, it's already been decided by the government. These include insurance companies that increase insurance for used cars. You realize that now the cheap cheese will only be in the mouse box, they don't tell you that. Thus, environmental issues need to be taken into account.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-08-m1.u65	Please comment to the head of the profile committee. As far as government representatives are concerned, we do not have such a rule to give them a word during the discussion of amendments, but, of course, we can, if there is no objection from the room, after discussing all the amendments, give them the floor at the request of the deputies. And I think there will be no denying that this is a gross violation of the Rules. All right, colleagues? Thank you. Please, Mrs. Nina, you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-08-m1.u66	I would like to comment with great respect to you that the Ministry of Environment and Natural Resources, on request, responded as follows. That the amendments that were made about clean cars are. Of course we did. But at the same time, in their letter, they conclude that there is a significant difficulty in execution. That the standards adopted would significantly complicate Ukraine's compliance with its international environmental obligations, which regulate the content of harmful substances in exhaust gases, such as the Association Agreement between Ukraine and the EU, ratified 16.09, and other documents signed by Ukraine. But the social tension is that we should now accept these changes and start working with you right now on a set of bills that you're talking about. And we talked to our colleagues here: we need to start working on them right away and taking them into the hall. And they don't just apply to electric cars.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-08-m1.u67	Please identify the 56 amendments that we are currently discussing, which committee we have rejected, and we have heard the position of head of the committee. Please. [[16:45:08]] For-51 The correction is being rejected. Fellows, we've got enough change left. I ask you very much to return to the session room. And we also want to turn to those who are now blocking the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine that many colleagues physically cannot get to the place of voting because of blocked roads. Please allow the Chinese to move calmly and to the people’s deputies as well. 59 amendments, Rybchin, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-08-m1.u68	Alexei Rybchin, Fatherland. It's very surprising that the Minister of Ecology is protecting the People's Front faction and the environment is protected by the Fatherland. I think we should really let the Ministry of Ecology say what will be accepted for the Ukrainians. I've been trying to find any compromise. I was editing an ecological coefficient that would allow 30 days to blur and then put up a block, return Eurostandarts. There's an amendment that I'd like to make now to allow the Euro-3, Euro-4, to be blurry, not allowed for sure. After a certain period of six months or a year, however, large - scale machines are prohibited from using diesel or petrol cars that do not correspond to Euro-4 per year. That's a lot. If there is a desire to compromise how to protect the environment and allow people to sweep cheap cars, they could be found. Unfortunately, this will not be found. And I want to say that these people who voted will also be responsible for the deterioration of the environment and for the deterioration and the shortening of Ukrainian lives.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-08-m1.u69	Please comment, Mrs. Jujanina.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-08-m1.u70	Dear Alexi! Please explain to your colleagues who are with you. I agree with you that we should set limits, but when we found compromise, we stopped, for example, on the Euro-4 environmental standard, and then we found out that we needed Euro-3 because we were going to import cars in 1999. And that balance of interest was not possible at all, so I think now that we're adopting this law, we're aware of all the consequences. All the consequences. And those colleagues who seem to care about the possibility of importing overcrowded cars.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-08-m1.u71	Colleagues, I'm asking you to determine for this amendment 59. Please. [[16:47:45.]] For-42 The correction is being rejected. Guys, we have two adjustments left. The Presidency calls on all national deputies to return to the session room, for in two minutes the vote will literally take place. 65 repairs, Semenha. Please, the microphone. It's an amendment. So, a couple more.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-08-m1.u72	Semenha Roman, "The Self-Help Union" faction. Dear colleagues, I'd like to draw your attention to my application for a discount in the value of registering a car. That is, I propose that for customers of light cars, I cancel the payment of the pension fund to the mandatory state pension insurance. I'm going to remind everyone that this payment was introduced as a provisional standard in the year 98. And by its very nature today, the Pension Fund, which administers within the solidarity system, consists primarily of contributions, the only social contribution of the working population. In fact, people who work twice today pay for a car in the form of both the pension congregation and the EU. The argument that this is going to be a major budget loss does not really stand any criticism. If you look at the 17th year, these retirement congregations have covered less than 1 percent of the total part of the Ukrainian Pension Fund. So for the budget, it's not actually going to be worth anything, and at the same time, it's going to be a significant decrease in the total cost of a car. Please be supportive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-08-m1.u73	Colleagues, please identify yourself for Amendment 65, please. Okay. [[16:49:28]] For-63 The correction is being rejected. Colleagues, I was asked to return to Amendments 1 and 4. I mean, these were mishchenka's repairs and the sale, and we've been through them. Oh, I'm sorry, dear colleagues. Now, they didn't pass, 61 and 64, now I'm looking. Sorry, we have an unbiased view of you, but with love and great respect. Please, 61st, Dubinin. Dubinine and then 64th is Chevchenko. Please. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-08-m1.u74	Please pass the word of Parasuk Volodymyr 61.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-08-m1.u75	Dear colleague Parasuc, 61 amendments, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-08-m1.u76	Thank you. Yes, we've already had a fairytale available sweep, now I have two questions for Mrs. Nina. Please tell me, what law will govern the National Police as customs officers on roads that are in Ukraine? And the second question. Tell me, how will Ukrainians who work abroad and live in part there use their legitimate cars that they bought abroad without a consular allowance? How can they come to Ukraine, visit their relatives, and loved ones?
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-08-m1.u77	Please, Mrs. Nina.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-08-m1.u78	As for the second question, like all Ukrainian citizens, they will be able to sweep their cars within 180 days or continue to enter them temporarily for up to 30 days in Ukraine when they are on vacation when they come to see their loved ones if they are on consular leave. That's the first one. Secondly, an amendment has been made, well, please read the whole bill carefully. You haven't read it at all. And I'm going to prove it to you right now because when you say that the National Police won't have any rights, read, they're changing the Law, special article 58, "The National Police," and it answers. Huh?
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-08-m1.u79	[[Unheard]]
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-08-m1.u80	What? In violation of customs legislation, customs liability remains the same, i.e. infringements will be applied to violators exclusively by customs authorities, and the National Police will exercise control functions within their borders. So do not invent, please, but read carefully.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-08-m1.u81	Thank you. I understand that the vote does not require an amendment, but I just wanted to hear an explanation. The last 64th and then Lapin's repairs. Please, Chewchenka microphone. National Deputy Shevchenko, 64th Amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-08-m1.u82	Friends, the government bills don't solve the so-called problem with Europlums and allow the authorities to fine citizens and take cars, import cars from the country we're at war with, which is the Nazi ideology of the Russian world. As early as March, Bill 8208 suggested that the VAT and other payments be completely cancelled. Instead, a single payment is 500 euros. Simple, there, a non-corruption law blocked by power. According to the laws of power, excise duties will be considerably reduced in the sweeping of new and expensive cars, and for old cars, they remain at almost the same level as they were. It's socially unfair. We've prepared drafts for the bill. Regrettably, the committee rejected these amendments. The motives are probably both political and lobbyist. I insist on voting on this bill, which will eliminate all VAT, excise duties and other charges and billing, and the only payment of 500 euros has been made. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-08-m1.u83	The amendment does not insist on voting but on sound. Dear colleagues, we've had a few amendments to the national MP Igor Lapin. And we agreed that I just end up giving you two minutes to say the word. Mr. Igoru, 56th yours and 58th yours. The author’s request is that he deliver them from the Supreme Council’s rostrum. Mrs. Nina, I'm asking you to give me a chance. Oh, I'm sorry. Dear colleague, here. Now. Dear colleagues, National Deputy Shevchenko insists on a vote of 64 amendments. Let's put it to a vote. It's just a little loud in the room and that's why, and that's why sometimes it doesn't sound like a reporter's closing statement. [[16:53:59]] For-59 The correction is being rejected. And now, please, Mr. Lapin, 56th and 58th.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-08-m1.u84	Dear colleagues, good day to you all! Glory to Ukraine! Dear colleagues, there are a lot of people here who know what war is, and not only do they know it, but because we were there. Today, I think it's embarrassing with the provocations that have their curators, maybe even in this room, I'm not going to hang labels on anyone right now, but still. Our fighting brothers were interrupted on their way to the Supreme Council today by instigating shameful acts, hanging disgraceful labels on him. I would like to point out that our brother, Savka Ivan Ivanovich, has only recently become a member of the Supreme Council. I would like to point out that he has been serving in the Armed Forces of Ukraine for 38 years. I want to point out that he's a member of the ATO, a participant in combat, a participant in combat operations, peacekeeping missions. I want to, simply and simply, if anyone wants and thinks they'll have the right to hang labels, provoke fighting boys to do things that are shameful, I warn you, you don't have to do that. You have the courage to come and apologize to our brothers. This video is now being played with disgraceful slogans and so on, which YouTube has just called the video they've taken. Once again, there are national MPs, there are people who have the idea of supporting the bill, there are others who have the will not to support it, and there is the thought of not supporting the bill. We were chosen, we stood up for each other, but no one was allowed to impose, bend, hang labels. There's been a war here. I believe that there are many normal people there too, and there are those who have been through the war, but there are those who do not know what dust is. Thank you. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-08-m1.u85	Thank you. Colleagues, I mean, I find it unacceptable that the fighting officers who went to the front war, protecting Ukraine, who shed their blood for Ukraine, who looked into the eyes of death here at the Supreme Council, are being attacked. And I emphasize, colleagues, it's impossible to do so with any of the national MPs. And, colleagues, I want to tell you, don't interrupt me from the hall, we have to take this position together, not provoke it, and the law enforcement authorities have to do all the necessary things so that it doesn't happen again. The organizers and shareholders should carry the appropriate and explanatory work and, excuse me, the responsibility when such things happen to our fighting officers. So, colleagues, I'm completely in solidarity with our fighting brothers. Now, colleagues, I want to emphasize the issue of leadership. Two minutes later, we move on to making a decision. I'm asking all the national deputies to come into the hall and take jobs. And, colleagues, I would like to remind you that after the vote, I would like to remind you that after the vote, I ask everyone not to disperse, because after the vote, I'm going to ask again the question of a reduced procedure for considering changes to the Tax Code for the second reading, not everyone was in the mood for lunch. We'll fall out of the logic of the budget process if we don't support this position. I mean, right after the vote, I'm going to ask you not to break up, and I'm going to put a second reading proposal to a reduced procedure for amendment, so it's not for two weeks, it's for one week. In addition, the government has asked us to move, and we have two questions that have led to the ratification of 0203 of the huge international weight. And I'm also going to propose that we move the international ratification to two issues so that we can look at it after the changes to the Customs Code. You got it, right? Three votes in favour of the Customs Code, a reduced procedure and a transfer of ratification. I'm asking everyone to be there, be careful and responsible when it comes to the country's fate, the country's economy. I now invite two minutes, the closing statement is Nina Petrovna Jujanina. In two minutes, we'll move on to the decision-making process. In two minutes, I urge everyone to be in their seats and take part in the vote. Please, Nina Petrovna, two minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-08-m1.u86	Dear colleagues, we have considered the second bill in the second reading. I ask you once again to familiarize yourself with all the rules of the law. I am confident that these two laws will for the first time in Ukraine allow for the clearing and taking of cars used regardless of their age and compliance with environmental standards. I hope that someday the country will really be able to lower the excise tax rate to a very small minimum, but that's definitely not now. All we could do was lower the current bets by 10 times, we did. So I'm asking you to use all the citizens in the new regime, especially with the downgrading factor, and do all the sweeping, and pay the costs that the Pension Fund so needs. Please be able to find such a small sum and pay all the fees. Thus, I ask you to vote in favour of this law with the proposals of the right-holders of the legislative initiative taken into account by the committee. We also ask the Committee and the Chief Legal Authority of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to carry out the technical and legal drafting of the adopted law. Please be supportive. And thank you all very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-08-m1.u87	So, colleagues, let's move on to making a decision. Don't leave the hall. Fellows, look, invite me to the hall. We're moving on to making a decision. I'm asking everyone to take up jobs. And I'm reminding you that there are no questions later that I haven't explained that I'm putting it to the vote. First we vote on the law that we've just considered, then we vote on the amendments to the Tax Code, the proposal that we consider the second reading under the simplified procedure. And the third vote is the transfer of ratification 0203 to the consideration now. She's in two questions, just passing it on. Three votes. So, please prepare, we're going to start the vote. And I ask that you, after the first vote, not to disperse, but to be in your seats. First vote. I am voting on the draft Act amending the Customs Code of Ukraine and certain legislative acts of Ukraine concerning the import of means of transport into the customs territory of Ukraine (No.8488) in the second reading and in general, with the rights which the head of the Committee of Southnine Nina Petrovna has written under the transcript and with technical and legal rights in general. Please vote and please support. Vote, fellows! Please vote. [[17:01:24]] For 245 The law is passed. Second ballot. Colleagues, may I have your attention, please? To vote in favour of the reduced procedure for consideration until the second reading of amendments to the Tax Code 9260. Colleagues, it's a budgetary process, it's a budgetary discipline. Please support everyone, please vote. We vote in favour of shortening the amendment deadline. I'd like your support, colleagues. This is a responsible, important decision. Please vote. We're backing up, fellows! We're backing up! I'm asking you to support everyone, colleagues, this is really important. [[17:02:06]] For 201 Guys, I'll put it back on. Colleagues! Obviously, we don't get it. The suggestion is that we follow the full procedure, simply so that we can consider the simplified procedure, colleagues. Colleagues, back up. It's really important for us to get into the budget process on November 22. If we don't vote, we won't enter the budget process. That's just logic. You don't vote. You don't vote! Please, colleagues, all of you, support 9260 – a reduced procedure for preparing for second reading. I ask everyone to vote. Please vote. I'd like your support, colleagues. Support me, colleagues, do not give this transparency to the budget process. The second year in a row, we go along the entire scope of the law. Support the efforts of both government and parliament to ensure that the budget process is conducted in a transparent and timely manner. Vote please, colleagues. Please be supportive. Every voice matters. Vote. Please be supportive. Let's not ruin the budget, colleagues. Please be supportive. [[17:03:15]] For 221 Colleagues, five votes. Please, colleagues, come into the hall, don't come out. Faction members, please stand at the door. Colleagues, five votes. Once again, I ask you to do so. We're going through all the budgetary stages in an honest way -- first, second reading, revisions. It's just that it's not for two weeks that we have to go through a reduced procedure, it's for a week. I ask everyone to take their place. Five votes. Mr. Alexander, great respect, but don't move away from the workplace, don't move away, Mr. Alexander now. We count each voice. Please return to work during the vote. So I'd like you to prepare. Five votes. And I ask everyone to take part in the vote. So they're all in place? And hold on, it's a few votes, colleagues. Where's Mrs. Tetjana? We'll support it, colleagues. Support me. I'm proposing draft Law 9260, a reduced procedure for consideration for second reading. Please vote and please support, colleagues. We support Parliament and government in a responsible and coherent manner. Vote. Vote. Colleagues. Please be supportive. Vote. Please be supportive. [[17:04:38]] For 225 One voice. One voice. Fellows, come back. I can see we didn't make it. Please return to the hall and be at work. Take up jobs. So I'm voting on the proposal of the Tax Code for the second reading under a reduced procedure. I saw Lapin didn't vote, I didn't make it. Please vote. Support, colleagues, support, every voice is important. I'm asking you to back everyone up. I'm asking everyone to vote. Mrs. Olya, you too. Please vote, please support, every vote. Please, vote, please support. Please vote, vote, support, colleagues, support, friends, please support. [[17:05:37]] For 222 Roman didn't make it, Simeonach didn't make it, Roman Semenach didn't make it. Colleagues, gather up now. Roman Semenich is not here. Colleagues, I'm asking everyone to be in the workplace. I beg you, I beg you, government beds, don't distract the deputies from voting, please. It's one vote, and the MPs are leaving. Please return to the hall. Please come in, people's deputies. So, colleagues, I'm putting it to a vote. Please, colleagues, secure a personal ballot. I ask that there be a personal vote, I request everyone, to ensure the personal vote of every national MP. I am voting on draft Law 9260 to consider the second reading under a reduced procedure. Every voice, be careful, please vote, please support. Mr. Roman, we have a vote. Every voice, please support, we vote. Please, responsibly and in agreement, colleagues, vote, and ask for a personal vote to secure. [[17:06:55]] For 216 Less, less. All right, I'll make the next vote. It's called, colleagues, the breakdown of the budget process, that's what it's called, that's my position and my opinion. Colleagues, be seated, I'm making the next proposal to ratify 0203, which is due to two questions, so that we can take it up now. That's a great question for the macrophin. I ask everyone to take part in the vote. I'm putting to the vote the proposal that the 0203 ratification, which stands behind two questions, be moved to the table now. Please vote and please support the transfer. Please vote, colleagues, please support. [[17:07:47]] For 213 Again with a few votes, I'll put it back on the air. Please, next to the government bed. So, colleagues, I'm betting on the transfer. I ask the deputies to step away from the government's bed and take part in the vote. So I'm proposing that the draft Law 0203 be moved to the table now, it's two questions. Government and coalition are seeking to move it. Each voice has a weight, please vote and please support the transfer of the 0203 ratification. Please vote, please support, vote. Vote, colleagues, please. [[17:08:39]] For 234 We've moved on, colleagues. I'm going to re-set 9260 as a simplified procedure for the second reading. Please vote, please support 9260 on a reduced procedure for second reading. Vote, colleagues, please support, vote, every vote, please support. Vote. Yeah, it's short. [[17:09:09]] For 215 So let's move on. Before we went to the draft Law on Ratification of the Memorandum of Understanding between Ukraine, we got an application for a break from two factions, and they're willing to replace the break for the performance. I give you my word, three minutes, Oleg Lazka, and in three minutes we're moving on to ratification 0203. Please, Mr. Oleg, three minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-08-m1.u88	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. I want to draw the attention of Parliament and the whole of society to the fact that the authorities are now trying to overthrow the elections in 34 united territorial communities throughout Ukraine. Over 200,000 elections are denied the right to choose their own deputies, their own authority to decide their own fate. According to Witka's vice-deputy, who is now on the board of the President's Administration, the Kyiv District Administrative Court inspired the decision to put an end to the electoral process in 34 communities. The Central Election Commission today has enormous pressure to make decisions and to break these elections. The election is canceled where Peter Dustenka's Block is losing the election. For example, in the Kyrovograd region, elections were held exclusively in the Popelnost County OTG of Alexandria, where an active enterprise, an agro-enterprise of the acting governor of Kuzmenk, remained. In Kiev, elections were completely canceled, in Chernigovishte, in Volina, in Cherkaščina, in my hometown of Chernigovina, where I worked on a tractor after boarding. We've been trying for a long time to create this O.T.G., and today, because of an illegal court decision, they're preventing people from choosing their leaders and their community. Why does President Poroshenko and his authorities do this? They're afraid of losing. They are well aware of the moods of Ukrainians, especially after the decision to increase gas prices, leaving millions of Ukrainian citizens unaware of how to pay for a utility. So instead of honestly facing defeat, and that is how it will be with them, the authorities are depriving the Ukrainians of their right to choose. It doesn't fit the Constitution, it contradicts the United Territorial Communities Act. We require the Central Election Commission not to make decisions that deprive Ukrainian citizens of their right to choose, we demand that the Ukrainian Parliament react to attempts by the President's Administration to usurp power and deprive Ukrainians of their right to choose their own communities. And finally, we require the Ukrainian Parliament to consider without delay the decision to cancel the decision to increase gas prices, the moratorium on rising housing and utilities tariffs so that Ukrainians do not pay their own bills for corruption, the inability of the authorities to restore the economy, the delicacy and impotence of today's power, which can only rob, corrupt and charge their own pockets at the expense of Ukrainians. We're an alternative to this robbery policy.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-08-m1.u89	Thank you. So we go to the draft Law on Ratification of the Memorandum of Understanding between Ukraine and the European Union as a Creditor and Credit Agreement between Ukraine as a Borrower, the National Bank of Ukraine as a Financial Agent of the Borrower and the European Union (No. 0203). First, I ask you to support the consideration of the reduced procedure. Please vote, please support. A brief consideration, please support. [[17:13:29]] For-161 Decision taken. I invite you to report to Deputy Finance Minister Heletti Igorevich. We can report it from here. Who will report from the government? Markarova. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-08-m1.u90	Dear colleagues, the bill has one main task: to confirm the validity of our Memorandum of Understanding with the European Union and the Credit Agreement. A credit agreement that is extremely important to us. The total credit agreement is 1 billion euros. It will be given to us through two tranches. I mean, for the first tranche, we've already met all the technical conditions set out in the memorandum. What's very important is that in these tranches -- this billion euros -- we get because we're going to go out to market, not us, but the Eurocommission, and so the interest rate, of course, we're going to know when it's going to come out, but it's going to be not more than 3 percent, and it's not going to be longer than 15 years. You can compare how much more convenient the conditions are for us compared to the market outputs. So it's a big request to support this bill so that we can go through this ratification today, send messages to our partners, and start working actively on Monday, with all the procedures going through for this year, in the 2018 budget, to get the first tranche of macrophin. Thank you very much and very much for your support.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-08-m1.u91	Thank you. The co-report invites the head of the Committee on European Integration’s subcommittee, Biozr Oksana Volodymyrna. Please, Mrs. Oksana. Mr. Sergei, why? Mr. Sergei, why? This is Oksana Bilozer, what are you doing? Mr. Sergei. [[B in m in s a l in]] Mr. Sergei, please allow Mrs. Oksani to speak. [[B in m in s a l in]] Mrs. Oksana, please speak from the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-08-m1.u92	Dear Mr. Head, distinguished national deputies, distinguished representatives of the Cabinet of Ministers! At its meeting on 18 October, the European Integration Committee considered the draft Law on the Ratification of the Memorandum of Understanding between Ukraine as a Borrower and the European Union, and the loan agreement between Ukraine as a Borrower and the National Bank of Ukraine as a Financial Agent of the Borrower and the European Union as a Creditor for Ukraine's macro-financial assistance to the European Union of up to 1 billion euros. These agreements have determined that macro-financial assistance can be granted to Ukraine through two tranches of 500 million euros. The first tranche is possible after the contracts are entered into for Ukraine. The period between the first and the second tranches shall not be less than three months. The repayment period is 10-15 years. The implementation of the memorandum of understanding and the loan agreement in the future will require additional costs from the State budget of Ukraine for the proper servicing and repayment of the loan. The interest rate on borrowing from the Ukrainian Ministry of Finance is already sounding. The committee considers it appropriate to ratify the agreement and to accept it as a whole, and this is in line with the decision of the Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration of Ukraine of the Supreme Council. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-08-m1.u93	Please record: two in, two in. Rizanenko Pavel Aleksandrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-08-m1.u94	Dear colleagues, I don't think it's difficult to explain to everyone why we should vote for this ratification. We know very well the state of the economy, and the accumulated debts that have been made over the last 15-20 years, and therefore the cheaper money of the IMF and the cheaper money of the European Union, which are long-term (10, 15, 20 years), at low rates we can't borrow. This is a good replacement for private equity markets, where today we have to borrow 9 percent, or more. So I urge everyone to respond responsibly, in this case without populism, responsible for their duties and to vote in favour of the ratification of the agreement.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-08-m1.u95	Thank you very much. From the Opposition Block, Germano Vasil Ivanovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-08-m1.u96	Germano Vasil Ivanovich, Opposition Block. First of all, I'd like to hear from the Minister's executive duty to say that they only have a 3-percent agreement on this loan, or it's already stated in the memorandum. If we don't know today and there's no loan agreement on what percentages exactly, how can we ratify this memorandum? That's the first one. History already knows that instead of concluding these Eurobond loans, including the so-called bond, we came up below 10 percent and we quietly know, and we're taking this money to account for the borrower. So we wanted to hear the third question. When, then, will we take up development? When, then, will we take up social protection? We put everything into protection, into currency, into untapped stock, and in debt. So I'd like to hear, it's probably 3 percent, is it written in the villas? We're going to have 5-6, just like they put on Eurobonds -- 9.67. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-08-m1.u97	Thank you very much. From Rebirth Group, Valery Pisarenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-08-m1.u98	Dear Andrew Volodymyrovich, distinguished colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-08-m1.u99	Colleagues! Mr. Valery, one second! This could be a closing statement. That's why I'm here. No, there'll be a Radical Party. Who else is there to guide us on this matter? It's radical and everything, right? I mean, two more performances. It means, colleagues, that in four minutes we will move on to the decision-making process, and I ask the Secretariat and the heads of factions to inform the deputies that in four minutes we are moving on to the decision-making process. Please, Valery Pisarenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-08-m1.u100	Dear Andrew Volodymyrovich, distinguished colleagues, if, in fact, to approach without populism, this document is to be approved. Unfortunately, this is the situation right now that we, we depend on this kind of help and this kind of credit. Unfortunately, today we see that the government is already receiving funds and is taking money abroad under 10 percent when it enters the market. We're already into the three world countries that account for the world market at this rate. In fact, this, this very loan, it's much cheaper, but it's not usually what we should be proud of. Because we hoped that the Cabinet of Ministers would still tell us when we had the economy to work and we would lend someone money instead of borrowing it. Unfortunately, this situation is now seen to be almost, and the end of the year will be almost a penny a penny, and the following year we will live very under a scarce budget. So we would like to see from the Cabinet of Ministers some strategy for our lives next year. And I would very much like those loans that we're taking, and those government bonds that we're issuing, not at the biggest stake in Europe, but that we're still (in the world, I'm sorry) and still that we're looking at that cost to our country not so much. And first of all, when you're taking credit, show me where they're going. If it's the money to pay back the loans, it's probably what people need to know about. And also about the negotiations. They need to be much more transparent in order for people to know what conditions, apart from the percentage, Ukraine needs to be subject to such loans. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-08-m1.u101	Thank you very much, colleagues. We're about to make a closing statement. There'll be two more speeches. It's from the non-faction. Please, Oleg Valeriovich Lazko, 2 minutes. I'm asking everyone to come into the hall, take jobs.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-08-m1.u102	You may have forgotten, but free cheese can only be found in a mouse trap. When you're talking about very low interest rates, and that's why we're comfortable with that loan. The International Monetary Fund also provides low-interest loans, but in return it requires higher gas prices, land sales, higher retirement age. So is this loan from the European Commission. What commitment did the government make? You created an arbitration to cancel the moratorium on exports from Ukraine of unprocessed wood. So you want to replace this loan that we have to pay back, do everything we can to keep on barbaric exporting the forest from Ukraine, and at the expense of our raw materials, create jobs for our competitors. Instead of protecting Ukraine’s national economic interests, the authorities are trading them. We deal with credit agreements day after day, and we borrow all over the world, and we boast only where the lower interest on credit is and where the higher interest is. When we adopt laws here that will bring production back to Ukraine, create new jobs, restore the economy, return the workers from abroad to their homes? You boast that you only take credit. It is not something to boast about. The main thing for the country is economic recovery, available credit resources for the national business. I'm going to lower taxes, that's what today's authorities don't do. We're going to raise wages for our people so they don't make money on those cash wages and the cash pensions. We're going to return all the credits you've acquired, and we're going to become a country that's not going to borrow it, we're going to borrow it when we're doing the right economic policy: restoring national production, protectionist policy on our producers; supporting the external markets, the Ukrainian Buy-Pay Law to Ukrainians to resuscitate the internal market. Here's the policy of increasing wealth.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-08-m1.u103	So, colleagues, now there's going to be one minute of non-faction. One minute later, we're going to vote. I ask the heads of factions to invite all deputies to the hall. And, colleagues, I want to stress, because we had a discussion during the vote. Shortening the procedure of consideration to second reading is a procedural solution, I can put it both once, and two, and three, there is no problem. And so after voting in favour of the draft Law 0203, I will once again propose to the House to vote in favour of the shorter procedure for the second reading. And I ask the Hall to support us to preserve the logic of the budgetary process so that we can carry it out, as we did last year, with transparency, first reading, second reading, and with all necessary decisions and parliamentary work. So after this law, I'm going to put again, I'm going to ask everyone to be there and I'm going to ask everyone to support the vote. Right now, from the non-fractionals, I'm giving Yuri Lewchenk a minute to speak after that vote. Please, Mr. Yuri.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-08-m1.u104	Lewchenko, Freedom, 223 District, Kiev City. Well, first of all, I'd like to respond, Mr. Head, to what has just been said. Yes, you have the right to put, unfortunately, an endless vote. But when you see what's going on with the buttoning, your ethics should tell you that you don't have to continue this vote because it's just banal buttoning. If you're talking about the budget procedure. Unfortunately, the budgetary procedure is not in place, and the first reading did not allow the rights to be imposed — a direct violation of the Supreme Council of Ukraine rules. And no one forbids you to put this budget completely in December, you have this opportunity, and you don't push this tax code story to do everything again in a niche, so that people won't be able to analyze what's going to be written there. So this is about procedure. Here's to this law. Yes, the truth was that these are favorable conditions. That's true. Yes, the truth was that the country needed it now. But wickedness is what they do not say and why the country needs it now. And the country now needs this because the government and most in this room refuse to implement the principles of social justice, to properly fill the State budget of Ukraine so that the governing oligarch will pay what he has to pay in the State budget of Ukraine. Today, it was clear when they refused to place excise duties that would depend on the value.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-08-m1.u105	30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-08-m1.u106	When they refused to put excise duties on the cost of cars, people who bought the most expensive cars would pay more, but they would pay more in years — more for those who could not afford to buy expensive cars. This is the whole quintession of this government's policy and most of it in this Supreme Hall. Total absence of social injustice just for the sake of oligarhat.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-08-m1.u107	So, colleagues, we're done here, and we're moving on to making a decision. I want to remind you that after voting for the draft Ratification Act 0203, I'm going to re-supply the reduced procedure for the second reading. We lacked one voice, colleagues, one voice. So there will be two votes. I ask everyone to return from the government's bed, from the guest's bed to the hall and prepare for the vote. I ask everyone, during the vote, to stop the political debates and the debates and to be in places and vote. Please, colleagues, prepare to make a decision. And I am voting on the draft Law on the Ratification of the Memorandum of Understanding between Ukraine and the European Union as a Creditor and a Credit Agreement between Ukraine as a Borrower, the National Bank of Ukraine and the European Union as a Creditor (for Ukraine to receive assistance from the European Union up to 1 billion euros) (0303) as a whole. Colleagues, please vote and please support funding for the Ukrainian economy. Vote. We support 0203 as a whole. Let's vote, colleagues. We're backing it up. [[17:29:52]] For 242 Decision taken. And, colleagues, I'll put it to a vote. Colleagues, we lacked one voice, I ask everyone to understand, to be in place. Proposal for a draft Law amending the Tax Code 9260 shortens the procedure for consideration for second reading. I'm asking you, colleagues, back up. You've been supportive. Please vote. Short-term procedure for second reading – colleagues, support. Each voice will have a weight. Vote! Please be supportive. Vote! Please be supportive. Vote! Short procedure to ensure that budgetary discipline is maintained. Back up, fellows! Who doesn't? [[17:30:39]] For-200 Didn't work? All right, I'll do it again. Heratchenko had no work at all. I'll do it again. Yeah, there's a lot missing, it's true, there's a lot missing. But I'll do it again. I'm asking you, colleagues, to take up jobs. Vote over a long period of time to make it work. And please show the factions, colleagues. The factions. Peter Dustenka's Block, 97. 94, 94, yes. People's Front is 62. Colleagues, let's mobilize! Before that, there was more. The vote before that was higher, since there were 112. There was a 112 before that. 30 seconds ago it was 112, it was 94. Why? I don't understand how it could have gone down to 94, I don't understand. No, it lasted 30 seconds, yeah. What happened in the 30 seconds? So, colleagues, I'm re-voting the proposal for draft Law 9260 to be considered in a simplified procedure for second reading. Please vote and please support. Vote, fellows! Please be supportive. Vote! Vote! [[17:32:17]] For 202 Let's move on to the next question of order of the day. The next issue of the agenda is the draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine (6598). Colleagues, I ask you to support the consideration of the reduced procedure. We're not gonna make it. Please be supportive. Vote. Support, colleagues, summary procedure. We're backing it up. Please be supportive. Vote. Please support the reduced procedure. Keep it up, fellows. [[17:32:58]] For 131 Colleagues, the next law in order of the day, we're just not going to be able to look at it for animal protection. And we're not gonna make it. I, my fellow Members, would like to vote in favour of the reduced procedure. Please vote. Please support the reduced procedure of 6598. Keep it up, fellows. Support me. Let's vote, colleagues, for short. Please be supportive. Arthur, support the shortened procedure. Please vote. [[17:33:32]] For-127 My colleagues, you're simple to me. The ones in the hall. Come into the hall. We do not have time to consider the law in full procedure. We don't make it, because it's time to look at it. [[B in m in s a l in]] No, it's not like that. I've only got 15 minutes to go on. All right, then let's do it in a concise way. Do you have a deal? Then, please, let's go into full procedure. And I invite the head of the Committee on Environmental Policy of Djublik Pavel Volodymirovich to report. Turn on the microphone. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-08-m1.u108	Good afternoon, dear colleagues, distinguished presiding officer. Andrey Volodymyrovich, I'd like to ask you once again to put in a reduced procedure. We really can't make it, and again, we don't have enough votes. However, this bill is being considered in the hall for a second time and is being considered in a similar situation when there are not enough two votes to accept it in the first reading. Dear colleagues. I'd like to go back to the abbreviated procedure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-08-m1.u109	Guys, let's do it again. But I'm asking you this question outside of politics, it's animal protection. The author is asking us to vote in favour of the reduced procedure. I don't know what the logic is. The logic can only be one thing: knock down the bill, walk in half and knock it down, that's one logic. There is no opposition or coalition in the field of animal protection. I ask everyone now, whether the opposition or the coalition, to support the proposal for a reduced procedure. So, pay attention, we're voting. I ask you to support the consideration of draft Law 6598 by a reduced procedure. Please vote and please support. Vote, please support, vote. [[17:35:35]] For a hundred and Well, what can I do, Mr. Paul. Briefly report, Paul, briefly. I'm continuing the session for 15 minutes, and we can make it. Please report in a concise manner, Mr. Paul.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-08-m1.u110	Thank you, Andry Volodymyrovich. Once again, honourable colleagues, the bill deals directly with the implementation of certain international agreements and EU directives in the field of plant and animal protection. More specifically, we agree on the standards of legislation that are now in force in relation to the harsh treatment of animals. The bill proposes to amend administrative violations into the Criminal Code of Ukraine, also the laws of Ukraine on animal life, animal protection, hunting and hunting, the Red Book of Ukraine, and the National Police. The main scientific and expert management has made a number of comments on this bill, but suggests that it be accepted as a basis in the first reading, the Ministry of Environment and Natural Resources also supports the bill, the Committee on Budget Issues says that after the adoption of the bill will allow additional revenue to be made available to the budget, the comments made may be corrected between the first and second readings. I would also like to say that this is the support of the international nongovernmental organizations that speak. So the four paw charity in the European Union, as well as in Ukraine, has collected about 100,000 signatures to support our bill directly. I'd like that, too. There's a comment directly from the Hunters' Society, and for that reason, I would like to make a little bit of an adjustment and a little bit of a stenogram, i.e. a change to the Animal World Act in article 20, and I'd like to make it sound like it's forbidden to use bears and wolves at hunting testing stations, and also to conduct tests, competitions and adventures of hunting dogs, and then text. Thank you. Dear colleagues, I propose and I ask you to support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-08-m1.u111	Thank you. Colleagues, we really don't have much time left until we're done, I'm asking you not to leave work prematurely for all of us. Please sign up for Mr. Dziblik's question, because we're going through a full procedure. At the same time, I ask to save our time, to speak briefly. Please, a question from Caplin, a national MP.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-08-m1.u112	Dear colleagues! I don't have a question. I have a line. I don't understand. Alexander Leonidovich and I don't understand. There are 40 people left in the hall. You're on your own. Another half hour's work, pay off taxpayers' money. Can you imagine a doctor getting off his job, a teacher, a village worker, a farm? What would you be working for then, who would pay the taxes then? An extremely important question, the marker of our Europeanness. The attitude of Ukrainian citizens, hunters, animals, and so forth. You treat animals the way you treat animals the way you treat people, the way you treat animals the animals. And there is nothing good to expect from this composition of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, no European standards, no Europeanness we can expect, dear fellow countrymen. So the way out of this is full re-up and new ideological ones, including green political parties, have to be present in the Ukrainian Parliament. This is our window to Europe.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-08-m1.u113	Please, the following question is Ostap Ednak.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-08-m1.u114	Mr. Reporter, Mr. Dzublik, I have a question for you as the main author of the bill, we are there. Because I, too, am a co-author of it, have prescribed fairly progressive and powerful standards for protecting animals from cruel behavior. But in my practice, as a member of parliament in particular, there was a case in Borodianca, where animal shelter is in Kiev, by the way, terrible conditions, and I might be interested to visit again and see if much good was done by the Kiev authorities, but did it also improve the conditions for keeping animals in Borodianca. But we saw a manifest violation there, even signs of criminal offences against animals, seen dead animals. And the local police are not investigating at all, nothing has been done according to our statements. Would the National Police, in your opinion, be effective in applying the harsh standards we set out in the law? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-08-m1.u115	Please, Mr. Dziblik, answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-08-m1.u116	Thank you for asking. Dear Ostapa Volodymyrovich, you remember and know that there is a conflict right now, because this is the law that we bring to account who will be responsible for the investigation of the direct cruel treatment of animals. And this bill, which, if it's adopted, directly addresses the issues you've been talking about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-08-m1.u117	And the final question, National Deputy Sugonako, please. You have a question. It's a fish, isn't it? Sugonya, please. Sugonika, please, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-08-m1.u118	Dear colleagues, we are again addressing the faction leaders together to provide the same phenomenon that is today in the Social-Democratic Party, a hundred percent. A hundred percent. The only political power today in a country that works here every day from day to day.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-08-m1.u119	Thank you. Thank you. The election hasn't started yet! In nine months of parliamentary elections, the presidential election will be launched in one and a half months. That's why I'm asking. Let's go back to the animals. We're going back to the animals, dear colleagues. I'm asking you to write down from the MP factions and groups for discussion right now. Please. [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear fellow Members, I ask you very much during the discussion not to violate the Rules, not to engage in agitation and to focus on the text and content of the bill that we are discussing, this is the Act amending certain legislative acts of Ukraine to implement the provisions of certain international agreements and EU directives in the field of animal and plant protection. Please, People's Deputies of Revegue, present to us the position of the Peter Prashenko faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-08-m1.u120	I'd like to say a word to the fisherman.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-08-m1.u121	Please, Mr. John, give me your word.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-08-m1.u122	202 constituency, Cherniewec district, Ivan Rybak. Dear colleagues, the bill provides for the delimitation of competence to deal with administrative offences under article 89 of the Ukrainian Code of Administrative Offences. The bill was fully considered and supported in an expert environment and directly during the meeting of the Committee on Environmental Policy, Environmental Use and the consequences of the Chernobyl disaster. But, indeed, I, as well as my colleagues, would like to point out that when our Parliamentary Hall begins its consideration of environmental protection issues, environmental issues, there are significantly fewer national MPs in the room. Perhaps no one is interested in the health of the Ukrainian nation. Today we've been talking about primary health care in our country's villages, and I'm going to point out that the more money we spend and the more attention we're going to give to the environment itself, the less money we're going to have to spend on health. Dear fellow national MPs, distinguished voters! Soon, election campaigns, see who of the national deputies cares about your health, who cares about the environment, who cares about the future of our nation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-08-m1.u123	From the Radical Party, please state your position.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-08-m1.u124	Yuri Chizmar, faction of the Radical Party of Oleg Lášk. Clearly, the implementation of European standards for protecting the environment of the animal and plant world is very important because every citizen of Ukraine and you and I want to have a clean environment in which to live safely. But in addition to implementing certain norms, what we have done to make our environment cleaner. Today, there are 32 unsanctioned garbage dumps in Ukraine that produce poisonous filtration and poison natural environments that suffer both from plant and animal life. We now have one of the worst epidemiological and health situations in Ukraine among the countries of Europe. Why? Because we don't have a coherent and normal waste management and garbage collection system. For two years now, there has been a bill in the Supreme Council on the treatment of solid waste. He's been in this room eight times, but I understand, at the request of lobbyists, he was 50, and he can never be accepted, and he never even came up with a question to consider, because probably 40 million Ukrainians who want to have a healthy natural environment in life are less interested in individual lobbyists in this room, who, in the meantime, are producing 90 percent of the garbage in Ukraine, are holding back the process of reviewing this bill. What are we holding back, really? We're holding back, in fact, the creation of a new sector, a new sector that will allow us to invest up to $3 billion in it, and you won't have to stand in line with IMF donors. This is a sector that will allow 30,000 people to work. And this is once again a contribution to the economy, an expansion of the tax base. I'm not talking about the environmental consequences that will give us the opportunity to adopt this law, and this is the recycling of active garbage dumps, and also, accordingly, the reduction in garbage dumps, and the reduction of garbage that will be stored, the increase in electricity and heat production. There are many positives. Unfortunately, for today, I am so aware that ecology is less interesting. I agree with a colleague who has previously reported that when environmental issues are considered, everyone comes out of the room. And for some reason, the Presidium and the Parliament, and the coalition, are putting these issues to the very end. And today, the same thing, this law was going to be considered, but if you look at the order of the day, it's the 54th in terms of meaning. This, I think, is a respectable voter, and this is how Parliament treats you and your social, environmental and household needs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-08-m1.u125	Thank you. Please, from the Block. Excuse me, Helen Masorin's People's Front, your time, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-08-m1.u126	Massorina Olena, People's Front. We would very much like this law not to become a hostage of some political battalions and of the pharaoh, since it is about protecting animals from cruel conduct. And it's really consistent with all the public organizations, the activists, it's been worked on by an expert environment. So we're very much asked to mobilize, go back to the hall, and no matter what our ambitions or ambitions may be, still support this important bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-08-m1.u127	Thank you. Please, from the Self-Help faction, the People's Deputy of Semimenach, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-08-m1.u128	Semenha Roman, "The Self-Help Union" faction. Dear colleagues, the presiding lady, Ukraine today is one of the leaders of the number of animals in the world, including the homeless. That's what the reporter's official Washington Post says. And there are no real statistics on the number of homeless animals in Ukraine. Let's say more and more frankly, today and this legislative initiative, this is primarily to thank the volunteers, the public organizations, who are mostly in Ukraine today, and who are taking care of this problem of homeless animals. At the same time, instead of systematically helping homeless animals, urban utilities, with few exceptions, kill the masses. I'll give you some figures that, in Kharkiv, are amazing. In just 16 years, more than ninety percent of homeless dogs and cats were killed in Kharkiv by euthanasia. Not only is this method not humane but it is not yet effective. Thus, in Ukraine the euthanasia of homeless animals has become a business and an opportunity to become rich at the expense of taxpayers, at the expense of local budgets. In that same time, in the 17th year, Kharkiv was allocated more than sixteen million dollars from the city budget, in the 18th year -- 23 million dollars already. If homeless animals disappear from the streets, the communautaires are likely to be out of work. So for them, unfortunately, it's an endless fight against consequences, not an impact on the cause. There are also positive examples in our country. In Lviv, for example, they are no longer killed in order to reduce the number of homeless animals but are sterilized. This is the first animal adaptation center in Ukraine where homeless people are selected from the street, vaccinated, sterilized, and sought out new owners. And it costs you, most of all, to think about it at a cheaper rate. So the budget of the Lion Municipal Company for the 18th year was 3 million dollars when Kharkiv's equivalent budget was 23 million dollars. And this situation can be changed radically only at the legislative level. Therefore, our bill proposes that all forms of cruel treatment of animals be thoroughly criminalized. The bill proposes to prohibit euthanasia as a method of regulating the number of homeless animals in principle. So euthanasia has to be banned. This key rule will not allow black utilityers today to do business on murder. In addition, the bill proposes criminalizing all forms of cruel treatment of animals — domestic, homeless, wild, and persecutors. Respectful colleagues, without exaggeration, are of social importance because the abuse of animal violence breeds further violence throughout society. So please back up. Consolidate. There is no political aspect. What's more, it's going to save the cost of communities and cities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-08-m1.u129	Thank you. Colleagues, please, and, as I understand it, from the MPs and factions, they all came out. And please sign up from the deputies then. We have six minutes, six minutes to get to the end of the session day. Please, Mr. Melniczuk. Did you unlock the rostrum? Please give me your word.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-08-m1.u130	And I'm blocking the rostrum, and I want to express my opinion on this question, because this was the Borodian district. Yeah, well, in the Borodian district it was the forest plantation, there, the beast and so on, the military-thinking society was. Thus, the Radical Faction or Party, or their leader, captured the ceremony, made a limit to their rest there, and, in addition, in the rural community next door, took tens of acres of land, fenced them with a barbed wire and a net of slaves, and people cannot have access to the way mushrooms are collected, the animals cannot walk, feed, and so on. My words to the Attorney General's Office, I ask you to count the MP's request and check the data of citizens, MPs who violate legislation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-08-m1.u131	Thank you. Colleagues, we have another bill on the same subject. So I'm asking you briefly and I'm asking everyone to come to the hall. There'll be a closing statement, then a closing statement. In five minutes, we'll move on to the decision-making process. Which is why I'm asking everyone to invite the deputies into the hall. And that's why I'm asking the factions to mobilize the MPs as much as possible. I now invite you to the word of Sugonako Alexandr Leonidovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-08-m1.u132	Thank you. Alexander Sugonjako, Social Democratic Party. Dear colleagues, this bill is very important, it's actually the implementation of European standards and international agreements, and the directives in the field of animal and plant protection, it's actually our marker. If we say we're going to Europe, it's our marker for the Europeans. This is a very important bill. But look at this room. In fact, there are no deputies. And we need to show who is conscientiously carrying out their professional duties, who supports European, indeed, standards that are present in the hall when such important bills are passed. We should definitely support this bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-08-m1.u133	Colleagues, I'm asking all the national deputies to return to the hall now. There's two minutes left, I'll give you a minute. I ask all the heads of factions to invite deputies into the hall, to return, and in a few minutes there will be a vote. Please, two minutes of Capplin and then the closing word of Djublik.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-08-m1.u134	Sergey Kaplin, Social Democratic Party. Andriy Volodymyrovich, I am addressing you on behalf of the public activists who are now under the Supreme Council of Ukraine and who are asking the Supreme Council of Ukraine to postpone the consideration of this bill to a time when we can physically do so. Now, unfortunately, there's no reason to vote "against" in the House of People's Deputies to make a positive decision. Indeed, this bill is a marker of our Europeanness. The international community, the institutions in Europe that protect animal rights, protect European values and ideals, unfortunately or fortunately, turn to our general public, to the national deputies of Ukraine, who are consolidated in addressing these specific problems, and today expect a positive solution from us. We have no right to fail this important system bill. Regrettably, today those factions of political power, whose leaders are going to the presidents, are demonstrating absolute disregard for these European values. But at the same time, I would like to thank the people's deputies present, even though there are two of them, for example, from the faction of Fatherland Kirilenko, Tarasyuk, who are here. But that's not enough. Unfortunately, it's not enough for us to be together. The Kugel of Alexander Volodymyr. Three is also 20 there with too little left. Unfortunately, it's a very small representation to protect the animal world, the flora, the fauna of our nation, to protect the values that you speak and write in your programming, project papers that you're going to go to parliamentary elections with, you're going to go to the presidential election. You see, our political power in full storage by morning every day, Wednesday and Friday, Monday, every day works in committees and districts and in foreign districts, taking responsibility for the future of our country. Take a social example.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-08-m1.u135	Thank you. Mr. Sergei, I want to inform you, I just don't have the option of transferring. I don't have a transfer option. So, colleagues, I think we need to get the MPs up to speed right now. Colleagues, I'm asking you to invite the MPs to the hall as much as possible. So, colleagues, look, I'll do it this way. Attention! Attention! I'm going to run a rating vote. If the rating vote shows that there are not enough people in the room, I will close the session 18 hours later and the first issue will be the continuation of the discussion. So, colleagues, please. Once again, we do not vote on Friday, so there is no constant question; we just carry it on until the next session day. We've done this a number of times, colleagues. And so I ask, colleagues, everyone, to come to the hall and ask everyone who is in the hall. I'm going to run a rating vote. Everyone please come into the hall and prepare for the ratings vote. No, there have been factions. We'll continue the speeches by the deputies. No, colleagues. You're ready, aren't you? Take up jobs. So, colleagues, I'm putting a rating vote on draft Law 6598 amending some of Ukraine's legislative acts (for the implementation of certain international agreements and EU directives in the field of animal and plant protection) (6598). Please take part in the rating vote and please vote. Let's vote, colleagues. Please be supportive. Colleagues, vote! Please be supportive. [[17:58:53]] For 132 Not enough votes to make a decision. I would like to point out that we have not completed our consideration of the bill. Again? All right, I'll do it again. My colleagues, once again, the ratings. Attention! Again with the ratings. One more time, wait. Sergei, you asked me to. Run the ratings again, colleagues. My colleagues, once again, the ratings. Please vote. Please be supportive. The rating vote. Please vote. The rating vote. [[17:59:39]] For-140. So, colleagues, I want to emphasize that tomorrow we will not make any decisions. And so the discussion, the extension of the bill is scheduled for the next plenary week, for the next plenary week of Tuesday. I would also like to report that tomorrow, together with the President of the NATO Inter-Parliamentary Assembly, I am taking place at the ATO. And I think it's very important. In the O.O.S. I think it's a very important and symbolic action that the President of the Inter-Parliamentary Assembly -- this is the first time -- will personally be in Shirokina and in the forward fight for Ukrainian independence. And so, unfortunately, tomorrow I won't be able to attend the session. The meeting will be chaired by the First Deputy Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Irina Heratchenko. Please be nice tomorrow, work effectively and effectively, colleagues. The next Tuesday we will begin our consideration, our work, with the completion of draft Law 6598. Today was a difficult emotional day. We were able to make fundamental, important decisions. And I congratulate everyone on this high efficiency and effectiveness of Parliament. But now, unfortunately, I have to close the evening session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Thank you all. Good-bye. The evening session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is closed.
