ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-20-m1.u1	Dear colleagues, the time for recess is over. I'm asking you to come into the hall and get ready for registration. So, colleagues, please prepare and take up jobs. So, are your colleagues ready? I'm asking you to sign up for the evening session. I'd like you to sign up. [[16:03:28]] 340 national deputies registered. I declare the evening plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine open. Now, colleagues, I ask you to listen carefully. We made historic decisions in the morning, but there were few decisions, and we had a lot of debt. By the way, I want to let you know that I signed Bill 5309 and immediately sent it to the President for signature, thereby consolidating the historic decision of the Ukrainian Parliament. The Act amending the Act on Freedom of Conscience and Religious Organizations (5309) is signed. Colleagues, as noted in the agenda, we move on to the agrarian policy box at 16 o'clock. But I want to emphasize two important things. We had before noon a draft Act amending some Ukrainian legislation on the purchase of goods, jobs and defence services for import. This law is critical for Ukraine's financial support from the United States of America for arms, and we cannot today ignore the law that provides for the cost of arming the Ukrainian army. So right after the first agrarian issue, my colleague, I'm going to invite you to put the draft of Law 9122 into the agenda for decision-making. I want to emphasize that you know this law, this is a law that unlocks the financing of our foreign Ukrainian army partners and our security sector. And that's why I'm asking everyone to support this proposal. We are also obliged to approve the calendar of the Supreme Council of Ukraine for the next session. We can't put that question down, it's short. The Regulatory Committee prepared him. After that, I will propose the adoption of this law. Then from the Dombrowski block, which we couldn't look at, green tariffs. And then go to the moratorium. And, colleagues, if we don't make it, I'm going to ask you to vote that we continue the evening session until the debate is concluded on the question of the continuation of the moratorium. Is that a general offer? Five laws. Five laws. The first is the agrarian, which is now in order of the day. This is the second reading, there's only 7 rights, it's very short. Then it's safe. A calendar plan. Green tariffs. Continued moratorium. Five decisions. Do you copy, colleagues? We're about to get started. Let's get started, but first I want to announce that there are two factions in the Presidency: instead of a real break, they're ready to come out of the rostrum. I invite you to speak from two factions, the Radical Party and the People's Front, the head of the Maxim Burbak People's Front faction. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-20-m1.u2	Dear colleagues, on Tuesday, December 17th, the faction "The People's Front" announced the requirement to create a temporary commission of inquiry into the facts of interference in the electoral, political and information space of Ukraine by the Russian Federation and Ukrainian citizens associated with the power of the aggressor state, particularly Victor Medvedchuk. As the head of the People's Front faction, I sent letters to colleagues, heads of democratic factions, suggesting that I delegate to the TSC of my representatives. Today, on behalf of our political power, I would like to appeal once again to the immediate formation of the commission. We don't have time with you and, above all, we don't have time in Ukraine. On Saturday, December 22, a 100 - day countdown starts before the first round of election of the head of state. In view of New Year’s festivals, this is even less distant than it may seem. At the time of the election of the President of Ukraine, the Supreme Commander of the Armed Forces, the country’s legislative body is obliged to become the basis for stability and protection of the electoral process that will be under enemy security with a view to destabilizing the state, to distort the outcome of the elections in favor of the Russian rematch. We should not entertain illusions. It is at this electoral time that the enemy will be most dangerous. Could the Kremlin send Bashir and Peter instead of the Solber spires to look at the walls of Sofia and the monument of Volodymira? Or Russia, which tried to influence the U.S. elections, could do the same with Ukraine, which it fought for for a fourth year and occupied. Can the Kremlin destabilize our country’s borders in view of and concentration in Russia’s border areas of huge military strike groups? The answer to these questions is yes. And the authorities in Ukraine must be ready for any scenario. That is why we, the Parliament, as the representative body of the Ukrainian people, are obliged to destroy the legitimate agency within the country as soon as possible. An agency that has abandoned influential connections, super - profitable oil businesses, television channels with absolute freedom to wage an informational hybrid war against Ukraine. We're supposed to neutralize the "putinian gallows" in the very heart of the country. The enemy headquarters, which all these years, receiving instructions directly from Moscow, did not work in the Ukrainian interests, not in the underground, not in the woods and swamps, but openly and insolently, renting offices in the center of the capital and flying directly to Putin for instruction. This agency is headed by the best man and agent Putina Medvedchuk. I will deliberately name the names of the factions' heads: Mr. Gerasimov, Mr. Berezuk, Mr. Lašek, Mrs. Timoshenko, so that, according to the regulations, the chairman can give them a word for the replication. For everyone to say, is he with Ukraine or with Medvedchuk, or will he vote in favour of creating a TSK for Medvedchuk, or not? And in conclusion, I want to say something that, at first glance, has nothing to do with Ukraine, it seems at all strange in this speech. But I'm going to tell you about a bird that lives in New Zealand called a cocoa, it's uniquely incapacitated to notice danger.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-20-m1.u3	30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-20-m1.u4	When a predator steals from her, she only knows how to push herself to the ground. Today this strange bird is introduced into the Red Book as an extinct species. I really want this story not to be about any of us -- politicians that depend on the country's life. I believe that the leaders of the democratic factions of our Parliament see danger, and I therefore count on an honest response to the TSC's support for the investigation of Medvedchuk's activities. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-20-m1.u5	Thank you. So, colleagues, we move on to the first law, the block of agrarian politics. This is a draft of the Law on Amendments to Certain Legislative Acts of Ukraine to specify the arrangements for the rental of water objects in a complex of land plots (3157). It's a second reading, colleagues. Only seven of us turned away, and we spent a great deal of time. I'm asking everyone to come into the hall right now. We'll be in the voting room in 10 minutes. I ask, colleagues, all the heads of factions to invite deputies into the hall so that we can work effectively after lunch at the evening meeting. And I invite the head of the committee's subcommittee on agrarian policy and land relations, Chlan Sergey Volodymyrovich. Please, Mr. Sergei.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-20-m1.u6	The honourable chairman, your peers, is proposing a draft Law amending some of the Ukrainian legislative acts to clarify the arrangements for the lease of water objects in a complex of land (registration number 3157), prepared by the Committee on Agricultural Policy and Land Relations for Second Reading. The bill proposes to improve the current lease mechanism for water objects through amendments to Ukraine's Land and Water Codes and Ukraine's Land Rental Act. Eliminate inconsistencies in existing legislation and the ambiguity of application of existing legal rules. In all, 21 proposals and remedies from the Ukrainian national deputies came to the bill. Of which 10 is counted, 2 is counted, 2 is counted, 7 is rejected. I stop at the main positions of the project, and it is determined that one contract is to be made for the lease of the land, which provides for both the land lease and the water object on it. There are existing rules that will then be paid and the land lease fixed at the land auction, I stress, at the land auction. No lease of water objects with land without auctions is released, except at the auction. And a fixed fee for using a water object that is determined by a method approved by the Mind. Today, there is such a norm that the entrepreneur first rents water and then goes to a competition to get the land under the water. This law makes one auction in the complex: both on land and on water starvation. In fact, it removes bureaucratic standards when it is possible that a land may be leased by one entrepreneur and another by water smoothing by another, and disputes of a Ryder character arise. It also deals with the relationship between the renter of a water object and the person who obtained a special water use permit within the facility. The right under which the renter of a water object should not create obstacles to special water use is established. The issue of wastes by a water user of the backwaters is settled in leased water objects, such as rice cheques. Such damages are necessary, but especially when water is used for irrigation.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-20-m1.u7	30 seconds to complete.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-20-m1.u8	A rule is laid down whereby such damages are allowed only if they do not exceed the limits of limitlessly permissible wastes of pollutants. As a result of the discussion, the committee decided to recommend to the Supreme Council a draft law amending some of the Ukrainian legislative acts to clarify the arrangements for the lease of water objects in a complex with land areas to be adopted in second reading and as a whole as a law.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-20-m1.u9	So, colleagues, we're going to look at the rights. I'm going to call those adjustments that are rejected. But I want to remind you, we only have seven slopes. The vote will take place in five or seven minutes. I urge everyone to enter the hall and take up jobs and prepare for the decision. After that, there will be a safe law. I ask the members of the Security Committee to help ensure the necessary presence in the hall. So I call it. 2nd row. Don't insist. Third row. Yvchenko does not insist. 9th. Third. 2nd. Please, 2nd, Ivchenko, turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-20-m1.u10	Vadim Yvchenko, "The Fatherland" faction. Dear colleagues, there is one thing that is disturbing about this law. The amendments to the Earth Code state that renters who are given a water object on lease terms can allow other water users to make special use of water. I want to show you. tell us about the scientific and expert management's observations, which say that it does not correspond to the article of the basic law under which the State protects all entities of ownership and management. I'm not going to apply for confirmation, but I want you to support my amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-20-m1.u11	Thank you. Will you comment?
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-20-m1.u12	Use of land for the purposes of the use of nadra and special water use, including land use by owners of active melioritative systems and inland meliorrhial systems, which ensure the demiliorization of such land areas, land under water bodies for special water use related to the prohibition and use of water for irrigation on irrigated lands, including irrigated lands where rice cheques are located. This is just to make it impossible for the raiders to attack. Because there are other things that one entrepreneur can’t do when he gets a special use of water. and this object is leased to another entrepreneur, and there is such a conflict that breeds raid rights. That is why this amendment was proposed. The committee turned her down.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-20-m1.u13	Do you insist on voting? No, right? So it's me. The following changes. You insist. 3 redundancies. I'm putting to the vote the 3rd draft of national deputy Yvchenka. The committee turned her down. Whoever supports it, I ask you to vote. Please, 3 revisions. [[16:18:07]] For-40 The decision is not taken. Next of all, I call only the rejected. 9th. Don't insist. 10th. Don't insist. 13th. Lechenko, please, Mr. Yuri.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-20-m1.u14	Lewchenko, Freedom, 223 District, Kiev City. The point is that the draft for second reading really corrected the very negative feature of the first reading, where it was suggested that the corresponding land be leased without auction. I thank you for taking into account, especially my revision, and this question has been taken care of. But then you left things behind in the text of the bill, which, in fact, were originally prescribed under the condition that there would be no more auctions. In particular, this item, which I now propose to exclude, is sub-paragraph 2 of section I of the bill, and it was just prescribed in case there are no auctions. And if we leave auctions, there shouldn't be any, because if they're left behind, they leave some gaps in the legislation that actually allow you to essentially just as well get the property wrongly in use. So I'm asking you to rule out this item, too, considering that the auctions remain. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-20-m1.u15	Thank you. Please, Sergey Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-20-m1.u16	The amendment was rejected because the concept of the bill, which was worked out by the working group, does not allow special use of land to be made only in cases where the water for irrigation is removed. This standard helps to prevent agrarian raiding. So once again, I want to draw that this is an exclusive norm just so that when an entrepreneur on leased land invested money and made hydrotechnological melioration, put it into service, he's entitled to the next lease extension period to move away from agrarian raiding in this particular area. It's the only exception. So I'd like to ask him to keep it just to prevent agrarian raiding in this area. The edit was rejected.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-20-m1.u17	Thank you. Do you insist on voting? I'm putting to the vote number 13 of the People's Deputy Levchenk. Whoever supports this amendment, please vote. The committee turned her down. Please. And, colleagues, I'd like to invite everyone back to the hall. We have a very tight time. Every second we count. [[16:20:49]] For-31 The decision is not taken. 14th. Don't insist. 15th. Don't insist. On the 15th, right? Turn on Yvchenkovi. This is going to be, colleagues, the closing order, 15th Yvchenka. After this amendment, we move on to the vote. I'm addressing everyone: the Agrarian Policy Committee, the Security Committee, to ensure maximum security, to invite all the deputies to the Hall. In two or three minutes, we'll move on to the decision-making process. Please, Ivchenko, 15 revisions.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-20-m1.u18	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman. Vadim Yvchenko, "The Fatherland" faction. I mean, you and I are implementing a system in this bill, in principle, right. Water objects along with land areas are provided for the development of irrigation. But I wanted to say that, and once again, I'm underlining that whoever got there first can give permission or not give permission to other users who get special treatment. And in this context, I want to say that we're not taking a completely equal approach to all of the subjects. So if we have the obligation of the subject to allow other water users who have been given special treatment, to build hydrotechnological buildings and to build a watershed for their meliorrhial systems, then it will be a state-owned bill, and the Fatherland would vote for it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-20-m1.u19	Please, Sergey Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-20-m1.u20	I would like to point out that the bill deals with the relationship between the renter of a water object and the person who has obtained a special water use permit within the facility. The right under which the renter of a water object should not create an obstacle to special water use is established. So this amendment makes no sense, and the committee rejected it.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-20-m1.u21	Thank you, colleagues. So we finished the discussion. In two minutes, we'll move on to the decision-making process. Once again, I remind all the heads of factions, as well as members of committees and agrarian politics, and the safe one, that in two minutes we're going to make a decision. Now the final word of the reporter. Sergei Volodymyrovich, please. And in two minutes, we're moving on to making a decision. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-20-m1.u22	Dear colleagues, this bill actually deals with the issue that has hitherto been, let's say, in double standards. In order to obtain a water object in a lease, the entrepreneur had to first make a lease for a water object, that is, a water starve, and then go to a contest to rent a land plot. And there have been cases where one renter rents water hunger, another to create a dispute and obstacles, wins a land competition that is under this water glade, and makes it impossible in fact to do business on this water object. We settle this issue just by saying that a water object in a complex with a land trade area. So the entrepreneur goes to the auction and gets a land complex and a water object, and at the competition, the one who pays a higher price wins. And the water object is now automatically leased according to calculations made by the Ministry of Agrarian Politics. This law is designed to counterride such preventions in order to enable entrepreneurs to work freely and not to depend on bureaucratic obstacles, and not to depend on raids by unclean entrepreneurs. Thank you for your attention, and please support the bill in the second reading and in general.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-20-m1.u23	Thank you. So, colleagues, the discussion is over. We're moving on to the decision-making process, and I call on all the factions to invite MPs into the room. I would like to remind you that right after the vote in favour of Act No. 3157, I would like to propose to the session room to include in the agenda of the day session a draft Act No. 9122, a safe law that provides funds for the Ukrainian defence sector from our allies in the free world, immediately after that. And that's why I'm asking everyone to take up jobs. As the MPs come in, I would like to inform you that there is a delegation of the Egyptian-Ukraine Parliamentary Friendship Group of the House of Representatives of Egypt in Ukraine. The foreign delegation is now in the diplomatic bed of the Ukrainian Parliament. We welcome our honored guests and wish them a fruitful visit to our country and good impressions of being on Ukrainian soil. [[Applause]] Welcome. And let's move on to making a decision. Please return from your beds to your workplace. And I remind you, right after this vote, it's a day-to-day security issue. So I ask all patriots to participate in the vote. And now I'm asking everyone to prepare for the decision. I am voting on a draft Act amending some of the Ukrainian legislative acts to clarify the arrangements for the lease of water objects in a complex of land areas (No. 3157) on second reading and in general. Please vote, please support, colleagues. Vote! We'll support our agrarian committee! We'll support our colleagues! We vote carefully and responsibly. Vote. Please be supportive. Vote. [[16:27:54]] For 205 We didn't make it. I'll be right back. But I'd like everyone to be there during the vote. Show the factions, please. Peter Poshenko's Block – 86, People's Front – 54, Opposition Block – 0, Self-help – 14, Radical Party – 15, Father's Party – 1, Will of the People – 4, Rebirth Party – 11, non-fractional – 20. Colleagues, don't leave the hall. Similarly, they will come out when your law is in place. So I'm asking everyone to get ready. Now I'm going to set up a return, and then I'm going to put the law in general. I ask everyone to take up their jobs and to be in the workplace during the vote. So the first sentence is to go back to the draft Law 3157. Please vote. [[B in m in s a l in]] So, colleagues, in finding compromise, now I'm going to call it from the committee, one word that will allow us to gather the votes we need. Everyone please take up their jobs. Everyone, please be ready. I ask the author of the committee to call me please. 30 seconds, please. Sergey Volodymyrovich. Colleagues, take up your jobs. Don't leave. Please, 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-20-m1.u24	There is a proposal to submit from a voice that tenants who have been given a water object to use on lease terms – in the previous version – could "allow other water users to make special use of water" instead of "commit to allow other water users to make special use of water". We're replacing the word "maybe" with "obligation."
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-20-m1.u25	You got it, right? I'll take this right and put it to a vote. So take up jobs. Stand by, colleagues. And I'm going to make the first suggestion to go back to voting for Law 3157. I ask everyone to take part in the vote and I ask you to support the return to the consideration of this law. Let's vote, colleagues. We're backing it up. Vote. Please be supportive. Vote. [[16:30:47]] For a hundred and Less votes, colleagues. Perhaps you will make a decision on the committee for further development? Say it. So, colleagues, I'm making the next proposal and let's get together around it. Draft Law 3157 is to be re-readed by the Committee. Please vote and please support. Will you hold this for me again? Colleagues, please vote. We're backing it up. Vote please, colleagues. We're backing it up. It's a compromise position for once again. He's on the committee for the second time again. Okay. We went back to the whole thing. We could put it that way, that's the second sentence. So draft Law 3157 is to be re-readed by the Committee. I beg your support, please vote. It's a compromise position. Vote. We're backing it up. Please be supportive. Vote. Let's vote, colleagues. It's compromising. Keep it up, fellows. [[16:32:01]] For 211 Well, why is that? Well, we're just taking time. This decision is completely neutral to return to the committee. Let's do it again, fellows, now we'll be back, and I'll put it again. I very much ask that there be no delay. Help me, Mr. Jaroslav, be at work. Colleagues, please. Don't leave the hall. So the first offer to come back, it's completely compromised, let everyone support it. First, go back to consideration 3157. Please vote, please support. Vote. We support you, colleagues. We're backing up! We support you so that you don't waste time. We'll support it, colleagues. Vote. [[16:32:56]] For 223 Three votes. I can see we didn't make it. So be on the job to vote. Please, Svetlana. Alexi, it's a safe law of great importance, how can you? My colleagues, so I'm going back to the committee again. Please be prepared, three votes, colleagues, please be seated. The first vote is to return to draft Law 3157. Please vote everyone. Please be supportive. Let's vote, colleagues. Every voice, support, colleagues, we vote. To return. Vote. [[16:33:46]] For 233 We're back. Now, colleagues, I'm putting draft Law 3157 into the committee for a second reading. It's a compromise offer, and right after that, it's a safe law. Everyone, please be ready. So 3157 is for re-reading to the committee. Please vote, please support. Voting, supporting. The committee. Vote. [[16:34:23]] For 239. Decision taken. And now, colleagues, attention! Attention! I now propose to include in the agenda a decision on the draft Law on Amendments to certain Ukrainian legislation on procurement of goods, jobs and defence services for import (9122). Colleagues, this bill will allow us to get support for the Ukrainian army, for the Ukrainian soldiers. I ask everyone to vote responsibly. So we vote. I'm going to put 9122 in the agenda for the decision-making session right now. Vote. Patriots, we support security, the Ukrainian army, we support, we vote. Vote, colleagues, arranged, responsibly. Vote. [[16:35:25]] For 228 Decision taken. And we're going to look at it. And I ask you to support the proposal to review draft Law 9122 in a simplified manner. Please vote, please support. Vote. [[16:35:52]] For 177 Decision taken. And I invite you to report to the National Security Committee of Vinick Ivan Yuliyovich. And please, as far as possible, Mr. John, we have limited time.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-20-m1.u26	Dear colleagues, first of all, we wanted to thank our partners in the United States for the fact that the 2019 fiscal year budget in the United States provides $250 million to US taxpayers to support Ukraine, to support the financing of the security defence programmes provided to Ukraine, including through the transfer of technology, weapons, ammunition to our Ukrainian army. At the same time, the Ministry of Defense's mandate to receive such products directly is a critical condition for the implementation of these expenses, without the involvement of Ucrobanprom companies. Obviously, the offer is clear. In addition, we have received a letter of unequivocal content from the United States Embassy, where they are proposing to the Supreme Council that appropriate legislative changes be adopted as soon as possible to allow the Ministry of Defence, the Defence Minister, to place their signatures under appropriate external economic contracts and to receive direct such products. This bill is called upon to resolve this situation, so I ask him to vote as the basis for the first reading. The committee will work quickly for the second session, and in the first session of the next year, we will accept it as a whole. At the same time, I would also like to inform you of a discussion that took place on a committee with representatives of the Self-Help faction, which also calls attention to the need for a comprehensive settlement and the destruction of the monopoly of specialporters that currently exists on exports and imports of defence supplies. The self-help faction 8448 needs careful committee and committee work, generally supporting this idea, suggests that it should be included in the agenda today and that the committee should be dealt with next year. Because the issue of the destruction of the corruption monopoly that arises, under the exclusive authority of the special opportunists, requires an urgent legislative solution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-20-m1.u27	Thank you. Colleagues, I emphasize to everyone who's being cautious, it's just going to be the basis. Let's have a quick and concise discussion. Please record the performance. Please. From the Radical Party? He's taking it off. From "The Fatherland" Sobolev. Please, Sergey Sobolev.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-20-m1.u28	Sobolje, Fatherland. Dear colleagues, you know that our principle position was in all previous ballots, we were firm against what any purchase, including the military, took place without proper tender procedures. But if the amendment that has just been announced by the author of the bill that this applies exclusively to external economic contracts is implemented, then we are ready to support the most shortest procedure in this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-20-m1.u29	Thank you. I'd like to invite you to the floor of the People's Deputy of Sporish. Who's going to be from Peter Dustenk's Block? Please, Rickova, national deputy of Rickov. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-20-m1.u30	Good afternoon, dear fellows! Auntie Ritchkova, 27th District, Dnipro. I ask for the support of this bill to enable the Ministry of Defense to work on direct contracts. Because there are now some boundaries, and there are so-called "claves" that carry out these operations. So I'm asking everyone to support and enable the Ministry to work directly in order to, firstly, save the budget, and secondly, to speed it up and buy as much technology as possible, which unfortunately is not currently being produced in Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-20-m1.u31	Thank you. I invite you to the words of the National Shepherd's Deputy of Self-Help.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-20-m1.u32	Dear National Deputies! Taras Shepherd, Self Help Union, Ternopil. We, as the Self-Help faction, are obviously going to support this bill, because it can partly help solve the problem that we've been talking about for the last four years, the corruption component of the institution that the previous government has set up, with two objectives. The first is the disarmament of our country and through the Ukrespexport to sell out all of our military technology, under the cover of state secrecy. And the consequences today are felt today when there is nothing to defend our country. And the second goal is actually the birth of the same corruption, where, once again, the same state secret, contracts are made, where the Ministry of Defence receives thousands of dollars for a sold tank, and businesses brokers get millions, tens, hundreds of millions of Ukrainian dollars of our taxes. But do we solve this problem? Today we're actually taking away the right to special export, the Ucrobanprom specialport, and we're handing over the possibility of identifying such enterprises in the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. And it can actually give rise to the same pattern where privileged enterprises get the opportunity and the monopoly to make such contracts. I think that's the wrong approach, and actually Ukrainian businesses, weapons manufacturers, foreign partners, they were talking about full liberalisation of the market, but under the control of the state, which our bill was sent to, along with colleagues from the BP, from the People's Front. And I hope that this Parliament will still be able to support and implement it in this convening. But today it's a certain step that perhaps with some of the amendments, the second reading of the Committee on Safety and Defence can actually improve and, in fact, enable the Ministry of Defense to directly, not through mediators, to buy that assistance.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-20-m1.u33	Please, 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-20-m1.u34	Purchasing the technology that our armed forces need today, our forward fighters. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-20-m1.u35	Thank you. So the discussion is over. I'm asking everyone to come into the hall. Colleagues, to be honest, we're counting every second now to adopt all the laws. I remind you: the calendar plan, the green tariffs and the moratorium on land, is important to us every second. Let's work fast, intensely, we have before lunch, unfortunately. Now, let the people come in, we're about to fail. Please take up your jobs, colleagues. I emphasize, we will vote only on the basis that there will be no fear. But even the vote on the basis opens the way for us to support the Ukrainian army. So please come back out of bed, too many important questions, too important a decision, go into the hall, take jobs, colleagues. This decision depends on the support of Ukrainian military personnel to advance. So, colleagues, I ask you to prepare for the vote. And I'm voting on the draft Act amending some of the Ukrainian legislation on procurement of products, jobs and defence services for import (No. 9122) on the basis of a co-worker's proposal. Please support the Ukrainian military, support the front line, vote in favour. Please support, we vote. We'll support it, colleagues, we've got it covered, we've got it covered. Vote. [[16:44:52]] For 234 Decision taken. Welcome to the Ukrainian Parliament. My colleagues, I remind you, it's very important for us today to adopt the calendar plan, so let's do it as quickly as possible, we'll take it effectively. We're going to consider the calendar plan, this is Project 9419. And I'm asking you to support his consideration of the reduced procedure. Please vote, please support. Let's take it in five minutes. Vote. 9419, summary procedure. [[16:45:37]] For a hundred and Decision Adopted May I see Pinzenick Pavel Vasilovich's report, please?
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-20-m1.u36	Dear colleagues! It was too tight not to waste precious time. A calendar plan has been developed according to the Rules, taking into account the weekend schedule and the holidays. It is proposed to hold 12 plenary meetings. 12 weeks of plenary meetings, 8 weeks of committee work, commissions, factions, 4 weeks of electoral work, 12 hours of questions to the government. The proposals were made by the MPs and the management of the apparatus for the draft calendar plan. Decisions were made to recommend to the Supreme Council the adoption of Decision No. 9419 as a basis and as a whole, taking into account the proposals made by the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the work of the Supreme Council in February 2019, namely: weeks from 4 to 8 February and from 25 February to 1 March to spend the week for plenary meetings of the Supreme Council of Ukraine; weeks from 11 to 15 February to work on committees, commissions, parliamentary factions, groups; weeks from 18 to 22 February to spend on the work of national deputies with voters. Again, for the economy of time, perhaps Gerasimov's proposal I am now. [[B in m in s a l in]] Colleagues, and there's a proposal for a BPP faction, I understand, it's important for us to have a successful vote. It's the next one. It's to take weeks from 9 to 12 for plenary meetings and 23 to 26 for plenary meetings, weeks from 2 to 5 April, and weeks from 16 to 19 for committees, commissions, factions and groups. With these proposals in mind, please put it to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-20-m1.u37	Colleagues, pay attention! I'm asking everyone to come into the hall. Colleagues, pay attention! To Arthur! To Arthur! To Arthur! My colleagues, look, I have a request. Attention! We must have a Conciliation on January 14. I have a proposal that we spend the Conciliation on January 15th, so that on January 14th, when the New Year's Day comes, we don't have the Conciliation. So January week stays, only Conciliation not on the 14th, but on the 15th morning, and then on the sessional day. No objections, colleagues? January 14th will be difficult to gather. Listen to me, colleagues! It's a nice offer for the Conciliation to be January 15th. Is it accepted? So please take up jobs, colleagues. Don't leave the hall, take up jobs, colleagues. I ask everyone to prepare for the vote. I'm asking you to take up jobs. Come to me, come to me. Please take all jobs. So, colleagues, a lot came out of the hall. Please take up jobs. Colleagues, please remain seated during the vote. So we're moving on to making a decision. So we're moving on to making a decision. [[B in m in s a l in]] Colleagues, please move on to decision-making. So, colleagues, I'm putting to the vote the 9419 draft with the readjustment that I heard under the transcript on January 15th. I ask her to support her with what Paul Pinzenic has said. And, colleagues, I ask you to vote and be in the workplace during the vote, and please support. [[B in m in s a l in]] No, it's not. Please be supportive. Please vote, please support. We're voting, colleagues, so we don't block our Council's work. Please vote, please support. Vote. Support me, colleagues, with the readout I made on January 15th. Please support, we vote. [[16:50:26]] For 239. Decision taken. Colleagues, we're left with a green tariff and a moratorium on land. Colleagues, we're good to go. Look. Attention, colleagues, attention, attention! We're going to decide by vote. Attention, attention, attention, colleagues! Now I want to go to the hall. We have two key questions left. One of them is the question of the green tariff that was on the question of Dombrovsky and the moratorium. We'll both be able to look into it, colleagues. [[B in m in s a l in]] So, colleagues. We'll reach both laws! Let me put it this way, fellows: who wants us to move now to the draft Law amending some of the Ukrainian laws on the provision of competitive conditions for electricity production (8449). I'm asking you to take up your jobs, colleagues. I ask you to prepare for the vote. So, colleagues, the green tariff I'm setting. Who wants us to move on to the green tariff now? Colleagues, I'm asking you to back me up. My colleagues, so I'm going back to the hall. Who would like us to move now to the draft Law 8449, please vote and please support. Please vote. I'd like your support, colleagues. Vote. And then the moratorium. And then the moratorium. Vote. Please be supportive. [[16:52:38]] For 177 177 votes is not enough, colleagues. We didn't make it, did we? I'll put it again, colleagues. But let me stress, if we don't vote, I'll set the tariff after the moratorium. So I'm going to put it again. Who's for us to move to draft Law 8449 now, please vote. And I'm asking you to back me up. We vote "green" tariff. Vote. [[16:53:14]] For-200 So, colleagues, we move on to the question of moratorium. It's me, colleagues. May I have your attention, please? Please. [[B in m in s a l in]] We didn't make it? I'll do it again, colleagues. Colleagues, I'm asking you to get together. I'm saying we're artificially taking time now. We're in the middle of both laws. Let's do this, colleagues, so there'll be peace in the hall. Listen, listen to me, wise offer, listen to the Head that we're working until we look at the moratoriums on the ground. This is the first proposal, I ask everyone to support that we, the evening session, will last until we vote for a moratorium, we will not look at the moratorium on land. Please vote and please support. We vote, we vote, we vote, it's a wise proposition. Vote, colleagues, vote. [[16:54:22]] For-146 Then I'm going to do 8449 again. If we don't, let's move on to a moratorium. So, colleagues, I'm putting it in closing. Who's for us to move on to Law 8449 now, please vote, please support. Vote. [[16:54:53]] For 168 The decision is not made. And so we, colleagues, move on to the next issue of the agenda proposed by the agrarian committee. This is a draft of the Law on the Moratorium for the Alienation of Agricultural Lands. I would like to point out that almost fifteen bills have been registered. That's why my proposal: first vote is a reduced procedure, then each vote, and then the vote. Who wants us to consider the simplified procedure? We won't be able to do otherwise, we won't be able to do it, colleagues, and we won't be able to look at the green tariff, so we'll be able to look at it. For the summary procedure, please vote, please support. For a short-term, short-term procedure, a moratorium on land, short-circuited. Please vote, please support, for the reduced procedure. We're voting for a green tariff. [[16:56:05]] For-162 Decision taken, colleagues. And we start with all the reporters. I'll call every reporter in two minutes. I have a big request, colleagues, don't use it all the time, because it's going to take too long. I have every request as concise as possible, a request for everyone. So Ukraine’s first national deputy, Timoshenko, Julia Volodymyrna. Prepare Barn Oleg Stepanovich. And I'd like everyone to be as concise as possible. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-20-m1.u38	Dear colleagues, today there is an extremely significant vote. This is the vote on independence, the sovereignty of our country, the continuation of the moratorium on the sale of agricultural land. I can say that now in the Chamber they will determine by their vote the national MPs, who are the statesmen, who of them are defending Ukraine and who are behind Ukraine's interests, and who, excuse me, is currently drawing a barrier in the hall from corporations that have accumulated hundreds of thousands of hectares of land in their use and convince MPs not to continue the moratorium. And I can say that after the vote, I'm the name of these heroes. Dear friends, remember that the sale of agricultural land at a time when occupied by Donetska, Luhansk, the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, tells us that you legally give the right there to essentially own Ukrainian land on the very legal basis of this Parliament. I'm asking you, as long as we don't start normal farming, family farms, until we put agricultural land into a strategy where all agrarian states live, you have no right to give monopolies who own up to a million acres of land, including the President's family, and we'll see how his people vote. You just give them the right to legalize this totally corrupt system that is today with the earth. Any vote against the moratorium on the sale of land will be brought to the people. All people will know the enemies of Ukraine and the enemies of our future. Vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-20-m1.u39	Ten seconds, please, 10 seconds. Ten seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-20-m1.u40	I now urge all deputies to vote in favour of extending the moratorium on land sales for a year, for two, for three, for five.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-20-m1.u41	Thank you. I'd like to invite you to the floor of the People's Deputy Barna. The next one will be the national deputy Sverk. Please. There's no National Deputy Barney? The national deputy Sverk is the next reporter. There's a national member of Barna. Let's have a word with you. And prepare for the national deputy of Sverke.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-20-m1.u42	Praise Jesus Christ! Ladies and gentlemen! The earth was, is and will hopefully be, the foundation of our nation's cradle. That is why we need to do everything we can to enable Ukrainian peasants to work for them. For our land to give abundance to Ukrainian families. Let our country do good to our rural communities and Ukraine as a whole. Thus, it is clear that until the proper use of Ukrainian land or its market has been properly regulated, a number of other laws have been passed, we must now vote on the bill on the moratorium on land sales. Why is this necessary? This is primarily necessary in order to avoid legal dualism. Because some people say there's not going to be a sale because there's no law on the circulation of land. No, the decisions of the courts will be double and, believe me, not for the benefit of the Ukrainians, especially those who want to buy land and pay judges to make decisions about the sale of land itself. So, my honourable colleagues, I am asking you to vote on my bill regarding the moratorium on the land by 2024, in view of the fact that the new MPs at the end of the resolution of this issue have resolved the issue of the land market on those legislative bases that will enable our Ukrainian land to be used exclusively for the benefit of Ukrainian peasants, Ukrainian families, Ukrainian communities, and not to become a means of wealth for the world financial groups that will buy this land. And none of ours, any of our farmers, or even our agroholdings will be competitive enough to buy.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-20-m1.u43	Ten seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-20-m1.u44	So please support the bill to support the moratorium and jointly take care of the Ukrainian village.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-20-m1.u45	Thank you. Welcome to the speech of the national deputy Sverk. The following will be the national MP, Musak.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-20-m1.u46	Dear colleagues, my bill proposes to extend the moratorium on land until April 22, 2019, this is the birthday of Vladimir Illich Lenin. This is to make everyone understand that just communist ideology is an ideology when the state has to dictate to its citizens how they can manage their property. So I say that every person who votes for the moratorium is a faithful, consistent communist ideology. The Communist Party can be banned, but unfortunately it is impossible to ban Communist ideology. Once again, the abolition of the moratorium does not in any way lead to the beginning of the earth’s market. Because the market for land, according to the Constitution, begins to work only after we have adopted the quality of the Agricultural Land Circumstances Act here in the hall. For what? Why should we cancel the moratorium? To change the order of the day. Today’s agenda is to extend the moratorium and extend the moratorium. If there is no moratorium, the order of the day will change, and there will be a question of who will be the market of the earth, who will develop it, so that we will all hear it and finally develop a law that will give everyone in Ukraine. Einstein also said, "It's just stupid people who act the same every year and expect other results." I'm sure if we extend the moratorium today, as we have done 10 times in this room, in a year, we may already be.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-20-m1.u47	Ten seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-20-m1.u48	And they'll say, "Yes, we've come, we've got to extend the moratorium again, look around, look at it and not see it." And we've had this situation for 18 years.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-20-m1.u49	Thank you. Thank you, Your Honor. The next reporter is National Deputy Musak.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-20-m1.u50	Good afternoon, dear fellows! I'm glad we're all welcome to continue the moratorium for the 17th year. I also want to celebrate 15 years of argument that Ukraine is somehow not ready for the land market. The whole world is ready to send people to Mars, Ilon Musk, who does the craziest things -- hyperlups -- and we're also saying that you can let the Ukrainian or you can't allow the Ukrainian to manage his land freely. I would also like to point out that in this room in this rostrum, we are looking at the moratorium for the fourth time. Well, there's something that needs to be changed. What happened at this point? At that moment, the terrible things that convince us that they will happen when the earth market is opened, namely, the oligarchs will buy everything, the aliens will come. So, during the moratorium that was voted for by the faithful linens, the agroholding "Kernel" added 200,000 hectares of land. Agroholding "Mria" was bought by Saudis. So, Your Honor, if you're fighting these terrible things, you really don't have to continue the moratorium, you have to start a normal civilised market. And I know that ours should be the point, not 17 years in a circle and say that the Ukrainian is not like that, and he's not smart enough to figure out what the price of buying or selling the land is. Go down to the market and try to buy potatoes there twice as cheap as it costs. That won't happen. The same will be true of the earth. People are literate and will figure it out. So today, I urge everyone to clearly vote against the continuation of the moratorium. This does not trigger the earth’s market, but it removes the psychological barrier that something is forbidden to the Ukrainian. On the contrary, we must help to allow the Ukrainian in his God - given land to have rights and opportunities. Thank you. Death to the Moratorium!
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-20-m1.u51	Thank you. Next, I invite you to the floor of the People's Deputy, Maxim Burbak. Prepare the National Deputy of Bakumenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-20-m1.u52	The question of free circulation of the earth is very sensitive to us, to the Ukrainians. That is why we need to approach him very carefully. The People's Front stands for free circulation of land, which will be clearly regulated by valid legislation. My bill is very simple. We will vote in favour of extending the moratorium by July 2020. Why? This year is a year, next year, a year of presidential and parliamentary elections. And all political forces will use the subject to gain selective advantages. That's why we think that both the presidential and parliamentary elections, to form, I think, but a new coalition will be formed, a new government will be chosen, and it is stipulated in my law that a new government should draft a bill on free circulation by March 2020. The Supreme Council of the next call should accept it. And then in July 2020, a moratorium could be lifted when we already have clear rules for playing, which will predict that only Ukrainian citizens have land ownership. We also need to limit the amount of land in one hand. We need to create a state agency that will only be involved in certification of land-sales contracts, so that our farmers and agriculture can be protected and be able to acquire land. So, Your Honor, the People's Front faction will vote in favour of the extended moratorium and I ask you to support my bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-20-m1.u53	Thank you. I'd like to invite you to the floor of the People's Deputy of Bakumenka. The next one is the People's Deputy, Wilkul.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-20-m1.u54	Madam Chairman, distinguished national MPs! I'm just trying to get us down a little bit. Our group of members of the Agrarian Committee proposed Bill 9355-5. The bill proposes to continue for a year, until 1 January 2020, a moratorium on the sale or other way of alienating agricultural land. The bill also provides for the appointment of the Cabinet of Ministers to submit to the Supreme Council by 1 March 2019 a draft Act on the Circumvention of Agricultural Lands. I want to point out that the moratorium should not last forever. But now, on the basis of an agrarian committee, a working group of all associations that represent the Ukrainian business, the people who represent today's 7 million landowners, the international experts who are currently developing the law on land circulation. This law on earth’s circulation. I can't go any shorter because it's an important question. This law on the circulation of land will be presented at the end of March. And in this bill, we will continue to make it possible, as a draft law, to have a broad circle of public debate. All farmers, all market participants, district councils, all local self-governance will participate in this process. The main thing is that the land will belong to Ukrainians, to no foreigners, as we say, and we will no longer give a political plane, but a professional discussion. Please support our bill and remove the political motives. 93.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-20-m1.u55	Thank you very much. Thank you. It's a committee bill. Wilkul Alexander Yuriovich is now invited to the floor. Please, Mr. Alexander. And, colleagues, I urge everyone to be concise, all co-reporters.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-20-m1.u56	Dear people of Ukraine! Dear National Deputies! What does the IMF want with Ukraine? What do international bankers want? Raw materials, hadharbaiters, and land. And our puppet power, led by President Prashenko, does all of their demands for sometimes giving them credit and letting them steal part of it. We already have 8 million people going abroad and raising the GDP of any country, but not ours. We also know, and everyone sitting in this room today knows that our government and the President have signed a memorandum with the IMF that commits themselves to selling land. Yeah, they just asked for a little delay until after the election, because they realize that now they're just going to be swept away by the people. But if someone like this comes to power, or, God forbid, this power stays in the Presidential chair of Dustenko, I'm telling you, next year, Ukrainian land will be sold to transnational corporations. We offered our version of the law. What's in it? First. A moratorium on the sale of land before an all-U.S. referendum is held Why so? Because not the President with a few percent of the ratings should do so and not a discredited parliament, but only the people of Ukraine. And I also want to tell you that I know what a consensus option you have -- one year to extend the moratorium and draft by April 1st a bill on land circulation and its "Final Positions" to record that you can cancel this moratorium. It's just being done to distract you from what you want to do. We will certainly vote for this moratorium for one year, which is better than nothing.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-20-m1.u57	Please, 10 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-20-m1.u58	But I'm sure in a few months this power will be gone and this Parliament will not be here in nine months, and victory will be behind us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-20-m1.u59	Thank you. Please, Head Mikhailo Josephovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-20-m1.u60	Mikhailo Golovko, The All-Ukrainian Freedom Union, 164 constituency, Ternopolish. Dear Ukrainians, saving our Ukrainian land is our sacred duty. As our boy advocates do now in the east, spilling their own blood, protecting every square metre of our sacred Ukrainian land, they don't want to give it to the enemy-aggressor, so today our task is to preserve it and not give it through cunning schemes, so that once again the other invaders, as they did in the 1990s, sell out strategic enterprises in our country, and Ukraine, in one moment, become poor and poor, today they want to take over Ukrainian land. I want to tell you that, my friends, the earth is not a commodity, the earth is a nation's living space. We must not sell the land, we must sell the produce that is being grown on this earth. Why don't you want to support peasants, small farmers, give them grants, give them cheap interest-free loans, give them ice-skating techniques, create conditions for Ukrainian peasants to work and become rich and successful? And you've led the village to poverty, and now you want to take this land away from people for nothing, you're not planning on paying anyone anything, you're just trying to steal it from the Ukrainian people. In Ukraine, however, it is against the earth being sold today and becoming a commodity. Our job today is to protect the village. Why is the land not sold in many lands, in the same Israel? For Israel is warring, having an enemy country around her, and you are willing to sell the land. Who's gonna buy it? The villagers are in trouble, or who will buy it? It's what the oligarchs buy, the transnational corporations, it's what the moscals buy through the protagonists, it's what the Chinese, the Turks, the Arabs buy. But Ukrainians will never be masters, then Ukrainians will become fortifications hired, beggars on their God - given land. We're not going to let that happen, so we urge you to support the moratorium. In general, Freedom requires the adoption of the Law banning the sale of agricultural land and the creation of a State Land Bank. If a person wants to sell it to a state, the state will buy it at a market price and then rent it.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-20-m1.u61	Ten seconds. Everything? Yes, thank you very much. It's Lechchenko. Lehchenko, please, Yuri Lehchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-20-m1.u62	Lewchenko, Freedom, 223 District, Kiev City. First of all, I'd like to go to the chairman and the entire room, that's absurd, that we're looking at such fundamental things in the form of a reduced procedure, in the format of two minutes. When some MPs allow themselves to make different jokes, different bills, jokes are passed, some allow family members to not know what to talk about, and these are fundamental things for the country. So I'm going to try and say important things in one and a half minutes. First of all, unlike most of the U.S. Union of Freedom here, it's not a moratorium, it's not a moratorium. We are in favour of banning trade in agricultural land. Period. For the time being, no five - year ban, not a 10 - year ban, but a ban on trade in agricultural land. And I emphasize, not all the earth, as some have manipulated here, but the land of agriculture. Why? Because this is our strategic resource. 25 years ago, a lot of people sat here, by the way, your predecessors and your owners sold out strategic businesses. And we see in what state the country is now, we see that oligarchic monopolism, that oligaric economy where the country is now suffering. Now you want to sell the last strategic resource of the Ukrainian nation. Instead of building state policy around this resource, building state machinery, the insurance sector, the fleet rebuilding our trade, instead of building a normal economy around this resource, you want to put it in private hands forever. When you say that latifundists have already formed latipounds, but you forget to mention one important thing that they've collected the leased land into a pile, and the normal authorities can take this leased land away from them, break the lease agreement if there's any normal authority, in fact. Thus, normal authorities should use agricultural land as a strategic governmental resource. 10 seconds, please. Ten seconds. We've all been given.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-20-m1.u63	Ten seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-20-m1.u64	The normal authorities must use agricultural land as a strategic resource for economic development. People need to be given the right to sell land to a state, exclusively a state, and the state has to take care of it. None.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-20-m1.u65	Thank you. Paul Kishkar. Is he insisting on the performance? He insists. Please, Mr. Paul.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-20-m1.u66	I'm with your permission very briefly. The position of continuing what doesn't need to be continued somehow seems a little absurd. In terms of conservativeism, we insist that the state in the existing paradigm of existing legislation can develop agriculture, can save rural areas, create jobs through credit systems, through benefits for agricultural producers, through various tools to stimulate agricultural exports produced in Ukraine. Work, Mr. Groissman, to stimulate and preserve the village, because 100 singles are at least 150 children in school, it's saving the school, saving the FAP, saving the infrastructure that exists in the village. Please vote red, including my bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-20-m1.u67	Thank you. Arjev Volodymyr, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-20-m1.u68	Congo, Tajikistan, Venezuela, Cuba, North Korea and Ukraine are countries where peasants cannot sell land. And among them is Ukraine, and the company we see is very important and powerful. That's why I understand all the election years are coming. I'm not going to talk to my colleagues, I'm going to talk to my citizens. You're being cynically deceived today. Those who use "cheese" schemes today are the Landlords themselves, who are pricelessly collecting pies and 50 years of imprisonment, today will vote for the extension of the moratorium, for you not to have the right to dispose of your property, for you to become a fortress again, for you to continue as in 1917 the Lenin Decree on Earth. They're the ones. The descendants of those who had killed Ukrainians had been taken by the Hullodores and taken from the villagers the opportunity to use their land. They run here with pitchforks, with chains and. With pitchforks and chains, our peasants are processing their land today, with these primitive things, not with modern agriculture, and so on. And they will tell you how they are a peasant, how they are for the earth, how they protect their interests. Only against the moratorium, only the free market of the earth can enable the peasants finally to enrich themselves, not the lies of those who vote for the moratorium today.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-20-m1.u69	Thank you. Sergey Volodymyrovich. Next up, Luszko Oleg Valeriyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-20-m1.u70	In the 17th year, Lenin was spelled "Earth to the People!" He took the land from the Ukrainian peasants, and today's authorities are trying to do the same thing to take away Ukrainian peasants from the land. Instead of giving people cheap loans, Circumstances, government support, grants, normal milk prices, and the restoration of the social sphere in school. In the village, in the restoration of livestock, in the restoration of jobs, what do you suggest to the Ukrainians today? You're offering them a huge lie. You, gentlemen of the Glitai, the Latifundists, the sellers, you offer to Ukrainian peasants, the Ukrainian people a huge deception. Because every Ukrainian. You're hopelessly far from the people, go to the village and ask people, there's no money to buy this land. The simple question is, who's going to buy it? You bourgeois will buy it. The International Monetary Fund will issue loans below zero percent of a year, sell this land, take it to the Ukrainians, and Ukrainian peasants will remain batrified. So instead of selling land, our team proposes changes to the Constitution, the Constitutional Court supported them. The agricultural system of Ukraine is based on farming, a radical change in government policy in terms of the village. Today, schools are closed in the villages, the FAPs, the post office, the last cows are cut out, the grain is exported, there is no processing. They want to sell the land, and then they're surprised people leave the village. They're not selling the land. They're selling the products. Restoration of livestock, restoration of processing, and sale of products with high added value. And no IMF loans will be needed. And we will bathe like weeds in oil and have our land to time indefinite, that all the coming generations of the Ukrainians may have it.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-20-m1.u71	Ten seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-20-m1.u72	Not just you, singles. You'll be gone in three months. They want to tear the land apart in three months, they want to tear it apart, they want to tear it apart because they know it's three months away.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-20-m1.u73	Colleagues, all 10 seconds, the same. All the reporters have 10 seconds of the same. Clap Sergei.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-20-m1.u74	Sergey Hlan, Petra Dustenka Block, Hersonian. Dear colleagues, with my bill, I continue the parade of absurdity that takes place today in the walls of the Supreme Council. The moratorium on the sale of agricultural land is in force, and this is stipulated in the Earth Code (arts. 14, 15 of the Transitional Regulations). It works until the Law on the Circumstances of Agricultural Assignment is passed. All the laws that are brought before the Supreme Council today are nothing more than wasteful and political ploughs of some political parties, which do not apply in any way to the rights of peasants or moratoriums, nothing. The fact that four years a year after the Supreme Council continues for a year of moratoriums, provided that this is the year when the Law on the Circumstance of Agricultural Assignments will be adopted, is already a strange rain because nothing is done. A year ago, my colleagues and I passed the Agricultural Land Circumstances Act and invited our colleagues to cooperate on its handling, to accept safety nets, to accept some comments, and to accept it in the Supreme Council Hall, rather than to accept a moratorium year after year. That's why I'm asking him to continue with my law until May 1st, by Labor Day, because in fact, the moratorium, in fact, destroys the rights of laborers, peasants. Because they are forced to sell their land rations for pennies. Look at the statistics, today the moratorium is illegally passed over to some people, and people sell for a penny because they have no right to do it legally. With Moratorium we destroy the village, we destroy the peasants, and we take all the money, the last money in these peasants.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-20-m1.u75	Ten seconds. Sergei. It's Victoria's bird.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-20-m1.u76	Honorable National Deputies, distinguished Ukrainians! Today, I will not compete in passionate speeches with individual politicians. Because I'm a lawyer, and I just can't afford to manipulate that legal base and the legislation that I read. I would like to inform you that the Earth Code, its "transitional positions" have clearly established that the ban on the sale of agricultural land will work until a specific date, but in any case it will not be removed earlier than the adoption of the Agricultural Land Circumstances Act. I would like to inform you that today neither Parliament nor the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine are working on this Agricultural Land Circumstances Act. What does that mean? What kind of date would it be if we didn't talk about it, even if it was 2,500 years old, but the moratorium would still work until the law was passed? So there is no sense and no meaning, even if we cancel this date, even if we do not vote in favour of any law, the moratorium will continue. Instead, what is happening at the moment? Please enter into the networks, Google will enter "sale pie," and you will see dozens, hundreds of ads, where you will see different escape schemes from the moratorium that works, through leases, mines, emphitevsis, which, by the way, is also passed on to inheritance. And you're going to see the big latifundists just bypass the bans that exist, and they're tricking you by shouting hot speeches here. That's why, in my bill, I suggested that the year that this moratorium would "act" (in quotes) should be calculated, by the formula where I mentioned both synuses and logarithms, and where national deputies should apply their mathematical knowledge to determine the meaning of this year. And that's the only benefit of this bill is to train the brains of the people's deputies when you are.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-20-m1.u77	Ten seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-20-m1.u78	The only positive thing about this is that the only positive thing about this is the brain training of the people's deputies who mention mathematics, I hope. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-20-m1.u79	Pisarenko Valerius.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-20-m1.u80	Dear colleagues, dear Ukrainians, I actually think that for many years we will hear this question in the session hall, because sociology shows that more than 70 percent of Ukrainian citizens are against the market for land. This is the only thing that is holding back the opening of the earth’s market today. So next year, whoever's talking about it, we're not going to have anyone open the market for the country during two election campaigns, so no one is doing today, first of all, a strategy that the land market is offering us today. Many of my colleagues here are talking about whether it's Lenin or whether the Communists invented it. What do you suggest? How do we work tomorrow if there's no moratorium? So, what if the Constitutional Court had recently considered a question that our colleagues had brought and removed from the land? One day we would have no owners, no land market. So first of all, who wants to do this, let's do this strategy. The next year, given that there will be elections, no one will care about this issue, and we will have a new parliament that will be able to take down the moratorium or set up the land market, let's work on strategic issues. For example, the Radical Party has a normal offer. So this is a farm strategy. What strategy do other parties have? We didn't hear. If your strategy is to give a million acres to the oligarchs, tell them. But if we don't talk to you about how to save the village first and how to give people hope that they can live there and next generations, then, unfortunately, we're the only ones who're telling lies to people. And the people who speak today about taking down the moratorium are dishonest. So let's vote now and work on the laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-20-m1.u81	Ichchenko Vadim.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-20-m1.u82	Vadim Yvchenko, "The Fatherland" faction. Dear colleagues! We already have a gas market. Ask people for the prices in their bills. The electricity market we're going to enter right now. The forest market is already there - we took out half the Carpathians as wood! There's still a market for land. Agriculture policy today is based on the fact that we give the same companies billions of dollars. I want to remind you, colleagues, that Ukraine is today in the top-country of countries with developed readiness and corruption. And the opening of the land market for the country will be a disaster. And now for the European rules. Colleagues, Canada is one of the most successful countries: 47 percent of the land owned by the Crown of the Federation, 41 percent owned by the local government. Germany: no extra concentration of land, no more than 400-500 hectares. In France, you can't take the land unless you rent more. If you rent less than 9 years and the obligation of a buyer of land to use the purchased land for personal use for 15 years to rent it. In Poland the maximum number of farms is 300 hectares. Romania has 3 million farms. Colleagues, the rules of Europe that you so long for in this Parliament, where there is the strength of latifundists, where there is the strength of lobbyists, will not pass. So I want to stress again today: this is a temporary, forced and non-alternative action. And we're proposing that you support the bill that we're introducing the moratorium and we're putting in place an organ of the state that's going to buy the market value of pies from people who want it. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-20-m1.u83	Thank you. And a closing statement from the authors, Capplin Sergey Mikolayovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-20-m1.u84	Dear fellow countrymen, when I personally and hundreds of members of the Supreme Council took up office, we held the Bible and the Constitution in our hands. We swore to the Ukrainian people that, at the very least, the command of the Bible "Do not steal" and the 13th article of the Constitution, where it is written that the Nadra and the Earth belong to the Ukrainian people, we will abide and obey. I want to tell you, dear fellow countrymen, that in the same Europe they regret not being able to maximize such assets, the volume of land to build vertically integrated farms, in order to ensure maximum added value, normal pay, competitive price and capture international markets. In our country, our people still have that possibility. I would like to tell you, dear Ukrainians, to ask you to distinguish between the cynics who are fighting for the preservation of your land and those who sincerely want to do so. Dear Julia Volodymyrna, I call you the names of the people's deputies. Verewski is 600,000 hectares [600,000 ha] of land. This is the area of the Zakarpat district. This is your deputy. Hubski is 200,000 hectares [200,000 ha] of land. This is your deputy. Lozinski is your deputy. Sigal is yours. Today, Bahmatuk was sold to him, his man, his assistant, the sold district of Sugonako. So I want to tell you, my dear fellow countrymen, we're going to save you the land, we're going to build a modern new agrarian country, we're going to raise the industry. But you have to give new, young people, those who care about you, those who are willing to give their lives for you, those who will save you from the raging populism and the oligarchy, which is kind of a struggle for the people and for the protection of the Ukrainian people. Glory to Ukraine! We'll save our land, we'll save our lives!
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-20-m1.u85	So the performances are over. And, colleagues, pay attention! I'm asking for your attention. Attention! Now there's going to be a speech from the committee, and then we're going to the vote. And, colleagues, there is still a great request for us to vote on the Transplant Law, because thousands of people will still be left without treatment. I have a request, colleagues, don't push the green tariffs and transplants. Don't take too long. It's two minutes from the committee. Okay. From the committee and the factions. Please, Kulinich. Please, very briefly.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-20-m1.u86	Dear colleagues, the committee notes the following regarding the bills. Almost all the bills differ from the date of the moratorium. Various dates of the moratorium are proposed, from April 22, 2019 to January 1, 2030. In fact, in legal terms, it doesn't make any practical sense. The Moratorium acts before the Law on the Circumstances of Agricultural Assignments takes effect. There is no such law. So what I want to stress is that simply transferring a date will have no legal effect. But this is a question that we need to consider not only in a legal way but also in a social sense. In order to avoid social tension, the committee believes, however, that the date should still be postponed. We cannot allow political speculation on this issue. The Committee considers one year to be more optimal, as proposed in Bill 9355-5. The same bill obliges the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine to submit to the Supreme Council a bill on the circulation of agricultural land that we have been waiting for for a long time. Thus, the committee at its meeting on December 18, this year, supported Bill 9355-5 and recommended that the Supreme Council accept it as a law as a whole. I want to make it up to you. Last week in Strasbourg, I met with MEPs representing the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development. The topic of the meeting was policy on the circulation of agricultural land in EU countries. What did we hear? Removing a moratorium without effective safeguards, without solving the problem of rural employment, can lead to very serious negative consequences. So as long as we don't find the optimum model of land-use regulation, talk about the introduction of circulation prematurely, about the introduction of land circulation. But I would like to invite everyone to a substantive discussion on this subject. No matter how difficult it may be, it's a matter for us to solve. We started this discussion on the committee. Work created.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-20-m1.u87	Ten seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-20-m1.u88	Workgroup created. That's why I'm calling on everyone, my dear colleagues, to do this job, and the committee is asking to support 9355-5 as optimal as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-20-m1.u89	Thank you. So, colleagues, they insist on the factions on the performances. But I will only give to those who fall into the list: two in favour, two in opposition. Because, colleagues, otherwise we won't be able to consider the next Law on Alternative Sources of Energy. We have no right to do that. I'm announcing that we're going to continue for 15 minutes, and I'm just going to give it to the recorders. I'm asking: two for, two for, two for. Only four performances. Please be brief and quick, colleagues. People's Front.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-20-m1.u90	Bondar Mikhailo. Please give Lapin Igor.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-20-m1.u91	Dear colleagues, citizens of Ukraine! The villagers always fought for their right to land. It's not the right of the state, it's the right. And today we have to make a decision. I think we're going to have a little bit of a moratorium, and there's not going to be any free land left. So we need to avoid prying here every year and tell them that we need to make mechanisms. How many more cadences do you need in order to work those mechanisms in the end? So let's put a dot on this and let's go to work. I will vote against this moratorium.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-20-m1.u92	Victor Bondar. Okay. Victor Bondar.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-20-m1.u93	Dear Andrew Volodymyrovich, distinguished colleagues! Of course, I urge you to vote today on the bill on the moratorium on land sales. Agricultural land is the last major asset that remains in the hands of Ukraine and the Ukrainians today. So we urge: don't do, the authorities, your steps towards destroying this last asset; don't let this asset turn into an asset that you're going to refer to as just an international creditor, as just a pawnbroker, the last thing that's in Ukraine that's most valuable. That's why we urge everyone here today to vote in favour of the bill, which has been passed, to vote so that at any cost today the moratorium will be put to the vote. And then, 10 years later, when the country is in its normal state, when the real value of this Ukrainian land appears so that people can properly manage their most valuable asset. And today, give them a chance, give them a normal rent, give them the opportunity to make money from each pie and get more for the next 3, 5, 10 years than they're going to sell today for a penny of the land they're going to sell. So we call for support for a bill that has been submitted and voted in favour of introducing a moratorium. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-20-m1.u94	Thank you. From "The Fatherland" Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-20-m1.u95	Today, it is obvious that several families in Ukraine have virtually taken over the agricultural land by buying it in the shadow market. And so now voting for the extension of the moratorium on the sale of agricultural land and the illegalization of stolen agricultural land in Ukraine will be a test of how much land the mafia is now ruling in the Ukrainian Parliament, how much money has been given, how much money has been bribed by deputies, and who is now giving up Ukraine knowingly. Here's a test for patriotism, for loyalty to Ukraine, for professionalism and for understanding the strategy of getting out of this crisis. And that's why someone who doesn't now vote for the extension of the moratorium on the sale of agricultural land is committing a crime against Ukraine. And every last name will be known to Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-20-m1.u96	Shahov, please, "The will of the people."
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-20-m1.u97	People's Will Group, Sergey Shahov, political force "Our End". Dear colleagues! Since 1990, the government has sold everything, sunk mines, cut out factories for scrap metal, and destroyed the entire industrial base. Only the earth remained. We remember who wanted to take the land out of our nation during World War II, who murdered our grandfathers, who killed our children, who took our land. And today, those who want to sell land during war will be likened to those who killed our grandfathers literally during World War II. "Our End" against today's sale of land. And once again, the moratorium has to be given not only for a year, but during this bloody war with our enemy. Attention must be paid immediately to peasants who suffer from the fact that even a fence has been run across the border, which wall between our enemies, and through it the hen can jump and not compensate people. What land can be sold, fellow believers? We have no right to touch any land today, during the presidential elections, during the parliamentary elections. Today, we cannot look to the earth and give the latifundists and oligarchs the benefit of the Ukrainians today. In Poland, the price of land is 10 times more expensive, in Italy, 10 times more expensive. Thank you. No, the sale of land! Sergey Shahov, the political power of Our End.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-20-m1.u98	From Self-Help, Barresuk. And, colleagues, then it's going to be one minute from the Opposition Block, and we're going to make a decision. In three minutes, the decision is made. Please, Berezuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-20-m1.u99	For 28 years the will allowed a farmer to grow up in Ukraine. And when you ask this simple normal farmer who works on the ground today if you want to open the market, 70 percent say no. And when you ask him, and you want to hand over your work and your land as an inheritance to your children, yes. Thus, it is not possible for farmers to inherit this land without a market. And it's a scam that's in the hall today. But today. Why is the farmer afraid to open the market? The farmer is afraid to open up the market because he doesn't trust the state because it didn't create a market because it doesn't have access to cheap financial resources to buy quality seeds and other techniques. She's afraid of the state, because a state is a raider who can take over the land that a farmer has been working on for 20 years. So today, part of our faction, realizing that without a market, we will never allow a farmer to become a farmer on earth, will vote red against a moratorium. But part of the faction will say that these red buttons are not that two, but the government's unit for slavery that they are, but part supports the moratorium. Why? Because today the market for the earth cannot be opened because there is no market, there will be a brutal robbery of people working on the earth for 20 years.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-20-m1.u100	Please, Dobrenkov. I'm begging you, colleagues. One minute, Mr. Dudenkov. And let's move on to making a decision. I ask everyone to prepare for the vote. I'm asking in a concise manner, because we won't be able to reach the next law, after a minute of voting. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-20-m1.u101	Alexander Doubenkov, Opposition Block. Do We Need the Earth Market? Of course, it's necessary, because without the land market, there's no market capitalization of this asset. Everyone's talking about the only asset left in Ukraine. What made him the only asset in Ukraine? And it's probably thanks to a masterless policy of power that led to population and economics. Therefore, it is no longer necessary to put in place mechanisms for the realization of the earth. It's criminal in front of the Ukrainians. Because Ukraine now has a top position in the farm survey because other people are harvesting crops illegally, that's not the case. In order to prevent land registration, it is certainly necessary to introduce a moratorium on the implementation of agricultural land. But I'd like to say. You gave me one minute, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-20-m1.u102	Please add 30 seconds, add 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-20-m1.u103	That the moratorium is not absolute, they are now mechanisms for alienating the land. And accordingly, it's wrong to say that it's wrong to sell Ukrainian land. Because there is now an abuse of power, because the Opposition Block will vote in favour of continuing the moratorium on land sales.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-20-m1.u104	And, colleagues, the closing statement is the Radical Party, Igor Mosiyczuk, one minute. And, colleagues, in a minute we're voting.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-20-m1.u105	Igor Mosiyczuk, Oleg Lachka Radical Party I want you all to look at the bed where my compatriots Poltava farmers are standing right now, look into their eyes. Some of the agitators went up for selling the land, and they told him straight as they did. I don't know who he thinks he is. Mr. Sverk, I'll tell you, there's no land sold in Israel. That's when it starts to sell, then we'll vote here. This time. And the second. Everyone who does now. Anyone who immediately votes against the moratorium on the sale of land will be a state traitor. You're about to betray the nation and the state. Now, in wartime, you give away the treasure of the Ukrainian nation — the neoliberals! You'll sell your mother to your family the way you sell your land!
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-20-m1.u106	Thank you. So, colleagues, let's move on to making a decision. I remind you that. [[B in m in s a l in]] Scrooge, 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-20-m1.u107	It's very short so you don't hold back. In Israel, Mr. Igor makes a mistake: the land of temporary possession is sold. There's a limit, but it's sold.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-20-m1.u108	So let's move on to decision-making, colleagues. I'll put every law in line. The committee proposes to accept 9355-5. And until some law is passed, I will put everyone in line. Please be prepared. The committee proposes 9355-5. I first put to the vote 5476 by Julia Timoshenko. Whoever supports this bill, please vote. [[17:51:53]] For a hundred and Overruled. The next one is 9355. Anyone who supports it, please vote. [[17:52:15.]] For the 180. Next. 108, rejected. 9355-1. 55-1, Mushak. [[B in m in s a l in]] No, Sverk. Smuggling. Colleagues, don't confuse me. I only call numbers. Who's in, who's in, who's in, who's in, who's in, who's in, who's in, who's in, [[17:52:48]] For-33 Declined. The next one is 9355-2. Whoever supports this, I ask you to vote. This is Musaka, Muschak. Look at the materials, I'm not helping you. Vote. All authors are listed in the documents. [[17:53:14]] For-45 The decision is not taken. 9355-3. Whoever supports this, I ask you to vote. Wilkul, Wilkul. [[17:53:37]] For-99 Declined. The next one is 9355-4, Burbak. Vote. [[17:54:00]] For 176 Declined. And now the committee, colleagues, 9355-5 by Buckumenko Alexander Borisovich, the one the committee wants to put to the vote. So, 9355-5, at the suggestion of the committee, on the basis and in general, please vote, please support, vote. [[17:54:35]] For 231 Decision taken. The law is passed, colleagues. Attention, don't break up! The law is passed. Here we go to the draft Law on Alternative Sources of Energy (8449). I ask you to vote in favour of the summary procedure. Everyone, please be seated. In short, please vote, please support, we vote in short, we vote. I'm continuing the session for 15 minutes. Everyone, please remain seated. [[17:55:09]] For a hundred and Colleagues, please don't leave the hall again. I'm proposing 8449 -- alternative sources of energy under a reduced procedure. Please vote. [[B in m in s a l in]] It's 150, right? Sorry, there's 150. So now it's very short for colleagues. The first report is Dombrovski. Very short, very brief, we only have 15 minutes. Please, Dombrowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-20-m1.u109	Dear National Deputies! Dear colleagues! Honorable Predestination! I think it's incredibly symbolic that after such an important vote on the ground we have a very short chance to talk about national security, energy security and the future. The history of future generations. Because clean energy is today an extremely important position for which the whole world is fighting and fighting, including the Paris Agreement that we ratified with you in this room a year and a half ago. I was going to say that we passed the Law on alternative energy. There were seven bills, then the committee considered, introduced, defined as a base bill first. And after that, the amended bill was voted on the committee and is proposed to be accepted as a basis in the first reading. Dear colleagues, what are the key positions? First. I would like us all to understand that from the philosophy of the green tariff, which today is one of the highest in Europe, we are moving to the philosophy of conducting very competitive auctions as a European model. This allows you to cut the price of clean electricity by 1.5, by 2, by 3 times. Second position. To avoid speculation in this room, we're reducing the green tariff by 25 percent, with a subsequent decrease of 1.5 percent over three years. We're lowering the "green" rate by 10 percent, with a subsequent decrease of 2.5 percent over three years. We're introducing quotas. The auctions will only be based on the use of the ProZorro system, which has demonstrated its competitiveness and high quality. So, dear colleagues, we have had many and many discussions over many months. We found it today.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-20-m1.u110	Ten seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-20-m1.u111	So I suggest in the first reading that we take as a basis, and we work on the second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-20-m1.u112	Thank you, colleagues. Singers, I want you to know, my colleagues, there's only 15 minutes left. The shorter the performances, the more likely they are to be accepted. There's a committee decision, colleagues. Let's do it now: two in favor, two in opposition, factions and we vote. Still insisting. Colleagues, otherwise we can't just make it. Mr. Alexei, Alexei, is a coauthor. Please, Alexei Rybchin. Mr. Alexei.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-20-m1.u113	Alexy Rybchin, "Fatherland" faction, Donetsk. I'm one of the co-authors for these bills, and I want to say that the government has put us through such a choice that these bills cannot and cannot be accepted, because all the power in energy is a failure. The tariffs are up, miners, we always vote to continue the moratorium. The electricity market, we didn't vote for it, but it's deferred, the NCRE is usurped. And now we're seeing a situation with green tariffs that the government has not been following world trends and has not been able to do it in a timely way to cost people the value of this green energy to make it grow. And we see that there are seven bills from MPs -- no government. And do you even know how many in the Ministry of Energy are doing the green generation? One person on a regular schedule. And when we put in auctions, and I've been supporting the introduction of auctions since the 20th year, and the Fatherland faction supports the cost of green energy and the increase in green energy, but how will the government implement this when they can't even introduce the electricity market, and green auctions will be done on this basis. And the question is, the government didn't get to see these trends in time, and the confidence in the government is zero that it can do that in 2019. Does this mean that we do not have to move forward and adopt this bill in the first reading? No, we have to move on. However, the "Fatherland" faction, for which the development of the "green" generation is principled, and it was Julia Volodymyrna who noted in her new course that this is the cornerstone, the cornerstone of her new course in the generation. We're going to apply a lot of rights to second reading, and we're not going to support the bill in full if it doesn't take into account the interests of small consumers as well, not just large investors who want not only "Rotterdam Plus," but also very large and green tariffs. That's why we support the green energy costing course, we support the path to creating vacuum cleaners, to creating farms that are going to switch to green energy, but there is little trust in this bill so far. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-20-m1.u114	Thank you. Sergey Rudik.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-20-m1.u115	Dear colleagues, I'm going to try to get in faster than I've seen in my time. How does our alternative bill differ from the basic bill? First, we propose to change the system from the 25th year to the 19th year, as proposed by the authors of the basic bill, to which we, the authors, 24 people's deputies, propose an alternative. We're offering auctions to start from the 25th. We're proposing to cut the value from the 25th year, they're from the 20th. That's the difference. Why is this difference made? It's very simple. In addition to the corruption that concerns our investors who want to invest their money in the Ukrainian economy, businessmen are concerned about the issue -- a constant change of rules. How can we start changing the rules in two weeks from January 1st 19th? What kind of business can thus predict its profitability? So I, society, please think about it, even though we don't have a lot of time and we're being forced to vote quickly, we vote in favour of a bill that allows us to move smoothly towards reforming this system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-20-m1.u116	Thank you. So two -- in, two -- against, colleagues, briefly. I'm not making anyone do anything. I'm offering green energy supporters to uphold the law. Please two in, two in, two in. And please, very concisely. Every minute, the MPs are getting smaller. Every minute. Fish.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-20-m1.u117	Dear colleagues! Ivan Ribak, 202nd constituency, Cherniewec region. Let's support 8449 as a draft law on the basis of the second reading we're going to work on. Indeed, the standards laid down in this bill are progressive enough, and today we must bring you into order in the green energy market. Let's support it. Our faction will vote in favour. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-20-m1.u118	Thank you. From the Front, Katzer-Buchkowska.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-20-m1.u119	Dear colleagues! I ask you very much for a very responsible response to the adoption of this bill. It's going to depend on how it's going to develop and whether it's going to develop green energy for the next 10 years. In fact, it is extremely important to Ukraine. And even if it's partly more expensive, in fact, this generation is able to diversify energy sources and provide energy security. And this is a possible point of growth in the economy, involving innovation. Therefore, green energy is important and not only in the context of our agreements – the Paris Climate Agreement, the Association Agreement, in which we committed ourselves to increasing the share of renewable sources. What this bill gives us. First of all, there's a desire to change the approach to supporting the green generation, to introduce so-called auctions. The auction itself is not good, it is not evil. It depends on how these auctions are conducted in Ukraine. The bill does not provide for a clear auctioning mechanism, only relies on the government’s commitment to develop appropriate regulatory acts. Therefore, there is no guarantee in the bill that the government will conduct the auction data and issue quotas. Therefore, I believe that either in a repetitive first reading or in a second reading, these standards are mandatory for us to adopt this bill as a basis and as a whole. That's why I think. And it is also very important that the same approach should be applied to all generations -- both solar and wind, and to the energy produced from biomass. And in this bill, for some generations, it's introduced, it's suggested that this auction be introduced, and for others, it's not. I also think that the same competitive conditions should apply. So first of all, I want to say that this bill, without substantive elaboration, cannot be accepted as a whole. He needs to be thoroughly worked out, and this is our responsibility. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-20-m1.u120	From Storm's Opposition Block. And, colleagues, I'm underlining you. Announce from the microphone. I'm telling you, I'm not going to add time, we're not going to make it. I won't give you any extra time. The storm.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-20-m1.u121	Please pass the word to Martovic.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-20-m1.u122	Martovitch, please. And if you can, it's fine.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-20-m1.u123	Dear colleagues, Bill 8449-d, which is today proposed to vote in the Chamber, is indeed an example of European practice in stimulating electricity production from alternative sources. The experience of other countries in the world that have been going this way over the past 20 to 30 years gives us the opportunity today to confirm the relevance of the problem of ensuring competitive, transparent, investment conditions and improving mechanisms for rational incentives for green energy producers. In particular, in most developed countries of Europe, the auctioning mechanism is actively being used to provide competitive and transparent state support to electricity producers. The introduction of open auctions for the distribution of state quotas for green generation support will ensure the necessary balance between stimulating the inclusion of new investments for the development of renewable energy production and ensuring a balance between price policy in domestic electricity markets. Therefore, the initiative to launch auctions in Ukraine is essential to protect our citizens from unforeseeable fluctuations and to increase electricity prices after the opening of a competitive market in July 2019. The faction of the Political Party "The Opposition Block", whose primary objective has always been to protect, support and ensure a decent standard of living for Ukrainian citizens, will support this bill on the basis and actively continue to participate in its further work on second reading. Also, I hope that this law will soon be passed, and this will help reduce the price pressure on consumers and improve the investment attractiveness of our state. In this regard, I appeal to you, Your Honor, and I propose to support Bill 8449-d. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-20-m1.u124	Colleagues, we're about to make a closing statement. Two minutes to vote. I ask the heads of factions to be very responsible in inviting everyone to the hall. I'm asking everyone to come into the hall, take jobs, two minutes to vote. Rybchin gives the floor to Oleg Berezuk, and in two minutes please be in the hall. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-20-m1.u125	Ukraine’s energy is captured by oligarchs. It doesn't matter if it's green, whether it's coal or it's atomic. This law is a way against energy oligarchs, it's a way of lowering prices for people. We have to vote for him. The initiator of this law was our deputy Leukko Podlisecki, who would be in this room today, and he's watching us adopt this bill today. We have to vote for him. But that's not what I want to tell you today. Go to the districts and ask your mayors on which walls they will pay for the nightlight from January 1st next year. And they will tell you that the skynergo warned them: As a result of NCRE’s change of judgment, since January 1, 2019, the cities have no overnight fare. This means that they will either turn off the light or spend half their budget to light up the streets of the night. This is the fraud of the NCREKP and the archnegro. Cities are deprived of resources that allow them to care for the safety of their citizens. Ask those in these cities who are beginning to survive today.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-20-m1.u126	So, colleagues, we're moving on to making a decision. And I want to emphasize what Dombrowski was talking about. Mr. Alexander, take up your jobs. What about the 20th year, huh? Since the 20th year, this amendment has been made by the committee head. And with that right, I'm going to put my colleagues, just as a basis, on the basis of a bill. I'm asking everyone to come into the hall. I am a committee, united, which has been worked by all the deputies, and I will only lay the foundation. So, colleagues, I'm voting on a bill amending some of Ukraine's laws to ensure competitive conditions for the production of electricity from alternative sources of energy (8449-d), a co-worked committee based on the rights that the head of the Dombrovsky Committee has sounded as a stenogram. Please vote. Every voice. Please support carefully, responsibly. Let's vote, colleagues, yes. We're backing it up. Vote. Please be supportive. [[18:10:49]] For 219 Everyone didn't make it. Six men. I'll set it up, but invite the men into the hall. Come into the hall, colleagues. Please invite me to the hall. We're only seven people short. We've had a long day. And, colleagues, I very much ask you to remain disciplined, there will be no vote until noon. Come into the hall. Please, I'll be the first to return. So the first vote. I ask you to support the offer to return to the law. Don't leave, colleagues. Please don't leave. Ruslan, Ruslan, don't leave. It's not fair, colleagues, come back. That's not fair. I'm asking you to come back. So I'm betting, colleagues, first sentence: go back to the draft law. Please vote, please support. Let's vote, colleagues. We'll support it. Vote. Please vote for everyone, please support. [[18:11:58]] For 226 We're back, colleagues. Now everybody's in position. No one's coming out. Every voice matters. Colleagues, I'm asking everyone to come in. I'm putting 8449d on the basis of Dombrovsky's proposals. And every voice, colleagues, please back up, please vote. We'll support green energy. We'll support, colleagues, our citizens. Vote. Please be supportive. Every voice. Let's vote, colleagues. Fisherman, back up. Vote. Vote. We vote carefully, each voice. [[18:12:38]] For 227 Decision taken, colleagues. I'd like to read out the Birdsman's application again, colleagues. She reports that her card did not work in the vote for Law 5309: "Please consider my vote in favour of Law 5309." Colleagues, it's been a very difficult day, but it's been a historic day. We won't be able to make it, there's only two minutes left. I didn't promise, I said I would do everything I could. So, then, fellow workers! Colleagues, it's impossible to find voices right now, Ira. That's impossible. I appealed to the factions not to participate in the discussion. Now it's two minutes away, that's impossible. Colleagues, do we vote on the transplant? Colleagues, do we vote on the transplant? Go back to the hall then. Go back to the hall. We have two factions against us, colleagues. We have two factions against it. Colleagues, I had to work full-time, I did what I could today. As Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, I did everything I could. I spoke to everyone at every stage of support. We were unable to implement all of our plans for today. Sadly, however, by noon we had adopted only one law, but the historic Law on Support of the Ukrainian Church. All of you, colleagues, welcome. It was a beautiful day, a historic decision. But I now declare the evening meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine closed. Tomorrow at 10 a.m., I invite everyone to continue our work. Thank you.
