ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-13-m1.u1	Dear National Deputies! Please come into the hall and prepare for the registration for the evening session. I'm asking all the national MPs to come to the hall. My colleagues, I'd like to remind you that we've passed the two laws of the intellectual property block by noon, and now we're going to have another law. As you've noted, these laws don't cause conflict in the hall, and so I'm going to ask that we support the next law's proposal to go through it with a reduced procedure. Because then we have important issues about the rehabilitation of victims of political repression. These are two laws: 6574 (second reading) and 3815, and 3815-d. And, colleagues, in order to be able to address the overwhelming issues of the rehabilitation of victims of political repression, I would like to work effectively and support the proposal for a reduced procedure. So I ask everyone to come into the hall so that we can support this proposal by voting. And please prepare for registration. I'd like the secretariat to invite the deputies to the hall. So, are you ready to register? National deputies of Ukraine are requested to sign up for the evening session. I'd like you to sign up. [[16:04:13]] 357 national deputies registered. I declare the evening plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine open. Like I said, we're moving on to the next issue of the agenda. This is a draft law amending article 5 of the Ukrainian Law on the distribution of audiovisual works, phonographs, videograms, computer programs, databases.(4571) And, colleagues, I ask you to support his consideration of the reduced procedure. And I'm really asking everyone to support this proposal, also taking into account that the following bills are bills of various factions from Parliament and that we can reach them, let's support this proposal. Ready, can we vote? So I'm voting on the proposal that we consider draft Law 4571 as a reduced procedure. Please vote and please support, vote, please support. [[16:05:35]] For-98 For me there is no problem, we can enter into an hourly discussion, just whether it will make us stronger, whether it will make the Ukrainian Parliament stronger, or whether it will be better for us to go through four or five more laws. Colleagues, I'm asking everyone to come into the hall and I want to remind you that the next block is the rehabilitation of victims of political repression, extremely important issues. A number of deputies, including Mr. Yuri Suhevich, have been preparing and waiting for the adoption of this law for a long time. In order for us to get to this block, it is important that we support the consideration of the reduced procedure. Moreover, the bill does not cause debate in the room and is supported by everyone. I want to remind you, by the way, that the next one is 3,815, where the King's co-author is, and I'm sure we're also interested in getting to it. So, colleagues, let's get together, get together, and support the proposal for a reduced procedure. Please take your seats and prepare for the vote. I ask everyone to take part in the vote. So everyone has taken responsibility and I ask you to support the proposal to consider the draft intellectual property block bill 4571 under a reduced procedure. Please vote, please support me, colleagues. Please support, we vote. [[16:07:30.]] For the 120th. 120 – a little. I'll put it again if we don't have any votes. I'm going to show by factions: "Peter Poshenko's Block" 55, "The People's Front" 39, "The Opposition Block" 0, "The Self-Help" 5, "The Radical Party" 11, "The Fatherland" 5, "The Will of the People" 2, "The Rebirth Party" 0. My colleagues, I think I've made enough arguments and strong arguments, and important arguments, the bill is not controversial. And we're actually going to lose the precious time of Parliament's work. I'm asking you, colleagues, I'm going to take one last time, one third to vote, if there are no votes, we're going to go to full reading. Please take up jobs, and I'm proposing that we consider the draft Law 4571 as a reduced procedure. Please vote and please support. Vote. [[16:08:51]] For-136 There is the great political will of the hall to consider fully. I put the same bill three times each. Colleagues, I'm not a babysitter for 10 to 15 minutes, it's a faction task, it's a discipline in factions. We are moving on to draft Law 4571 in full procedure, and I invite you to report to Deputy Minister of Economic Development and Trade of Titarczuk Mikhail Ivanovich. Please have an order of 10 minutes. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-13-m1.u2	Dear Head! Dear National Deputies! The bill provides for improvements in the process of marking audiovisual works, phonographs, videograms, computer programs, databases. During the operation of this law, a problem arose in practice regarding the implementation of its legal standards. There are occasions when fraudsters illegally receive trademarks, such as using fictitious license agreements. In addition, the trademark’s protective elements, despite a fairly high level of protection, are imperfect and are thus violated. violators are able to change the original markings and such counterfeit holographic elements mark counterfeit products. We offer a simple mechanism to counter these phenomena, where right-holders can further control the process of issuing stamps and counter the illegal use of these protective elements in a timely manner. The bill provides that the Mine-Economic Development will be published on the official website within three working days of the issuance of the stamps. First. This lists the names of audiovisual copies, phonograms, videograms, computer programs, databases, and notables recorded in these copies of the applicant’s decision on the issue of stamps, the date of issue of the stamps, and the number of stamps issued. The bill aims to create an additional mechanism to combat piracy and to violate the rights of copyright subjects and related rights in the distribution of their works. The expected result of the adoption of the bill is to improve the investment climate and image of Ukraine and create more favourable conditions for business. Please support the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-13-m1.u3	Thank you. The report invites the first deputy head of the Committee on Science and Education, Spiowakovsky Alexander Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-13-m1.u4	Dear Andrew Volodymyrovich, distinguished colleagues! The Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Science and Education at its meeting on 13 July 2016, stressing: that is, in fact, a year and a half ago, the draft Ukrainian Law on Amendments to Article 5 of the Ukrainian Law on the Distribution of Audiovisual Works, phonographs, videograms, computer programs, databases and notes that the draft Act proposes to clarify the procedure for submitting applications for receipt of surveillance stamps, as well as to introduce a mandatory publication rule on the official website of the central executive body that implements the national intellectual property policy, information on applicants and relevant audiovisual products on the adoption of a decision on the issue of control stamps, the number and date of issue of stamps. I would like to point out that, during the consideration of the bill, the committee noted that over the past 10 years, a controlled release, and the corresponding circulation of copies of works, phonographs, videograms, computer programs, databases had been cut thirty - three times. In fact, the entire content has been transferred to the Internet. So changing conditions leads to what we need, we just need to adopt a law that regulates these things. Therefore, considering that the standards proposed by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine are another step towards building a transparent system of decision-making and thus overcoming the problem of piracy in Ukraine, the Committee on Science and Education proposes to support the legislative initiative and recommends to the Supreme Council of Ukraine a draft of the Ukrainian Law amending article 5 of the Ukrainian Law on the distribution of copies of audiovisual works, phonograms, videograms, computer programs, databases (registration number 4571) (from 04.05. 2016) on the basis of the first reading as a whole. It's a very short bill that only has two paragraphs. Please support and resolve this matter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-13-m1.u5	I'm sorry, questions, questions. Please, three minutes for a question to the co-rapporteur. Paul Kishkar, please pass the word for the question of the Birdcatcher. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-13-m1.u6	Thank you. Dear colleagues, of course, would like to ask a question to the representative of the Ministry of Economics, because there are many more questions to them as a professional department of intellectual property. But I want to pay attention to the GNEU's proposals for this bill and read it to you. GNEU says that it is doubtful that the adoption of the proposals is relevant and says that technological developments in the information field have led to an objective reduction in the use of information media, which, according to law, is linked to the placement of copyright objects and digitally related rights on the Internet. I don't think we need to be specialists because we understand that. I have a question for the Ministry of Economics. When will Parliament finally receive global system bills to change the scope of intellectual property protection and we will not spend time on projects that are not relevant? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-13-m1.u7	Please, Mr. Alexander.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-13-m1.u8	Mikhail Ivanovich, this question before.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-13-m1.u9	Okay. You can answer from here.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-13-m1.u10	Mikhail Ivanovich, this is. Mikhail Ivanovich, there was a question for you. When will you prepare a system law?
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-13-m1.u11	Good afternoon! Mrs. Birdie, I'd like to inform you about the lack of activity. In fact, we still have the Peter market, yes, and at the gas stations, we see the sale of disks, yes, laser discs. So I think it's relevant right now. Maybe with the next step, we'll still, well, go through it to be in Europe without the stamps. But today it is an urgent question.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-13-m1.u12	Thank you. Eutuszek gives the question to Krivenkov. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-13-m1.u13	Victor Krivenko, National Movement of Ukraine. Dear Mr. Titarchuk, we have respect for you there for some of your actions as deputy minister, and because you fought, but there is a great question for the Ministry of Economics. There's ABBYY, ABBYY Ukraine, Acrobat Reader and other products. It's actually the only company with a huge discount. I think that up to 80 percent went and legalized software for scanners, for others who were in the government. And her money -- it was back in the 13th, in the 14th, her money had already been cut three times. It's a company of the world that's been blown up. And I was promised, Deputy Prime Minister First, that the Minister of Finance would decide this issue so that we wouldn't be ashamed. Tell me, please, this is just $200,000 at this rate. People have already lost, people no longer believe. How do we continue to want to adopt laws, vote, and tell people that we want to reform when we are simply cheating on them and not fulfilling our obligations? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-13-m1.u14	Thank you for asking. In fact, if we're from history, yes, it was the State Intellectual Property Service, where software was provided. We've been seeing your colleagues. I want to say to you today that we are really studying this question. The bottom line is that, like the service in the liquidation phase, we have to see this in the budget. So we didn't say no, we just have to find the budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-13-m1.u15	Thank you. And the next question is Michael Bondar. Please, that's the last question. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-13-m1.u16	Mikhailo Bondar, 119 constituency. Please pass the word to Taras Kremen.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-13-m1.u17	Taras Kremen, People's Front. I have a question for the deputy minister. Mikhail Ivanovich, on the one hand, is well aware of the continuing, systematic work with piracy. This involves not only the enormous challenges and warnings of the world’s society but also the challenges faced by the Ukrainian State. I have a question for you two, they're pretty simple and they're pretty straightforward. What should we do about the decline in the number of media outlets in the future, and we will have cloudy technologies? On the other hand, what do you see mechanisms to protect Ukrainian intellectual property, especially when we have a huge outflow of shipbuilding specialists? For example, from Mikolayev, ships travel to China, and they do not carry flash drive, they come and sell virtually decades of Ukrainian equipment, achievement, development, and, in fact, allow other states.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-13-m1.u18	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-13-m1.u19	Thank you for asking. Look, I can't comment on behalf of the government. I can tell you how subjective vision is, right? – for cloud technology and for intellectual property in general. First, we need to restore respect for intellectual property, strengthen protection and accountability. These facts are, you're right. As far as piracy is concerned, there is a cyber police force today, yes. Some measures are being taken, but these measures, they don't seem to be true today. We've created the National Intellectual Property Board for today, where all of these issues are brought out. As for clouds, I think it's the future, and we have to think about it now and create a legislative basis. So once again, I would like to point out that what these bills are now historical in the Council, they're just increasing intellectual property. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-13-m1.u20	Thank you. So the time for questions is up. And now we're going to the next chapter, this is a three-minute performance from the factions. And I'm asking the factions who want to participate in the discussion to record. Please. From Self-Help Sidorovich Ruslan. Out of place, right? Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-13-m1.u21	Ruslan Sidorovich, Self Help Union. The issue of resolving intellectual property problems is extremely relevant, since the image of Ukraine as a state that does not respect copyright, where intellectual property is not protected, corrupts both the investment climate and the image of Ukraine as a whole. At the same time, we can say that the bill proposed only partially addresses the issues that need to be addressed today. On the one hand, really, the issue of a more global bill has long been out of date, which will systematically address copyright issues. On the other hand, we also need to understand clearly that when we talk about registration procedures, they have to be fast enough, fast enough. Because the time spent today to register the right to copyright is completely disproportionate to the time frame that is needed for today. So, based on the bill that was put forward today, the proposal and the position of the Self-Help faction, we support it as a basis. For the second reading, we're working on things that we can work out in the framework of the proposed bill. And we are looking forward to the Cabinet of Ministers, including the Ministry of Economic Development and Trade, a system bill that will solve the problem of piracy and copyright globally. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-13-m1.u22	The word is now given to the people's MP of Urbansk. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-13-m1.u23	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to point out the shortcomings in these bills that we have adopted today and that we are now considering. I think it's not so important that we don't have the opportunity to do it for the second reading. And I would like to emphasize how important these bills are to our nation, to the people of our country. And first of all, it's very important to our state, to its image in the international arena. So I am very much asking the entire hall to unite, vote, and support our colleagues in Kabmin. And I think we can frame their shoulders and work on these bills for a second reading, even considering that we have such an expert committee, which is the main one in this bill. So once again, I ask you to support these bills.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-13-m1.u24	Dear colleagues, I am now asking you to sign up for a bill from the MPs. I'd like the deputies to sign up. Please, National Deputy Jurinec.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-13-m1.u25	Please pass on the word of Victoria the Bird.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-13-m1.u26	Ladies and gentlemen, I'd like to point out today that this project is very attractive in terms of overcoming piracy and improving investment climate. Nevertheless, I understand the need to maintain it and vote in the first reading, but I would like to point out that this is definitely not a systematic work of the Ministry of Economics. Still, we would like to see systemic things that will really help to overcome piracy and improve the investment climate. Today, I have to inform you that instead of creating systemic things for the protection of our authors' rights, in fact, the Ministry of Economics has developed a decree to increase the registration assemblies for the registration of all intellectual property rights, which are increasing twice or even eight times. This is the kind of protection that the Ministry of Economics offers us, the protection of the intellectual skills of authors, artists, inventors and so on. Unfortunately, I also have to report that the Association of Lawyers of Ukraine has received and addressed me because I received a letter from the Ministry of Economics and Mr. Titarczuk concerning the suspension of, in fact, the discussion and promotion of this decision on the promotion of registration congregations. However, after the decision had been given by the Association of Jurists of Ukraine, a government committee at the Ministry of Economics was gathered literally two days later to further promote it, in order to further confirm the need for a substantial increase in the registration congregations and further transfer it to. This is the decision of the Cabinet of Ministers. I think that these things are totally unacceptable because the Ministry of Economics, as a professional body, is supposed to provide a basis for protecting the rights of all intellectual property owners. They're authors, inventors, they're computer database developers, they're those who invest a lot of money in the development of their brands, they're aitists and so on and so forth. And only after that can we talk about the promotion of some congregations. The situation. When individual congregations rise from 3,000 dollars, attention, up to 30,000 dollars, says only that, unfortunately, someone wants to collect a lot but is not prepared to create a proper foundation and actually promote this investment climate in Ukraine. So once again, I publicly want to draw the Ministry of Economics' attention to this disgraceful draft of the decree that applies to the registration assemblies and to give up this shameful idea. I hope it's finally over.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-13-m1.u27	I've got the position. Thank you, dear colleague. Please, Mr. Clumsy, give me your word.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-13-m1.u28	Thank you. Good afternoon. Gennady Krivoshia, faction of the People's Front. Dear colleagues, we're all very often among ourselves and in groups in general, we're drawing attention to the fact that very many of our specialists, especially those who, by the way, have just spoken of by a colleague, are quite often and quite often going abroad. And so it's quite unfortunate that we're losing not just specialists, we're losing really serious people who could develop the right spheres in us, here, in Ukraine. And I'd like to think about this bill, maybe he's not going to pay much attention to it, but it's still related to what we want to protect the rights of our respective specialists in this area. And that's why I think that this bill needs to be supported. At the same time, I would like to thank, of course, the Ministry of Economics. Although it is said that it is not theirs to the end of the mandate, it is one way or another that speaks of the economic, including the development of our country. There is still a problem today. I'd just like to draw attention to the comments that our scientific expertise has made. We don't pay much attention to them, but there are moments. If today, I hope, the bill will be voted on at least as a basis. And if it's voted in general, we'd like to take into account the comments that are proposed by the Scientific and Experimental Authority. Thank you. I think our entire faction will vote in favour of this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-13-m1.u29	Please, People's Deputy Krivenko. Please give me your word. Yes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-13-m1.u30	Good afternoon! Victor Krivenko, National Movement of Ukraine. I thank you for answering the question. I just want to remind you that we have twice proposed to the Ministry of Economics during the drafting of the State Budget Act to anticipate these costs and have not seen the initiative of the Ministry of Economics. And another thing is that the Minneconomy burned down the cost was unusable. And there were draft decisions that were even agreed upon by individual ministries. And I'm asking you very much to take it back and prove it. There's a need, if there's a redistribution of funds, I'm sure it'll support this budget committee because we've been looking at this issue and we all realize together that we can't be ashamed of ourselves in front of our partners. Now I have a number of questions before the Ministry of Economics. Just at the briefing, my party colleague, Valery Fishus, and I talked about how he was meeting yesterday with the President, who promised to pass the Tax Act on the resulting capital. And I would very much like the Ministry of Economics to finally take a position on the subject. For some reason, in a private company, the second person in the company is always the person who is involved in the development, who is involved in the strategy, who is involved in the business. And it's not going to be one year, it's going to be 5 times 10 times 15. In all the businesses, unfortunately, the second person is a nacho, or a headhead, because the money is missing, and they spend every morning with the principal who gets paid. So we did: The Ministry of Finance in the 1990s won over the Ministry of Economics, and that's a fundamental problem, a fundamental problem. They raised themselves twice, three times. I have great respect for the many employees of the Ministry of Finance and really a lot of professional people there, but they only think for one year, they think budget, they don't think economic development strategy. And now the Ministry of Finance is going against the tax on the capital. I would still ask the Ministry of Economics to either take a stand and speak for strategic things, or we'll make proposals for its elimination. The Ministry of Economics, which is not a strategy, is not needed in Ukraine. We have been particularly supportive of the First Deputy Prime Minister, Minister of Economics, and we are positive about many initiatives by Mr. Cuba. But what's the question of the implementation of the coalition agreement, why haven't the state-owned enterprises been destroyed as an organization-law form? Please tell me why the coalition agreement is not being implemented. We then spoke to one minister first, then there was a second minister, saying that make them stock companies, let them be audit boards at businesses, let them be supervisory boards. We don't need to be in charge of old businesses, we don't need 3,000 companies, we don't do anything about it. Where are industrial parks? Where's the real-time expert credit agency, already in March? Even the little money we've been able to knock out, 200 million dollars.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-13-m1.u31	No, you only had Kishkar give it to you, and you didn't sign up. No, you have 30 seconds. There was Kishkar and he handed it to you, but you didn't sign up. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-13-m1.u32	[[Unheard]]
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-13-m1.u33	No, of course not. And you weren't just written down. All right, two minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-13-m1.u34	Thank you, Madam Chairman. That's why we wanted to see the position of the Ministry of Economics on the issue of tax on capital output, which requires all the business. And the Ministry of Finance's calculations need to be checked, and we need to look not at one year, which is a hole, but at the profits and the perspective that our economy has given to the introduction of this tax and the weakening of our tax. Next question. We don't see the Ministry of Economics' position on tax minimization that happens through our natural persons entrepreneurs. We see strong defense by individual deputies, by individual lobbyists, today Mrs. Kugel correctly said that lobbyism is for a particular group of people who have nothing wrong with it. But when today two thirds of the entrepreneurs are used in fictitious schemes. When today those who work in the market, those who have created 3-5 jobs there, that's a minority of those individuals who are entrepreneurs who are used by large corporations to avoid taxation. A simple example today is that one business exists in Kiev: 150 stores of elite clothing, 7 billion dollars of annual turnover, 540 individuals of entrepreneurs working for one owner. Because this allows you to triple your tax burden. Smuggling took place in Ukraine, taxes were not paid and customs officers were still covering it until the end consumer. So we expect from the Ministry of Economics a real position, what to do, how to protect and not touch our simplifieds. We may need to reduce the tax burden on them, but stop giving large financial and industrial groups the opportunity to use our oligarchs to enrich themselves. The next question is very simple, please say buy Ukrainian -- pay the Ukrainians. How is the Ministry of Economics the only one in this position expressed by one of the deputies not to support it? Does it still support the need to copy the world's best experience? They're our partners, too.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-13-m1.u35	Thank you, thank you. Dear colleagues! It's the last bill in a block of laws relating to intellectual property. So I'm very much asking you to go back to the session room because we're about to go to the discussion. I'm asking the reporter to take one minute for now. Dear Mr. Deputy Minister! Mr. Deputy Minister, I ask you one minute under the Rules to sum up the discussion and we will proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-13-m1.u36	Thank you, distinguished national MPs, for asking. I would like to go back to the subject of intellectual property, and especially that of Mrs. Bird. So before you know it, it's back to mining. We're officially inviting you to the National Intellectual Property Council to include you and there, about the tariff, I think we can discuss, which is the increase that went on the theme "Pharmaceuticals." That's what you know. What's also relevant, Mr. Krivenko, I think this year we're going to find ways to solve the issue, which is what happens after the debt is repaid. And as for other issues, I think we can talk about this in the line of work, because in principle we have everything. I don't think that's gonna be a problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-13-m1.u37	Thank you for your clarification. My colleagues, I ask you once again to return to the session room. And in fact, we have another thing on this block: it's going to be a change to the Ukrainian Customs Code for the Protection of Intellectual Property Rights. So we're going to finish voting on the bills in the first reading and then change to the Customs Code. Please return to your workplace and there will be a vote in 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-13-m1.u38	So, colleagues, let's move on to making a decision. I'm asking everyone to take up jobs. So, colleagues, let's move on to the decision-making process, and I'm voting on the draft Act amending article 5 of the Ukrainian Law on the distribution of audiovisual works, phonographs, videograms, computer programs, databases (No. 4571) as a basis, colleagues. I ask you to leave the beds, both government and guest, and prepare for making a decision. Colleagues, do you have time to vote? You're on time, aren't you? Ready? So 4571 is the base. Please vote and please support. Vote. [[16:40:46]] For 211 I see we haven't made it. I stressed and warned several times that they should go into the room and leave their seats in the bed, it is irresponsible not to vote. Do you hear that? I'm implying Popov. No, I'm talking to Popov. We need to vote more responsibly and be careful when voting. So, colleagues, I'm asking you to take up your jobs and I'm voting on the proposal to go back to voting for Law 4571. So please vote, please support the offer to return and ask everyone to vote. We are now waiting for Mr. Yuri for 10 seconds, Mr. Yuri will take his place. All right, everybody, vote back to 4571, please vote, please support, vote. [[16:42:14]] For 217 I'll do it again, just keep your hands where I can see them. You know, get the deputies together. So, colleagues, I'm not going to bet indefinitely. Like any bill, I'll only put it three times. Now I ask you to invite someone who is not in the room and to participate in the vote. Please come in and take your jobs. Ready, can we vote? So I'm re-voting the proposal to go back to voting for Law 4571. I ask everyone to participate carefully in the vote and vote, and I ask your support. We're voting for the return. Please vote, please support, Colleagues, carefully every voice. Please support, we vote. Mikhail! [[16:43:33]] For 232 We're back. And now I'm putting draft Law 4571 to the vote as a basis. Please vote. And I'm asking you to support everyone. Based on the base. We vote carefully and responsibly. Vote. Please be supportive. [[16:44:04]] For 238. Decision taken. I welcome the committee with a well-prepared package of laws. The committee asked for the next bill to be transposed, and we share the position of the committee and the government. What is more, it allows us to move on to a very important question of the following: the question that we have been going on for a long time, but, I am sure, today we have finally found a compromise and we will be able to make a positive decision on it – this is a draft of the Act amending some of Ukraine's legislative acts to improve the rehabilitation of victims of the communist totalitarian regime's repression of 1917-1991 (6574). A law that allows us to restore historical justice to our heroes who have been reprised. This law is in the second reading. And I'm announcing a transition to his consideration. And I invite you to report to the head of the Committee on Veterans, participants in the hostilities of Trelyaków Alexander Yuriovich. I'm asking the right-wing authors to get ready for work. The right hand is not much, it's only 15 rights. I think within 10 to 15 minutes we can have a discussion. So let's get to the point. Alexander Yuriovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-13-m1.u39	Dear colleagues, today the rehabilitation and restoration of the good name of the victims of Communist repression from 1917 to 1991 is the moral obligation of our nation. This is what Bill 6574 states: First. To establish that the basis for rehabilitation without any additional requirements is to apply to a person of reprisal in a non-convictional order, the so-called trinity, a special meeting of the NCSC. The other one. The rehabilitation of persons convicted of acts that, according to the resolutions of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, 1096 are not considered to be crimes in civil society. Third. Authorize the decision to appoint persons who have been rehabilitated to the National Rehabilitation Commission, which will be established at the Ukrainian Institute of National Memory. It will be a college body without the status of a central executive body. Four. Authorize the recognition of persons rehabilitated to regional rehabilitation committees that will be created by district government administrations. The Chief Legal Authority has commented on the bill: The proposal is to rehabilitate those who, during the fight against the Soviet authorities, committed diversions and terrorist acts. Yes, these words sound frightening, but these are the terms by which the Soviet authorities blamed the fighters for Ukraine's independence. If this rule is removed, we will not change anything, and those who fought for independence will continue to be criminals in the eyes of the state, and for the independence and sovereignty that they fought for. I would point out that the bill does not provide for criminal proceedings. Its goal is to stop and find people rehabilitated in a new process, taking into account new open archival documents. Decisions will be made by each individual. The representatives of the Henprocuratorate, the Ministry of Internal Affairs, the Human Rights Commissioner, will be included in the commission. It should also be noted that the purpose of the bill is first of all to expand the number of people who are being rehabilitated by the State, not to change the existing system of benefits for the rehabilitation of persons. The question of the benefits will be considered by another Bill 1197 of the People's Deputy Sukhevic. For the second reading, 68 suggestions were received, of which 45 were included, 16 were rejected, and 7 were taken into account. Committee Decision: To enact Bill 6574 as a whole as a law. Thank you. Please support the committee's decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-13-m1.u40	Thank you. So I'm asking you to prepare the right-wing authors. I'm going to call those adjustments that are rejected. Anyone who wants to bet on confirmation is by raising their hand. 1st. Don't insist. Four. Don't insist. 5th. Don't insist. 9th. Don't insist. 14th. The author does not insist. 16th. Don't insist. 17th. Nine? Well, I called her, you have to be careful. Please, 9th, Egor Sobolev.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-13-m1.u41	Colleagues, pay attention, please. In fact, we have recognized all the people who fought for Ukraine’s independence. But according to Ukrainian legislation, many remain criminals. And it's been going on for years to undo those steel-made reprisals. This amendment suggests a decision that the relatives of those repressed people themselves have made. All who are recognized as fighters for Ukraine’s independence are innocent to Ukraine. They didn't make any diversions; they fought for the independence of our state. A request to support this decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-13-m1.u42	Do you insist on voting? Then, please, Mr. Alexander, comment.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-13-m1.u43	This right is proposed to all persons who, by the Law on the Legal Status and Respect for the Memory of the Fighters for Ukraine's Independence in the 20th Century, recognize as fighters the independence of the rehabilitated. Whether they were subjected to reprisals or not, they were subjected to reprisals. The committee rejected the amendment, as the bill defines the rehabilitation of persons who were only subjected to reprisals.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-13-m1.u44	Thank you. So, I'm voting for the amendment number nine of the People's MP Sobolev, and the committee rejected it. Whoever supports this amendment, please vote. [[16:51:03]] For 115 The decision is not taken. 17 law. Are you insisting? Yegor, 17th is your turn. Are you insisting on the 17th or not? Then please turn on the microphone. 17th Amendment, Yegor Sobolev.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-13-m1.u45	My colleagues, once again, I ask that you understand people whose relatives in the days of Stalin’s terror, risking their lives, health, freedom, fighting for our independence, setting an example, giving us the energy that resulted in our having this independence. Sadly, since then, Ukraine has failed to correct this mistake in modern times, many of these independence fighters are formally criminals. And the history of their rehabilitation has continued for years. A request for a decision to put an end to this. All who fought for Ukrainian independence must be rehabilitated by our decision. They should no longer be considered criminal criminals, their relatives should not be humiliated in front of the prosecutor’s office today. What is more, you remember how these things worked out.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-13-m1.u46	Please comment.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-13-m1.u47	Yegor, this law has been written for almost a year. There were so many experts from the Institute of National Memory. Every letter and every comma in this law has been read by international lawyers and the Henprosecutors and lawyers. If such a decision is a committee to reject, it is very balanced. We can only speak the legal language. To say that ships are swarming with space, and that's what we're doing, that sounds good. But we can only speak the legal language, so this is not included, it's rejected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-13-m1.u48	Thank you. So I'm going to vote number 17. Whoever supports this amendment, please vote. The committee turned her down. [[16:53:25]] For 111 111. The decision is not made. Next, 24th. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-13-m1.u49	Alexy Rybchin, "Fatherland" faction, Donetsk. The bill envisions the establishment of rehabilitation committees that will decide on persons who have been rehabilitated or who have suffered reprisals. Such committees will be permanent college bodies in the city’s public administrations. The bill provides that such commissions have the right to form working bodies, governments, secretariats, committees, subcommittees, working groups and expert groups. While supporting the whole concept of the bill and the idea of joining such working bodies of scientists and historians, I do not understand why I should create such a branched organizational structure of commissions: secretariats, committees, subcommittees. That's going to require material and technical security. I propose replacing this list with the word "working groups" or asking for an explanation of how urgent the committee head is in the bill is the structure of the committees? Can you limit yourself to working groups? Thank you. Please put it in.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-13-m1.u50	Thank you. Please, Mr. Alexander.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-13-m1.u51	What if it's not a task force, it's an expert group? Does this have any effect on anything? Let the commission itself determine its name. Why would we drive them away, that's all. So the committee rejected the amendment. Let them determine for themselves.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-13-m1.u52	Do you insist on voting? Although, I think it's unpractice, it's about organization of work. And really, the logic is that it's more of a name than a name. But, nevertheless, I'm going to put your amendment to the vote. And I'm betting on the 24th vote, and the committee rejected it. Whoever supports this, I ask you to vote. [[16:55:20]] For-97 97-yes. The decision is not made. 31st. Don't insist. 34th. Please, Rybchin.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-13-m1.u53	Alexy Rybchin, "Fatherland" faction, Donetsk. Edit the next one. The Rehabilitation Commission examines the circumstances surrounding the repression of a particular person. At the same time, it examines available material and written evidence, other documents, and materials. I suggest that we also examine the information contained in open access. So far, there's a lot of information on the Internet, there's electronic databases, there's digitized materials -- anything. This is a large amount of information that can also contain the necessary data and cannot be ignored. I was very often approached by scientists from Donetsk, Bahmut, who are working on creating a museum of political repression in the Donetsk region. They use not only archival data, which is codified, but also any available sources. And I know that useful information is also in open access. Please don't limit only the materials that are written in your bill and support my drafting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-13-m1.u54	Will you comment? Should I put it to the vote right away? I immediately put to the vote the amendment of 34 people’s deputies Rybchin. The committee turned her down. Who is supporting her? Please vote. [[16:57:03]] For-89 The decision is not made. 38th. Don't insist. 39th. Don't insist. 40th. Don't insist. 57th. Don't insist. 58th. Don't insist. 63rd. Don't insist. Colleagues, so we've completed the discussion of all the rights, we can move on to the decision-making process. And I am now very insistently asking all the factions to invite MPs into the hall. It is a matter of historical justice and the dignity of those who have suffered the repression of the Stalinic and Communists. Perhaps many in the family have relatives who were in Siberia. My family spent ten years in Siberia. And out of respect for those people, I ask you now to maximize the mobilization of the hall and prepare for the vote. I'm giving Alexander Trelyakow one minute to conclude. During this time, I ask everyone to come to the hall and prepare for the vote. Please, Mr. Alexander.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-13-m1.u55	This law has been in operation for almost a year. The foundation of this law was written in the Institute of National Memory. Therefore, the entire text that is there, what has been introduced by members of our committee, were essentially the amendments of the Institute of National Memory. There was also a large group from the prosecutor’s office, there was a large group from the Ministry of Internal Affairs, there was a large group from the U.S.S.A., so this law is very balanced and I ask him to support it, it is our duty to rehabilitate those who fought for Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-13-m1.u56	Thank you, colleagues. I see not everyone is in the hall. Now I'm asking for a text, through calls, to invite all the national MPs into the hall. I'm sure everyone will see who voted under this law. So I ask you to come into the hall and take your jobs, this is a very important vote. And I ask you to prepare yourself for making a decision. And I am voting on a bill amending some Ukrainian legislation on improving the rehabilitation of victims of communist totalitarian repression from 1917 to 1991 (No. 6574) on second reading and in general with technical law. Please vote, please support, colleagues, carefully every vote, please support, vote, please vote. [[17:00:19]] For the 220. We didn't make it, I see. Please enter the hall and take your seats. During the vote, please stop any discussion. Colleagues, that's not an acceptable result. I'm asking everyone to prepare for the vote, I'm going to put everyone back on the table, and I'm going to ask everyone to take a job, and I'm going to vote in favour of this law, not to walk in the hall, but to vote. So please all prepare, I'm putting to the vote the proposal to return to the vote in favour of Law 6574 and I'm asking everyone to vote and support this proposal. So please support the return to draft Law 6574. Please vote, please support. Vote. [[17:01:37]] For 232 232-yes. We're back. And now I'm putting in motion a bill amending some Ukrainian legislation on improving the rehabilitation of victims of the communist totalitarian regime from 1917 to 1991 (6574) on second reading and in general with technical and legal rights. Please vote, please support. We vote, carefully, every voice. [[17:02:17]] For 237 237-yes. Decision taken. The law is passed. Mr. Yuri also greets you, I know, with much effort Yuri Suhevich has added to the writing of this law and to make it a law at last. And that's why I welcome you, and thank you for your persistence, and for your professionalism. And to a large extent, you have made this law a law. Thank you, Mr. Yuri. Thank you, Mr. Shuhevich. [[Applause]] And we're moving on to the next issue of the agenda -- this is the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on Victims of Nazi Persecution on Refund (3815 and 3815-d). And I'm asking you to support the proposal to consider it with a reduced procedure. Please vote and please support. Vote. [[17:03:28]] For-173 Decision taken. And I invite you to the report of the National Deputy of Ukraine, Royal Natalia Yuriovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-13-m1.u57	Dear colleagues, of course, the restoration of the selected benefits is a matter of honour for anyone who considers himself truly a national deputy of Ukraine. I want to remind you that on January 1, 2015, the benefits were collected from people who were victims of Nazi persecution during the Great Homeland War in German concentration camps, prisons, ghettos, or forced to work in Nazi Germany. They also took the benefits from veterans of the Great Homeland War, from veterans of work, from people with special needs, from children in family homes, from families who adopted children. That is, a number of socially vulnerable people have been deprived of a number of benefits and compensations since January 1, 2015. Today we have the opportunity to adopt a bill that will help the victims of Nazism recover at least some of their social security and benefits over the past four years. That is, although little is needed today to establish social justice in relation to these people. It will also be absolutely fair to make a decision and to restore the benefits to all who have been deprived of their time. Therefore, we appeal to you not to wait for a decision by the Constitutional Court, but to unite and make a separate decision regarding the recovery of benefits and compensation to those who have been deprived of their last copies in the last four years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-13-m1.u58	Please give the floor to a report on the alternative bill to the head of the Committee on Veterans, Actors of War and ATO Alexander Trelyakow. Please, Mr. Alexander, give us a position on the alternative bill and the committee's position on these two bills.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-13-m1.u59	Dear colleagues, I would like to point out, by the way, that the initiator of the law that we passed before this, and this Law 3815, the initiator of these two bills was Mr. Yuri Sukhevitch, and these are the laws of his law rightfully. I'll report them solely as head of the committee. It's legal. Having considered Bill 3815, members of the Committee on Veterans, Actors of War, ATO participants and people with disabilities submitted the whole bill – 3815-d. Draft Law 3815-d essentially shows for the first time that the Ukrainian State equally recognizes victims of political repression and victims of Nazi persecution, condemns these events of the past and gives victims equal benefits. We offer juvenile and juvenile concentration camps during World War II, i.e. victims of Nazi persecution and the rehabilitated victims of political repression of the Communist totalitarian regime in Ukraine since 1917-1991, who have been punished in the form of deprivation of liberty or forced displacement to medical institutions to compare benefits to war invalids and war participants. This is true of the benefits of free travel in civil transport, as well as the right to benefit from community services without taking into account the income of the family. Today, about 600 victims of Nazi persecution remain and the alleged victims of political repression are near. political repression of some 6,000. The budget will cost about 6 million dollars a year. The bill is in agreement with Minfin. The main scientific and expert office supports the bill. The Committee decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine the adoption of Bill 3815 as a basis and as a whole. Taking into account the changes that.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-13-m1.u60	30 seconds, please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-13-m1.u61	Taking into account the changes that have taken place since the introduction of the bill, I ask that the committee, together with the Chief Legal Authority, be given legal remedies. First. Change the words "disability" to "person with disabilities." Activating the law from the day following the day of publication. Third. Delete the words “article 1” in paragraph 3 of the bill. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-13-m1.u62	Thank you. We've just heard Alexander Tretyakov's position. Now, just a minute. We heard Alexander Tretlyakow's position, who presented the alternative bill 3815-d, and amended the bill under the transcript. I'm giving you two minutes as head of the committee. Please, as chairman of the committee now, finish for two minutes, please, and complete the amendments to this bill, and make your statement to the committee. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-13-m1.u63	But the committee, as chairman of the committee, I have been approached by many deputies who want to make corrections between the first and the second readings, including Victor Pinzenik and other important people. Please vote in favour of this bill only in the first reading, and by the second reading, we will quickly accept it with observations.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-13-m1.u64	Thank you, thank you for presenting the bill and the position of the committee. Colleagues, I'm asking you to sign up for this bill. Mr. Alexander, you can go to your workplace, to your workplace, because there are no questions, according to the reduced procedure. Please sign up. Please, Mr. Skuratowski. Please, Oleg Laishko gives the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-13-m1.u65	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Our team supports bills aimed at State support for victims of Nazi persecution. Who forgot, the Ukrainians gave up 10 million lives to free Ukraine from the brown plague. And they won a war caused by the plot of Hitler and Stalin -- two tyrants, a red and a brown tyrant. For this conspiracy, tens of millions of lives have been paid worldwide to free the world from the "crust plague." Recently, all of Ukraine celebrated the 75th anniversary of the Korukow tragedy, the greatest tragedy of the Second World War, when nearly 7,000 fascists, along with Hungarian textbooks, were burned, shot in my home country's Chernobyl. And there are more than 300 of these destroyed settlements all over Ukraine. And when we see acts of vandalism today: cemented with eternal fire, the memorial inscriptions of victory over fascism are shattered — someone is talking about decommunization. It's not decommunization, it's demobilization, because the whole world respects heroes who fought against fascism, honor the fallen, honor the living. And we Ukrainians should do the same. Anyone who does not remember his past will not have a worthy future.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-13-m1.u66	Next from the Opposition Block, from the faction. Mrs. Queen will be speaking. I'm asking you to turn the microphone on.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-13-m1.u67	Dear colleagues, the Opposition Block will support both bills. And today it doesn't matter who wrote it. The most important thing today is to unite efforts and establish the constitutional guarantees and benefits that these people were illegally deprived of. But I also want to remind you that in the last four years, in this category of people, along with the veterans of the Great Homeland War, the government has disgracefully taken away most of the social benefits and guarantees. And today we also need to work together to return those constitutional benefits and compensations to those who deserve them. We have another anniversary of the Chernobyl accident in April. And you and I have already owed a lot to these people, to those who saved the world from the Chernobyl disaster. That is why we appeal to the presiding officers, representatives of all factions: we need to unite our efforts and return to the people the benefits that have been taken from the people for four years as an unconstitutional tool. And we're asking for a review of the drafts of the Opposition Block, where we're addressing everyone for the benefit of the Great Fatherland veterans, the orphans, the low-income families and the families that adopted the children. And also review the level of child subsistence provision, for many families that today need social protection from the state. Now we're voting for both bills. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-13-m1.u68	Please, Alexi Poroshenko gives the word, I understand, to John Sporish. Please, Mr. Ivan. I see.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-13-m1.u69	Ivan Sporish, Winnitzkin, Peter Dust Block. Of course, these bills have long been said to have a way to live. What's more, as has already been said by the speakers, the reporter, that all of these benefits will be given to about six hundred people. It's a utility, it's a free pass. I think if the utility benefits are still due to these people, maybe free passage here, maybe the units can use it. So it should also be noted that in all the bills where there is a disabled person and a substitute for a disabled person, we also have to accept it in the bill, because today we also have to make it in every bill, and that's how it should be. Because the word "disabled" should be forgotten by now. That's why I, the block of Peter Poshenko, will vote in favour of Bill 3815-d, and ask everyone to vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-13-m1.u70	So, colleagues, the discussion is over. I'm asking you to invite all the national deputies to the hall. We're moving on to making a decision. Heads of factions, please invite deputies to the Hall. Please let the secretariat know that we are moving on to the decision-making process. So I'm voting on a draft bill amending the Ukrainian Law on Victims of Nazi Persecution to recover the benefits from the Committee's proposal (3815-d) first. Please be supportive. Please vote. Please support, on a base. [[17:17:15]] For 216 High potential. But you have to stay in the workplace. And I'm asking everyone to take up jobs. Now I'm going to make an offer to come back. But in general, I’m sorry to have to go back. Because I'm calling ahead when there's a vote. And at that point, everyone should be in the hall. Please, take it. So I'm voting on the proposal to go back to voting for a committee proposal, draft Law 3815-d. Please vote for the return. Careful, every voice. Please be supportive. We're voting carefully. Mustafa, please vote. Every voice, colleagues. Vote! [[17:18:34]] For 244 243. And now I'm putting a bill to amend the Ukrainian Law on Victims of Nazi Persecution on the recovery of benefits (3815-d) at the suggestion of a committee on the basis and as a whole. [[B in m in s a l in]] Just on the ground. Everything, just on the ground. Please vote. Please be supportive. Vote! Please be supportive. [[17:19:17]] For 247 246 — yes. The decision is made as a basis. Colleagues, the next thing we know in the daytime is the issue of ratification. But, colleagues, with your permission not to put ratification at risk, I'm going to put it on a rating vote. I ask everyone to participate carefully in the vote. I'll bet. Please. Short for second reading? Colleagues, there's a proposal from the committee head that we vote in favour of a shortened procedure for preparing for the second reading of 3815-d. Let's support the committee. Please vote, please support. Please be supportive. [[17:20:15]] For-188. It's okay. I think we'll be able to prepare in full procedure. It's okay. So, colleagues, next is ratification. Until we get into it, I'm going to put a rating vote so we don't put it at risk. I ask everyone to participate carefully in the rating vote in support of the draft Law on the Ratification of the Guarantee Agreement between Ukraine and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development. The rating vote. I'm asking you to participate, and I'm asking you to support me. Vote! I'm asking you to back me up. Vote. [[17:21:04]] For 199 Head of the committee, please advise me. I'm in factions: 76, Peter Poshenko Block, 54, Self-Help 21, Will of the People, 1, Rebirth Party, 3. Colleagues, shall we come in? We mobilize people, tell me, the heads of factions? Are we coming in or not? Should we mobilize or not? Don't take any chances? Let me put it on the ratings again? Let's do it again, colleagues. Please take up jobs, a very important international document that we have no right to collapse. If the rating vote shows a positive result, we'll get into it, but I'm asking everyone to vote. Mr. Yuri, please support us. Colleagues, well, you can't leave the hall during those votes. So I'm re-voting to support the draft Law on the Ratification of the Guarantee Agreement (0163). Please take part in the rating vote and please support. Vote. Please be supportive. Vote. [[17:22:31]] For 210 Come on in, colleagues. Please. I don't hear you vote. Let's go! So, colleagues, I'm asking now the heads of factions for 10 minutes while the discussion goes on to mobilise the maximum national MPs, we have no right to put this ratification at risk. [[B in m in s a l in]] So, colleagues, after consultations, in order not to put ratification at risk, the committee requests that the ratification review be postponed. And I think it's going to be a valid position, it's too much of a bill. Now, pay attention! We have the next block of second reading. They're very short these bills, very short. We can completely look at all three of them: both 6149, and 1174, and 2216a. But I'll bet everyone on the ratings vote. Please be careful! Obviously factions have positions and I'm asking to participate in the rating vote. First. Who supports us to consider the next issue of the order of the day. This is a draft law amending the Criminal Procedure Code of Ukraine in connection with the ratification of the Third Additional Protocol and the Fourth Additional Protocol to the European Convention (6149). Please vote. Please participate in the rating vote. Please be supportive. Vote. [[17:24:24]] For 202 Next bet. Who is in charge of the review of the draft Law amending the Criminal Code for the establishment of responsibility for crimes against members of the State Border Service, the Armed Forces, the National Guard and the Security Service (No. 1174)? Please participate in the rating vote. Please vote. Please be supportive. Vote. [[17:25:04]] For 197 I'll bet the next one on the rating vote. So who supports the proposal to get us into the next law in the order of day 2216a. This is a bill amending some Ukrainian legislation on the activities of technology parks. Colleagues, please mobilize and please support 2216a. Second reading. It's a short law. We can look into it. Please vote, please support the vote, please vote, please support, vote. [[17:25:54]] For-187 And, colleagues, my next proposal, I am convinced that this will be the unifying bill next, which is in order of the day, is the draft Judgment Order 2017 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine for the contribution of young people to the development of parliamentaryism, local self-government (7218). Whoever supports this draft regulation's rating vote, please vote, please support. [[17:26:39]] For 214 I think we can go in. So we're going to Project Order 7218, and I'm asking you to support the proposal to consider it in a simplified way. Please vote, please support, please support. [[17:27:08]] For 184 Decision taken. And I invite the head of the Committee on Family, Youth Policy, and Sports of Palatno Arthur Leonidovich to report. Mr. Arthur, please. Please turn on the microphone from the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-13-m1.u71	From the rostrum, so from the rostrum. Honorable Andriy Volodymyrovich, a respected colleague, is selected each year by the committee to select ten candidates from district councils and all-Ukrainian youth social organizations for the award of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Prize for the contribution of young people to the development of parliamentaryism, local self-government. Decisions on the appointment of candidates shall be taken at the meeting of the Committee of its members. The award is awarded to citizens under 35 years of age, youth and children’s social organizations. The Committee believes that these candidates, including participants in hostilities, young leaders, defenders worthy of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Prizes. They all made significant contributions to the development of parliamentaryism and local self-government in the respective regions of Ukraine. Part of the candidates were directly involved in drafting draft laws that became laws in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Another part of the candidates implemented projects aimed at protecting the rights of young workers and entrepreneurs, students, children, pensioners, internally displaced persons. Dear colleagues! I very much ask you to take this matter professionally and support the best representatives of our young people. Thank you for your attention and glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-13-m1.u72	Thank you. Please record: two in, two in. Please, Danchenko Alexander, turn on the Self-Help microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-13-m1.u73	Please pass the word to Romanova Anna.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-13-m1.u74	Dear colleagues! We talk a lot about young people, about their support, but we really want support to be expressed not only in loud speeches, but also in real action. Here are these bonuses, especially with today's dollar rate small, but this is the real material support of our capable youth, our talented youth. It's a signal of what MPs, the Supreme Council they're at least doing something real for the next generation, for talented students, for children, for those who contribute to the development of our state and for the future. Thank you. And I urge everyone to vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-13-m1.u75	Thank you. From the Radical Party Zarzko Valeria Leonidivna. Please pass the word to Silantiev, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-13-m1.u76	Dennis Silantiev, faction of the Radical Party of Lacha. We constantly complain that our young people are going abroad or work or study or even migrate. But what have we done to create conditions for our young people to remain in Ukraine to see their future in this country? We can talk a lot of slogans, but it's best to do things. The Radical Party faction initiates legislation and protects young people’s rights and rights primarily with regard to their health and social protection. So this decision is also a great opportunity for our young people to develop self-government, parliamentaryism for those leaders who today are examples of imitation, so that we can at least motivate them to continue working for the benefit of our country, for the benefit of our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-13-m1.u77	Thank you. From "The People's Front" Unguran Pavlov Yakimović. Please, Mr. Paul.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-13-m1.u78	Praise Jesus Christ! Dear colleagues, I think this is the least we can do for talented young people is to vote on the award order. But I think we're all aware of what a terrible staff outflow today comes from Ukraine, and above all, it's intellectual and highly active young people who are engaged in advanced technology that deals with medical technologies, IT and other breakthroughs. And I think we need it urgently. It is urgent to start a discussion on what we, as a parliament and a government, have to do to ensure that talented young people stay in Ukraine and work for the benefit of Ukraine. I call on the education committee, along with the Committee on Youth, Family, along with the Committee, perhaps information, let's do inter-committee hearings on the support of young scientists in various fields in order to leave Ukraine and work in Ukrainian scientific institutions. This year, thanks to the position of the Ministry of Education and Minister Lilia Grinevich himself, we were able to put in place for the first time the State Research Fund with a sufficiently substantial state budget, but we need to increase this work. I ask you to make a proposal to the voting protocol for the ruling. The faction will vote in favour, but let's work on the issue of Ukrainian scientists, young people staying in Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-13-m1.u79	Thank you. From the "Peter Dust Block" spores Ivan Dmitrovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-13-m1.u80	Ivan Sporish, Peter Dusty Block, Winniechkin. Honorable National Deputies, Your Honor! As we know, every year we condemn our young people in the development of parliamentaryism, we condemn bonuses. And in 2016, we were awarded, for 2017, already March of the month -- we still can't judge. I think today's law, the bill, it's going to unite us because. We should, as we have already heard, have made a statement to the committee head that these are actually 10 candidates, such as those submitted by district councils from all over Ukraine. And every year, when they receive the prizes, all young people in Ukraine look at them. And everyone's trying to get on those lists, and that's pretty nice, and they're taking an example of them. That's why I think it's not that much -- it's just 10 young people getting premiums, and there are participants in combat. So, I think we need to support this law, and that's why we have a decree, and let's do it. No, no, no, no, I would very much like it to unite us, and they all unanimously accepted us. Because it's a small contribution from our Supreme Council to our young people in Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-13-m1.u81	Thank you. From the "Fatherland" faction, Sergey Eutuszek. Please, two minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-13-m1.u82	Sergey Eutuszek, faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-13-m1.u83	And I'm sorry! Colleagues, this is a closing statement. Accordingly, in 2-3 minutes, the vote will take place. I'm asking all the MPs to come to the hall. In two or three minutes, we'll move on to the decision-making process. Please, Mr. Sergei.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-13-m1.u84	Thank you, Mr. Head. Sergey Eutuszek, "The Fatherland" faction. Well, the real solution is to win the 17th year of these outstanding young people that we see on the list, and accordingly, of course, the Fatherland will support this decision in order to at least stimulate our young people. I'm going to say that I have this example that not only do we have to look at the walls of Parliament for these incentives, we have to turn from the central authorities, from the committee, from the session hall to the local self-government, to those leaders of the newly formed united territorial communities, so that their clubs, their cultural institutions, are not closed. And that's to give the enthusiasts, the people I want to do it for free, the opportunity to do various things, the training in these institutions that I'm talking about right now. And of course, it's very sad when I'm on the phone and told to go to the country head, the club is closed and it doesn't give the head a rural opportunity to teach children one way or another, whether it's a physical culture or maybe some other group. And not only does language refer to preschool education and small children, but language applies to extraschools. extracurricular education. We need to do this to take away any thought of going abroad from our children. We need to make sure that we stimulate ours. Our young people before they can develop, manifest, and be on the right level in society. Thank you for your attention. "Paternity" supports the ruling.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-13-m1.u85	Thank you. So we're moving on to making a decision. I'm asking you to take your seats. Thank you. So let's move on to making a decision. I ask everyone to prepare for the vote. I am voting on the draft Judgment Order 2017 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine for the contribution of young people to the development of parliamentaryism, local self-government (7218) on the proposal of a committee on the basis and in general. Please vote. Please be supportive. Vote. [[17:38:32]] For 215 I see they haven't made it. Please invite me to the hall. Take up jobs. Now I'm going to put you back on the line, but I'm asking you to come back to work. Let's see the factions. Colleagues, please invite members of the National Assembly. I'll be right back. And I'm voting on the proposal to go back to Project Order 7218. Please vote for the return to 7218. Please be supportive. [[17:39:27]] For 213 I'll do it again. If there are no votes, the decision will be broken, unfortunately, by colleagues. So I'm asking you to help me gather the deputies. And if there are no votes now, the decision will be broken. So I'm re-voting the motion to draft Decree 7218 to go back to its consideration. If there are no votes, it will be regarded as rejected. Please be supportive. [[17:40:12]] For 215 Regrettably, Decree 7218 was rejected, rejected. Colleagues, now I have an offer for you. My colleagues, listen to me carefully! There's a big request from the committee. The issues that have long been on the agenda are draft decrees to rename a number of population items. Colleagues, this is a matter that has been resolved by local communities. This is the village of the Skull of the Nedrigail district, this is the village of Velatitin of the Hust district, this is the village of the Deep of the Bogodchan region, this is the village of the Ssirniki of the Premysl district. The crowds are waiting for us to make a decision. Let's do the rating vote, fellows, let's unite. I hope that if everyone votes, we will find the votes. I'm talking to everyone. Colleagues, there are almost all the areas here. People in these villages are asking us to do this renaming. It's a technical vote. We don't come to them all the time, today might be our chance to do it. And I'm asking you to hold the rating vote first. And let me remind you, these are 8 names from different regions of Ukraine that communities are asking us to rename. I'm asking you to conduct a rating vote in support so that we can look at these bills that we have in our agenda right now. Let us put aside political differences, let us unite around these issues. I ask you to vote and please support me, colleagues. Please support, we vote. Rename the population at the request of the communities. Please vote and vote, vote. [[17:42:18]] For 209 I'll do it again. Maybe not all of them were oriented. This is not a process of decommunization, it's a process where local communities are asked to rename their settlements from different parts of Ukraine: the Suma region, the Zakarpat region, the Lviv region, the Žitomir region. Let's support the community, we have voices in the hall now. Let us unite, fellow workers. I'm asking everyone to take up jobs. I ask everyone to take part in the vote now. And I'm re-voting to support the transition to these issues. Please vote, please support me, colleagues. Vote. Don't leave the hall, colleagues. Please vote. The rating vote. [[17:43:19]] For 214 Show by factions. Fellows, once again, Andrew Volodymyrovich, Andry Volodymyrovich, I impeccably ask you to come back. It's five minutes of Parliament's work. And that's the solution to the big problem for the communities. Indeed, colleagues, because of our disorganization, the community must wait so long. This is wrong and unfair. I ask everyone to return to their seats. I ask everyone to take part in the vote. Colleagues, I'm asking everyone to come into the hall right now. I'm re-voting to support the changeover. And I'm asking you to support everyone. So the rating vote. If you'll all support me, colleagues, I'd like to vote. Support me, please. Vote. [[17:44:28]] For 227 So, colleagues, this is our responsibility. Everyone should think carefully about these local communities before they want to leave the hall. Make sure everyone's in position. I'm going to put it to a vote. Thus, the first Order 6552, the draft Order on the Rename of the Village of Skull of the Nedrigail district of Sumski district (No. 6552). Please be supportive. Please. [[B in m in s a l in]] Okay. Please, one minute, Fedoruk. One minute, Fedoruk.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-13-m1.u86	Dear colleagues, this is a very important question for those who live in these communities. Speaker said that this was not related to decommunation. This is a request from the community so that they can properly form an inheritance, property, and so on and so forth. It is proposed that the village of Skull in the district of Nedrigail County of Sumska Region be renamed the village of Mala Skullika. It is initiated by the inhabitants of this village. Please vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-13-m1.u87	Colleagues, it's not a technical, it's not a political decision. Don't leave the hall, colleagues. Don't leave the hall, I'll call the names that come out, colleagues. We'll support the community. Don't leave the hall. I'm very much asking you to come back, colleagues. I'm voting on the draft Decree 6552 as a whole. Please vote, please support. Vote, fellows! Please be supportive. We'll support local communities. Please vote, please support. Vote! [[17:46:24]] For 225 One voice, nothing. Take a seat, please. So, colleagues, now we're going to come back and vote. We'll wait until we get Logwinsky's card at the Secretariat. And please, colleagues, now take part in the vote. So the first proposal is to go back to Decree 6552. I would like everyone to vote carefully. Each voice has a weight. Please vote, please support the return. Vote. Every voice. Vote. I ask everyone to take part in the vote. [[17:47:07]] For 234 We're back. 6552 as a whole. Please vote, please support. Please vote. Every voice. Vote. [[17:47:27]] For 236 236. It's been decided. Next. Project of a decision to rename the village of Velatitin in the district of Zakarpat. Need an explanation?
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-13-m1.u88	Vote. 6618. Please support me, please vote 6618 as a basis and as a whole. Vote. Please be supportive. Careful! [[17:47:59]] For 216 What's the warning, colleagues? Any warning? Let me put it back. Andrew Volodymyrovich, please. Andrew! Please. I ask you to do the work that the Ukrainian citizens entrusted us with during our working hours. Please, everyone, work hard. So please, Krulko, 30 seconds. 30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-13-m1.u89	Ivan Krulko, "The Fatherland" faction. Dear colleagues, this is a technical question. This is the return of the historical name when the letter o is added to the village of Velatitin and it will be called Velatino, as it was historically called. Let us support a community that has been waiting years to correct such inadequacy and error. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-13-m1.u90	Thank you. So I'm voting on the proposal to go back to Project Rule 6618. And I'm asking you to support everyone. Please vote. [[17:49:18]] For 218. Next 6619. Rename the village of Deepok of the District of Ivano-Frankow. 6619, no warning? Vote? So 6619 is the basis and the whole. Please vote and please support 6619. I'd like your support, colleagues. We'll support each other. Please vote. [[17:49:52]] For 223 Three votes. We'll be right back. Please, colleagues, let's support each other. Don't leave the hall. I'll call the names that come out of the hall. I'll bet again. Don't leave the hall. Go back to the hall. I'm putting 6619 on the ground as a whole. Please vote. Please be supportive. Vote. Three votes is not enough. Please vote. Please be supportive. Vote. Every voice. Please be supportive. [[17:50:34]] For the 220. The next one is 7096. Project Order on the name of the village of Sirniki of the Premyslánsk district of Lviv. Please vote. Please vote, please support 7096, please vote, please support, vote. [[17:51:15.]] For 230 Decision taken. Next up, 7096. A draft decree on the renaming of the village of Dibrovka in the District of Žitomir. Please vote, please support Zitomir, 7096 as a whole, 7097. Please vote, please support, vote, please support. [[17:51:53]] For 230 Decision taken. Next draft of the Order to Rename the Village of Padalka Poltava district of Poltava district (7099). Please vote, please support, colleagues, 7099 as a basis and in general, please support, vote. [[17:52:26]] For 226 Decision taken. Next up, 7100. Draft Decision on the renaming of the village of Chubivok in the region of Cherkas region. Colleagues, let's support the Cossack village, 7100. Please support as a whole. Please vote, please support, vote. [[17:53:03]] For 231 231-yes. Decision taken. Colleagues, back to Carpathians? Let us unite, not discuss, lose votes, sit down and vote. So we are. I'm voting once again on a draft decree to rename the village of Velatitin in the district of Zakarpat. And let's all get together and support, there are voices in the room. Let's make colleagues. So 6618 is a base and a whole. Please vote, please support. Vote. Every voice, please, a voice. [[17:53:56]] For 222 Four votes, I'll put it again, hold consultations, why don't they vote? Conduct consultations. I'll be back in a moment, colleagues, please take the job, National Deputy Tetjana Ostrikov. Colleagues, come back, please, two votes is not enough. So I'm going to put it again, I'm going to remind you, you don't have to go back to voting, I'm just going to put it again -- it's allowed and it's provided for in the Rules. So two votes and I'm putting to the vote draft Decree 6618 as a basis and as a whole. Please vote, please support. Vote. [[17:55:02]] For 242 Decision taken. Colleagues, and the latest Order 6619 on the renaming of the village of Deepok in the region of Ivano-Frankow. Fellows, come into the hall and I'll bet. And we just accepted the 18th. 19 decrees. So 6,619 draft Decree on the basis and in general. Please vote, please support the Divine District. We're backing it up. Please be supportive. Vote. [[17:55:55]] For 229 Decision taken. Colleagues. Three minutes, colleagues, we won't make it. [[B in m in s a l in]] So that's the last decision. Colleagues, I'm being asked to vote on the Coastan border right now, but I just don't believe we're going to find votes for this right now, colleagues. It won't work now. [[B in m in s a l in]] Comrades, one second! Please take up your jobs. Thus, the last decree to rename the village of Latovka Billeyiv district of Odessa district (6551). Anyone who supports it, please vote. [[17:58:13]] For 204 There are no more votes. We spent a very busy, emotional, but very productive day. It is very important that we have been able to close our debt to local communities in addition to important laws. I want to thank all the people's deputies for their understanding and for their active and fruitful work today. Tomorrow at 10 a.m., we're going to continue our work, and we're going to have an important block and ratification. And so I'm asking everyone to come to the conference room in time to continue our work. And now I declare the evening session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine closed. Thank you. Good-bye.
