ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-18-m0.u1	Good morning. Ladies and gentlemen, please come into the hall and prepare for registration. Are you ready for your registration? Colleagues, please register. [[10:02:37]] 352 national deputies registered. And so the morning plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is declared open. So, dear colleagues, I'm explaining to you the logic that is proposed for today. Let me remind you, we still have 49 rights to a bill on the characteristics of state policy to ensure Ukraine's state sovereignty over the temporarily occupied territories. And I'm sure we can get through them quickly. And it's extremely important that we today be able to vote positively for the Act on the pro-deoccupation that the Russian Federation is defined as an aggressor country. Immediately thereafter, it will be proposed that we consider a bill on privatization of state property (7066). And I think this bill is fundamental to overcoming corruption in public enterprises and unlocking the privatization process in our country. It is also important that the Anticorruption Court Act be put in order today. We will move on to this issue immediately after the Privatisation Act. And very important today, colleagues, listen to me carefully so that we can adopt a bill on the admission of the armed forces of other states to Ukraine in 2018 to participate in multinational learning. This is an important security law that will allow for the joint training of Ukrainian military, Ukrainian National Guards, together with our NATO partners. And also, I'm sure today we can adopt this bill. This is the minimum that is planned for consideration today. There will also be an important law on criminal misconduct. And that's why I call on everyone to work together and systemically. Let us now put aside political differences and political misunderstandings as we adopt these important laws. Let's focus on the interests of the state of Ukraine. And, I'm sure, today, both the committee and the deputies will be able to take responsibility for the consideration of drafts, which are in the agenda, and so we can make a positive decision. So we continue to consider draft Law 7163. And I give you three words. Three minutes to speak to John Wynnick, the representative of the Security and Defence Committee, to discuss the consultations that took place yesterday after the discussion of the rights. Mr. Ivan, please, three minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-18-m0.u2	Good morning, dear fellows! I would like first of all to thank everyone for their fruitful work over the last two days, today the third day, I believe that the last day of work on this project, I believe it will be positive. Taking this opportunity, I would like to thank those factions who have joined in the work on this project, which President Peter Poroshenko of Ukraine brought to the Supreme Council as an urgent matter. We started it in October 17th, and then he was sent to the committee, and then the committee got about 700 rights from over 100 deputies. The papers were from the Peter Prashenko faction, the People's Front, the Radical Party, the Fatherland, Self-Help, the Opposition Block, and the non-fractional MPs. Convinced that laws from all our colleagues, from all factions, from all political forces, despite some differences in political positions, they have certainly improved this project, strengthened the standards proposed by the President, made it in full compliance with our international, interstate obligations. Of course, first of all, we took our national interests into account, because we have Ukraine alone, Ukraine is above all. And I am convinced that the positive approval of this bill today, with the expectation of votes from all the factions of Parliament, we will be able to demonstrate to the world community that Ukraine is the only one, the only one, in reprisal and deterrence of Russian armed aggression against our country, against our homeland. Today I would ask everyone to stay on this day, I hope it will be an important, honorable day for Ukraine, from political charges. Let's find consensus, compromise, it's very important. As far as rights are concerned, they're being discussed. Yesterday, we consulted on the proposals made by National MP Victor Pinzenik on the direction No. 485, in order to carry out the commission of the Speaker of the Supreme Council, Andrey Volodymirovich. I would like to refer to the speaker of the Supreme Council who presided over this session, so that we can return to this amendment and make decisions on the proposals that Victor Pinzenik made under the transcript, namely, to confirm this amendment. Thank you, Your Honor. I hope you're working hard, let's work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-18-m0.u3	Thank you. So yesterday we had a discussion in the hall about the 485, which Victor Pinzenic insisted on asking for confirmation. He's been postponing his proposal until the consultation, but now he has a definite position on this side. And I'm asking you to turn on Victor Pinzenik's microphone to sound your position. Please, Mr. Victor. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-18-m0.u4	Dear colleagues, I ask you to put this right to confirm, because it is very important for us to keep the standards that are in this law, including the standards that allow for the imposition of trade sanctions. At the same time, yesterday, I consulted with the Crimeans who had moved to Ukrainian territory and had to leave. There are problems in this law, such as the discovery of deposits, accounts in Ukrainian banks, the possibility of obtaining credit, the import of property, there are problems that some Ukrainian companies have to settle. So I propose that we give a parallel commission to the tax committee and the involvement of the Minfin employees, and to the National Bank to prepare urgent changes to legislation in order to regulate this package of laws, this package of problems. It's not an exclusive package of problems, they need to be involved by public organizations that have raised the right question. Because one of the main points they made is.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-18-m0.u5	Please, 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-18-m0.u6	This is a problem of monitoring that they do not comply with the sanctions imposed by the Ukrainian government. Please support the proposal for an amendment and, secondly, for a commission to the tax committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-18-m0.u7	Thank you. So the author of the amendment, not the author of the amendment, actually the author of the amendment, expressed his position. From that point of view, you remember that you also participated in the discussions with Chubarov. And I'm asking Chubarov one more minute, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-18-m0.u8	Dear Head, dear colleagues, Victor Mikhailovich is absolutely right. Whatever regulations we now adopt that apply to the Ukrainian Free Economic Zone Act and the specialities of economic activity in the temporarily occupied territory of Ukraine, there will still be a lot of questions. And because of what a colleague offered, I want there to be clarity here for this group to be involved. a working group with representatives of public organizations was created no later than January 31st to specify a term. And the drafting of a draft repeal bill or the Ukrainian Free Economic Zone Act "Crim" will be submitted for consideration by the Supreme Council of Ukraine at the beginning of the next session, that is, in February 2018. I'd like to include that in the protocol.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-18-m0.u9	Thank you. I think the hall will take into account the offer and Victor Pinzenic, and Chubarov. And I'm asking the authors to confirm amendment 485. Please vote and please make up your mind. Vote. For confirmation of 485. [[10:11:56]] For 101 The decision is not taken. And let me remind you, we're 625 on the right. It's an amendment by a group of national deputies, and now we're going through it. Do the authors insist on heading 625? Don't insist. Amendment 626. Do the authors insist? Don't insist. Regulation 627. Don't insist. Is he insisting? Please, Gabrieluk, turn on the microphone, 627.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-18-m0.u10	Good afternoon, everyone. The amendment by the 627 committee was rejected. I insist that she be put to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-18-m0.u11	Please, Mr. Ivan, 627th.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-18-m0.u12	This is about social benefits, appropriate changes to the Housing and Utilities Act, how subsidies are accounted for and administered to individuals and their families, whose members are part of a contingent that carries out national security measures. We agree with the ideology that to all military personnel and other persons involved in the fight against Ukraine by the Russian Federation, we are, of course, obliged by the State to provide various benefits and so forth. At the same time, in agreement with the committee head, Mr. Tretlyakev, we have decided that all similar regulations regarding the complex of additional social protection and guarantees are not only for people who receive status during national security measures but also for other persons who are currently taking another part in the anti-terrorist operation.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-18-m0.u13	30 seconds to complete, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-18-m0.u14	Perhaps in the future there will be other legal regimes and the use of the Armed Forces, using all means and measures. We have decided to do so in a separate project that will unite with more than ten legislative acts that today guarantee social protection for Ukrainian military personnel. That's why it's rejected. At the same time, the committee agrees with the ideology and the need to take these provisions into account. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-18-m0.u15	I understand the position of the committee. Nevertheless, the amendment requires that they be put to the vote. I'm asking the hall to decide on amendment 627. I'd like to make a statement. [[10:14:57]] For-72 72 votes. Correction not supported. Next, 628th. Mr. Michael, are you insisting on this amendment? Please turn on Mr. Gabrieluku's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-18-m0.u16	The 628 was rejected by the committee, but I insist that it be put to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-18-m0.u17	Thank you. Please explain to the committee why it was not counted.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-18-m0.u18	This is about making changes to the Ukrainian Law on State Registration of Goods and Burdens on Again and Again, on the payment of various State Halls related to these rights. It is proposed that such salaries be freed from those who take part in national security measures in the aftermath of armed aggression against Ukraine. Again with the same argument, we have rejected this amendment by supporting ideology, and, as agreed with the head of your committee, we will put it into a separate bill prepared jointly by your committee and the Committee on Safety and Defence. It will be introduced to the Supreme Council in the future, I hope, in general support of these novels. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-18-m0.u19	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I'm voting on amendment 628. The committee rejected it, but the authors of the Committee on Veterans ask that it be taken into account. I'm asking you to make up your mind. [[10:16:39]] Z-87 87 votes for. Let's move on. This is what we now have a block of amendments going on with regard to the social guarantees of the veterans of the anti-terrorist operation, the participants in the anti-terrorist operation, and the Veterans Committee has prepared a block of these amendments, which not all of them are included in the profile committee on security and defence, so we're moving on to this amendment. And now 629 amendments, I give the floor to Mr. Gabrieluk. Please turn on the microphone. 629th.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-18-m0.u20	Amendment 629 was rejected by the committee, but I ask that it be put to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-18-m0.u21	Please comment, Mr. Winnick.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-18-m0.u22	This is about making changes to the Ukrainian Law on the provision of institutional and legal conditions for the social protection of orphans and children deprived of parental care. In fact, they can stay as a result of the participation of orphans in families, and they need state support and state care. So, of course, the committee, by supporting the overall idea of additional social protection for these categories of people, once again, stresses that all these things will be included in a separate profile project prepared jointly by our committees. I thank you for this amendment, thank you for the emphasis on this issue, and I will work on it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-18-m0.u23	Thank you. 629 amendments to the author’s request shall be made to the vote. The committee turned it down. I'm asking you to identify yourself. It concerns the protection of orphans who have remained orphans as a result of a war that was waged by an aggressor. Please vote. [[10:18:35]] For-103 Not supported. But once again, here the two committees see that we need to work on a system-wide, complex law to protect the social victims as a result of the aggression of the Russian Federation. The next amendment is 630, honorary colleagues. Please, Mr. Gabrieluk. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-18-m0.u24	The 630 was also rejected by the committee. I would like to put it to a vote and all the other amendments that have been proposed by our committee, please withdraw from the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-18-m0.u25	This is the last amendment that the committee insists on, 630th, and then you take into account and agree with the position of the committee -- clearly. Dear colleagues, I'm asking for Mr. Vinnik's comment on the 630th amendment, and we're moving on to the vote on this amendment, and then we're moving on. Please. Ladies and gentlemen. 630th, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-18-m0.u26	Dear colleagues, the State guarantees the disabled participants all necessary social services in regard to medical rehabilitation, sanatorium rehabilitation, rehabilitation on the basis of the findings of medical advisory committees, medical and preventive institutions, based on decisions of the military and medical commissions. The same is suggested by the committee: to extend to persons involved in national security measures as one of the principles of additional guarantees to such categories of military personnel and persons involved in such measures. At the same time, the committee, again, stresses that this will be a matter settled in a separate bill. That is why this amendment is rejected, and the Security and Defence Committee considers it necessary to take this issue into account in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-18-m0.u27	Thank you. I ask you to vote on amendment 630 now. The committee turned her down. The authors insist that the hall be identified with regard to the support of this amendment. Please, colleagues. [[10:20:57]] For-81 81 votes. Correction not supported. I understand you're not insisting on any of the following amendments to the Veterans Committee? Thus, they do not insist on amendment 631, 632, 633, 634, 635, 636, 637. I'm moving now. There are enough of these big amendments, and so are we. 638, they don't insist. These are the adjustments that are made. 639 amendments, 640s, 641 amendments, 642s. 642, 643. 643th. These are the amendments that the Committee on Veterans has been making, and they're related to the social aspect, and they're not taken into account by the Committee on Safety and Defence with the motivation that this needs a special complex law, and that's what the Committee on Veterans agrees with. So we're already on the 644th Amendment of the People's Deputy Rybchin. I'm asking you to turn on Mr. Rybchin's microphone. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-18-m0.u28	Alexei Rybchin, Fatherland, Doñecina. Fellows, a moment of your attention! It's a very important amendment. Then you'll be asked about it on Facebook and on the air. In 2014, the Supreme Council (not this call, but the past) adopted the Law on the so-called spectre on the excluded board, for which the Party of the Fatherland, which was then part of the BIT, did not vote in contrast to the other parties that entered the BIT. I propose this right to amend the Law on Security and to release persons who have committed serious and particularly serious crimes in the territory of Donetské, Lugansk region, which is now there. Once again, colleagues, very carefully, if you do not vote for this amendment, if you do not vote for the amendment, you support amnesty for those who have committed serious and particularly serious crimes. Therefore, vote for those who have committed serious and particularly serious crimes to avoid amnesty. Please support this revision.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-18-m0.u29	Please explain to the profile committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-18-m0.u30	It's about the Ukrainian Law on Special Order of Local Self-Government in Certain Districts of Donetsk, Lugansk Region. Despite the fact that it is a law de jure valid, de facto it is not implemented and will never be implemented, because it can take action on the actual right to apply the rules of the first nine articles of this draft if the requirements of the 10 article are met. The requirements of the 10th article can never be met because an article foresees an announcement and an election in December 15. Taking into account that we are living today in December. In January 18, we will never return to December 15. So we think that this is a law that is de facto worthless, and so we don't need to make any changes. That's why the president, the president, I'm sorry, the committee rejected this right. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-18-m0.u31	Thank you. I'll allow myself, my dear colleague Mr. Rybchin, to comment on this amendment. First, the Supreme Council of Ukraine actually passed the Amnesty Law in September 14. And in this Amnesty Act, voted by the Supreme Council, which did not take effect because of a violation of the Minsk Treaties by the Russian Federation, the conditions of amnesty were clearly stated. And even under the amnesty, even under this law, there was no crime of murder, of rape, of robbery, of terrorism, particularly Boeing's. Those who tortured Ukrainian hostages did not fall under this amnesty, nor did those who committed merely other crimes against mankind. So these are the very important questions that you're putting in your amendment, obviously they're going to need a comprehensive decision in the special amnesty laws, where it has to be written, who can get in, and who can never, never under any circumstances. Dear colleagues, Mr. Rybczyn explained the importance of his amendments, and it refers to the application of amnesty. The committee expressed its position in the same way that it needed other complex legislation. I'm asking the hall to decide on the Amnesty Correction. Dear colleagues, please make up your mind. [[10:26:17]] Z-91 91 votes, he's just showing, I think, this kind of consolidation in this case, that there's an understanding in this room that amnesty can't be used to commit crimes involving murders, rapes, rapes. This will certainly be recorded in our next vote on the amnesty laws. 645 amendment of the People's Deputy. Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-18-m0.u32	Alexei Rybchin, Fatherland, Doñecina. If this law is worthless, why was it continued for another year in the fights that were on this Supreme Council. So it must mean something. But the Supreme Council and those MPs who didn't vote, I think they'll be asked why they're behind the amnesty of those people. My 645 readjustment says that the Ukrainian Education Act should be taken into account in the special order of local self-government in certain areas of Donetsk and Lugansk. Ukraine. Ukrainian laws say you're in a family where you can speak any language: Russian, Hungarian, English -- any language. And that's what's written in the special order of local self-government in Donetsk and Lugansk. However, we adopted the Ukrainian Education Act, which said that it was mandatory to study Ukrainian and teach Ukrainian in schools. This is not included in this Law. And I ask to vote in favour of the Education Act.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-18-m0.u33	Please explain to the committee about this amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-18-m0.u34	Indeed, this project did not come into force. There's no doubt that he'll ever enter, which is why we didn't take the law into account. And that's why this correction is also rejected. As far as the principles of national language policy are concerned. I think there's no doubt that the national language is Ukrainian, there's regional languages with appropriate status, we've adopted the Education Act, where we clearly defined the criteria for the use of language, the state language, during primary school, in secondary school and further in higher education. Thus, in the context of the Law on the Donetsk and the Luhansk region, we obviously did not violate the language issue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-18-m0.u35	Thank you. Thank you for your clarification. And I also want to urge all colleagues not to use it in their own, especially when we're talking about MPs, in the words "unworthy law" to the laws that have been voted by the majority of the deputies of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. He did not enter into force. And I think our colleague meant that he didn't enter into force, that is, he wasn't realized from a Ukrainian fault. Please, Your Honor, you and I are determined on amendment 645. Please. [[10:29:30.]] For-93 This correction is not supported. The next one is 646. Please, Mr. Fish's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-18-m0.u36	Again. If the law has not even entered into force, but we continue it, and there are large battalions, so why is it needed, and changes are needed, because what is now written in it can eventually come into force. I hope he doesn't. The 646th amendment I propose to exclude the position that in certain areas of the Donetsk and Luhansk region a special order of appointment of prosecutors and courts may be envisaged. Such a standard is unacceptable. In Ukraine, as in a democratic state, the sole order of appointment of authorities, law enforcement agencies, should be in place. Better focus should be on how to ensure proper impartial action by the procurators and the courts. And again. I'm alone from Donetsk, I've seen people standing under different flags. No human could stand for them, these local authorities, to have the right to identify their own prosecutors and the police and the police. People hate local officials, so it is unacceptable to give them such authority.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-18-m0.u37	Will there be an explanation of the committee, or should we proceed immediately to the vote? Right, let's get right to the vote. You have rightly pointed out, Your Honorable Fellow, that those norms that apply to the characteristics of local self-government in the Donetsk and Lugansk areas are laid down in a separate law that the Hall voted twice and then once for a year, but so far we do not really see any desire on the part of the Russian Federation and their puppets to implement something from this block. So I'd like you to determine for amendment 646, which Mr. Rybczyn has just given us a heads-up on what we're talking about. Please. [[10:31:32]] For-81 81 national deputies supported the amendment. 647th, Rybechin. Please, the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-18-m0.u38	Alexei Rybchin, Fatherland, Doñecina. With this amendment, I want to call off the need for national militia troops, which are provided for by the Law on Special Order of Local Self-Government in Certain Districts of Donetsk and Lugansk. Under this law, for which the faction, the Fatherland Party, which was then part of the BUT faction, did not vote in 2014, should not be created by city councils. So my amendment says that these forces should be created, not by city councils, but if we adopt this bill, the head of the operational headquarters of the Ukrainian Armed Forces. This will be a logical extension of the bill that we are currently discussing.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-18-m0.u39	Thank you for your clarification. Now we're putting amendment 648 to the vote. The logic of the committee here is that this amendment has nothing to do with the law that we are discussing. As you rightly pointed out, it has to do with the Law on the Characteristics of Local Self - Government, and then your faction, and you can make changes to that law. I'm asking you to identify yourself for amendment to 648 Collegiate Rabbit, and he explained what it was about. In fact, it is an amendment that applies to another legislative act. Please vote. [[10:33:04]] For-80 Let's move on. 80 votes were in favour of the amendment. 649th People's Deputy. Please, Mr. Rybchin.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-18-m0.u40	I'm sorry, but the 648th amendment was 647th.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-18-m0.u41	I'm sorry. Please, 648. In no way did I want to give you the word for 648 amendments. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-18-m0.u42	I want to comment on your statement that we should not change other laws by this law. I'm sorry, but in the End Positions, we're making changes to the Anti-Terrorism Authority Act, and we're giving the NSA the right to listen to everyone, so there's practice in the End Positions to make changes to another bill. So we don't have to say that we can't do that. I suggest in 648 that the elections in those regions do not automatically come when we accept something, some conditions of terrorists, and elections in Donetsk and Lugansk, in certain areas of the Donetsk and Lugansk region are set apart by law. We can't talk about any elections in that area until Ukraine regains control of the Ukrainian-Russian border. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-18-m0.u43	Dear colleagues, the logic of the amendment has been understood by 648. Let us be determined by its content. It was rejected by the committee on the grounds that these rules were laid down in another law, and then it was necessary to make changes if there was such a desire in the faction and in the author. [[10:34:30.]] For-83 83 votes. This amendment is not supported. And the next one is 649. Please, Mr. Rybechin.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-18-m0.u44	649 revisions are one that makes changes to the Civil Procedure Code. She was supported on the committee last year. However, we could not, at the time, have not yet signed the Civil Procedure Codes, entered into force, the President has not yet signed them and we have not been able to sign them into the body of the new legislation. She says that claims for the protection of violated, unknown, or accused rights may also be filed with the Russian Federation for lost property or for damaged health at the place of residence or residence of the plaintiff, not as is now the case where the Embassy of the Russian Federation is present at the Thessaloniki Court. I would like to read the letter with such changes. Part four of article 11 should be supplemented by a new paragraph: "In Ukraine's Supreme Council News CD, No. 48 of article 636 of 2017 with the following amendments to article 28."
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-18-m0.u45	I see. Do you want to continue? Do you want to continue? Now, here's a comment from the profile committee. Please, your position as to why this amendment has not been taken into account.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-18-m0.u46	First of all, I'd like to thank the Fatherland faction, the author of the editing for this amendment. What is the point and what is the importance. Indeed, the bill introduced by the President defines the Russian Federation as responsible for any material or intangible damage to Ukraine, Ukrainians, citizens, legal persons, persons of public law, etc. In this regard, all the property claims that will be filed will be presented where the Russian Federation will be responsible. The property claims are foreshadowed by the gathering of the judicial congregation. In this case, at the suggestion of the Fatherland faction, which we took into account in the text in the Transitional Positions, such plaintiffs will be released from the payment of the court. At the same time, I want to point out that the Civil Procedure Code has changed at a time when this was applied, and today there is a valid other code. In this context, appropriate technical and legal changes are needed. So when this whole second reading is about voting, as a reporter from the committee, I'm going to propose that I take the text of the transcript read by the author of the draft, including the text of the draft. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-18-m0.u47	Thank you. But Mr. Rybchin insists on voting. And that's why I'm putting amendment 649 on. [[B in m in s a l in]] Don't put her to the vote? Come on. All right, 30 seconds. Replica, Rybechin.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-18-m0.u48	Alexei Rybchin, Fatherland, Doñecina. I thank the committee and the committee for their support. You can't put it on the stand, because then when you vote in general, this order will be read in what it is. But the committee's supposed to support her.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-18-m0.u49	It's a deal. I'll finally give the floor to the committee. He'll read the proposals. Please listen carefully and hear if your proposal is taken into account, and only then will we vote. It's a deal. So the next one is 651. Olena Sotnik, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-18-m0.u50	Thank you. In fact, this is a moment of truth, because I have a whole series of rights that apply to disgraceful things, I think to this day the situation where we still have a friendship agreement with the Russian Federation. You're all talking on your air about war, about Russian aggression, Klimkin, as the minister of our foreign affairs, in any international body, also notes that Russia is an aggressor and that we have a war. At the same time, we have a treaty that defines us as essentially equal, equal, sovereign states that establish their relationships in mutual respect, that work together, build together military potential, economic potential, borders recognize and so on, respect territorial integrity. Here's a bunch of articles that don't match reality today. And I'm asking you, where's the logic?
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-18-m0.u51	30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-18-m0.u52	If we're adopting a law on the recognition of the Russian Federation as an aggressor, why is it that the treaty of friendship and cooperation with the Russian Federation has been rejected, please explain it to me. This is primarily a matter for the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-18-m0.u53	Thank you. 651 readjustment rejected. Whoever supports this amendment, please vote. [[10:39:44]] For-84 The decision is not taken. We missed Dolzenkova's turn. Please, Dobrenkov. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-18-m0.u54	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues and distinguished Ukrainian citizens, I'm asking you to apply 650 for confirmation, but I'm very sorry that some factions are signing up for Donetskina for what the people living in Donbassa say, and there is no support for the faction at all in Donetsk and Lugansk. I'm very sorry that the Supreme Council is now deciding a bill that decides the fate of Donbas, and the representation of Donbass in this room is insignificant because the election in turn was not even held in those areas that were controlled. As for the deal with Russia, Mrs. Sotnik. Trade with Russia is the largest, it is the largest trade with individual EU countries. If you spit on the economy at all, what will you feed your citizens?
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-18-m0.u55	My colleagues, I was distracted during the performance. Self-help was mentioned, wasn't it? To whom do you give the replica? Captain, please, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-18-m0.u56	It's very, very, very simple, really. At a time when another country is starting a war against you, you should choose whether you are your State or you are an enemy. If you are here to promote the enemy of the Russian Federation, in principle your choice is determined. For me, the first thing that matters to me is the state of Ukraine. And please appeal to economic relations as a relationship of friendship with the Russian Federation, which tanks entered our territory, you have no right.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-18-m0.u57	Please comment, Mr. John.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-18-m0.u58	This law applies to the novels offered by Mr. Rybchin concerning the judicial congregation. The committee supported the author’s ideology, strongly denies the idea of cancelling it. So in a summary statement to this bill in the second reading, I'm going to insist, and hopefully in support of the hall, that we will also confirm 650 amendments. Because it's a big surprise to me personally, it's probably a surprise for the Ukrainian people, for any person who's suffered or suffered from aggression that's suffered material or not material damage. As we are looking at today's session, we see that the Supreme Council is implementing the necessary and absolutely appropriate tools to compensate for the losses of the Russian Federation's aggressor state. And unfortunately, there are people who feel that it is not necessary to do so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-18-m0.u59	Thank you. There is no such position as the author. Alexi, what I'm talking about, you see how it's going to be. I'll set up with you for confirmation. But then the chairman of the committee before the vote will propose to return. I'm just afraid we might be spending too much time right now. But if there's a need, okay? So now I'm putting 650 on confirmation, colleagues, and the committee is asking everyone to support it. Support her. Colleagues, pay attention. The committee's calling for a "yes" vote for confirmation. I'm asking everyone to take their seats. The committee's asking for 650 confirmations. He was maimed, as it should be under such an important law. And, colleagues, 450 revisions. 650 amendments are extremely important for the bill, and the committee asks for confirmation, the representative of the opposition bloc of Dudenkov asks for confirmation. And I'm putting her on the stand, and the committee's asking her to support her. Vote in favour, colleagues, please. Vote. [[10:44:31]] For 244 The hall is mobilized, we can move on to the adoption of the law. Decision taken. 651s. 652. Please, Olena Sotnik.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-18-m0.u60	I will continue because the logic of this room and the logic of the committee are very important to me. Still. I'm asking the committee to answer, how do you see these friendship and cooperation agreements? Article 9: High Contracting Parties reaffirm their determination to follow the path of reducing the armed forces and their weapons and to abide by them in a peaceful manner in order to resolve all conflicts. These are Russian Federation shootings, is this such a peaceful way or what? Tell me more. We're developing our relationship in terms of military and military technical potential and cooperation, how is that? So what is the Russian Federation's technique in the territory of Ukraine, and it fires at our positions? I want the committee to explain why you rejected the amendment to the Treaty of Friendship and Cooperation with the Russian Federation.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-18-m0.u61	Thank you. 652 Committee review rejected. Colleagues, will you comment? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-18-m0.u62	With regard to the Treaty of Friendship and Cooperation with the Russian Federation. Despite a rather delicate and resonant name in the context of the current relationship with the Russian Federation, this treaty contains a very important position for Ukraine today – this recognition of the borders between the Russian Federation and Ukraine. The same idea was put forward by the representative of the State of the Russian Federation Zatulin in connection with the denunciation of this treaty, which is clear why the recognition of the borders between the Russian Federation and Ukraine should be lifted. Of course, it is necessary for the Russian Federation to legalize their aggression against Ukraine in both Crimea and Donbas. The committee, in support of the general idea of reviewing individual treaties concluded with the Russian Federation, finds it inappropriate to cancel anything without opening an appropriate discussion, a detailed discussion and taking into account, above all, the national interest, not the political component. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-18-m0.u63	So I'm voting on amendment 652. Whoever supports this amendment, please vote. The committee turned her down. [[10:47:25]] For 104 The decision is not taken. 653, Olena Sotnik.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-18-m0.u64	I'm so sorry you're living in one of your own, I guess. In its dimension of reality. Indeed, article 2 states that the parties, in accordance with the provisions of the UN Statute, respect each other’s territorial integrity, confirm the inviolability of their borders. Thus, this article, like all others, was violated nearly four years ago when the Russian Federation invaded Crimea. And you, by the way, admit it in this law. So it turns out that it's just us or schizophrenia, or we don't want to, that we continue the same policy when the authorities don't recognize the reality that we have, in fact, a war with the Russian Federation. And here's the key to this law. In fact, there's a lot of talk about aggression, about what we're going to reflect in some way, but the reality remains that there's no article on the recognition of the Russian Federation as an aggressor, and there's no clear indication in any article that all the territories that Russia has occupied today are occupied. That's real.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-18-m0.u65	653 revision. John, will you comment? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-18-m0.u66	I want to comment on one single position from the rapporteur for this amendment. I want to quote article 2 on what it will look like when the bill is adopted in a second reading. "The legal status of the temporarily occupied territories in the Donetsk and Lugansk areas, the Autonomous Republic of Crimea and the city of Sevastopol, as well as the legal regime in the areas covered by this Act, the Ukrainian Act on the Protection of the Rights and Freedoms of Citizens and the Legal Regime in the Interimly Occupied Territory of Ukraine", other laws of Ukraine, international agreements, consent to the obligations conferred by the Supreme Council of Ukraine, principles and norms of international law." I think that's a comprehensive answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-18-m0.u67	Thank you. I'm betting on the vote of amendment 653. The committee turned her down. Whoever supports this, I ask you to vote. The committee turned it down. [[10:49:45.]] For 101 The decision is not taken. 654th. Don't insist. 655th. Don't insist. Six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six. Don't insist. 657th, Levchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-18-m0.u68	Lewchenko, Freedom, 223 District, Kiev City. My amendment was technical in regulating the movement of persons, if any economic activity and cooperation with the occupied territories were still prohibited. Unfortunately, our previous revisions have not been taken into account, and in this context, it is no longer meaningful. I would like to point out right now, because this is my last chance to speak, and I would like to point out right now that the Supreme Council is planning to vote now. The Supreme Council plans to vote against Russia as an aggressor, because Russia has already been recognized as an aggressor by the decision of that body in January 2015, and then there were two other votes that confirmed it, and then there was a bunch of legislation now in force, where Russia is called an aggressor state. The Supreme Council is now planning to legitimize trade because it is stipulated that the Cabinet of Ministers determines how goods are moved. The Supreme Council suggests that we write that our heroes in the East will be able to use weapons exclusively if absolutely necessary. The Supreme Council proposes to give the President of Ukraine non-constitutional powers – to use the Ukrainian Armed Forces though. Even in Kiev, if he decides it has to do with war.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-18-m0.u69	Will you comment? You're gonna do the right thing, aren't you? On the right hand side of the data. Please, 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-18-m0.u70	And all of this is what the Supreme Council is planning to do under the sauce of what seems to be a positive thing about occupation. So actually, the occupation here is not recognized because the date of occupation is set exclusively in the preamble. And it's only for Crimea, not for the Donetsk and Lugansk regions. Accordingly, there will be no legal consequences. That's right! And you, no matter how much you manipulate, no matter how much you lie from the rostrum, but the Ukrainian people are wise, they will read your bill and see it.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-18-m0.u71	Please, Mr. Ivan.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-18-m0.u72	Dear people of Ukraine! Dear colleagues! I'd like to dispel any myths from this question, stop this discussion and quote the text to the second reading, which will become the status of the law if we adopt it: "Reaffirming the Order of the Supreme Council of Ukraine of 27 January 2015 No 129-8 and the Statement of the Supreme Council against Armed Aggression of the Russian Federation and the recognition of the Russian Federation by the Aggressor State and its consequences was approved by the relevant Supreme Council Decree of 25 April 21, 2015." What does that mean? The Supreme Council passed a decree that did not have the status of a legislative act. Today, this decree is approved by law in its entirety. Stop talking about it, there's the Russian Federation called the aggressor state. Throughout the text, we're using the term of the Russian Federation's armed aggression. It's used in articles: 6, 7, 8, 9, 10. Dear colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-18-m0.u73	Do you insist on voting? The author insists. 658 axles, 7 axles. The committee turned it down. If anyone insists, I ask you to vote. [[10:53:26]] For-94 The decision is not taken. 658th. Illenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-18-m0.u74	Andrew Illenko, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. In this amendment, Freedom proposes to make it clear that imports of goods that have been produced in the temporarily occupied territories of Ukraine and/or within the territory of the aggressor State should be prohibited, transit of any goods through the temporarily occupied territory of Ukraine. So we insist that Ukraine should not economically support the aggressor state, Ukraine should not economically support the occupation regime in our territories that are temporarily occupied by Russia today. And that's why we're going to make this amendment to make it clear. Because in fact, if we now vote in today's edition, who doesn't say anything right now, but in fact, it's going to be legalizing trade in occupied areas. What's more, the Cabinet of Ministers is able to do hand-in-hand, and with corruption risks, they're huge, and then they're able to figure out which products they can't. And we need to understand what this is, what the outcome might be. That is why we insist on voting for this amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-18-m0.u75	Thank you. The amendment by the 658 committee was rejected. Whoever supports this amendment, please vote. [[10:54:58]] For 1052 The decision is not taken. 659th. Don't insist. 655. He's not.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-18-m0.u76	Thank you, Andry Volodymyrovich. I see that the hall can gather and vote. I would like to ask everyone to support my bill, which deals with proposals that should be introduced for the duration of ATO's credit agreements and mortgage-borrowing contracts, the sole residence of the borrower located in the ATO's holding area. What is it? That many who have left the occupied territory are here in Ukraine to pay for the mortgage and on credit contracts for the housing left in the occupied territory and have no opportunity to use it. So I'm asking the Hall to support this amendment so that we can give people a chance to count when Donetsk and Lugansk and Crimea are returned to the jurisdiction of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-18-m0.u77	Thank you. Amendment 655 is rejected. Whoever supports this amendment, please vote. [[10:56:26]] For 106 The decision is not taken. 660 for confirmation. 62nd. Olena Sotnik, 662.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-18-m0.u78	Thank you. 662 axle. We don't want to denounce a friendship agreement, but we want to give our citizens the opportunity to actually uncontrollablely listen to our citizens, to record the information of the intermediators, from Facebook, from social networks, and from other networks, and there are no safeguards to that effect that the BSS does not violate the actual boundaries, let's say, of this authorization. And for today, this is written in such a way that it does not apply only to Donetsk and Lugansk occupied territories or adjacent territories, it applies to -- let me stress -- every Ukrainian, all of Ukraine. This means that this right actually introduces a police state, when every citizen can be listened to, you can record all the information, you can actually intervene in private correspondence and so on. It's unconstitutional, so I'm putting this amendment to confirm.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-18-m0.u79	Please, Mr. Ivan.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-18-m0.u80	U.S. counter-intelligence units now have the appropriate authority to prejudice any terrorist act, when conducting preventive measures to prejudice any terrorist threat in a manner defined by law. Similarly, in this respect, the same order is mentioned in the established law. Rules of law are laid down in the Code of Criminal Procedure. He foresees addressing the investigating judge in a proper manner and receiving appropriate sanctions for conducting appropriate indiscretions. We don't introduce any novelties in terms of service authority, we just extend them in terms of national security and defence. It can't be used in any way alone without a proper court order. And that's why I think it's an artificial problem that my colleagues are blowing up right now. And that's why the committee strongly denies the rejection of this amendment, and it reinforces it.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-18-m0.u81	Thank you. So the committee is asking for support for this amendment, to confirm it. And I'm betting on confirmation of 662 revisions. And the committee's asking her to support it. No, 662 was named. 662. And the committee is asking for support for this amendment. Anyone who supports the position of the committee, please vote. Vote. [[10:59:29]] For-143 The decision is not taken. 663rd. 664. Semenha.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-18-m0.u82	Semenha Roman, Self-help faction. Dear Ukrainians, I would like to address you, explain what is happening to this Law of Prodeoccupation. Unfortunately, for the fourth year of war, this bill does not recognize reality and does not call war war. And unfortunately, it's too critical, it's useful from a practical point of view, and perhaps even in some cases it's harmful. Without considering the four main points, I think it's very difficult to benefit from this bill. First. Obviously, the occupied Ukrainian Crimea and Sevastopol must likewise be decided by this law. The other one. The Ukrainian Parliament is obliged to include in the body of the law the date of the beginning of the war on Donbassa, for that is how Russia’s legal responsibility will proceed. I think it's obvious in the law that trade with the invaders should be banned, except for personal things and humanitarian aid. And the last. We need to give the President the right to use the Ukrainian Armed Forces solely after the consent of the National Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-18-m0.u83	Thank you. So Amendment 664 was rejected by the committee. Whoever supports this amendment, please vote. [[11:01:04]] For 106 The decision is not taken. Six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six. Don't insist. Six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-seven. Don't insist. Six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-seven. The watermelon. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-18-m0.u84	Good afternoon, citizens of Ukraine, respected colleagues. 667 My amendment actually allows for the restoration of Ukrainian power in the occupied territory. I explicitly prescribe in this amendment that the Ukrainian authorities are being restored by first freeing the territories, then restoring the authorities of the state administration and then holding elections, but not before one year after the restoration of the state administrations of Ukraine. So once again, we're saying that this bill is a law on reintegration. So this amendment clearly gives us a step-by-step way to restore Ukrainian power in the occupied territory. Once again, the logic of the committee was not clear to me. If you have rejected my amendment, suggest your way, but it is clearly stated in this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-18-m0.u85	Thank you. Thus, the amendment of 667 was rejected by the committee. Whoever supports it, please vote. [[11:02:53]] For 109 The decision is not taken. 668. Don't insist. 669th. Don't insist. 670. Don't insist. 671. Don't insist. And, colleagues, the last amendment is 673. Don't insist. Oh, Whitey, we'll be right back. 671, Petrenko. Turn on the microphone. But for a second, colleagues, this is a passing order. This means that after that, we are moving on to the final discussion and the vote. A vote in five minutes will take place. So I ask all the factions to invite members of the House and the secretariat of the Supreme Council to report that a decision will be taken soon. And please, Petrenko, turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-18-m0.u86	Dear colleagues, with this right, Andrey Bielecki and I propose that article 11 of the bill be added to part five of the following content: "To recognize that the Law of Ukraine has become invalid "On the Special Order of Local Self-Government in Certain Areas of Donetsk and Lugansk Region." Part five is considered to be part six. ” We agree with the report that the ORDLO's Special Status Act is still worthless, but after voting on the bill that we are currently discussing and voting, we don't see the logic at all in the same time in the time and space of the two laws. One of them is recognized as an aggressor, occupied territories, and occupation authorities. At the same time, there is a law that defines the characteristics of local self - government in the same areas. Please vote and support.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-18-m0.u87	Thank you. I'm betting on the vote of amendment 671, the committee rejected it. Whoever supports it, I ask you to vote. [[11:05:04]] For-164 The decision is not taken. And so, colleagues, we're done discussing the rights. And now I'm giving a closing statement to the committee representative. I want to remind you that we had a serious discussion on several issues. I'll give it to the factions, colleagues. I'll give the factions a minute after the committee's presentation. So, colleagues, I now give the floor to a committee representative to be able to formulate on those discussion issues that we've been going through and that we've been talking about. After that, I'll give each faction a minute to speak, and then we'll go to the vote. Is that the position taken? So now John Winnick. How many minutes do you need? Five minutes. Please, IvanVinnick.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-18-m0.u88	First, a vote on support for amendments to the numbers should be put to the vote: 55, 162, 346, 358, 359, 380, 447, 649 - by the People's Deputy. And I would like to point out by Deputy Knazevitch that the judicial assembly will be cancelled in relation to the appeals against the aggressor country of the Russian Federation. Secondly, the committee proposes to support the proposals of the committee prepared for consideration by the Chief Legal Authority of the Supreme Council and to make a final draft of the bill, namely, before the preamble to the bill. In paragraphs 7 and 18, the word "taking into account" is replaced by the word "confirming." In paragraph 11, the words "acknowledgment" should be replaced by the words "No. 72/199 of December 19, 2017, which define." In paragraph 15 and paragraph 1 of part one and part two of article 8, article 9, paragraph 2 of draft article 11, replace the words “other military formations of Ukraine” with the words “others formed according to the laws of Ukraine, military formation”. In article 1 of the bill, the word "effective" is deleted. To article 2 of Part Four's bill, the paper reads: "The liability for material or intangible damage done to Ukraine as a result of the aggression of the Russian Federation relies on the Russian Federation in accordance with generally recognized principles and norms of international law." To article 6 of the bill, in part five, the word “recurrently informs the Supreme Council of Ukraine” is replaced by the words “in case of necessity, a special report is presented to the Supreme Council of Ukraine”. Part six of the paper reads: "Ukraine is not responsible for the illegal actions of the Russian Federation or its occupying administration in temporarily occupied territories in the Donetsk, Lugansk areas or for the unlawful decisions they have taken." In article 7 of the bill, to restore part of the first part of the draft author's edition: "For the purpose of ensuring national security, in particular the State-economic, informational, humanitarian and environmental sectors, and to curb the armed aggression of the Russian Federation in the Donetsk, Lugani areas of the security and defence sector, other public authorities and their officials are taking steps to restore Ukraine's territorial integrity, as well as to ensure a comprehensive development of security, economic, information and telecommunications, social, humanitarian infrastructure in areas adjacent to the temporarily occupied territories in the Donetské and Lugansk areas, are being implemented according to strategic defence planning documents for strengthening Ukraine's defence and security capabilities." In connection with this part, the first and second bills are considered to be part two and part three. In the second part, "commit to ensure the protection of the rights of the civilian population and create the necessary conditions for its vitality" replace "is not responsible for the violation of the rights of the civilian population". In article 8 of the project, paragraph 1 of the first part after the words "National Police of Ukraine" is added to the words "health workers". In paragraph 2 of Part One, after the words "warring action," delete the words "in order to implement national security and defence measures, interception and containment of armed aggression in the Donetsk and Lugansk areas." Part five, make it a separate article. After article 9 of the bill, change the corresponding numbering of articles of the law. In part three of article 8, in part three of article 9 of the bill, replace the words "President of Ukraine" with the words "Chief Commander of the Armed Forces of Ukraine" in the appropriate wording. Part three of article 9 reads: “The Commander of the United Forces implements his mandate through the unified operational headquarters of the Armed Forces of Ukraine, the mandate of the Commander of the United Forces is determined by the position of the Joint Operations Headquarters, which is developed by the General Staff of the Armed Forces of Ukraine and approved by the Supreme Commander of the Armed Forces of Ukraine at the request of the Minister of Defence.” To supplement the bill after article 9 with a new article in article 10: "In the event of the expansion of the Russian Federation's armed aggression beyond the Autonomous Republic of Crime and the city of Sevastopol, Donetsk and Lugansk regions to prevent it at any time in any territory, parts of Ukraine are involved and the forces and means provided for in article 8 of this project are used in accordance with article 9 of this Act." In this regard, the numbering of the articles of the bill should be changed accordingly. In article 10 of the bill, the second part of the bill reads: “The Commander of the United Forces, in the event of a real threat to health of persons crossing the line of separation, has the right to restrict the entry of these persons into the temporarily occupied areas of Donetsk, Luhansk region, for the period of the threat.” In part four, the word "allowed with the permission of the Commander of the United Forces" is replaced by the words "may temporarily be limited to the period of such action by the Commander of the United Forces". In part six, after the word "persons," add the words "defined by article 8 of this law." Before article 11 of the draft in paragraph 5, delete the words "in the Donetsk, Lugansk areas" and delete the words "Russian Federation" in subparagraph 4, because the changes proposed are proposed in the laws of the general regulatory action which are designed to regulate non-existent, specific and typical future situations that may be related to any part of the territory of Ukraine or any foreign state. Paragraph 3 delete since the Ukrainian Armed Forces Act already contains a similar rule in article 1.1. Subparagraph 9 reads: "The part of the first article 3 of the Ukrainian Anti-Terrorism Act should be supplemented by a new paragraph: "An anti-terrorist operation may be carried out in parallel with a section of armed aggression in the order of article 51 of the Statute of the United Nations and/or under conditions of military or state of emergency in accordance with the Constitution of Ukraine and the legislation of Ukraine." In paragraph 8, the words "authority and" should be deleted. The committee agreed to recommend to the Supreme Council the draft Ukrainian Law as a result of the second reading of the second reading to be adopted in a second reading and as a whole. I would like to point out that, as a result of the second reading and in general, I propose to entrust the Committee on Safety and Defence with the preparation of its signature by the Head of the Supreme Council to carry out joint technical and legal work with the Chief Legal Authority. Please support with the editing under the stenogram. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-18-m0.u89	Thank you. These were mostly technical remedies that regulate. I'm asking the factions for a minute. Let's start with Peter Dusty's Block, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-18-m0.u90	Dear Mr. Head, dear colleagues! I ask the entire room to gather now, all the Ukrainian forces to gather and take into account one very simple fact. Perhaps legal or some point issues are not fully agreed between different factions and groups in this Parliament. But what we have to focus on right now is that we all have to unite around what we have to do to significantly increase the effectiveness of our resistance to the aggression of the aggressor country and the Kremlin. Therefore, honourable colleagues, I urge all to unite and support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-18-m0.u91	From the People's Front, Maxim Burbak, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-18-m0.u92	Dear colleagues! The next time I confirm the position of the People's Front that we're going through the exam today. And I'm sure the Supreme Council of this calling will make up a positive one. Because for the first time in these walls, there was a pro-Ukrainian, a pro-Western majority. And now we have to confirm what it is. This is the majority of the patriots who are concerned about Ukraine, who are doing everything they can to restore the territorial integrity of our nation. So once again, I appeal to all the deputies, to be politically responsible citizens of Ukraine, regardless of factions, political parties, to give my vote for this necessary bill, which is first recognized by Russia as an aggressor country. This will further give us a position in international courts. Therefore, dear colleagues, once again, we must all unite and vote in favour of this important bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-18-m0.u93	Thank you. From the Opposition Block, Boyko.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-18-m0.u94	Dear Mr. Head, the honourable ones are here! All Ukrainian citizens put the issue of the East conflict first and the return of territories and people to Ukraine. Our faction believes that the adoption of this bill does not solve this issue. Moreover, its adoption will lead to a violation of all international agreements and agreements that our country has on the path of diplomatic resolution. Our faction believes that only the execution of agreements, including the Minsk Accords, and the diplomatic path will restore territorial integrity to the state. We will vote against this law. We consider it harmful for the citizens of Ukraine and for the state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-18-m0.u95	Thank you. From Self-Help, Oleg Barresuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-18-m0.u96	Your Honour, Mr. Head! Just from the rostrum, the text was read quickly and incomprehensibly. In large numbers, no one in the room knows what they're going to vote for after two days of conversation. So in order to make the final decision, we require a 15 - minute break for the text that has just been read from the rostrum. This is one of the most important laws adopted by the Supreme Council. It's physically impossible. I'd like to ask you for a text and 15 minutes for a vote. This is a requirement under the Supreme Council’s Rules.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-18-m0.u97	Thank you. From Fatherland. Who's gonna be from Fatherland? Radical Party, Oleg Lazko.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-18-m0.u98	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Dear colleagues of the past era on the eastern front as a result of the shooting of Russian weapons, three of our military personnel were killed, five injured. And there are still MPs in the Council who don't consider Russia an invader and come up with reasons not to vote for a law that recognizes Russia as an aggressor. The so-called Peace Party in Ukraine is a direct or secret agency of the Kremlin, whose task is to convince the Ukrainians that we must agree to peace from Putin, any humiliating conditions for the Ukrainians. It's not the way to victory, it's the way to defeat. The aggressor only understands the language of power, not the demeaning "bleaching of the exiled sheep." Therefore, we must be strong, and we must never be humiliated, for we will lose both honor and peace. We're voting!
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-18-m0.u99	Thank you. From "The Fatherland" Sobolev.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-18-m0.u100	Dear colleagues, our faction with those rights that were voted before Mr. Winnick read the text, was inclined to vote in favour of this bill. Please give us these amendments, because why did the word "Russia" disappear? We're told that there may be aggression from any country. But it's a law that defines the share of Donbas. So do not deceive us! Pass these papers. The Self-Help faction and I have requested 15 minutes of recess, and then we will vote in favour of this law. So our request is very specific: we need to understand what the room is voting for in those ballots that are announced from the voice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-18-m0.u101	So, colleagues, who else insists on factions and groups for performances? Nobody, right? Please, Oksana Siroid, one minute, and then Irina Heratchenko, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-18-m0.u102	You know, it seemed that after two years, two and a half years after Self-Help demanded that Russia be recognized as an invader, you seemed to agree to that. But in this law there are so many frauds, there are no dates, there are so many things that we don't know what the consequences are. You think people don't know what's going on? You don't think they know. People wrote to you: If you think there is no trade and there is a movement of goods, shells are the movement of missiles. For some reason, imports for Ukraine are now exceeding exports. You know what, you can vote. But as long as there are no decisions, legal and constitutional decisions, Presidential decisions on the introduction of martial law, on the application of the Ukrainian Armed Forces, until instead of war, instead of admitting war, you will be taking action while you conduct the ATO, vote, but you are approaching the criminal responsibility of the President and the Secretary of the RNB, the former Speaker, vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-18-m0.u103	Please, Irina Heratschenko, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-18-m0.u104	Dear colleagues, in fact, today there are two markers of this vote: either we recognize that Russia is an aggressor country and in fact there is one date of aggression against Ukraine, and this date applies to both Crimea and Donbas, there are no three different dates, or you are engaged in word fraud. The other one. I want to address our military. My dears, let's announce to some here a flash mob not to humiliate our army, because our army, it's fighting, not trading. Send these here, please, to your friends from the trenches, photos from the blinds, photos on the border, so they can see that you're fighting it, not trading it. And as far as arms movement is concerned, it's not going through our checkpoints, it's going through 400 kilometers of uncontrolled border with the aggressor country, with the Russian Federation. And that's where we're going to set up with you, not these cobwebs, which are some factions that helped steal Kurchenka's property, now they're going to set up. And the last. The Minsk Accords did not resolve the war! The aggressor country solved the war! And all those today in the aggressor country that solved this war are demanding the denunciation of the "great deal" between Russia and Ukraine. There's no friendship between us today, but we have an eternal neighbor, Russia, unfortunately. And that's why we have to stop the neighbor's war -- we vote for recognition of Russia as an aggressor country!
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-18-m0.u105	And for clarification, John Winnick. To explain. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-18-m0.u106	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-18-m0.u107	Please, John Winnick.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-18-m0.u108	Dear colleagues! From the two factions of Parliament working on the text to the second reading of the bill came a proposal regarding paragraph 5 of the "Transitional and Final Provisions". What is the meaning of this paragraph? In "transitional and final" positions, we're changing the laws of general regulatory action. By the law on the characteristics of public policy, we create a new legal element for the use of weapons in the aftermath of aggression. These are national security measures. We suggested in the laws of regulatory action that we rule out the fact that the Russian Federation, because Ukraine could have aggression from anyone, and that's why we wanted to reinforce this project in general. But if today is the agreement of the two factions that we see threats solely from the Russian Federation, I delete paragraph 5, under the transcript, I read, as follows, throughout the text, the words "in the Donetsk and Lugansk areas" and in subparagraph 4 delete the words "the Russian Federation" because these changes are proposed to the laws of the general regulatory action, the standards of which are designed to regulate non-existent, specific, rather typical future situations that may be related to any part of the territory of Ukraine. Please don't take this into account during technical and legal processing. We're talking only about the aggression of the Russian Federation and we're implementing legislation against the aggression of the Russian Federation. Period. All of it.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-18-m0.u109	Thank you. So, colleagues, attention, I'm asking you to come into the hall and prepare for the vote. I want to remind you, colleagues, three days we've been looking at this bill, this bill, this bill of extraordinary weight, which is the principle of Ukraine. And I would like us to vote responsibly now. And I believe that delaying the voting time can lead to a collapse in the consideration of this bill. This is my deep conviction. I'm asking you to get all worked up. And I want to remind you that the representative of the committee asked me to go back to rights 55 is the reference to the date of the occupation on February 20, -- rights 162, 346, 358, 359, 380, 447 and 649, this is the right of Rybcin.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-18-m0.u110	It's Rybkin's.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-18-m0.u111	Which was in the editor's office. Who wants to go back to these rights, the committee wants to go back to these rights. If you'll excuse me, I'd like to vote. Let's vote, colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-18-m0.u112	In the editors of the Committee Taking into account.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-18-m0.u113	We go back, we go back to the Laundromat, including. Please vote, please support. Please vote, please support. Please vote return. [[11:23:58]] For 264 We're back. Now please, Vinnik, give me a clear explanation.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-18-m0.u114	649 revisions in the edition read by the People's Deputy Rybechin under the transcript, taking into account the observation we agreed with Knjazewicz, for "in relation to the lawsuits against the Russian aggressor country, the Russian Federation is exempt from the judicial assembly." Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-18-m0.u115	Thank you. So now I'm betting on the confirmation of the recalculations with the correction that Vonik made under the transcript. Please vote, please support, please confirm. Vote, please. With Rybkin's correction in the line that Vinnik sounded. [[11:24:43]] For 264 Decision taken. Now, colleagues, we are moving on to making a decision. And I'm voting on the draft Law on the Characteristics of State Policy and the Provision of State Sovereignty of Ukraine over temporarily occupied territories in the Donetsk and Lugansk areas (No. 7163), as amended by the transcript by the representative of the Committee on Security and Defence of IvanVinnik, under the transcript from the Supreme Council of Ukraine's rostrum, including Rybchina, who has just been voted on, with technical and legal rights, further work.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-18-m0.u116	At the Committee on Safety and Defence.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-18-m0.u117	Once again, I emphasize, with those laws that John Winnick read under the transcript, in the second reading and in general. Colleagues, we vote in favour of the recognition of the Russian Federation as an aggressor and an invader. Please vote, please support 7,163 in the second reading and in general. Vote, fellows! Please be supportive. [[11:26:00]] For 280 The law is passed. [[Applause]] My colleagues, welcome to the hall. It's a decision we should have made a long time ago. At the same time, I'm assigning a task force and a Kabmin to draft a bill and a position on the free economic zone. This is my individual commission. Colleagues, welcome to the adoption of an important law. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-18-m0.u118	And, colleagues, we're moving on to the next issue of order of the day, the law is also extremely important, which concerns another sphere, but it's dual to economic issues, and for the fight against corruption, to the draft Law on Privatization of State Property (No. 7066). And I invite you to report (this second reading) to the head of the Committee on Economic Policy of Ivanchuk Andriy Volodymirovich. Welcome to Andrija Volodymyrovich, colleagues. I want to remind you, this bill has a lot of rights, but most of them are agreed upon. And I hope that we will pass this law quickly and effectively and vote it before lunch. So, Andrew Volodymyrovich, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-18-m0.u119	Dear Mr. Head, dear friends of the national MPs! Welcome to the adoption of the previous bill. And you're looking at Bill 7066 on privatization of state property. The bill had received a second reading of 733 amendments, 501 had been taken into account, and 232 had been rejected. In particular, amendments were rejected that were not subject to the resolution of the bill, although they are correct. There have been rejected remedies that complicate and delay privatization procedures, because they contradict the purpose and object of the bill, in contrast to simplifying and expediting the process. And adjustments that were being made with too much detail. So everything that had to be taken into account, everything that made the bill better, more progressive, everything was taken into account by the Economic Policy Committee. So, Mr. Andriy Volodymyrovich, honourable national deputies, the Committee on Economic Policy, and I personally ask Parliament to support this bill as a whole, as proposed by the committee. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-18-m0.u120	Thank you. Shall we vote now? But we must go to the right because that is what the law of Ukraine says. And so the right-wing author asks you to get ready for work. And I invite Mrs. Irina to read the rights in the same system that are rejected, and we'll highlight who wants to put on confirmation by raising his hand, will ask for the word. So let's move on to the discussion. Please, Mrs. Irina.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-18-m0.u121	Thank you, Mr. Head. Thank you, all your colleagues, for a constructive consideration of the previous bill. And amendment number 10 of the People's Deputy Lapin. Don't insist. 20th, Lapin. Don't insist. 21st, Lapin. Don't insist. 33rd, Lapin. Don't insist. 50th, Rizanenko. Don't insist. 51st, Galasuk. Noisyuk! Don't insist. 52nd, Ostrichova. Ostrika! Don't insist. 53rd Bird. Don't insist. 54th, Pigeon. Please, the Blue Mike.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-18-m0.u122	Thank you. Dear Andriy Volodymyrovich, I propose that we still make the definition of the "start price of a great privatisation object". Explain why. Because further down from the text in the bill's body, there's a concept of "start price" everywhere, and there's no definition. Although the committee wrote that the appeal was rejected by the way that the methods of determining the start price are contained in article 22. Of course it is, and I confirm it. But the definition itself, and what is the minimum start price? So, dear colleagues, I would still ask that we include this definition already in an article that regulates the definition of terminology. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-18-m0.u123	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we have heard the position of the author of the bill. Please identify 54 of Mr. Dove's amendments [[11:31:02]] For-61 61 votes. It doesn't take up the necessary amount. 55th, Bird. Don't insist. 56th, Rizanenko. Don't insist. 57th, Ostrichova. Don't insist. Please, Mrs. Ostrovkova, 57 corrections.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-18-m0.u124	Dear colleagues, my amendments 52 and 57 relate to the starting price of objects corresponding to small privatization and large privatization. And I think it's very important to divide the concepts and grounds for determining the starting price of small and large privatization objects in order to make the small privatisation process more automated, and yet still the process of large privatization where we are talking about 60-80 strategic enterprises in fact, has a more complex procedure and this is the price of studying potential buyers' auction offers and that it agrees with the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and with municipal property units, the relevant local council. So, Madam Chairman, I would like to ask both of my amendments and 52 for confirmation, and 57 of them to be supported so that the starting price of large and small privatization objects is determined in separate amendments, in different standards. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-18-m0.u125	I'm sorry, are you asking us to put the 52nd and the 57th? I called it in, you just didn't hear it. So at Mrs. Ostrick's request, we put 52 amendments to the voting room. Please make up your mind. [[11:32:49]] For-60 60 votes. It doesn't take up the necessary amount. Now 57th, which the author has explained. Please make up your mind. [[11:33:07]] For-53 53 votes. It doesn't take up the necessary amount. 58th. Myrrhichenko doesn't insist. 59th, Szako. Don't insist. 61st, Walking. Don't insist. Lapin, 65th. Don't insist. Lubenets, 66th. Please, the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-18-m0.u126	This applies to the land area, since this issue has been covered in the article. I think that this is exactly the standard for the land area. So please put it to the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-18-m0.u127	We're assigned to 66 amendments to the Lubinian People's Deputy. Vote please, colleagues. The committee turned it down. [[B in m in s a l in]] Let me see. About a thousand amendments. [[11:33:58]] For-59 Not counting your repairs. 85th, Leuchenko. Don't insist. I can't see. Colleagues of Self-Help, I beg you, Levechenko will now insist on correction. Thank you very much. Please, mic Levchenk.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-18-m0.u128	Lewchenko, Freedom, 223 District, Kiev City. Well, first of all, it should be noted that this law is totally unacceptable in the bill, because it proposes to simplify the terms of privatization during the war, which will allow even more waste of strategic state property than is currently happening. It is absolutely unacceptable to sell to a profitable state of business, not to sell strategic enterprises, and, more than that, to do so during wartime. And here, now that the previous law has just been considered, there's been a lot of talk about the protection of state interests, and these laws, in fact, are engaged in further corruption of the state. My amendment refers to the fact that this bill proposes to eliminate the notion of a state privatization programme. It is suggested that this idea be removed from existing legislation at all. Thus, to facilitate the arbitrary sale of state enterprises. I believe that, of course, it should be approved and that the state privatization programme should remain the norm. For it to be clearly described, what, when, and why it should be privatized. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-18-m0.u129	Thank you for your clarification. Colleagues, please identify 85 of Mr. Levchenk's amendments. The committee turned it down. 85th is an amendment. [[11:35:38]] For-45 45 votes. Not supported. Next up, 87th, Romanowski. 86th? Now, I'm looking. 86 amendments, this is Wojcietsky, it's partially accounted for. Please, Mrs. Wojcietski's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-18-m0.u130	Victoria Wojcietsky, Self-Help Unit. Our amendment foresees that critical infrastructures are not to be privatized. Let me give you a simple example. Privatization of the skynergo. When these objects were actually in the hands of the oligarchs, and as you well recall, 2015, when virtually blackmailing the whole country took place because of the fan’s lifting connections. The need to raise the price of coal and the corresponding price of electricity, the whole country was a hostage of an oligarch named Ahmtova. We have no right, especially during war, to privatize those critical infrastructures that ensure normal human activity. So I ask you very much to maintain my law and to take it into account in the text of the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-18-m0.u131	Thank you, dear colleague. Colleagues, the committee partly considered Mrs. Wojcietski’s amendment. But the author insists on taking full account. I'm asking you to identify yourself. The position is presented by the author. I'd like to make a statement. [[11:37:19]] For-67 67 votes. It doesn't take up the necessary amount. 87th, Romanowski. Don't insist. Next, 91st. Odarchenko. Don't insist. 92nd, Levechenko. Please, Mr. Levchenk's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-18-m0.u132	Leuchenko, Freedom 223 County. The fact is that this bill, one of the ways in which it facilitates total privatization, shortens the list, the sectoral list of enterprises, the institutions that are not allowed to privatize. So we have a separate law, a separate list of enterprises that are banned, but also in the current legislation there is a sectoral list of those sectors that are totally unacceptable to do anything in these areas. This bill shortens the list. I don't think that's acceptable. It is necessary to leave the legislation to prohibit the privatization of property of enterprises, institutions and organizations, the National Academy of Sciences, the sectoral academics used to carry out fundamental applied research, cultural objects belonging to the property complexes of the National Academy of Sciences of Ukraine, the property of enterprises, the organizations of the National Hydrometeorological Service, international airports, because it is proposed to be excluded from this area. I suspect it's the first privatisation of airports in Ukraine. So this list can't be shortened, I'm asking you to support this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-18-m0.u133	Thank you. We're voting for Mr. Levechenk's amendment, this is Amendment 92, and the committee rejected it. I'd like to make a statement. [[11:38:58]] For-47 I want to, it's just that there was a comment by the committee head, and I didn't give him my word. Mr. Andrew, Mr. Andrew, please, Mr. Andrew, you wanted to comment on this 92 amendment. Please, your response, I'm sorry that after the vote, but I didn't see the signal, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-18-m0.u134	Dear Mr. Yuri, you're in part the correct correction. But I would like to inform you that unfortunately for today, the Academy of Sciences has a large bank of land, they have large banks of real estate. And so it happened, unfortunately, that it's all working underground, in black, that's undervalued, and so the corruption that's happening there today, it's not allowing us to protect these non-profile assets. And in the list that's not allowed, there's actually what the academics of science really need to do for them to function. And all that corruption, all that black business they built there, we have to clean up with you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-18-m0.u135	We voted on this amendment. The next is the 93rd AmendmentLeuchenka, it was just the reaction and comment of the committee. Please, Mr. Levchenko, microphone now.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-18-m0.u136	Lewchenko, Freedom, 223 District, Kiev City. First of all, you know, this comment that's just been, it's a quintession of the policy of active power. The way to fight corruption is to assign normal people to the right positions and create a legal state when they plant criminals, not by privatizing the functions of the state, you know. Because this power has been fighting corruption for the past three years by privatizing the functions of the state, so called deregulation and so-called privatization, and so really simply giving full control to the state in general private interests. It's just ideological logic. With regard to this amendment. The proposal for changes in the bill allows for a substantial expansion of the list of privatization objects in such a way that it is possible to acquire property owned by the U.S.S.A. or the Ukrainian Armed Forces. To do that, I quote, "does not ensure that the tasks laid down by law are met", and then it can be privatized. This is a totally unacceptable norm, and I demand that this rule be taken out. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-18-m0.u137	We vote for amendment 93, Lechchenka. The committee turned her down. [[11:41:43]] For-45 45 votes. No amount has been dialed. 94th Wojcietsky. Are you insisting? 95th is also Mrs. Wojcietski's microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-18-m0.u138	Victoria Wojcietsky, Self-Help Unit. Amendment 95 tells us that we have to exclude from the list of sites before privatization those facilities that provide national security for Ukraine or privatization that pose significant risks to the security of the State and replace critical infrastructure, that is, systems and facilities, physical or virtual, that provide services that are essential to the security of the State and to support human normal life. And that's what this is about. Let me give you a very simple example. At the Ministry of Defense, in some warehouses, our equipment, our ammunition, is not enough to build a normal box. I witnessed it myself. And in order to have enough of them, it's necessary for woodchoppers to function, and it's necessary for them to function, and they don't work. And they don't work, including because they're being controlled by some private groups. So we have to make sure that we are completely safe, and we have to do everything.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-18-m0.u139	15 seconds, complete.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-18-m0.u140	We must do our utmost to ensure that those objects that are necessary for safety are necessarily kept in the list of objects that are prohibited. Although they are indeed those who serve, provide appropriate services, and produce the right goods. So please support my amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-18-m0.u141	The committee's comment on why it wasn't taken into account.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-18-m0.u142	Dear Mrs. Victoria, I support you. But in Ukrainian legislation, there is no definition of "critical infrastructure" and "normal human activity." Well, there's no such thing as legislation, Vika.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-18-m0.u143	We're going to be determined, please. The author’s position is 95, and the committee rejected it. [[11:44:04]] For-45 45 votes. Not accepted. 96 Amendment of the People’s Deputy Vojcitsky. Don't insist. 97th, Levchenka. Please, the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-18-m0.u144	Thank you. My amendment relates to what issue of the State privatization programme. The bill proposes to get rid of that concept at all. It is evident that such changes to legislation are corrupt, since government officials, especially today’s government apparatus, will decide arbitrarily and arbitrarily on the privatization of one or more objects. Obviously, when it is convenient for an oligarch or his servant to clean up an additional amount of national property, he will also be presented for privatization. Without any economic strategy, without any logic of economic development in general. Accordingly, I still insist that there be a State Privatization Program to keep this concept at the legislative level, right? - not left, let's say, a ransom to the executive. Please support this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-18-m0.u145	Position heard. Committee comment, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-18-m0.u146	Dear Mr. Yuri, just a bill in case it is accepted as a whole, it determines that the State Privatization Programme Act will become invalid. We don't need him. If it's accepted, it's the law.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-18-m0.u147	We vote in favour of the amendment of the People's Deputy Levchenk, 97th. The committee turned her down. [[11:46:01]] For-48 Your amendment is not supported. Next, 104th, Wojcietsky. Don't insist. 106th, Levechenko. Please, the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-18-m0.u148	Lewchenko, Freedom, 223 District, Kiev City. A bill in part to facilitate privatization in a warring country, right? – in which the economy is not feeling well, the bill proposes to change the figure of 250 by 100. What's that number? That's a figure that defines the term "big business." So if over the reporting period, in the last reporting year, the value of assets exceeds 250 million dollars, right? - it's a big business, only then it's considered. The bill proposes to do exactly 250. Sorry, that's not what I said. And I suggest we leave this, as it is now, at 100 million dollars, so that we don't make it easier to privatize during the war, so that we don't actually call big businesses small businesses. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-18-m0.u149	We vote in favour of this amendment 106, colleagues. [[11:47:31]] For-42 Not supported. Next up is the 115th People's Deputy of Vojtsiecki. Ah, Captain, please, Mrs. Sotnik.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-18-m0.u150	Thank you very much, Madam Chairman. Our joint amendments. Olena Sotnik, Self-Help faction. 115 amendment, it refers, in principle, to a very logical thing that we were trying to report, including the Ministry of Economics. When we sell an object, if we want to ensure its maximum investment attractiveness, of course it is necessary to sell it along with land. Because in Ukraine, there's no secret to anyone that very often land is a problem and sometimes a barrier. And so for foreign investors, if we want companies to come here, it's critical that some infrastructure or privatization objects are sold along with the land where they are. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-18-m0.u151	We are appointed by this joint amendment, Mrs. Sotnik and her colleagues. Please make up your mind. [[11:48:50]] For-55 It's not supported. 128th, Belkova. Don't insist. 128th. Belkov doesn't insist. 129th, Caplin.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-18-m0.u152	I've already announced, 129th, then I'll be back. 129th, Caplin. A microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-18-m0.u153	Sergei Kaplin, head of the Socialist Party of Ukraine I want to remind the millions of our compatriots who are now watching the broadcast of the Council, that in 1991 there were 7.5 thousand medium-sized and large industrial enterprises in Ukraine, and in 27 years our state has been running new, so-called political elites and the International Monetary Fund and the World Bank just 300-350 enterprises. The state was 14th in the world -- in the world, not in Europe -- at the level of industrial potential, it is now 164th. With this right, I propose that we restore the right of the labour force to participate in the privatization of the enterprise. And so that the ordinary citizens who built these factories, who built these factories, would keep and maintain their low wages, these factories and factories, would have the right to own these businesses. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-18-m0.u154	Please comment from the committee, from the committee head.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-18-m0.u155	Your amendment does not refer to the subject matter of this law. It should be included in the Civil Code, the Code of the Masters, and the Act on Shareholder Associations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-18-m0.u156	Please vote for amendment 129. And then I give my word to the honourable Head. Please make up your mind. [[11:50:53]] For-21 21 votes. No correction supported.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-18-m0.u157	Dear colleagues, I'm going to interrupt our system work for a second. I would like to announce that there is an official delegation of the Georgian Parliament at the plenary meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, headed by Parliament, Arakli Kobahide. Let's welcome our colleagues, representatives of all factions of the Georgian Parliament! [[Applause]] Dear colleagues, I want to say that we had a very serious meeting yesterday in cooperation between our countries. This year, both we and Georgia celebrate the 100th anniversary of the restoration of our statehood and the 100th anniversary of the restoration of diplomatic relations between Ukraine and Georgia. We have a story together. We have common challenges. We recall how Russia began aggression against Georgia in 2008. At that time, we could not have imagined that in a few years there would be aggression against us. We have common challenges against the Russian Federation for the protection of our sovereignty, but we also have a common path - the EU, the NATO path, and that way we go side by side. And, I am sure, soon will be the day when both Ukraine and Georgia will be a full member of both the EU and NATO. We wish you success, our colleagues, and we wish you success in our common struggle. Welcome! [[Applause]] And now I give the word Wojcietski. You'll hear the number of the edit, turn on the microphone. 125th, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-18-m0.u158	Yes, 125 remedies apply to municipal property that belongs to our local authorities. And the point here is that local self-government within its competitors is privatizing municipal property according to the principles of this law and exclusively at electronic auctions. So we want to ensure absolute transparency in the privatization process at the level of the local government in terms of municipal property. We think that's perfectly logical, and that's just going to increase the community's trust in its local authority. So please support our offer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-18-m0.u159	Please, Mr. Andrew, comment.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-18-m0.u160	Dear Mrs. Victoria, your amendment is essentially included in this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-18-m0.u161	Thank you. So 125 of the committee's revisions were rejected. Whoever supports this amendment, please vote. [[11:53:43]] For-49 The decision is not taken. It's 130 right now, Semenha. Please turn on Mr. Roman's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-18-m0.u162	Semenha Roman, Self-Help Unit. Dear colleagues, I am asking you to file 130 confirmation papers, as they increase the ability of Russian companies to privatize Ukrainian public objects. We generally think that one of the tasks of this law's strategic and privatization is to stop the Russian capital from increasing its influence in the Ukrainian economy. If the first reading of the draft prohibits the participation and privatization of companies owned by the resident of Russia, companies registered in Russia, and Russian citizens, then the second reading after the amendment is extended only to Russian state companies and persons for whom sanctions have been applied. Privatization for many years in Ukraine was the main channel of penetration of Russian capital into the Ukrainian economy and, accordingly, the increase in influence. So we are convinced that the purpose of this law must be to limit, reduce the influence of the Russian capital in the Ukrainian economy. Please bet on confirmation.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-18-m0.u163	Thank you. So please, Andrew Volodymyrovich, comment.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-18-m0.u164	Dear Mr. Head, honourable national deputies, please support the 130th amendment of Mr. Rizanenka, which is considered partly by the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-18-m0.u165	Please, Mr. Rizanenko. Mr. Rizanenko! One minute, turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-18-m0.u166	As the author of the amendment, I would like to point out that the purpose of the bill was to simplify privatization rather than to create additional barriers in order to create what was done for 25 years. And what happened was that all the participants were cut off during the privatization of one or more objects. And I understand that, of course, it's very nice to cover up the fight with the aggressor country and so on, but if you're carefully reading into the law and basically, the tossing companies, the sanctions countries, the objects that are under sanctions, they can't take part in privatization. But artificial barriers are not to be created. So please support the amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-18-m0.u167	Thank you. So the committee is asking for support for this amendment. It's about confirmation, 130 revisions. The committee's asking her to support it. [[11:56:26]] For-53 The decision is not taken. Next, 131st? 132nd. Who will act? You are, aren't you? Mr. Roman, 132 right.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-18-m0.u168	Semenha Roman, Self-Help Unit. Honorary colleagues, Law 132, which is also considered by the committee, are excluded from the bill in principle, in my view, an important rule that prohibited the privatization of public property by buyers who have an opaque ownership structure or who come from offshore jurisdictions. Because the purpose of the bill is, at least as stated by the authors, to increase transparency and simplification, we cannot allow the concealment of certain information and so that real buyers are companies that come from offshore jurisdictions. Please bet on confirmation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-18-m0.u169	Please comment, Andrew Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-18-m0.u170	I don't want to comment.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-18-m0.u171	He doesn't want to comment on it. I'm betting on confirmation of Amendment 131. The committee's asking her to support me, as I understand it. Please vote. I'd like to make up my mind. [[11:57:52]] For-43 The decision is not taken. So, colleagues, one minute to recess, and I still need to read the announcement. And I want to emphasize to the right-wing authors and to the committee's head that at 12:30 we're going to go straight to the law review. Let's figure out what the next amendment is-- 133th, 134th?
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-18-m0.u172	134th Mrs. Sotnik.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-18-m0.u173	134th. So we'll start with it. We'll start at 12:30 with 134. Please be in the hall. And, Andriy Volodymyrovich, 134th Amendment at 12:30, we'll start working on it. And I want to make an announcement. Ladies and gentlemen, on January 22nd, we will celebrate one of the fundamental events of Ukrainian statehood -- the century of declaration of Ukraine's independence. On that same day, we celebrate the Day of Assembly of Ukraine. During the break at 12:00, we invite you to take part in the opening of a new exhibition of our museum of Ukrainian Parliamentarianism, dedicated to the 100th anniversary of the Ukrainian Revolution and the presentation of the 50th-tone conference of works by the head of the Central Council of Ukraine, Michael Gruszewski. And the opening and presentation will take place on the third floor. And I can also tell you that yesterday in the halls of Parliament, the portrait of Gruszewski opens our gallery. And anyone who wants can also look at it, it's an important sign to evaluate our past, to evaluate the events of a century ago when our grandfathers stood up for the struggle for Ukrainian statehood. So I invite everyone to open an exhibition on the third floor. And now, according to the Rules, I announce a 30-minute break in the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. At 12:30, everyone please come to the hall to continue our work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-18-m0.u174	The company, the time for the break, is over. And I think that we should work more intensively, and today we have some very important laws, including the admission of foreign troops. The document has several hundred rights. And I'd like to ask the right-wing authors, especially those who support the law conceptually, maybe not everyone to stress and more to have an intensive discussion. I want to remind you that we're at 134. And it's going to sound like Helen Sotnik. Andrew Volodymyrovich, please join us in our work. And please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-18-m0.u175	Thank you. Olena Sotnik, Self-Help faction. This amendment refers to issues that have been discussed for the last 30 minutes prior to the beginning of this meeting. The question is whether Russia can actually buy our businesses as an already recognized aggressor and whether the Russian capital can actually buy our businesses. The category "self-help" position that can't be privatized can't be a question of money ahead of the security of the state and ahead of our sovereignty. That's why we're principled. for us there is a principle position, this is the main position to support this law, which should provide a very clear norm, which will give all the safeguards to prevent Russian capital or end-of-life beneficiaries, if they are from the Russian Federation, from participating in the privatization of Ukrainian enterprises. It's a matter of national security. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-18-m0.u176	Thank you. Please, Andrew Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-18-m0.u177	Dear Mr. Head! Dear National Deputies! I'd like to inform you that Mrs. Helen and a group of national MPs who made amendments to this content, we synthesized this during a break, and we have work to do, and I'm going to finish by reading the transcript, as we agreed, we've reached consensus. And this will allow all factions and groups to support the bill as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-18-m0.u178	Thank you. I'll put it to a vote. But as far as I know, the committee head met with many factions and agreed to compromise formulations. And I promise that before we vote, we'll give them a sound, and then you'll be able to give them an estimate, and you'll decide about the vote. But I'm voting 134. The committee turned her down. Whoever supports it, please vote. [[12:35:36]] For-32 The decision is not taken. Next up is 135th. Illenka, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-18-m0.u179	Andrew Illenko, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. Our amendment concerns preventing even the theoretical possibility of our Ukrainian businesses being held in the hands of Moscow owners or their representatives here in Ukraine. Because we think it's a completely abnormal norm, which is that if less than 10 percent of the legal person is there, shares or shares belong to the country, and representatives of the aggressor country, then there's no problem, you can sell. We think that's a completely wrong logic. Any legal person who, by even one percent, does not care how much, they have a relation to the aggressor country, they have no right to claim any property in Ukraine. And this is a very clear position in a warring country. That is why we insist on voting for this amendment. And in general, let's talk about, during the war, doing privatization, it's like selling apartments in a burning house. It's a frost that can't be allowed.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-18-m0.u180	Please, Andrew Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-18-m0.u181	Stand by for confirmation.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-18-m0.u182	I'll put it to a vote. The amendment is rejected. Anyone who supports this amendment, please vote. She's been rejected by the committee. [[12:37:13]] For-36 The decision is not taken. So once again, I'm going to ask that we go more intensively. 139th. He insists. A bird.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-18-m0.u183	Dear colleagues, the amendment to the article in question speaks of customers. about entities that are unable to speak to customers. The law suggests that employees of public bodies of privatization cannot be buyers in privatization processes. And that's right, because they obviously have some conflict of interest. My amendment suggests adding the term "as well as related persons." Because this refers to all parents — parents, wives, husbands, children, sisters, and brothers — in particular, those working in the bodies, the privatization bodies. Because it's pretty easy for an employee, for example, to write assets on his sister or his wife, and then, assuming that he's not taking part in privatization. So I'm asking you to support my amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-18-m0.u184	Thank you. 139 amendments were rejected by the committee. Whoever supports it, I ask you to vote. [[12:38:45]] For-45 The decision is not taken. 142nd. Don't insist. 144th. 141th. Who? Yvchenko ChiKrulko? Who, I wonder, Ivchenko or Krulko? Cool, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-18-m0.u185	Ivan Krulko, "The Fatherland" faction. Dear Members of the Ukrainian Parliament and Ukraine, this is one of the key amendments to this bill. What it's about, what it's about, what it's about. In that they cannot be part of the privatization of Ukrainian property, Ukrainian objects, buyers who are registered in Cyprus and other offshorees that are on the IMF list and are not on the government list of FATFs, such as those who do not cooperate in countering the laundering of proceeds obtained by criminal means. This amendment should be taken fully into account in this law, and we must not allow the privatization of those who, through offshores, are actually looting Ukrainian property. So I ask, even in the context of the law that we voted for the Donbas occupation, to support this very necessary amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-18-m0.u186	So let me make it clear, Mr. John, is that 141th? Yeah? It was 141. So 141 revisions are included in part, and the authors insist that it be counted in full. Whoever supports this proposal, please vote. [[12:40:28]] For-50 The decision is not taken. Now, 143rd, Yvchenko, even though it's counted, is written in me. Please, Yvchenka. Turn on Ivchenk's microphone, please. Maybe there's something wrong with your card, see? Do you have a card? Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-18-m0.u187	Vadim Yvchenko, "The Fatherland" faction. Dear colleagues. I want to say again what my colleague said, it's a pretty important amendment that's from Fatherland, and it's going to determine the conditions for whom we're going to sell. That is, colleagues, we suggest not just that. Because this amendment is partially taken into account, we suggest that not only would it be possible to sell to those persons, more specifically, the impossibility was to sell to those companies and persons included in the FATF list of countries that do not cooperate in the area of anti-money-laundering received by criminal means, as well as to persons registered in the offshore zone according to the International Monetary Fund defined in the list of such zones, as well as in the Republic of Cyprus. I want to remind you that we want this to be countries we don't have an information exchange agreement with. It's offshore, actually, jurisdiction. For us, this is a principle of amendment. I think it should also be a rule of law for Parliament not to be buyers of offshore companies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-18-m0.u188	I, in order to understand your proposal correctly, take your amendment into account.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-18-m0.u189	[[Unheard]]
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-18-m0.u190	All right, all right. Thus, the proposal is made that the 143rd Amendment of Ichchenka should be taken fully into account. Please vote who supports this proposal, please. [[12:42:36]] For-43 The decision is not taken. Colleagues, we're moving very slowly, and that's what's warning me. 144th. Don't insist. He insists. Yes, please, Olena Sotnik.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-18-m0.u191	Thank you. Olena Sotnik, Self-Help faction. Actually, we don't have that many fundamental moments, and that's how it works, Mr. Speaker, that they're at the very beginning of the law, so it's important to discuss it. The same thing, the faction also has notes that refer to transparency, especially the transparency of the end-beneficiary. To ensure this transparency, taking out offshore jurisdiction is not enough. You and I know very well that there are low-tax jurisdictions that are not officially offshore, but nevertheless, they don't reveal the end-beneficiary. That's why we're totally supporting the Motherland faction here, and that's also our position that the final beneficiaries should have a transparent ownership structure. That's the first one. And secondly, this includes the previous principle of the Russian Federation. Because an opaque property system can hide the same thing. The same Russian resident. That's why I'm asking you to back me up.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-18-m0.u192	Thank you. Thus, 144 amendments to the committee are rejected, but the author insists on voting. Who supports Amendment 144, please vote. [[12:44:16]] For-43 The decision is not taken. 149th. Don't insist. He insists. 149th. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-18-m0.u193	Andriy Volodymyrovich, it's pretty bad when we're considering an important law and we're offering important corrections when MPs don't listen or they're just not in the hall. Two principled things. First, transparent ownership of companies that will buy Ukrainian state or municipal property. And second, it's my turn, including the self-help colleagues, we need to make sure that the buyers are not the citizens, or the physical, or the legal, who belong to the aggressor country. So I propose to article 8, where buyers, natural persons or related persons have citizenship of a state recognized by the Supreme Council of Ukraine as an aggressor State or where sanctions are applied in accordance with Ukrainian legislation. So it's so that people like that don't have the right to participate in government auctions, for example, for the sale of our property. It's important. Two things. We want the hall to understand what we are voting for and who might be our buyers in the future.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-18-m0.u194	Thank you. I agree with you. Not that all MPs are missing, not even some of the right-wing authors are in the hall. So 149 of the committee's rights are rejected. The author insists on voting. Whoever supports it, I ask you to vote. [[12:46:02]] For-49 The decision is not taken. The 150th Ivan Krulco.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-18-m0.u195	Ivan Krulko, "The Fatherland" faction. Dear colleagues, let's finally sort this out so that the citizens of the aggressor country, in which the aggressor country, we have just passed the law, admitting that Russia has occupied part of the territory of Ukraine, it seems illogical that the aggressor is the Russian Federation, and the citizens of this country can participate in the privatization of Ukrainian property. Where are we going then? Why should we adopt laws that we call Russia an aggressor if we then gave them, citizens, the right to privatize Ukrainian property? So this amendment refers to the fact that if there are citizens who have multiple citizenship, just like the citizens of the Russian Federation, if one of the citizens is an aggressor country's citizenship, they have no right to participate in the privatization of Ukrainian property. I'm asking the hall and the patriotic part to support this amendment made by Fatherland. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-18-m0.u196	Please comment, Andry Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-18-m0.u197	Dear Mr. John, I report that unfortunately we didn't take your amendment into account, because there is no definition of plurality in legislation. But what I'm telling you is that, under the requirement of the Self-Help faction, the Freedom Group and the Fatherland faction, you said that it was fundamental for you to be unable to take part in the privatisation of the aggressor country. And I said, when you're gone, I'll tell you again, we're finally, I'm going to read an amendment that's consensual that will meet the requirement of the Fatherland faction on the aggressor nation's natural persons.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-18-m0.u198	Thank you. Colleagues, I really suggest that the chairman of the committee present the text of the agreed amendment and perhaps we will save a huge amount of time when the deputies see what the committee will offer the final edition. So I'm asking you to get to know her, and maybe this will make the bill more effective. The dialogue is already happening, it's important. So next, 156th. Don't insist. 153rd. Luben, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-18-m0.u199	Lubinets, majority electoral district number 60, Donetsk district. Andry Volodymyrovich, I have an offer, I have four in a row: 153. Now, 153rd, 157th, 159th, 161st. I'm asking you to give me two minutes to save time and tell me what this is all about.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-18-m0.u200	Roger that. Give it a minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-18-m0.u201	Thank you. I'd like to hear a representative of the committee explain. Yes, this amendment applies to article 9. You have the conclusion of the Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration, where it is clearly noted. Andry Volodymyrovich, you're in charge of the committee. The main scientific and expert office specifically pointed out that in article 9, you want to create a commission of control on matters of privatization, which cannot be done because this does not correspond to article 89 of the Constitution of Ukraine. Our Parliament can only create organs. My amendments are relevant, and I helped you, so write down that privatization control authorities. Because Parliament has the right to form a temporary commission of inquiry. It's an organ, it's not a commission. You are in direct conflict with the Constitution of Ukraine. All four of my amendments and they give you the right to make this law, of course, very necessary and for which it needs to be voted, but brought into line with the Constitution of Ukraine. So let's take this into account -- all four amendments. This is to help you, and we will be able to correct and fully comply with the Constitution of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-18-m0.u202	Please, Andrew Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-18-m0.u203	Dear Mr. Head! Dear National Deputies! Dear Lubinian People's Deputy! I've read carefully the conclusion of the Chief Scientific and Expert Directorate, but I would like to tell you this: that a special privatization commission has long been established in the Ukrainian Parliament, which plays a very important role. And as head of the Committee on Economic Policy, the subject of which is the question of privatization, most of them would probably be interested in eliminating the commission that works in Parliament to have more authority. But I think it's ours. Our job, it doesn't overlap. The commission is very helpful. Why? Because when we're working on legislation, the commission is working on the practical implementation of this legislation, and it's looking at a huge amount of complaints about the privatization of all processes. And that's where our fellow national MPs work. My friend and friend Igor Lapin is in charge of this commission. More than 30 people from various MP factions and groups are today.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-18-m0.u204	Please, 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-18-m0.u205	There's a machine, there's everything. And if we didn't mention this body in this bill, which is and works, we don't create it, and we don't break the Constitution, then there would be a problem as they continue to do their work. And that's why, if you want, after considering the bill, I'll tell you the statistics, I'll tell you what they're doing, and I'll prove to you, not by word, but by fact, that they're very necessary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-18-m0.u206	Thank you. Do you insist on voting? Don't insist. All right, lineup, 30 seconds, please. Although this is not the case, try to avoid such dialogues. Please, Lubinets, 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-18-m0.u207	Andrew Volodymyrovich, my last name has been mentioned, so I have the right under the Ukrainian Law on the Rules of Procedure to terminate.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-18-m0.u208	They didn't insult you, they didn't insult you. Please speak.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-18-m0.u209	But we remembered. I'm very fast. You're absolutely right, absolutely, but this Special Privatization Commission is an organ created by the Supreme Council of Ukraine, an organ. I, on the contrary, do not insist that you eliminate it, but according to legal terminology, this special commission is called an organ. Let it work, but when we prescribe in article 9 that we are creating a commission, we cannot do it with volumes. We create organs, and organs are called different: a temporary investigation commission, a special privatization commission. Any commission, but legally they're called an organ of the Ukrainian Parliament, that's what the trailer is. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-18-m0.u210	Thank you. You don't insist on voting. Colleagues, I'd like to consult you, colleagues, with everyone. The day before, when I had a conversation with the committee head, he said he went through all the factions and found compromising positions. And we're going to walk pretty fast. There are over seven hundred rights in this bill, we're on 159th. This creates a danger that even by the end of the day we may not be able to get to the bottom of it. That's why I have another appeal, colleagues. I can't control who's putting in confirmation papers, but if we go at the rate we're going, we won't even be able to look at the law by the end of the day. And to my profound belief, this is one of the most important economic laws, and not only economic laws, but also anti-corruption laws. And if there are right-wing authors who are in favour of us adopting this law today as a whole, I ask you not every law for long enough to be able to look at the bill more effectively. I hope they heard me, and I hope they support me. Let's move on. That was 168th, no. 162nd, Odarchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-18-m0.u211	Thank you, Mr. Andrew. Yuri Odarchenko, Fatherland faction. Dear colleagues, the law suggests that special commissions on privatization issues formed in the respective councils should have equal representation from each faction in the relevant council. Otherwise, there will be no point in such a commission, because these committees will be made up of the majority, and they will make the right decisions. In addition, it is proposed to introduce a security against breach of the law, if the commission is not formed or formed with a violation of the principle of proportionality, privatization cannot be carried out at all. This is the only way to ensure that minorities are controlled over the whereabouts of state or municipal property. The fact that opposition is the best controller is widely known. I ask you to support the amendment I have proposed.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-18-m0.u212	So 162 of the committee's rights are rejected. Whoever supports it, I ask you to vote. [[12:56:02]] For-45 The decision is not taken. 176th. Don't insist. 180th. Don't insist. 183rd. Don't insist. 188th. Don't insist. 189th. Don't insist. 197th. Don't insist. It went well. 205th. Don't insist. 207th. Don't insist. 214th. Don't insist. 229th. Don't insist. 240th. Nope. [[B in m in s a l in]] 239, Darchenko. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-18-m0.u213	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I propose to rule out such an uncompetitive method of privatization as a ransom. With this method, thousands of objects have emerged from state or municipal property at no cost. Privatization must be done exclusively through a competition that must be conducted in a competitive manner. One person cannot be allowed through opaque mechanisms to buy out national property without allowing others to offer another price or more favourable terms of purchase. I ask you to exclude such a procedure as a ransom from the body of this bill. Please support my work.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-18-m0.u214	Thank you. The committee's amendment to 239 was rejected. Whoever supports this amendment, please vote. [[12:57:39]] For-52 The decision is not taken. 246. Don't insist. 253. Don't insist. 255th. Don't insist. 269th. Don't insist. 269, Rybechin. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-18-m0.u215	Alexei Rybchin, Fatherland, Doñecina. Dear colleagues, I, as a member of the PEC Committee and head of the Committee on Energy Conservation and Energy Efficiency, have introduced four important regulations that have been taken into account on the state of compliance with environmental standards and environmental quality standards; on the need for energy-efficient privatization facilities, since facilities built in Soviet times are not yet energy efficient today; their wear-down state, the technical state of the buildings, only adversely affect the level of energy efficiency. However, Amendment No. 269 has not been taken into account, it is about the state of compliance with environmental standards and environmental quality standards. Please also consider it in privatization. We have to protect our environment.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-18-m0.u216	Thank you. The 269th amendment was rejected by the committee. Whoever supports it, please vote. [[12:59:11]] For-52 The decision is not taken. 274th. 276. 280? Turn on the microphone, you'll say, just start with the correct number, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-18-m0.u217	Yes. I asked for the $270 check. But I will not insist on voting. I would like to address one of the most progressive heads of the Supreme Council committee, Mr. Ivanchuk, with a request to be included in the list.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-18-m0.u218	The most progressive.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-18-m0.u219	sites that are not allowed to be privatized, gas distribution networks, and public gas distribution networks. These are the same networks that go to Ukrainian homes. These are the networks that were used completely free of charge by an oligarch like Firthash. I ask you very much to add this object to the list that is not allowed to privatize. It's a socially significant asset, it's just one example of a critical state infrastructure that's supposed to provide quality life for Ukrainians. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-18-m0.u220	What I'm proposing is that, so that we don't fail the amendment, let's ask the committee's head to hear it before the vote, and that's more correct. Please, 30 seconds, Andry Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-18-m0.u221	Well, no one in this room has any doubt that the national deputy Vojtsiecki is very professional in these matters, and we cannot ignore it with a point of view. I'll say it under the transcript. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-18-m0.u222	So that's what's going to sound like before the vote, and then we're going to vote. Next, 274ths, 276ths, 285ths, 290ths, 294ths, 298ths. I call only those who are rejected, not every one. 314th, 320th, 324th, 325th. Turn on YuriLewchenko's microphone and he'll tell you what's going on.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-18-m0.u223	Thank you. So it's 353. Yes, thank you. So the proposal for a bill on the possibility of lowering the starting price of a privatisation object by 25 percent and then 50 percent in the absence of buyers is unacceptable, given that huge corruption is encountered in matters relating to privatization. And it's a direct way to actually artificially lower prices that will lead to the transfer of government property to private property, to the oligaric private property at a minimum price. So this is one of the ingredients in this bill that's designed to make it much easier to dispose of government property, especially in terms of war. My amendment is to replace these numbers-- these are the numbers 25 and 50-- by 10 and 15. So it's going to make it much more complicated to reduce the price and to lower the value of government assets accordingly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-18-m0.u224	Committee comment, please. Committee comment, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-18-m0.u225	Dear Mr. Yuri, I can't see you. Dear Mr. Yuri, I'm informing you. It's a little privatization. The first auction goes on to raise the price. If it did not take place, a second auction is also scheduled only to raise the price. And if the second auction doesn't take place, we're going to make a price drop auction. Question three. We've analyzed how the Deposit Guarantee Fund works now, they've started, they've got very good software. If we lower 10 percent, only 2 percent of the trade is done. We specifically said that twice the increase didn't work, 50 percent the lower price, and they trade, they can, the market will form a real price. So I'm asking you very much to support the proposed editorial. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-18-m0.u226	Thank you. Please vote for the amendment of the 353 People's Deputy Levchenka. The committee turned her down. [[13:03:40]] For-47 47 votes. Your amendment is not supported. 351, Yvchenko. Don't insist. Yeah? Thank God. 354th, Wojcietsky. Don't insist. 356th, Yvchenko. Don't insist. I work very fast, darling, very fast and the hall works very well. And 365th, Wojcietsky. Don't insist. Yvchenko, 371. We don't insist. Thank you. The committee worked very hard to get us to move quickly. We've reached 400 repairs to Wojcietsky. 377th. Now, I'm looking for her. Just a minute. Yes, I'm sorry, we missed amendment 377 of the Odarchenka People's Deputies. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-18-m0.u227	Thank you. Yuri Odarchenko, Fatherland. Ladies and gentlemen, I ask you to pay attention for a moment. Please read article 16 of the bill. It states that the company charter may prescribe special terms for the sale of a government share. Not by law, colleagues, not by decree of the Cabinet of Ministers, but by statute. So it turns out that the whole law that we're passing right now is actually going to lose its meaning after it's adopted, because the State Property Fund can always change the statute, write a special order for the sale of a government share, and sell that portion to a predetermined person for at least one penny. We propose that this rule be excluded, voted in favour of our amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-18-m0.u228	We vote in favour of the 377 amendment of the People's Deputy, which the Committee has not approved. [[13:06:07]] For-46 46 votes. Your amendment is not supported. Next 400th. Wojciecian. Don't insist. Next, Mrs. Ostrovka. 426th. Don't insist. Wojciecian. 427. Don't insist. 422nd. I missed yours. Please, Yvchenka. 422nd.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-18-m0.u229	Vadim Yvchenko, "The Fatherland" faction. Dear colleagues, I would like you to listen very carefully, because with this right I want to increase the role of the parliamentary committees. I'd like to, and we've suggested that the nominees elected as a result of the competitive selection are subject to the consent of the profile committee. Why do I say that? Because today a consultant who, let's say, is defined by a competition can effectively sell agricultural enterprises, because animal complexes clearly need to be sold with some land. Why? Because the peak needs to be fed and the stern needs to be planted directly on the ground. What it's going to be and how it can only determine the identity committee that does agriculture. The same is true of other committees. I wanted you to take up the role of Parliamentary Committees, and so we could suggest that it be the councillors who agree with the committees -- whether it's PEC, whether it's agricultural policy, or whether it's the other committees of the Supreme Council.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-18-m0.u230	Thank you for your clarification. The Committee's motivation here that this amendment does not respond is contrary to the Constitution of Ukraine. But the author insists. Therefore, please identify yourself, and the amendment has been clarified. That's 422, we vote. There's motivation on the committee, I say, Mr. Yvchenko. [[13:08:11]] For-28 28 votes for. Not supported. Next up is 430, Dove. Don't insist. Very many amendments are taken into account by all factions, and the committee has worked hard on the bill. We haven't reached her yet. Lucenjak, 452nd. Don't insist. 453, Wojcietsky. Don't insist. 455, Bird repair. Yes, is there a bird? You don't? Yes. To be confirmed, it is put on the stand. So please, Soloway, you have the word and then the Birdman as the author. I'm asking you to record a representative of the 455th Committee. Please, Solovay.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-18-m0.u231	Yuri Solovay, 89 constituency, Gutzulščina, and Pocust. Dear colleagues, there is a fine saying in Ukraine when a barrel of honey can be rolled with a spoon. So, 455th, 456th and 457th revisions are spoons in my opinion the correct law. Because we essentially hand over the authority to make the final decision to whom to sell or to whom to reject the antitrust committee of Ukraine. Imagine the situation, you come to the competition, you win the open auction, you pay the money, and then you're sent to the Antimonopoly Committee to get a so-called concentration permit. If you don't get this permission for three months, you're not just denying yourself the right to win this competition, you're denied the right to participate in the next auction. And it's automatically recognized as a winner.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-18-m0.u232	30 seconds, complete.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-18-m0.u233	And the winner is the next. These are totally corrupt wrongs: 455ths, 456ths and 457ths, because they're essentially the same. I ask the presiding officer to place them for confirmation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-18-m0.u234	Please give the floor to the author of the amendments, Mrs. Ptashnik.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-18-m0.u235	Thank you. My friends, I'm surprised that our colleagues who work for the Economic Policy Committee who are supposed to be involved in antimonopoly legislation have not read the Law on Protection of Economic Competition. After all, it clearly lists cases where the Antimonopoly Committee is required to permit such purchases. If this is not permitted, it means that the proper purchase will result in monopolization. That is why we have proposed an amendment that if the winner of the auction does not get such permission from the Antimonopoly Committee, and that then means that there will be monopolization in the relevant market, it is obvious that ownership of the object of privatization cannot pass. I understand the hidden truth of those colleagues who try to break these changes because they advocate the interests of virtually five people of the state who want to monopolize the markets and not allow competition in them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-18-m0.u236	Please, the committee. No, no, and now they're asking me to put these amendments on. 455th is Ptašnik, 456th is Rizanenko, Bilkova. 457th is Ostrika's. Please, Ostrikak, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-18-m0.u237	Dear colleagues! I ask you to leave these amendments the way they are. Because it's very clear that if the winner of the auction doesn't get permission from the Antimonopoly Committee to concentrate, then the winner will be the one who offered the next price. But only on the condition that he pays the same price as the winner. This makes it impossible for any price manipulation and any cost-of-privatisation object, but at the same time it speeds up and makes it unnecessary to re-run the same competition for the same object. I think it's very important because the Antimonopoly Committee is the very body that is called upon to verify both the end-beneficiary owner and the origin of the aggressor country and the origin of the funds and prevent concentration. And now you want to distort competition. Therefore, I ask that the room now be consolidated and that these amendments be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-18-m0.u238	Colleagues, please, profile committee, your position. And we'll figure it out.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-18-m0.u239	On the Committee of the Three Amendments, we have drafted the text that we have proposed to the Ukrainian Parliament. And the people's deputy Ostrikov said exactly, he's going to auction, there's a winner who's offering the highest price, and then when he's declared a winner, he goes to the Antimonopoly Committee. And so it turns out, for example, he's on the sanctions list. The Antimonopoly Committee doesn't give him permission to buy. Next. The next one has the right to offer the highest price at which the winner becomes the winner and to buy and complete this process. What's wrong?
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-18-m0.u240	Logic is clear. Nevertheless, at the request of the People’s Deputy Solovia, I make these three amendments for confirmation. The committee is very much asking that the board vote in favour of the committee. I ask you, Mr. Andrey, to record these amendments so that in the final vote we can understand what we are doing to unbalance the law. 455 revisions. The committee's asking for her support. The committee's asking for support. [[13:14:28]] For-66 66 votes. The next one is 456 amendments. The committee's asking for support. Please make up your mind. The committee's asking for support. [[13:14:49]] For-86 457 revisions. The committee's asking for support. The committee requests that we consider his position. Please vote. [[13:15:10]] For-80 Let's move on. 469th Wojcietka. Don't insist. 478th. Don't insist. Which one of you insists? Mrs. Wojcietsky, 478. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-18-m0.u241	Thank you. Victoria Wojcietsky, Self-Help Unit. The amendment refers to the requirements for auditing large - scale privatization objects. You and I know very well that this is about 60 or more strategic objects of state property. In order to provide quality investors, Western investors, and institutional investors, we need, among other things, a quality audit of these companies. And we've prescribed those criteria that go to the audience that have to meet those requirements to do the audit. These criteria meet, first of all, the big four companies. But our bill also applies to the imposition of a liability insurance obligation on third parties with these audit firms of at least 50 million. What are we talking about? About what it takes for these audit companies to confirm, to insure the risks of misdisclosure.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-18-m0.u242	Vote. Vote! 47. 15 seconds, please. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-18-m0.u243	It's because of insurance for these risks of professional responsibility that we get extra weights just to convince potential investors of how these audiences work. So I'm asking you to support our amendment 478.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-18-m0.u244	Thank you. Thank you. We're putting 478 amendments to the vote. Please make up your mind. [[13:17:23]] For-45 They don't accept this amendment. Next up is 483, Ostrika. Don't insist. Let's move on. Sorry, this is where the consultation continues. Ostrike, 491. Don't insist. Ostrikova, 502nd. Don't insist.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-18-m0.u245	Now, I haven't gotten to her yet. 504th, Levechenko. Partially counted. Please, Lechchenko microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-18-m0.u246	In fact, the amendment is out of the question. The point is that in article 22 of the project, when designing the start-up price of the privatization object, it would be appropriate to take into account the position of article 7, paragraph 6, of the Ukrainian Law on Property Assessment, Property Rights and Professional Evaluation. Yes, in accordance with article 7, paragraph 6, of this Law, the conduct of an assessment of property is mandatory in cases of privatization and other alienation in cases established by law: rents, exchange, state property insurance, property held in municipal property, and the conduct of such property on the basis of a court decision. In addition, it is appropriate to supplement the bill with provisions that would make it impossible for artificially to lower the price of an object of privatization and to alienate it, in effect, at no cost. The point is, until the second reading is proposed. The authors proposed that, according to the law in force, the evaluation should be carried out, rather than according to the law in force, where everything was clearly prescribed, but that the evaluation should be carried out on the basis of the Kabmin method. Well, it's another example of manual control that's been introduced to scrape up the rest of government property. So you have to leave the reference on.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-18-m0.u247	Vote. The position is clear. 504 revisions. I'd like to make a statement. The committee's against it. So he partly counted it. I've counted part of it. I can hear you, I can hear you. [[13:19:54]] For-39 39 votes. No, no, no, no, no, no, no. 507. The amendment of the Galasyuk People's Deputy. It is partially counted, but Halasyuk, a national MP, insists on taking full account. Please. 507.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-18-m0.u248	Thank you. Victor Galasuk, the faction of the Radical Party of Oleg Laszek. 507 amendments are not really taken into account; they are very principled. Today’s government - sponsored edition provides for the definition of one - person advisors without any limitation on the start value of objects of great privatization. It's definitely unacceptable, you need an independent evaluation. Please, under the protocol, take this amendment into account: the part of the first paragraph of Article 22 reads as follows: "The initial price of a large privatization object shall be determined by the auction committee at the suggestion of a consultant in the case of a value-formed participation determined by an independent evaluation according to the valuation methodology approved by Kabmin." It'll secure the manipulation. Because they don't sell property to the government, they sell property to the people of Ukraine, and there has to be an independent estimate to know how much this property actually costs. I insist on counting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-18-m0.u249	Vote for this amendment, please. The committee partly counted it. [[B in m in s a l in]] I'm sorry. Stop the vote. [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear Mr. Valeria, you remember who is currently in charge of Parliament. And it's not you. He's lying down. He's lying to Valeriovich. I heard you, I'm asking the committee representative to comment on the position that the author requires. Please. [[B in m in s a l in]] That's true. That's true, so don't interrupt me, because it's hard for me to lead when you yell at me like that. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-18-m0.u250	I have been called a representative of the committee ten times today. I thought I was still head of the committee. Mr. Oleg Valeriyovich, I'm under the stenogram at the end, before the vote, I think you can count on the full, not the partial amendment of the Galasyuk people's deputy. Before the vote, I'm going to read through the transcript all of these, all of them that we agreed on in the hall, to ensure a successful vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-18-m0.u251	Dear Mr. Chairman of the Committee, we do not vote on this amendment and move on. Take this into account in your final speech. The next is amendment 513, as was the people’s deputy Caplin, was included in part. Please, the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-18-m0.u252	Sergei Kaplin, head of the Socialist Party of Ukraine I would like to pay attention, first of all, to the attention of the millions of fellow citizens who are looking at us now, to the essence of this bill. In this, in this great Talmud of different norms, which seem to regulate the privatization process of about 50-60 new Ukrainian enterprises that will be in the hands of the Ukrainian and non-Ukrainian oligarchy, there is actually one main red rule: the rule that a potential owner will be sent after the purchase of an enterprise to the Antimonopoly Committee. And he's there, this potential foreign or Ukrainian owner, is going to carry a bablo, I emphasize, take a bablo there, to be recognized as a result, this entrepreneur, the legitimate owner of this enterprise. This bill is unacceptable. And I'm addressing all my colleagues: by no means do I vote on the final text, a version of this bill. And my order of business rating order, please place it on confirmation and.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-18-m0.u253	Please vote on the 513 amendment of the Kaplin People's Deputy, which has been partially counted. I also ask the national deputies of Slang not to use the language in the performances. There's money, and that word you said didn't exist in nature. Please vote. [[13:24:03]] For-45 Thank you, 45 votes. Your amendment is partially accounted for, partly, yes, not entirely. 516th. Who's asking? I haven't arrived yet. It's also partially counted. Please, Mr. Caplin's word, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-18-m0.u254	Dear fellow countrymen, today are actually witnesses of a great conspiracy against what you've been building, have kept, especially our dear fellow pensioners, throughout their lifetime: factories; factories; those enterprises that are critical to our national economy; infrastructure enterprises. The government, along with some of the parliamentary majority, prescribed in the law an opportunity for itself, without referring to the Basic Act on Evaluation Activities, to evaluate certain businesses and to put differences in their pockets. This was done for 27 years in our country. Remember, 27 years ago, you were the owners of a state that held 16th or 17th place in the world with industrial and industrial potential; today, 164th. Seven and a half thousand enterprises were cut apart, and 100 remained. And this law is called upon to tear apart the rest of these 100 businesses. Therefore, I urge you not to vote in favour of this law and to confirm this amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-18-m0.u255	I've got the position. Please be determined by amendment 516 of the Caplin People’s Deputy, which has been partially counted. [[13:25:46]] For-27 27 votes, out of the question. 526 repairs, Captain. Please, Mrs. Sotnik.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-18-m0.u256	Thank you. 526 the amendment refers to how the price is determined. And we believe that it is for the purpose of selling objects that cannot be included. the liability was taken into account in the case of financial liabilities. Because, in principle, debt for financial obligations can be created either by artificial means or by means of, say, a special scheme where these liabilities are deliberately raised before privatization in a state enterprise and thus reduces its cost. But it can absolutely be an artificial mechanism that threatens that a good object attractive to investors will actually be sold at no cost. Therefore, I would like to support this principle of amendment, depending on how much will come into the state budget for the sale of state-owned objects. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-18-m0.u257	We're on the 526th amendment. Please. [[13:27:16]] For-41 Not supported. Next up is 530. Don't insist. The next amendment is 547th. Don't insist. Next amendment, Levechenko, 563rd. Don't insist. Thank you. He insists. 563rd, Levechenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-18-m0.u258	Lewchenko, Freedom, 223 District, Kiev City. The point is that part one of article 24 states that the buyer for the period of payment for the object of privatization is unsustainable, but the amount of instability is not fixed, the way in which it is paid, the period in which it is not fixed. And it's very common, the situation is very common when they promise to pay the right price for government property, and then they don't pay for it for years, and there's no real fine, nothing happens. So in order to avoid such a situation, when different interpretations of the norm are possible, corrupt activity by the officials of the Holding Foundation, I propose to set the level of instability for the respective rights of one tenth of the value of the privatization object determined in accordance with this law for each day of payment. So one day the payment is due -- one day the new owner has to pay one tenth of the cost of a privatization object -- actually, one tenth percent.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-18-m0.u259	The position is clear. Vote for amendment to 563. Colleagues, we still have to decide to vote by law. So let's do 563 votes and move on. [[13:29:14]] For-48 It doesn't take up the necessary amount. 567th, Caplin. He insists. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-18-m0.u260	Dear compatriots, Sergey Kaplin, head of the Socialist Party of Ukraine This right suggests that the funds that come from the sale of an enterprise to the State Budget of Ukraine should be used for 10 days as a priority to pay off the debt owed to the company’s workforce. This standard is traditional, classical, European in the event of privatization in all European countries, which are our strategic partners and are together with socialist European, social-democratic countries such as Norway, Finland, France, Switzerland, Germany. And I propose that we use and vote on this norm and thus take a step towards the international European standards of privatization, when appropriate and when it is in the interests of Ukraine's national and economic interests. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-18-m0.u261	Vote for this amendment, colleagues, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-18-m0.u262	I didn't say that as a presiding officer. We're going after the repairs. [[B in m in s a l in]] [[13:30:39]] For-34 I'm here to spare the Ukrainian people. 34 votes were in favour of the amendment. And we're moving on. 592nd, Caplin. He does not want to spare the Ukrainian people. Please, Mr. Capplin's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-18-m0.u263	Here some in Ukraine, after 20 years in Ukrainian politics, have asked the head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine not to put an appeal to the vote that protects the interests of the ordinary Ukrainian people, protects their salaries, protects their jobs, protects the creation of new jobs. That's exactly what I'm about. It is in the right that we oblige a potential owner not to reduce the number of jobs in the business after becoming a full - time owner, a new owner of the company. Moreover, he certainly offered a plan and followed this plan to increase jobs and increase wages. I think that in privatization, if we're going to take this terrible step, we should stand for the interests of a man of work. Because then from this salary, a person pays money to the Pension Fund, and our pensioners get additional new pensions. This is our strategic task.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-18-m0.u264	We vote on this amendment. Please, colleagues, 592nd. Identify yourself. [[13:32:29]] For-22. 22 votes. Next amendment 615, Caplin. Is he insisting? Now. Are you insisting? Come on. 612 amendments, this is the amendment of the Ptachnik People's Deputy, which was included. And Solowei asks her for confirmation. Mr. Ivanchuk! Mr. Ivanchuk! The chairman of the committee is now in charge of the 512 amendment. Lock this down, please. Saul’s word, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-18-m0.u265	Yuri Solovay, 89th constituency, Gutzulščina and Poksi. Dear colleagues, in the first reading, the rule of law was that ownership of the purchased stock goes to the buyer after the full payment of the sale price for the stock package and from the time the stock is accounted for in the securities. What is proposed by law. That ownership of the object of privatization is passed not only when you have paid the costs but only after you have received the permission of the Antimonopoly Committee. So you pay the money, then you go to the Antimonopoly Committee and wait for permission. If you don't get it for three months, you lose it, you lose your auction rights, and the winner is the next bidder. This is clearly an illegal and corrupt thing that is proposed in current legislation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-18-m0.u266	Please, Bird, this is her repair, turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-18-m0.u267	Thank you. Dear colleagues, you just have to read the amendments to the end, then there won't be any questions. The point is that there are instances under the Law on Protection of Economic Competition when it is necessary to obtain a permit for the purchase of objects to concentrate. This ensures that individual oligarchs do not monopolize specific markets. And that is why my amendment suggests that in cases where such permission is provided by law, ownership of the object of privatization may be transferred to the buyer only after such permission has been obtained by the buyer. It's a monopolization fuse. This is a safeguard against violating the Law on the Protection of Economic Competition. It is a safeguard against distortions of competition, and it is a safeguard against the many numerous court disputes of oligarchs in which they are interested. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-18-m0.u268	Vote. And you're in the final act. Please, Andrew. The chairman of the committee now wants to give his position.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-18-m0.u269	Your Honor, dear friends of the national MPs, you have now come to understand how difficult it is for me to work as head of the Committee of Economic Policy. These are two members of my committee, but I love Mr. Solovia and Mrs. That is why I believe that Parliament should deal with this issue by a majority. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-18-m0.u270	Thank you for the European approach to matters of love. Please vote for this amendment. No, let us not find anyone else. It's the same thing. I ask you to vote for the 612 amendment. A radical faction, do not interrupt us, the question of love. It's the same love. Vote. Vote 612. [[13:36:17]] For 1052 102 votes. No correction supported. Solova is more popular in this room. Viko, but we love you very much. I give my word to Mr. Andrew.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-18-m0.u271	My colleagues, I emphasize, have 25 minutes to take off. I'll give it to you. But I am very much in favour of the responsibility of all national MPs, not insisting on everyone so that we can vote for lunch. 615 law, Caplin. Turn on the microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-18-m0.u272	Sergei Kaplin, head of the Socialist Party of Ukraine And we want to say, for our part, that our party loves the Ukrainian people, not the national MPs. And that's why we've made a new right-wing amendment that protects the interests of wages, the labour interests of ordinary Ukrainians, a right that makes it impossible to reduce the number of jobs in a privatized enterprise. We have here with you, on the parliamentary field, everything to do, to fight the last, to write in this law, which is obviously an oligarchic rod here in Parliament, will be voted, to prescribe here the protection of the interests of ordinary ordinary Ukrainians, people of work, which by no means, as a result of the adoption of such a law, should not lose their jobs. Moreover, they should be guaranteed an increase in wages as a result of the increase in the pension fund, the increase in jobs, the development of our industry, the development and the increase in the domestic gross product in our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-18-m0.u273	Thank you. So the 615 is negative. Whoever supports it, I ask her to vote. [[13:38:08]] For-28 The decision is not taken. 616, Levchenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-18-m0.u274	Lewchenko, Freedom 223 District, Kiev City. This norm that I'm going to talk about now, on the first hand, points to the real purpose of this bill, which is essentially to maximize profits for the oligarchic class from their servants, without thinking about the wider social welfare of the entire Ukrainian people. The point here is that there is such a rule in the bill that if privatization is not prescribed, if there is a sale without conditions, then you can actually reduce workers as much as you want, even without a safety net, not even six months as they say now, not twelve as we suggest, and in general, if they're sold without conditions, they can be reduced immediately. It's totally unacceptable. It should be made clear that under no circumstances should a reduction of the labour force be made during the year in the event of privatization, regardless of the system of sale of an enterprise.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-18-m0.u275	616 correct is rejected. Whoever supports it, please vote. [[13:39:39]] For-43 43. The decision is not taken. 633rd. Don't insist. 639. Don't insist. 628th, dove, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-18-m0.u276	Vladislav Dove, 197th constituency, Cherkashina. Dear colleagues! I offer this right to remove the discretion to select the location of the dispute arising with regard to the sale contract, which is that I want us to make a mandatory imperative if a potential buyer demands that these disputes be considered in international commercial arbitration. And we now see by a recent ruling both in the Court of London and in the Stockholm Court that these are really independent bodies that are actually going to take a legal position. That's why I insist that we remove the discretionary mechanism and introduce the imperative of international commercial arbitration to the demand of a potential buyer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-18-m0.u277	Thank you. 628 revisions rejected, supported, please vote. [[13:40:56]] For-46 46. The decision is not taken. 660s. Don't insist. Six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-seven insists.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-18-m0.u278	Lewchenko, Freedom, 223 District, Kiev City. The bill suggests that the penalty for non-payment of the purchase-sales contract should be unduly reduced within 30 days, from the date of the contract and its notarial certificate from 20 per cent to 5 per cent. It's completely illogical to reduce sanctions. Again, this is another example of how criminal privatization in a warring country is being facilitated. And, you know, there are so many different kinds of discussions going on in this room, very often different personalities, who are primarily representatives of the oligarchic class, talk about how they care about the interests of the working people. In fact, the situation is very simple. The question in the ideology of power today is whether the authorities want to take responsibility and engage in a real fight against corruption, and run state-owned enterprises, fill the state budget, and think about Ukrainians, or whether the authorities want to give everything to their loved ones, private individuals, and representatives of the oligarchic class.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-18-m0.u279	667 correct is rejected. Whoever supports it, please vote. [[13:42:32]] For-35 The decision is not taken. 681st, Caplin. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-18-m0.u280	Sergei Kaplin, head of the Socialist Party of Ukraine With this right, we propose to preserve the right of the labour community to participate in the privatization of Ukrainian enterprises. To our deep conviction, and I think most Ukrainian citizens share this position, because of the will and endurance of the Ukrainian people, the industrial and industrial potential of our nation has been built. They are today, these enterprises are not working, but they exist only because the state has not paid a decent salary for our workers, and they have worked in terrible conditions. So I am convinced that the Ukrainian people have the right to capitalize on all their long-standing efforts to preserve the industrial potential of our nation's industrial shield and to have the right to be new owners of such enterprises. This right right over here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-18-m0.u281	681 revisions rejected. Whoever supports it, please vote. [[13:44:03]] For-24 The decision is not taken. 687th, Dove. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-18-m0.u282	Thank you. Vladislav Dove, 197th constituency, Cherkashina. Andriy Volodymyrovich, I'm going to read the law that's going to apply, I know you have a position there. But under the transcript I'm proposing, and this was actually a promise from the Ukrainian government, particularly in the London Economic Forum, that another right could be applied to the customer's request. So I would suggest an imperative, but to limit at the time, in effect, the right of England and Wales to regulate the legal relations of a contract of sale, in addition to the legal relations that are inherently governed by Ukrainian law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-18-m0.u283	The chairman of the committee will read out the wording before the vote. You'll monitor carefully. And if it fits, it will be incorporated into the body of the law. It's a deal. Next, 696th, Levechenko. [[B in m in s a l in]] I've already given Lechchenka, and then I'll give it to you. Please, 96 Lewchenko. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-18-m0.u284	As part of facilitating the process of criminal privatization for the ruling oligarchic kleptocracy, the bill suggests that the entire property complexes be untied from the areas below. This will, in fact, lead to an increase in the practice of criminally cutting out the businesses concerned when enterprises focus exclusively on scrap metal, conditionally, or on other wastes, right? – a third – and everything, without saving any production, without saving jobs. You can't untie the entire property complex from the land, the area where it's located. That's one whole concept. You can't have an industry, you know, load it up and move it around in one minute. Appropriately, if she wants to do this, she doesn't want to do it honestly, she just wants to cut it out. So I suggest we clear this criminal code. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-18-m0.u285	696 revisions rejected. Whoever supports it, please vote. [[13:46:29]] For-42 The decision is not taken. 692th. Capplin, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-18-m0.u286	Sergei Caplin, head of the Socialist Party. It's our extreme right, which is about protecting the interests of workers, protecting the interests of people of work and our industry, the industrial potential of our country. We firmly declare that we will not vote in favour of this bill, first. The other one. We stress that in order to save the Ukrainian economy, we must not privatize and place our potential, our future, and nationalize, nationalize, nationalize the oil and gas complex, industry, machine building, form national sector and sector national industrial development programmes, national economy, do everything to create large vertically integrated companies, fight for serious new competitiveness, innovation of the national economy, achieve growth of gross domestic product, wages, as a result, pensions and make a real ambitious breakthrough in international markets, replace the internal market. And here's the state.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-18-m0.u287	Edit rejected. Whoever supports it, I ask you to vote. And I'm really asking you to move more quickly to making a decision, so there's very little time until lunch, colleague. [[13:47:58]] For-24 The decision is not taken. Next, 702nd. Don't insist. Please, Captain Olena.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-18-m0.u288	Thank you. Olena Sotnik, Self-Help faction. We listened to the speaker and did not actually raise most of our amendments. So I'm just going to let myself re-interpret the principles of the issues that are now going to be resolved for self-help during the vote. So far, we don't see and we've proposed our formulation to ensure the entry of the Russian economy, the Russian capital at the expense of privatization of state-owned enterprises, especially in the case of enterprises of strategic importance, especially energy enterprises. However, this law does not provide an opportunity at this stage. More specifically, the non-privatisation of critical infrastructure is in no way reflected in this law. There are great questions to the transparency of the appointment of counselors. There are big questions up to the original price, how it's defined. Because it's a principle for the state of Ukraine -- at what cost we're selling privatized objects, especially objects.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-18-m0.u289	Thank you. Well, five seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-18-m0.u290	Thank you. So the Self-Help faction is very much asking the committee to identify with these positions so that we can support this important Privatization Act in the second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-18-m0.u291	Thank you. As I understand it, most of these proposals will be heard by the committee head before the vote. Only we need to move more quickly to making a decision. Colleagues, another 700. Please, Illenko Andrey. Give me the correct number.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-18-m0.u292	Andrew Illenko, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. Dear Ukrainians! Today you see what's happening. There is an attempt to actually simplify the privatisation procedure so that now, during the war, it is possible to plunder those valuable objects that are in the Ukrainian State today. "Freedom" states that, of course, we are definitely against such bills, but we are still making a lot of amendments because we are trying at least to improve this bill. And, especially this amendment, it refers to what we propose to give up such a procedure as a ransom in order to make. If something is already being sold, it was actually sold at an auction where there is a possibility of selling it at the highest price. And the ransom can be used as such a corrupt tool to do it at low prices and actually contribute to the next. Further looting and oligarchy of our nation. So we suggest that we support our amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-18-m0.u293	Thank you. The 703rd correct is rejected. Whoever supports it, please vote. [[13:51:11]] For-45 Colleagues, I'm asking. 45, no decision taken. And I'm asking the factions to invite the deputies into the hall in a few minutes. Now, Levechenko. If you find it easy to say the adjustments you have left. Please, Lechchenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-18-m0.u294	No, I'm talking about a 707 amendment under the Rules right now. Ukraine's Rules of Procedure of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The point is that what the bill is proposing is creating opportunities for privatization of the national. institutions and organizations of the National Hydrometeorological Service. What's the point of that, who needs it, well, it's incomprehensible. What they found, a little bit of hair, you can see that someone liked something, and that's why they're even preparing these moments here. So we suggest that we make it impossible for these assets to be banned from privatizing in the law on the relevant list. And first of all, we call the attention of the entire Ukrainian society to who will vote in favour of this bill. Look, the honourable Ukrainians, in fact, who are the servants of today's oligarchic kleptocracy are voting for this. Because every person who votes for it is the person who puts the interests of self-enrichment, the interests of the oligarchy before the interests of the Ukrainian people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-18-m0.u295	707 revision rejected. Whoever supports it, I ask you to vote. [[13:52:43]] For-45 The decision is not taken. 712, 714, 717. 714, Levechenko. 714, Levechenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-18-m0.u296	Lewchenko, Freedom, 223 District, Kiev City. The bill proposes to remove the State Property Fund and to ensure the protection of the State's property rights in Ukraine in accordance with the legislation if the relevant state-owned enterprises are not part of the administration of the State Property Fund, as well as outside Ukraine, in accordance with valid international agreements within the limits of their powers. We believe that such significant restrictions on the authority of the State Property Fund will make it impossible to adequately protect the property rights of the State. And so we ask and we propose that this standard be corrected. I'm paying attention. The attention of normal people's deputies, I point out to society that there is now a trend in the world away from wild liberalism, from a wild market, and from a return to the principles of the need for a healthy state settlement and a state share on the corresponding national economies. Nobody's talking about the fact that, for example, Germany's fully-state railway "Doicheban" is bad. Profit, by the way, billions of dollars. Nobody's saying that Areva, French, completely state-owned, energy giant international, is bad.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-18-m0.u297	714 revisions rejected. Whoever supports it, please vote. [[13:54:23]] For-47 The decision is not taken. 727. 729th. 728th. Please, Wojcietzka.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-18-m0.u298	Thank you, Mr. Head. Very briefly: Please set up a confirmation application. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-18-m0.u299	Thank you. So 728 revisions were supported by a committee. MP Wojcietsicka is asking her to be put on confirmation, the committee is asking her to support her. Whoever supports this amendment, please vote. For confirmation. [[13:55:03]] For-44 The decision is not taken. 729th. Don't insist. 733rd. Don't insist. And, colleagues, we're done discussing the rights and moving on to the decision-making process. I would like to inform my colleagues that I have invited the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Vladimir BorisovichGreysman, to the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Let's welcome the Prime Minister. [[Applause]] And, colleagues, let me remind you, we agreed that after the committee's chairman would make those compromise proposals that the right-wing authors insisted on so that before the vote we could count them into the body of the bill. My colleagues, I want to stress once again, it's not just an economic law that unlocks privatization, it's an anti-corruption law that destroys corruption, and it helps to eliminate corruption in public enterprises. So I'm asking you very much for discipline, for everyone to enter the hall, for a few minutes there will be a vote. I'm here now, while Andry Volodymyrovich sums up all the adjustments, I'll give it to you now. Ivanchuk, I ask you to briefly read the proposals. All right, we're done here, colleagues, we're done here. We have three minutes left. In other circumstances, you know, I'm trying my best to give you my word. Mr. Prime Minister! Vladimir BorisovichGroysman while the committee head prepares for the summary word, please give a minute to speak. And you, Andry Volodymyrovich, sum up all the revisions so that you can sound them right so that the MPs can hear them and get a good sense of where they are. And I'd like everyone to come into the voting room. I'm continuing the session for 15 minutes. Everyone, please come into the hall. Please. Mr. Prime Minister, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-18-m0.u300	Good afternoon, Reverend Mr. Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine! Dear fellow national MPs! I think that we are now also addressing an important enough issue that has a direct impact on the national economy. Not once in the Supreme Council of Ukraine, yes and generally in society, has the subject of violent corruption been raised. The biggest sector of corruption today is government enterprises that have been used year after year for decades to create corrupt bribe schemes. Today, we have extremely difficult legislation that does not allow public and transparent investment to be involved. And we have with you now just two choices: either, first, we stop this corruption and disorder, and businesses that are today being bankrupt, that are today being slowed down by technologies that generate no profits and create no jobs, or we start them, people get jobs, Ukraine gets a national product, it's all happening competitively, transparently, or we leave everything as it is. As we can see, this is ineffective. Economics cannot grow if thousands of enterprises do not have effective management and technology. Government, parliament, factions have worked hard to make this law really quality. This law has legal mechanisms that protect investment, including the application of English law. This law is absolutely open and allows us to create tens of thousands of jobs in the near future in Ukraine, to create conditions for serious economic growth, it will definitely affect the quality of people's lives. I want to ask everyone today to support this law in a way that allows us to deal with Parliament in a way that will enable us to ensure the well-being and development of our economy. I count on the support of each and every one of you, and your voices are important today. And once again, I would like to emphasize that together with Parliament, we will do everything we can to ensure that the government is able to create completely effective, open, transparent mechanisms for the implementation of this law. And I'm sure we won't be ashamed of that decision. I'm asking you all to back me up. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-18-m0.u301	Thank you, colleagues. I'd like to make a point, colleagues, something important. After voting on this law, we have a chapter on "inclusion into the agenda of the day session," which is very short in one minute. [[B in m in s a l in]] Involvement in the agenda of the day session without discussion, colleague. There is an important issue: this is a draft law allowing the armed forces of other states to enter Ukraine. We have to accept that. So after the vote, I'm going to ask you not to break up so that we can include an anti-corruption court and learn Ukrainian military and our NATO partners in Ukraine by a few more votes. Therefore, it is important not to disperse after the vote, but to hold several ballots for the day’s session. I've already gone on for 15 minutes, and I've already continued, and it's very important that we don't split up so that we can be part of the agenda section, the anti-corruption court, and the joint training of the Ukrainian troops with our military. This is very important, so please pay attention and stay in the hall. Now I ask the committee head to make the compromise proposals that we discussed during the discussion so that we can go to the vote. Sir, I think your time is up. So, colleagues, the consultations are over. The site is blocked by a faction. And I'm asking you to unlock the rostrum. They've unlocked the rostrum. We welcome the important parliamentary action. The rostrum's unlocked. Now let's unlock the government's bed. My colleagues, so I'm going to count again so we don't have any misunderstandings. In the next section of the agenda, which we will vote after this law, there will be a draft Act on the Higher Anti-Corruption Court, just the inclusion in the agenda of the day session, a draft Act on the approval of the President of Ukraine's decision to allow troops of other States' armed forces into Ukraine. Next. The draft Act amending certain legislative acts on the characteristics of government banks, as well as the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Tax Code and certain legislative acts on the promotion of the creation and operation of small farms and the concentration of land-related powers. Five questions are suggested for the day’s session, only for the session. These are five short ballots. So it's very important not to split up, it's very important to stay put. And it is very important that, after voting for the Privatisation Act, they are able to bring it into the order of the day session. So, colleagues, I propose to conclude the discussion, and I propose to proceed to the vote. Andrew Volodymyrovich! Ivanchuk! I ask you to unlock the Presidium. Andrew Volodymyrovich, please report. We're running out of time. And I ask for a brief and clear report. Please give me three minutes, Andrey Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-18-m0.u302	Dear Mr. Head, I will ask you to give me more than three minutes because all the factions and groups on the controversial issues of this bill have reached a consensus that I am obliged to read under the transcript. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-18-m0.u303	Okay. Let's do it in five minutes, but try to make it sound faster. Rightful authors are asked to listen carefully to the report of the committee’s chairman. Please, Andrew Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-18-m0.u304	Dear Mr. Golovo, in view of the comments made by the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s Chief Legal Authority on January 15, 2018, we are proposing to make further changes to the bill. Part four of article 25 of the draft law reads as follows: "The payment of the services of counsel is made in accordance with the order defined in the second part of this article 19 of this Act, taking into account the provisions of part three of article 19 of this Act." Paragraph 7 of Part 9 of Chapter V of the Final and Transitional Regulations should be supplemented by new paragraphs. To supplement paragraph 17-3 with the following content: "Determins the essential terms of the contract that is made with the administrator of the electronic trading system and the operator of the electronic course of the legal person who has the right to use the electronic course." Paragraph 18, add sub-paragraphs "h", "h" and "u" to this. "H": "Providing electronic auctions for sale of small privatization objects." "J": "The selection of operators of electronic venues for organizing and conducting electronic auctions for selling small privatization objects, authorizing electronic courses, size and order to pay for participating in electronic auctions, determining the winner by electronic auction results." Item "U": "Determining additional conditions for the sale of small privatization objects." Paragraph 9 of the second article 19 reads as follows: “Guide the conduct of an audit.” The title of article 30 is "The Specialities of the Debate on Privatization of State or Municipal Property". Paragraph 5 of paragraph 15 reads as follows: "The capitalization of banks, a part of the state whose statutory capital exceeds 75 per cent of the shares of particles with the participation of international financial organizations, is carried out without the prior consent of the National Bank of Ukraine." Paragraph 20 of the second article 4: replace the word "object" with the word "feasibility". Sub-paragraph 7 of section V, “The End and Transitional Positions”, in this edition, I draw the attention of the People's Deputies of the Pigeon: “To establish that, by 1 January 2022, following the outcome of the comments and offers of potential buyers to the draft contract for the sale of a large privatisation object in the order set out in part nine of article 19 of this Act, the privatization body, upon request of a potential buyer, must determine in a contract for the sale of a large privatisation object that the treaty is governed by the law of England and Wales, taking into account the provisions of the Law on International Private Law, in addition to the provisions governing the peremptory rules of Ukrainian law”. [[B in m in s a l in]] I said 21st. I'm sorry, Mr. Arthur Gerasimov. I read it. I don't know how I got it wrong. January 1st, 2021.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-18-m0.u305	Let's move on.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-18-m0.u306	The second question.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-18-m0.u307	Andrew Volodymyrovich, we've got a few seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-18-m0.u308	The second question. Under the insistence of the Vojcitsky People's Deputy from the Self-Help faction to add gas distribution networks. Plus, at the request of the Fatherland faction, on the basis of the Self Help faction, we're all with the People's Front faction, with the Peter Prashenko Block, with the Radical faction, with the Rebirth Groups, the Will of the People, we've reached a consensus that I want you to read that will be in the body of the law. This is instead of the 130 corrections that were made, Mr. Rizanenko. Part two of article 8: delete the words "essential" and complete it with paragraphs six. It's "important" to rule out. In paragraph five, delete the words "essential" and add the words "essential" to paragraphs six and seven of the following. Andry Volodymyrovich, very carefully, this is about the aggressor country. The given position. "Legal persons, beneficial owners, 10 percent and more of the shares of which are residents of the state, recognised by the Cabinet of Ministers."
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-18-m0.u309	Please finish. Just give me a minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-18-m0.u310	"..recognized by the Supreme. (I'll tell you everything.) The said position does not apply to legal persons whose shares are admitted to trading in foreign stock markets before the Supreme Council of Ukraine. "According to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, "except legal persons who are residents of the Aggressor State." All of it. Now, Your Honor, Mr. Head, before the vote. "and the natural persons of the citizen and/or residents of the state recognized by the Supreme Council of Ukraine as an aggressor state." Everyone in this room is satisfied with this text. Now, Mr. Head, I'd like to ask you to come back -- I see the Supreme Council now has potential -- and confirm the amendments of 612 and 728. They are critical, essential, and the Economic Policy Committee very much asks the Supreme Council to incorporate them into the body of law.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-18-m0.u311	All right, colleagues, thank you. Let's move on to making a decision. I'm asking everyone to take up jobs, please step away from the lobby and take jobs. So, colleagues, I'm going to put, first, the committee's proposal to go back to amendments 612 and 728. Please support and please vote. We're voting carefully, colleagues. If you'll excuse me, I'd like to vote 612th and 728th. Let's vote, colleagues. Vote. [[14:12:05]] For 238. Please support 612 and 728, please vote. Please confirm "yes." Vote. [[14:12:23]] For 241 And now, colleagues, I'm putting it to a vote. One word, Andrew, please. Turn on the microphone, briefly.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-18-m0.u312	I'm very sorry, Your Honor, Mr. Head, the distinguished national MPs. I'm very sorry, everyone. I know it's the second night, tomorrow, Vodhrest, and I'm tired of you. But this discussion will only make the law better. And the last. Last remark. In the End Positions to Law 2210, I'm asking for points 12, 28, 36, 37, 38, 39, 46 and 53 to change by one more because the classification has shifted. Thank you. Thank you all for your work. Everybody has a good corner. Christ Gets Baptized!
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-18-m0.u313	Dear colleagues, I am voting on the draft Law on Privatization of State Property (No. 7066) with those rights which were issued by the committee head Ivanchuk Andrija Volodymirovich from the rostrum, taking into account the date of January 1, 2021, with technical legal rights to accept in second reading and in general. Vote, fellows! We will support an anti-corruption economic progressive law. We vote in second reading and in general. Please vote, please support. Vote! [[14:14:07]] For 266 The law is passed. Congratulations, fellows! Colleagues, pay attention! On your feet! Please, colleagues, I'm asking everyone to stay put. I'm asking everyone to stay put. Colleagues, I am now voting on the day-to-day session of the draft Act approving the decision of the President of Ukraine to admit the forces of other states to Ukraine in 2018. We have to put this in the order of the day session and take a look at it today. If you'll excuse me, I'd like to vote. Please, 7428, please vote. It's just getting into the agenda of the day session. Guys, stay where you are! That's a few seconds. [[14:14:57]] For 236 Decision taken. Next, the draft of the Higher Anti-Corruption Court Act (7440, -1,-2, -3, -4). Please include the agenda of the day session. If you'll excuse me, I'd like to vote. Let's vote, colleagues. If you'll excuse me, I'd like to vote. Please vote [[14:15:27]] For-183 The decision is not taken. Next, the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Tax Code and some Ukrainian legislation on the promotion of the creation and operation of small farms and the concentration of powers in the field of land relations (7363-1 and -2). Please vote, please support. Just getting into the agenda of the day session. Please vote, please support. [[14:16:02]] For-174 And lastly, the draft Act amending some of Ukraine's legislative acts on the characteristics of government banks (7180 and 7180-1). Just getting into the agenda of the day session. Please vote. Please be supportive. Let's vote, colleagues. Please be supportive. [[14:16:31]] For 181 The decision is not taken. Thus, colleagues, the time for making decisions is exhausted. We have passed two very important laws, colleagues: the Act on Depopulation, the Law on Privatization of State Property, one – an important security law, the other – an economic and anti-corruption law. And the Supreme Council has once again confirmed that the supreme legislative body of the state is firmly committed to defending both the interests of the state and the fight against corruption. But I'll remind you, after lunch, there are extremely important laws on security and defence. So I'm asking everyone at 4:00 to come to the hall for our next job so that we can get through, to exhaust our entire agenda. And now I declare the morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine closed. I remind you, after lunch, we will move into the Law that we have just included in the agenda of the day session on the admission of foreign troops to Ukraine for joint learning. That's why I'm asking everyone to be in the hall at 4:00. And now I'm calling the morning session closed again. And once again, at 16 o'clock, everyone needs to come to the hall. Thank you, my friends.
