ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-13-m0.u1	Good morning, colleagues! Please come into the hall and prepare for registration. Colleagues ready for registration? Please take up jobs. So, distinguished national MPs, please register. Please take part in the registration. [[10:05:22]] There are 364 national deputies registered. The morning plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Dear colleagues, March 9th in South Korea, launched the 13th winter Paralympic Games. In four days of competitions, our athletes won 15 medals, 5 of them total, 5 gold, and in general our collection has second place. Literally a few hours ago, the youngest member of Taras Rad and a visionary biothonist, Oksana Šishkov, won gold medals. On behalf of all of us, the Supreme Council, we welcome our athletes and wish them victory. [[Applause]] Thank you, colleagues. Good luck! And I would also like to report that yesterday there was a meeting of the Committee on Rules of Procedure with the participation of Attorney General Yuri Lucenk. And the members of the committee acknowledged the Prosecutor General's application to give Parliament consent to bring criminal responsibility, arrest and arrest of Ukrainian national deputy Bakulina Evgen Mikolaiovich. This is the conclusion of the committee that it is possible to ask this question for consideration. And we will begin the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Thursday on this issue. And I am convinced that we will, as always, be grouped around the key principle that the law is one for all and we will make the right decision. Also, colleagues, I would like to welcome our colleague, King Viktor Mikolaiovich, 70 years old, on March 3, 48th, Mr. Victor celebrated his 70th anniversary. And let's say hello to him on his birthday. Welcome! [[Applause]] So I would like to remind you that on Tuesday we have 30 minutes for the performances of the authorized representatives of the MP factions and groups. And then we'll move on to the agenda. Let me remind you that today there are two key blocks: the first is the issue of law enforcement. I know that some of the bills are still being consulted, and I ask that they be completed as intensively as possible before they are being discussed. And a block of intellectual property issues. But most importantly, at the beginning we have to establish the order of the day session, and the apparatus was prepared and taken into account all the proposals. And I'm hoping for a common position of the sitting room in support of the agenda for the session. So we go up to 30 minutes from the factions and groups. And I'm asking the factions and groups to participate in the recording. Please prepare yourself and all the factions to participate in the record. So, colleagues, please record. Thank you. So, first performance from Peter Dustock's Block. And I invite you to address the head of the Arthur Gerasimov faction. Please, Mr. Arthur.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-13-m0.u2	Dear Mr. Head! Dear colleagues! Dear voters! In late winter, Ukraine won a major victory over Gazprom in Stockholm Arbitration. Because of the harsh position of Ukrainian authority and the high professionalism of domestic lawyers, nearly $5 billion was recovered. This money can now be directed towards the development of energy-efficient technologies, the strengthening of the energy independence and security of our nation. Following Gazprom's statement of non-compliance with the ruling of the arbitration, the President of Ukraine initiated the procedure for arresting the Russian monopoly's funds both in our country and abroad. Another achievement of the last days was Ukraine's status as a NATO graduate. This means that the Alliance sees in our country the real potential for fuller cooperation, but for that we need to complete the modernization of the army and reform the security sector. Therefore, the faction of the Party of Peter Poroshenko considers the Supreme Council as one of the priorities for the current session of the approval of the National Security Act of 8068 initiated by the President of Ukraine. The document will establish fundamental principles of state policy in the area of security and defence under the standards of our allies with NATO and the EU. Ukraine's gains in the international arena are the undeniable success of the country's diplomatic service. However, we must strengthen it with more effective mechanisms to protect our interests. We need to complete the transition to modern service standards based on advanced experience. Therefore, our faction proposes to move to the shortest possible time to consider Bills 7322 and 7323 on reforming and adopting Ukrainian diplomatic service. We cannot overlook the arrest of Vladimir Ruban with an arsenal of weapons in an attempt to bring him into the peaceful territory of Ukraine from the occupied area of Donbas. The immediate operation of the security forces allowed for the prevention of terrorist attacks in the capital, but it was a clear signal that the external enemy was ready to move on to a massive slaughter in our peaceful cities. The Kremlin did not abandon plans to destabilize the situation in Ukraine with the hands of local traitors. Yet, the reaction of the country’s security forces has proved once again that they are ready to resist the Moscow scenarios. The faction of the Party of Peter Prashenko is also counting on Parliament to give maximum attention this week to the personnel assignment. First of all, we need a new head of the National Bank of Ukraine. And finally. The Peter Prashenko Party faction is firmly against any action that could increase the pressure on business. Parliament, together with the President of Ukraine, took an important step to protect the rights of entrepreneurs from illegal pressure, when they adopted Law 7275 more known as the "mask show stop". We agree with Bill 7547's initiative in part, which will help solve murders and armed attacks, and we are ready to support it. However, this bill contains separate positions that give reason to believe that the pressure on business is increasing. We find that unacceptable. 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-13-m0.u3	Please, 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-13-m0.u4	The business in Ukraine today needs help and support, and our duty is to create all the conditions for its successful development. That is why the President of Ukraine signed the Limited Society Act, which was passed by Parliament, is also being prepared for parliamentary consideration of the Presidential Bill on Monetary Liberalisation. These are vital initiatives and we ask Parliament to support them. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-13-m0.u5	Thank you. From the Radical Party of Lajsko Oleg Valeriyovich and his team, the team.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-13-m0.u6	Thank you, Mr. Head. Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Dear Ukrainians, my fellow countrymen, our team wants to draw your attention to the mega-corruption history that has robbed every Ukrainian, at least 15 billion dollars. We're told by the authorities that we can't live without the loans of the International Monetary Fund, that in exchange for these loans, we need to raise prices for gas, utility prices, retirement age, free of charge to sell land and our natural resources, but we're saying it's a lie. Because when Ukrainians are told that we cannot live without credit, the authorities rob Ukrainians for billions. On March 6, this year, the National Communications Management Commission launched a 4G tender for sales of the three Russian companies, by the way, three companies, sold six lotts for a total of 5.5 billion dollars. We're told by the authorities, by the way, by the way, by the President of Ukraine, Peter Poshenko, and he gave it as a big victory that we sold 4G frequencies for 5.5 billion dollars. I'll give you this fact, in 2015 3G frequencies were sold for 10 billion dollars, at that time it was $750 million, now it's sold for 5.5 billion dollars, at the current rate it's $200 million. By comparison, the rates sold in Egypt are the same as $1.5 billion, in Thailand -- billions of dollars, in the United Kingdom -- over $3 billion, in Turkey -- $5 billion, in Italy -- $5 billion. So these frequencies that cost billions of dollars were sold for $200 million. Why? Because Nazcomisia, led by an outlaw from the company of Dustyenka called Zivowski, is actually the right thing to call it an animal, because robbing Ukrainians in today's conditions is a crime and an immoral thing. They understated the start value, the minimum cost of the frequency was to be 4 billion dollars, they put 260 million dollars. At 15 times the start-up cost was cut, and at least half a billion dollars was stolen instead of going to the state budget, and it went into the pockets of corrupters. We require the government, the law enforcement agencies to take all measures to reverse this corruption conspiracy, to resell the tender, and to sell the frequency honestly. As a result of an honest tender, the Ukrainian state budget can get a billion dollars instead of the 200 million that we received today. Instead of spending money in the pockets of corrupters, they must go to the state budget and serve the Ukrainians. I demand that the NABU, the Attorney General's Office investigate this mega-corruption, bring responsibility to those who stole half a billion dollars from the Ukrainians and put them in jail. If.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-13-m0.u7	Please finish 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-13-m0.u8	If today's robbery authorities don't do that -- in Ukraine, I guarantee you -- when we get to power, we're going to have a repeat tender and a billion dollars that we stole from you today, we're going to return to the state budget. We shake the throat of those who stole that money, in war conditions, when people count every penny, stealing billions of dollars on corruption schemes is a crime, it's a robbery, it's immoral. We demand responsibility.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-13-m0.u9	Please, from the "Fatherland" faction, John Krulko is invited to the floor.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-13-m0.u10	Ivan Krulko, "The Fatherland" faction. Dear colleagues! Dear Ukrainians! I would like to address today from this high rostrum on behalf of the faction with an extremely important subject. It's about trying to actually destroy and give away the last resource that was left in Ukraine is the gas transport system. Each year, the gas transport system provides the state with income of at least $2 billion per transit. The construction of such a system from scratch costs at least 300 billion euros according to experts. Instead, the authorities are planning a large robbery of the Ukrainian people, an affair that could cost the country the future. The idea is to give 49 percent of the gas transport system to ownership or administration for free. This is happening behind the back of the Ukrainian people, and the ideologists of this scheme are acting by the acting President of Ukraine Prashenko and head of Naftogazu Kobolev. They say that Ukrainians are so worthless that they can't control the GTS properly, so let's give it to someone: the foreigners behind whom the Russian capital Gazprom will stand, and they'll be better at managing it, and no one will put any money into the development of the GTS. Some feel that it is a good thing, that they said the master would come and order. But only the apherists can speak that way, and that's how only members of the affair can speak. It's not an investment project, it's a robbery. That's why the "Fatherland" faction yesterday and I, together with the National Deputies, filed an application for a crime with the National Anti-Corruption Bureau and the Attorney General, for a crime planned to be committed behind the back of the Ukrainian people. We demand the President and the Prime Minister to stop this vacchanal and protect national property. At the same time, we would like to propose to this Parliament that we now defend Ukraine and adopt Bill 8107, which was passed by the "Fatherland" faction, which provides for a decision to prohibit any action on the shadow transmission or alienation of Ukraine's gas transport system. I recall that in 2007, it was Julia Timoshenko who passed such a bill in this room and who won the record 430 votes of the Ukrainian national deputies. And one more thing. Now comes the moment of truth: last week, there was a Stockholm Arbitration decision that Ukraine won Gazprom. It turns out that the gas contracts in 2009 were completely uncable, as told by the various "trails" and trolls in this session hall to the entire Ukrainian people. That's why we want to say that it was through state decisions that managed to protect Ukrainian property in 2007 and in 2009 that Ukrainian contracts did.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-13-m0.u11	Please finish, 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-13-m0.u12	And, you know, honourable colleagues, such an interesting lieutenant in the background of all of this, it looks like the help given by the Deputy Minister of Finance in relation to the Naftogazu Fin Plan, where they plan to raise wages if they plan to raise 720 million on bonuses just to set up the Naftogazu leadership, which is planned since April 1st. That's why we demand as a faction of the Fatherland, taking into account the decision of the Stockholm Arbitration, taking into account all the things that.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-13-m0.u13	Ten seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-13-m0.u14	And I'm done. We plan to lower population tariffs immediately, including decisions taken by Stockholm Arbitration and what is being put into the Naftogazu Finnplan. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-13-m0.u15	Thank you. Colleagues, I'm asking you to join the Rules. And now, the head of the opposition block, Mr. Boyko, is invited to the floor. Please, Mr. Yuri.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-13-m0.u16	Ladies and gentlemen, we have two plenary weeks to go. We invite the Supreme Council to work productively, namely, to hear the government report first. The socio-economic crisis has reached its climax. The Cabin should immediately present an anti-crisis program, otherwise resign. The government needs to follow the logic of national pragmatism, as the United States recently did in protecting its producers. Last week, duties were introduced on steel and aluminum, which would hit Ukrainian exporters and our trade balance. We demand a full review of the size of the payments to the military pensioners. We consider the decision to be insufficient, and we will work with pensioners to recalculate pensions, starting in 2012. We demand that the so-called pension reform be abolished and that the budget be reviewed in order to increase social pay: wages, pensions, scholarships. Our faction filed with the Constitutional Court for a waiver, annulment. Cancelling medical reform. It is contrary to the Constitution and restricts the right of citizens to receive medical services. Finally, it is necessary to assign the head of the MOH to a real professional in Ukrainian medicine. We have to put a dot in the shameful practice of involving the varmints to govern the country. The anti-crisis program is needed not only in the economy but also in the foreign policy of the country, so as not to finally quarrel with the neighbors. On the ground of language and history, the authorities have been intensifying relations with neighboring nations for the past six months. There is a need to stop the manipulation of the country's accession to NATO. Everyone knows that this is impossible for a country in which military conflict continues. The call "Stick" against the backdrop of a ten-fold increase in tariffs is a cynical abuse of the population. We look forward to investigating the break-up of the heating season when schools and kindergartens have run out of heat. And the last. It seems that the authorities are in a great hurry, Western curators have put the task of letting out of the hammer of liquid assets: businesses, land, gas pipes, and the population into economic slavery with unsurpassed prices and tariffs, terrorizing national wives and constant terrorist threats. In world history, it's clearly called "colonial regime." But Ukraine is not a colony and we will never be a colony, we will not allow it. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-13-m0.u17	Thank you. Please, from the Rebirth Party, Victor Boyko, from the Rebirth Group. Please, Mr. Victor.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-13-m0.u18	Dear colleagues, dear friends! I'm from this high rostrum today, I want to go to our government, to our well-established coalition, to make a brief, brief, very thorough analysis of all the events that have taken place over the last few years. I want to point out that, in fact, over the last three to four years, our Western creditors, our Western advisers, financial advisers have brought the country into a process of deep, very destructive deindustrialization. In fact, we are driven by a model when Ukraine turns into an agrarian and raw appendage to Europe. We are inspired by a model where, due to the Ukrainian labour migration of Europe, including, above all, Poland, Bulgaria, Romania, Hungary, solve their labour shortages of qualified personnel. In fact, their task today is to get five million qualified people out of Ukraine and do everything they can to raise their industry and their key industries. Instead, what is offered to Ukraine? Ukraine was offered a model when the National Bank collapsed the dollar, and today it is totally uninterested with Western investors. They're afraid of our currency. When we actually lose our industry because of the increase in energy costs, because it becomes uncompetitive, because over the course of three or four years, we've raised the cost of gas, electricity for industry, and so on. We were offered a model when imports of goods exceed exports in Ukraine by $6 billion in just last year. And this tells us that we are essentially trapped in globalization when we import expensive goods from the West with high value added, and we export essentially raw goods. We are talking about what, in fact, the reforms that are being made in the new loan agreement are causing Ukraine to lose its industry. And we see statements, for example, by an IMF representative in Ukraine, Jost Lungman, who advised the Ukrainian government not to try and raise Ukrainian wages. What does this talk about? This suggests that the West and international creditors are solving their problems. What should we do in this situation? We need to stop and start looking at our economic policies differently. In fact, there is a need for policies of new industrialization, a policy of industrial support. Our faction, our members of the Rebirth Party, drafted a bill that was discussed a month with all the biggest industrial enterprises, owners of the Ukrainian industry, and which they are supporting today. We're registering this bill and we're talking about what the Ukrainian industry is going to do first, supporting industry and creating new jobs. What is industry support? That's it. Give me 10 more seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-13-m0.u19	Please finish 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-13-m0.u20	What is industry support, what do we mean? This is a 50 - 100 - percent reduction in land tax under industrial objects. This is the cancellation of VAT on imports of new manufacturing equipment to start new jobs and re-arm our industrial enterprises. This is the cancellation of VAT during our Ukrainian companies' participation in government purchases, government tenders, in state-owned enterprises and in ministries, and in government offices. It's cancelling the income tax on part of the cost per.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-13-m0.u21	Ten seconds, please. Ten seconds and complete.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-13-m0.u22	to teach our qualified staff in Ukraine the opportunity to leave their jobs in Ukraine. So we have a bill and we have a clear vision of how to get out of the economic crisis. The government please turn around.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-13-m0.u23	Thank you. Please, from "The Will of the People" the national MP Molotoc is invited to the floor.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-13-m0.u24	Dear lady, dear fellows! Igor Molotock, 160 constituency, MP's People's Will. In the spring, the entire Ukrainian people are watching from our roads with snow the remains of roads that were left after repairing roads 30 or 40 years ago. This certainly does not contribute to the investment climate in our country. And we need to get out of this by investing both inside and outside. And we think that the 20 billion that the state gave to repair roads in 2017 is a drop in the sea. Now the state declares 47 billion, in fact we see about 30 billion in the budget. And to transfer this money from paper to high - quality asphalt and concrete, we need to work together. And as a person who has practical experience in restoring roads in 160 constituencies, this is especially the Sixth-Crowd road, where the repair of this road ends, I want to say that we need to combine all the links of local self-government with the service of the road, with the Ukrainian-Crawled road to make sure that the costs provided by the state are used effectively, with the quality of the community, not buried in the sand. I want to talk about a customs experiment that proved that a part, a large part of the road in 2017, was restored thanks to this experiment. And the MP's will for the continuation of the customs experiment, because it proved its effectiveness. My colleagues and I are also concerned about the future of rising gas prices. And I think if that happens, for gas for the population, if that happens, it's a straight line to the final impoverishment of the Ukrainian people. The government should at least leave gas prices at this level. And despite the IMF's statements and insistence on increasing gas prices for the population, the MPs' group "will of the people" requires a broad discussion of the government with the participation of MPs and MPs in order to get out of this situation.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-13-m0.u25	Please, 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-13-m0.u26	We believe that this depends not only on the well - being of every Ukrainian family today but also on the prevention of further increases in the social tensions of the population. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-13-m0.u27	Thank you. Sidorovich Ruslan is speaking to Oleg Berezuk from the Samohelp faction. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-13-m0.u28	By rephrasing many Roman, Greek metaphors about the state, you can hear that what an army is -- that's what a state is. If the state does not feed its own soldier and treat him with contempt, it will be agreed upon by a foreign soldier who will despise the state. What's going on with the army is the sign that the Ukrainian leadership call is defiance of the Ukrainian soldier. Every month there's evidence of this, including evidence from the Broad Line range. It's about taking care of the Ukrainian Army (in paws), showing it in parades doesn't match the essence of taking care of a Ukrainian soldier. The Secretary of Defense personally told us that the budget needs of the army in the budget are less than 50 percent. What's more, we know that because of the incredible corruption schemes, this 50 percent don't go to a Ukrainian soldier who sleeps in the water and eats rotten food. The state can be in harmony with the enemy if we just look at it. Why is this happening? Because there is a constant lie in this room. The International Monetary Fund has one requirement: an anti-corruption court, everything else for Parliament's consideration according to the economic situation in Ukraine. And this anti-corruption court is being destroyed here today, not even created yet, because the main problem in the country today is the corruption of an oligarchic leadership click that destroys a warrior, which means it destroys the state. From this rostrum, the Attorney General can put a deputy on his knees, and the law enforcement authorities, which today "in chocolate" in the sense of that word, put the veterans on their knees who, without orders from the Minister of Defense and the Minister of the Interior in 2014, protected the country from the enemy and stopped it. Falsehood certainly leads to Kiev. It doesn't come out of Kyiv's lie. Therefore, the demands of the political power of Self-Help and the Self-Help faction are the immediate and qualitative adoption of the Anti-Corruption Court Act. And the second is the Law on elections on a proportional basis with open lists, which may have some chance of reducing the possibility of coming to power by those corrupts who are now bullying a Ukrainian soldier. That's what it means.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-13-m0.u29	30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-13-m0.u30	This means that they are leading the state into a new cabal from an eternal enemy.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-13-m0.u31	So, colleagues, there's going to be a closing statement now, and immediately after that, there's going to be a vote for the agenda of the session or the weekly session. That's why I'm asking everyone to come into the hall. And please invite the heads of the factions of the deputies to the hall. There will be a vote in three minutes. And now the head of the People's Front faction, Maxim Burbak, is invited to the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-13-m0.u32	Dear Head, dear colleagues! Last week, you and I received a powerful signal from our North Alliance colleagues that confirmed the correctness of Ukraine's chosen NATO membership course. The position of the People's Front faction is that we urgently need to adopt the Law on the Order of Membership of the Alliance, where a clear plan of action for the acquisition of this membership will be drawn up. We also call on our North Alliance partners to develop a plan of action for Ukraine's NATO membership, which will significantly increase Ukraine's security. I would like to point out that Ukraine is not only fighting an aggressor country, it is also protecting the whole world and democratic values from the Russian invasion. The latest developments in the world have revealed the flaws in the tactics of calming an aggressor. In particular, after the poisoning of Britain’s citizens, the world once again recognized the true face of Russia. It is an enemy country that is aggressioning both to Ukraine and to the whole world. I'd like to refocus the attention of our partners from Britain, France, the United States: Russia is an enemy aggressor country. And so recent events are a signal not just for continuation, but for deepening and expanding sanctions. I would like to point out that the issue against Russia is not just a question of Ukraine, it is also a question for our European partners, to the European Union, with which the EU Association and Membership Agreement has been signed. The People's Front faction has today registered a draft of Decree No. 8111 on the appeal of the Supreme Council to an international partnership regarding the inadmissibility of building the North Stream 2 pipeline. Once again, I remind all of us and our Western partners, for Russia, gas is not trade, it's weapons and blackmail. We got rid of it, thanks to the decision of the government of Arsenius Yatsenuk in 2014, the gas storm, we haven't bought a cubic meter of gas from the aggressor country for over two years, but instead, Europe itself goes into a gas sombre and it's called the North Stream-2. We welcome the decision of our European partners to provide macro-financial assistance to the sum of 1 billion euros. But I want them to also realize that if you build the North Stream 2 it's going to significantly reduce your revenue to Ukraine's budget, it's going to be $3 billion. Therefore, in accordance with article 274 of the Association Agreement between Ukraine and the EU, and paragraph 6 of the Energy Partnership Treaty, we need to hold consultations between Ukraine and the European Commission on the non-acceptance of the construction of the pipeline. We call on the President of Ukraine, to the government immediately to begin consultations with our European partners. Next. Yesterday, it was signed by the Speaker of the Supreme Council of the Order to refer to the world community for non-election, and in fact the king's conversion to the occupied Crimea in Russia. Thank you for our colleagues. Can I finish?
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-13-m0.u33	30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-13-m0.u34	Thank you for the support of our colleagues in the hall. I believe that the elections that are held in Crimea and the agitation that are conducted with numerous violations, with reprisals, with the intimidation of the local population, of our Ukrainians, are unacceptable, they will be illegal. So I am calling once again on the world community to condemn all of us to holding another presidential election in the temporarily occupied Crimea territory. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-13-m0.u35	So, colleagues, I'm asking everyone to come into the hall, take jobs, get ready to vote, I'm asking you to invite all the deputies into the hall. We now have a day-to-day draft Order on the Order of the Day of the Eighth Session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. For several weeks, the apparatus worked out all the proposals that came from factions and committees. All the committees have made their proposals, and we are the majority of the factions that have been included in the agenda of the day session. I know that not all factions have yet made decisions about the vote. And so I'm going to put it to a vote, first the order of the day session, then the weekly session. I mean, if there's not yet a definition of the day session, I'm going to propose to maintain the weekly agenda of the day session. I think all the factions see in the weekly order of the day their laws that they insist on. And so I'm convinced that if we don't even collect the votes for the agenda of the session, we're going to approve the week. Is there a need to exchange ideas or do we vote now? So that we don't waste time, let's vote now. Colleagues, please take your jobs. I'll remind you, I'm putting in my first proposal the order of the day session. If it doesn't work, I'll set the order of the week. I ask everyone to prepare for the vote, we move on to the decision. So, according to the part of the first article 21 and part of the first 22nd Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules, I'm introducing a draft agenda for the eighth session of the Supreme Council for approval by the Supreme Council. And I'm asking everyone to support this proposal. And I'm voting for the whole draft Order No. 8063 on the agenda of the eighth session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the eighth call, taking into account all the plugins. Please vote and please support. Vote. Please be supportive. [[10:43:09]] For the 110. And now I'm betting. Yes, by factions, please. Peter Poshenko's Block – 19, People's Front – 59, Opposition Block – 0, Self-help – 3, Radical Party – 16, Fatherland – 0, Will of the People – 1, Rebirth Party – 0. So, colleagues, now I'm putting to the vote the weekly agenda of plenary sessions, and it's up to us to vote whether we can give full consideration to the cluster of law enforcement issues, the block of intellectual property issues. And I'm asking everyone to support this proposal now, and it's agreed to vote in favour of the next proposal. So, colleagues, take up jobs. I'm putting to the vote the weekly agenda of the plenary sessions of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on March 13-16. Please vote and please support. Weekly, yeah. Please vote, please support. Vote. Please be supportive. [[10:44:27]] For-188. The factions, please. Peter Poshenko Block – 75, People's Front – 61, Opposition Block – 0, Self-help – 13, Radical Party – 17, Father's Party – 6, Will of the People – 2, Rebirth Party – 1. Colleagues, I'll re-set the weekly agenda. If there are no votes, I will only put to the vote questions that in the second reading and ratification. And I'm not playing these games. If there is a desire for Parliament to work – we work, there is no desire – we will go the other way. So I ask everyone to prepare for the vote. So I ask you to prepare for the vote. And I put to the vote the weekly agenda of the plenary sessions of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on March 13-16. And I ask all those who insisted on their bills and asked them to put them in the agenda, to support the proposal now -- you -- to maintain the order of the day session. Please vote and please maintain the weekly agenda. Please vote. [[10:46:07]] For a hundred and The decision is not taken. Unapproved weekly routine. And so we have the ability. I would like to welcome the authors of the laws of the Committee on Law Protection, and I would like to welcome the Committee of Education on Intellectual Property: unfortunately, Parliament has not supported the proposal to consider your bills. And I'm moving on to now. [[B in m in s a l in]] Everybody knows! [[B in m in s a l in]] I see who's breaking the laws. Okay, I'm going to put the friction once I put the third time, I'm going to put it, and when someone thinks it's necessary for the head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, they're going to make a big mistake. Andrew, if I give it a minute, it'll take 10 or 15 minutes. Does it make sense to give it a minute? It makes sense. Okay! Please, one minute, Peter Dust Block. I'll give all the factions in a minute. And I'm going to put the third, and the last, once a vote. I'll give all the factions. Please, Arthur Gerasimov. Please, Arthur Gerasimov, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-13-m0.u36	Dear colleagues, the Peter Dust Block supports the weekly agenda and will vote for it. We ask the whole room to unite and maintain the weekly agenda. Why? Because it contains vast bills relating to both the diplomatic service and the State Bureau of Investigation, and bills relating to the social protection of military personnel and their families. Dear colleagues, request to assemble and maintain this order of the day by voting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-13-m0.u37	Thank you. One minute, Maxim Burbak, People's Front, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-13-m0.u38	Dear colleagues, on the other hand, I am addressing all the factions' heads, our coalition colleagues, the Peter Prashenko Block, so that we can vote for the agenda of this session. We need to adopt laws that need to be addressed immediately in this room -- both the State Bureau of Investigation and the social protection of our ATO soldiers, and many, many other issues. So let's not do politics, let's vote, let's get to work. You don't have to repeat this same soap opera, which is repeated every new session -- the agenda, the weekly vote, and then nothing happens. So I urge everyone to vote on the agenda of this session. If there are no votes, vote in the decision of the profiling committee and start work, because the country requires us to work effectively. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-13-m0.u39	Thank you. Opposition Block, Igor Shurma, please. And I'd like everyone to come into the hall, and I'd like to invite the deputies into the hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-13-m0.u40	Dear citizens of Ukraine! Igor Shurma, Opposition Block. I emphasize how effective Parliament is today. We are not alone in asking the question that this Parliament has exhausted its capabilities, there is not even a coalition of 226 votes to vote for itself. So the rhetorical question is, how long is this going to take? And as for the position of the Opposition Block, I would like to point out that today there has been a lie that all the factions, all the committees, have been taken into account. There is no Health Committee bill for the entire session, as medical reform begins to inhale into our ears. There's no bill, and there's a bill that supports all the factions in the second reading, and they don't keep putting it in, because it's a fight against corruption. There is no bill on the protection of the social rights of the people who live on Donbassa; there is no bill under the authorship of the Opposition Block. And today, there's an artificial paralyzing of Parliament's work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-13-m0.u41	Thank you. I just want to read the agenda before I speak. On Wednesday, Bill 3815, 3815-d, the author of your faction, I'm not going to call it another name. It's just this week, two drafts of your faction's authorship just this week, not to mention the entire agenda. Read carefully on your free time. From Fatherland, Andrew Cosemiakin.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-13-m0.u42	Dear Andrew Volodymyrovich, distinguished colleagues, would like once again to thank the Supreme Council for its leadership. and the faction leaders for the fact that the cluster of law enforcement is now almost complete, in the full composition of those projects that are necessary to unlock the law enforcement system. This is primarily the case with the State Bureau of Investigation, which our European colleagues are telling us so much about. And the President and the Prime Minister spoke on a number of occasions, saying that this should be done. Please, we need to look at them today and make the right government, make the decision, this time. And the second. Of course, there are issues related to the amendments to the Criminal Procedural Code in order to prohibit the introduction of any rights to the Criminal Procedure Code once and for all, not to the laws of Ukraine. And that's going to be order and discipline in the law enforcement system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-13-m0.u43	Thank you. And I'm counting on more votes than your faction for the order of the week. All those who wish to speak? So let's go to the vote. I'm asking everyone to take up jobs. One minute, another self-help, then we go to the vote. Everyone please take up their jobs. Berezuk, 1 minute, Oleg. Turn on the microphone. And we vote, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-13-m0.u44	We sometimes consider legislative spam to be very important laws and expose them as a victory for Ukrainian democracy. In fact, the agenda should consist of several laws: the anti-corruption court, the financial police, the electoral law on elections to the Supreme Council. People don't see it, and we hide it behind the mouse. The Self-Help faction doesn't mind voting for the weekly agenda, but a clear agenda for the next two weeks for specific answers to specific questions on the anti-corruption court and elections is what we see.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-13-m0.u45	So I'm putting it to a final vote. If there are no votes, I'll just put the second reading. And I'm going to place ratifications. And that's how we're going to work. So I'm putting to the vote the weekly agenda of the plenary sessions of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on March 13-16. Please vote, please support. Vote. [[10:53:49]] For 205 There is no will for national deputies to vote. And, colleagues, I still have an offer for the day. I'll bet the final offer to approve the day's schedule. If you'll excuse me, I'd like to vote. [[10:54:22]] For-198 I'll read the factions. "Block of Peter Poshenko" – 80, "National Front" – 62, "Occupy Block" – 0, "self-help" – 14, Radical Party – 17, "Fatherhood" – 9, "Will of the People" – 1, "Party of Rebirth" – 0. So we go to the question of second reading: the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Rehabilitation Act on the establishment of a disability group for ATO participants (No. 7161). It's a second reading. And I invite you to report to the head of the Committee on Veterans, participants in the hostilities of Trelyaków Alexander Yuriovich. After this law, I will once again put forward the weekly order of the day for factions. And if there's support, we'll be able to move on to the law enforcement block. Please, Treyakov.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-13-m0.u46	Dear colleagues, your opinion is proposed for consideration in the second reading of Law 7161. The draft of the Second Reading Bill provides for amendments to article 7 of the Law on the Rehabilitation of Persons with Disabilities in Ukraine, which, first of all, at the level of the law, rather than the Cabinet regulations, establishes the rule that in the event of irreversible organ and body disorders, including amputations of legs and arms, the disability group is established on an uninterrupted basis. It is not every year that we need to walk and confirm this. I would like to remind you that the first reading of the bill stipulated that the disability group should be established on an untimely basis only to ATO participants who had lost their legs and hands. However, when the bill was drafted for second reading, the committee took into account the numerous proposals made by the National Deputies that disability should be established on an untimely basis to all those who lost their legs and hands, regardless of the reasons. In this regard, for technical reasons, the proposals of the national deputies have been rejected: Roman Semenha number 1 and 7a, Alexandra Dudenkova 8th and 9th and Dmitri Dove number 10. Secondly, the second important norm of the bill lays down the responsibility of the MSC to review a person with disabilities at his place of residence if he is unable to arrive at the MSEC for health reasons. And this has to be confirmed by the conclusion of the LCC. In all, 18 proposals were received for the second reading of the bill, of which 5 are included and 11 are rejected, 2 are partially counted. The committee's decision to adopt the bill as a matter of law. Thank you. Please support the committee's decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-13-m0.u47	Thank you. And we're going to the right. I ask the right-wing authors to prepare for the discussion. I'm going to use the habit of calling those corrections that are biased, which will insist on one of the rights, please raise your hand. 1st, Roman Semenha. Don't insist. 2nd, Logwinsky. Don't insist. Four. He insists. Please, Roman Semenha.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-13-m0.u48	Semenha Roman, "The Self-Help Union" faction. Dear colleagues, the law proposes to determine the frequency of viewing persons with disabilities to confirm such a disability group. We are repeatedly called upon to receive citizens to complain about the need for a number of such reviews, which create additional obstacles. People have to go through them systematically for 6 to 8 months. So it sees a completely manual proposal to set up a review to confirm the disability group if it was already assigned once a year to simplify this way of life and go through, well, go through this procedure. Please be supportive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-13-m0.u49	Will you comment, Mr. Alexander?
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-13-m0.u50	Yeah.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-13-m0.u51	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-13-m0.u52	I generally support what the national deputy of Semimenach says, but I just want to say that this is already in part thirteen of this article. It's already been taken into account. In general, you're absolutely right, well, it's already just, really, look at part thirteen and there you'll see what it is. Well, I'm telling you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-13-m0.u53	Do you insist on voting? I'm putting to the vote the amendment of the 4th People's Deputy of Semimenha, and the committee rejected it. Whoever supports it, I ask you to vote. [[10:59:33]] For 148 148. The decision is not made. Next 7th. He insists. 6th. Please, 6 revisions, Korchinska.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-13-m0.u54	Ladies and gentlemen, You're out of your conversation. Now we're talking about our boys who became people with disabilities on the front. This amendment doesn't take their interests into account, this amendment just tells us in general that if you are a disabled person and you have an amputation of the limbs, you don't have to look at your disability anymore, step in your disability. Our colleague Semenha's next amendment, which is in the interests of all our heroes who have lost limbs or who no longer have opportunities. fully functioning limbs. It states that the disability group needs one step higher, then it will solve their problems. Amendment number six, unfortunately, their problems, our attachés, are not improving or helping, it just legitimizes what should be happening in the MSECs right now. When a citizen of Ukraine has lost a limb, no doubt he has to be timeless, of course.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-13-m0.u55	30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-13-m0.u56	Regulation No 7. Mr. Alexander, please, you're really doing a lot for the attachés. Agree with the committee on number 7 and the phrase that there should be a higher level of disability. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-13-m0.u57	I'll say, we talked a lot on the committee from this amendment, it makes sense, but there's a warning. And if you have first-degree disability, how do you raise it? That's the first one. Secondly, for ATO fighters, I understand what I have to do. Well, if we've worked out this bill for all people with disabilities, then we've rejected it on the committee so as not to tear the hall apart. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-13-m0.u58	How should we be? So, put your proposal to the vote? 7th? Okay. Then let me give you the 7th and we'll deal with it. Please, the 7th Amendment, Roman Semenha.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-13-m0.u59	Dear colleagues, Mr. Chairman of the Committee, I call your attention once again to the importance of this amendment, which regulates the establishment of disability for persons who have suffered as a result of involvement in an anti-terrorist operation. And that's what they're set to do without a re-examination period, i.e. timeless and higher. Attention! What you're saying is how to be in Group I cases? My edit text says, there's a step up or there's a group I. So that takes away the observation you just made. So I'm asking you very much, it's not our requirement, we've talked to colleagues before from several factions, it's the wish of those people who are unreservedly worthy of the respect of the state. So I'm asking you to support me, I think that's going to consolidate the hall and there's not going to be a problem here, and we're going to vote on the law as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-13-m0.u60	So on the 7th hand, I'm going to vote. Look, Roman, if you have an understanding of that, maybe we'll put it before the vote when the mobilisation takes place. Alexander, how do you advise? Mr. Alexander, tell me your opinion.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-13-m0.u61	In general, I am the chairman of the committee, I do not object to this amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-13-m0.u62	Then before we vote the whole law, I'll put it to a vote and then the whole law when there's mobilization in the hall. Is it accepted? Okay. Then we move on and there are literally a few left. So 8-a. He insists. Debenkov, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-13-m0.u63	Dear colleagues, respected citizens of Ukraine! Now we're looking at a bill that regulates the order of a simplified identification for a person with disabilities of the relevant disability group in the event of a loss of limbs. Unfortunately, however, public policy is based on the principles that we defend the interests of ATO participants daily and everywhere. Dear colleagues, persons with disabilities are both ATO participants and peaceful residents, who, in particular, live in unsupervised territories and could eventually leave them and reside in controlled areas of the Ukrainian authorities. At the same time, the ATO will have a simplified order for the certification of disability, and for others there will be a general order. It's a wrong state policy. We must manifest the principle of equality, the same attitude toward those who have suffered as a result of the conflict. My rights are directly related to the protection of the interests of all citizens.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-13-m0.u64	Give you time, finish, right? 30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-13-m0.u65	Thank you. This law applies to the protection of the interests of those who have left uncontrolled territories or who intend to leave. And accordingly, they will no longer testify to the fact that they have lost limbs, unfortunately, they are not themselves growing up. So I'm asking my colleagues to support 8 and 9 amendments that relate to the same question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-13-m0.u66	Thank you. Please, Mr. Alexander.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-13-m0.u67	Sorry, you have a law, it says that you no longer need to walk and confirm your disability. And these adjustments are not necessary at all. Because they're only ATOs, and we already have the law renamed, there for all people with disabilities.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-13-m0.u68	I'll put the vote on a stand-alone basis. So I'm going to put the first line, the 8 revision, the Debenkov. The committee's dismissed. Whoever supports this amendment, please vote. [[11:06:12]] For-160. 160. The decision is not made. I now put to the vote the 9th Amendment, the author of Dudenkov, the committee rejected it, who supports it, please. You want to come out, don't you? Please, 9 to the right, Dobrenkov, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-13-m0.u69	I am once again, to honourable colleagues who may not have heard me or understood me, now we are voting in favour of a simplified order for those who have taken direct part in the ATO. I would like to suggest that the simplified order of disability should be distributed to all people with missing limbs, which is normal. Regardless of the fact, she took a direct part in the ATO, or she didn't, because these people with disabilities are the affected side. Therefore, state policy must be based on the principles of equality, which are enshrined in the article, particularly in the 24th Constitution of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-13-m0.u70	I'm sorry, but we already did. It's in the law that it's not just participants in ATO, it's all people with disabilities, and that's why we renamed the law a different name. Look, it's not just about ATO, it's about all people with disabilities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-13-m0.u71	Thank you. So I'm putting to the vote Amendment No. 9 by the author of Dudenkov. The committee turned her down. Please vote. [[11:07:50]] For 169 The decision is not taken. Next 11th. Kaplin, turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-13-m0.u72	Sergey Kaplin, head of the Socialist Party of Ukraine. First of all, I would like to take this opportunity to thank Mr. Trelyakov for doing so much that we can start the process of creating the Department of Veterans. We are convinced that these joint parliamentary efforts will help create such an institution and we will act as a locomotive: a powerful, institutional locomotive to systematically address the problems of our veterans. The other one. Please support my work, which provides for an increase of 20 percent of the subsistence minimum for atolls who have been disabled. I don't know how the political situation is going to be tomorrow, the day after tomorrow, but we have to predict at the legislative level the possibility of modernizing social standards for this population category. And I hope that the future Ministry of Veterans will carefully protect every norm, every letter, every tape in the current legislation, giving privileges to those who have defended the sovereignty and integrity of our state.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-13-m0.u73	Please, Mr. Alexander.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-13-m0.u74	First of all, I thank Deputy Kaplin for his consistent position in the Department of Veterans, starting with his election campaign, is the first. Second of all, we're dealing with his editing. That's the law. The law is rejected because this law does not regulate. is not the subject of regulation of this law. That's why he can't write this down, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-13-m0.u75	Thank you. And I'm putting the 11th People's Deputy Kaplin to the vote. The committee turned her down. Whoever supports this amendment, please vote. [[11:10:02]] For 105 The decision is not taken. 12th. Don't insist. 16th. Don't insist. 18th. Don't insist. So, colleagues, we've finished discussing all the rights. Let me remind you, aside from the seventh amendment that we have agreed that if the committee head supports it, we will put it before the vote or we will vote with the amendment that the committee head will make. I'm asking everyone to come into the hall. Colleagues, national deputies, I very much ask not to leave the hall, but to enter the hall. I'm asking everyone to come into the hall, colleagues! [[B in m in s a l in]] I ask you to come into the hall and prepare for the vote. And now I'm going to give the committee's head one minute to indicate the amendments that we're going to vote for. And let's go to the vote. Mr. Alexander, one more minute for you to perform. Turn on the third microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-13-m0.u76	The committee supports the 7th amendment vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-13-m0.u77	Thank you. So I'm going to put the number seven bill to the vote. Is that how it's gonna be? Right? Okay! Let's vote on the bill, then on the law. Okay! So, colleagues, I'm going to put the number 7 first, and then the law. Although it would be wiser to count the number seven. We need to act wisely. So, colleagues, let's go to the vote. Please, colleagues! This is a matter of great importance, and so I ask everyone to take a responsible part in the vote and take up jobs. And I'm voting on the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on the Rehabilitation of Persons with Disabilities to establish a disability group for participants in the ATO (No.7161), taking into account the 7 rights that the committee supports and asks the board to support it, and taking into account this right, and with technical and legal rights, it is proposed to adopt the law in the second reading and in general. Please vote, please support. Voting colleagues, please support. Please support, we vote in favour. [[11:12:59]] For 281 Decision taken. We've demonstrated the ability to reconcile, to compromise. And, colleagues, pay attention, keep your seats. At the request of the factions, I will once again put the weekly agenda to the vote. And I'm especially asking previous authors to take your seats, Oksana, Oksana, Vika, take your jobs. I'm re-voting the weekly agenda so we can go through the intellectual property block so we can go through the block of law enforcement. I ask everyone to take part in the vote and to support it. Colleagues, so, the weekly agenda, I'm asking you to support everyone. So please vote and please maintain the weekly agenda. Please vote, colleagues, group, every vote matters. Please maintain the weekly schedule. Please vote, please support. [[11:14:08]] For 221 Five votes. I'll do it again, I'll do it again. I'm asking you to come into the hall, take your seats. I see they fit. And, colleagues, I'm asking you to mobilize. The failure to confirm the order of the day is an attempt to balance our work. We've just demonstrated the work done by the Supreme Council, let's show it together again. And, colleagues, I ask everyone to vote responsibly. And I'm asking you to maintain the weekly agenda. And please take everyone to the vote, and please support me, colleagues. Oksana, please vote. Please maintain the weekly schedule. Please vote and please support everyone carefully. Please support, vote, vote, support. [[11:15:05]] For 229 Decision taken. And we're moving to a cluster of law enforcement issues. Welcome to the committee. And, colleagues, we have the first block, the first question is the changes to the State Bureau of Investigation Act. These are three bills: one of them is government and two of them are MPs. Our discussion will take place in such a way that I will first invite all the authors and then the committee. Is this a good way to discuss it? And I'm asking you to support the proposal to consider Bills 5395, 6430 and 7540 in a simplified manner. Please vote and please support. Please be supportive. [[11:16:12]] For-164 Decision taken. And I first invite you to the report of the Ukrainian national deputy, Palamarczuk Mikol Petrovich. Please, Mr. Mikola.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-13-m0.u78	The President-in-Office of the People's Parliament, your opinion is proposed by the draft Ukrainian Act amending the Ukrainian Law on the State Bureau of Investigation on the clarification of individual provisions (registration No. 5395). The bill proposes technical and precise changes to certain articles of the Ukrainian Law on the State Bureau of Investigation with a view to resolving the legal, structural and organizational, procedural, personnel issues related to the beginning of the work of the State Bureau of Investigation. In particular, the requirement of the Criminal Procedural Code of Ukraine is taken into account in the provision of orders and instructions to investigators and investigators (investigative) and inexplicable investigators. It is proposed to define the structure of the State Bureau of Investigation, by noting that the system of the Bureau consists of central apparatus, territorial organs, departments, special departments and research institutions. Requirements are being laid down for such territorial offices, for the head of the central DBR unit and for the internal control unit, and for a number of other necessary changes. On the basis of what has been said, given the importance of the bill, the Supreme Council of Ukraine has proposed a bill for the first reading to be adopted as a basis. I also want to make an exception to article 20 of this bill, which applies, I apologize. As for the salaries of the police, the salaries. All of it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-13-m0.u79	Thank you. I'll remind you, first the authors, then the committee. If necessary, I'll give you more time to speak, because you're on all three bills. So the next one, I'll invite you. It's a government bill. And I invite you to report to the First Deputy Justice Minister of Bernack Natalia. Please invite you to the report.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-13-m0.u80	Good afternoon, distinguished national deputies, Your Honor! Today we present you with a government project aimed at resolving legislative problems related to the launch of the State Bureau of Investigation. Without the adoption of these changes to the D.B.I. law this year, they will not be able to effectively start their work. So we very much ask for your support in the first reading of this project. The main novels we're proposing. First, to address the issue of pre-trial investigation of criminal conduct, which has been referred to the State Bureau of Investigation by investigators of other bodies since the start of the State Bureau of Investigation. The extension of the circle of subjects to be assigned to the State Bureau of Investigation, namely, the head of the National Agency for the Prevention of Corruption, its deputies and members, the head of the Qualified Disciplinary Commission of Prosecutors, its deputies and members, the members of the Supreme Council of the ARC, the judges of the Constitutional Court, the head of the Supreme Council of Justice, the head of the Supreme Qualification of Judges. Complementing a list of units of the State Bureau of Investigation that have the right to conduct operational and search activities, including operational and technical units and units of operational documentation. Also, the establishment of special names for the members of the military and principal staff of the State Bureau of Investigation and the refinement of the location of the territorial units. We ask for your support in the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-13-m0.u81	Thank you very much. And a final reporter from the authors of the Bill 7,450 National Deputy of Ukraine Naim Mustafa Massi. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-13-m0.u82	Dear colleagues, you just heard the government report on Bill 6430. We take fully into account the changes that the government is making, but we're complementing the changes that D.B.I. requires. Our changes were also consistent with law enforcement officials, and we agreed with the committee. This bill is supported by experts. What do we propose? First of all, expand the existing list of DBR units that will be carrying out search and rescue activities. Secondly, giving the D.B.I. the right to self-sustain information from transport telecommunications networks is what's called a listening device. But I would like to point out that we don't allow any listening without a court decision, it's just a general procedure. Allow the D.B.I. to expand the list of defendants to be investigated by the D.B.I. Unfortunately, we don't know why, but in the first version of the law, the members of the Judges' Commission, the Qualifications and Disciplinary Commission of the Attorney-General, the High Council of Justice, the judges of the Constitutional Court, and so on. We propose to change the formation of territorial offices to ensure better logistics and the operational work of the DBR units; to address the issue of attraction to the disciplinary responsibility of the DBR staff; to transfer the authority from the dispossession of the directors of the territorial organs, the heads of divisions from the external commission to the internal commission. And the last thing I want to point out. Our bill fully takes into account what the government says. It's broader, it's allowing you to start forming the D.B.I. units right now. And most importantly, once again, it's not a name issue, it's just a matter of getting this body to work. For 100 days now as appointed leaders, they cannot begin their work without these laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-13-m0.u83	Thank you. And now it's from the Andrew Kožemiakin Committee. And if it's necessary, I'll add time if it's necessary for your report. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-13-m0.u84	Dear Chairman! Dear colleagues! On 7 December 2016, the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on the State Bureau of Investigation (for the clarification of individual provisions) (number 5395) was considered by the Committee on Law Enforcement. The bill amends the Law on the State Bureau of Investigation to determine the legal, structural and organizational, procedural, personnel issues related to the commencement of the work of the State Bureau of Investigation, inter alia, the structure of the State Bureau of Investigation, the establishment of requirements for the directors of the territorial offices, the directors of the central apparatus of the State Bureau and the directors of the internal control unit, the establishment of an order of formation and the text of the oath, which consists of the members of the regular and primary composition of the State Bureau, the grounds and procedures for bringing DBR staff to disciplinary responsibility. The project is extremely relevant, since all requirements are set out at the legislative level and are qualified to be applied to directors of the territorial authorities and directors of departments. Thus, the committee decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the basis of the first reading of draft number 5395. In view of this, the bill is essentially technical because it defines the main issues related to the beginning of work, the technical work of the State Bureau of Investigation, so that we do not complain that there is no possibility of electing the heads of the local authorities. This bill can be considered and adopted today as a whole. This is about Bill 5395. The next bill is Bill 7450 and Bill 6340. These are the bills that we consider to be alternatives to today. Why? Because.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-13-m0.u85	Please give me 2 minutes to perform.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-13-m0.u86	Thank you. Bill number 6430, which we just heard from the deputy minister, is finalized and is actually filed in February of this year. And this bill aims to improve the specific provisions of legislation in part of ensuring the effective functioning of the State Bureau of Investigation. These two bills, just reported by Mr. Mustafa Nayem, 7450, have the same structure in mind and contain identical legal norms and similar positions, regulate the same circle of issues. Therefore, according to article 100 of the Supreme Council Rules, we consider them to be alternatives. The committee at its meeting decided that Bill 7450 was more appropriate. In particular, on the part of attracting DBD personnel to disciplinary responsibility, the special names of the heads of staff, the right of the DBD to self-delivery from telecommunication networks, and so forth. In general, this project is more complex and its approval will allow a faster solution to the issue of DBR management. But since there are political issues and issues related to the fact that the completed project No. 6430 also solves almost all of the issues and enables the DBR to start work, the committee concluded. First: Bill No. 7450 recommends to the Supreme Council to accept as a basis and also Bill No. 6430 recommended that the Committee of the Supreme Council, during its first reading, also accept as a basis. Let the hall be determined. And thank you for moving this thing forward. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-13-m0.u87	Thank you, colleagues! So you heard the committee's opinion. Now I'm going to give two for, two for, two for. But I would very much like us to take a responsible approach to the vote and to the analysis. In order to be able to come out, not of the author of the law, but of the quality of the bills that are, and to be able to unite around one or two of them, I ask for a very thoughtful and professional discussion. And I'm asking you to do a recording: two, two, no. So, from the People's Front, I understand, Anton Heratchenko. Yeah? Turn on the microphone from the spot. Okay, okay. Turn it on, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-13-m0.u88	Dear colleagues! The People's Front faction will support the bill introduced by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, as well as the bill introduced by the People's MP, Palamarczuk. These bills regulate the different provisions of the DBR Act, they improve this law and we will support them. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-13-m0.u89	Thank you. I also want to remind you that Bill 5395, it separately regulates the individual sphere of activity, so we have to support it, and then one of the two. It's technical, we can support it, and then one of the two that will be next, governmental and parliamentary. So now from the Peter Dustock Block, Mustafa Nayem. Please turn on the microphone. Microphone on, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-13-m0.u90	Dear colleagues, I am now addressing my colleagues from the People's Front and the Prashenko Block. The bill that we proposed, the MP, covers all the changes that are in the government bill, completely. But it's more expanded, more than that, the MP's bill has been publicly supported by the head of the D.B.I. who can't get a job now, for 100 days now, it's been directed, we can't get a state, because we're not dealing with the internal and external commission selection issues. We have fully aligned these bills with the government, and the government representative can say that. Both the D.B.I. and the committee unanimously supported this bill, it's not an issue of ambition. I understand you're standing there right now to vote only for the government. But listen again: it's not a resource bill, it's not about money, it's not about influence, it's specifically about frame assignment. And our bill deals with more issues, more aspects. If we accept it, it'll make it easier for us to move forward and allow the State Agency to start working faster. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-13-m0.u91	Thank you. Colleagues, and now the closing statement, then the vote will take place, and I ask all the factions to invite the deputies into the hall in a few minutes we will move on to the decision. And from Self-Help, I'll give Danchenkov the word "self-help," which will pass on to Ruslan Sidorovich, please. And please invite the deputies to the hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-13-m0.u92	Ruslan Sidorovich, Self - Help. Fellow national MPs, Ukrainians who are watching the broadcast right now, I'm asking for a little quiet and concentration to understand what we're looking at right now. The question of the establishment of the State Bureau of Investigation was to take place 22 years ago, in 1996, when the Constitution was adopted and it was decided that the prosecution should have been deprived of the functions of investigation, the State Bureau of Investigation should have been established since then. For three and a half years of this cadence, we have struggled with the adoption of the State Bureau of Investigation Act. Then, for a year and a half, they were tortured by the selection procedure of the head of the State Bureau of Investigation. So for today, I'm asking you very much to concentrate and find 226 votes under so much-needed bills. Why am I supporting my colleague Mustafa Nayem with regard to the bill under number 7450? First of all, it's a question of attraction to disciplinary responsibility. Unfortunately, in the government bill, we don't see a complete list of the employees of the State Bureau of Investigation to be disciplinaryly responsible. I'll explain as a lawyer what that means. This means two things that either they will be drawn to disciplinary responsibility in an incomprehensible way, or it will be the basis for the annulment of such decisions in the courts. You have to support some of these bills, but I'm asking you very much, 7450, which is a member of parliament, actually takes into account all of the government's work, but plus it deals more with the subject of disciplinary responsibility and the question of the competitive commission's activities in the selection of personnel at the State Bureau of Investigation. So we vote, we vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-13-m0.u93	Thank you. So, colleagues, we're done talking, and in a minute we're going to vote. I'm very confidently asking everyone to invite the deputies into the hall. Everyone please take up their jobs. One minute, the chairman of the committee, Andrew Cosemyakin, and we move on to the vote. Please, Mr. Andrey.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-13-m0.u94	Dear colleagues, really, this is for a historic event, because for 22 years we have been waiting for the creation and the beginning of the work of this government body: the State Bureau of Investigation. I'd like to say the following. First. Bill 5395 is supported by almost all halls, because these are technical and precise changes to the law that will allow work. With regard to laws: 7450 - MP and 6340 is a bill of the Cabinet of Ministers. Yes, there are some differences and some shortcomings, we're working on them. But from a political point of view, colleagues, our faction has made a decision, the Fatherland faction, to vote in favour of each of these three bills. Please be supportive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-13-m0.u95	Thank you. So, what would be the logic of voting? First, I'm going to put 5395 Palamarchuk -- a technical bill that just regulates the inaccuracies that were made in the previous law. And I'm asking everyone to back him up with this paper that Palamarczuk sounded under the transcript when he introduced the bill. And then between the two laws of 7450 and 6430, I'm going to run a rating vote first so that we can see where we can unite and choose one of them. But Palamarchuca is the law. You talk to Andrew, please, and he'll explain. Explain Alexander Kugel. So I'm putting the first Palamarczuk as the foundation. And I'm asking everyone to take up jobs. Once again, the bill removes the technical inaccuracies that were made during the adoption of the law. And I'm asking everyone to support him unanimously. So I'm voting on the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on the State Bureau of Investigation concerning the clarification of individual regulations (No. 5395) based on the law that was issued under the transcript by Palamarczuk Mikola Petrovich during the report. Please vote and please support. Colleagues, please support everyone. Vote! Please vote, please support. [[11:35:25]] For 172 Colleagues, I'll put it up now. [[B in m in s a l in]] Attention! I'll put up a rating vote first. [[B in m in s a l in]] Attention, please, colleagues! Attention! Show by factions. And now I'm going to put in two of the following bills, first the rating vote. So that the MPs will be informed about the law around which we will be united. First, a rating vote under the draft Act amending certain Ukrainian legislative acts to ensure the activities of the State Bureau of Investigation (6430). Please vote, a rating vote that supports the government bill. Please be supportive. [[11:36:28]] For 148 And now the 7450 rating vote is a bill amending some of the Ukrainian laws to improve certain provisions on the activities of the State Bureau of Investigation. The rating vote. Anyone who supports it, please vote. Please be supportive. [[11:36:59]] For-141 In fact, it's almost the same positions, but -- listen to me -- we have one of those laws to adopt, we have one of those laws to enact. Therefore, there will be a responsible position if we unite around one of them. I think, if I'm not mistaken, with a small advantage, but the government has won the majority by a few votes. I'm afraid we're just going to lose our votes right now if we go in if we go into another round of debates. Colleagues, can we agree now that we will unite around the government? 'Cause we're both gonna crash. First, the government's got more, yeah. It's not an alternative at all, it's a different one. Mr. Andrew, give us some advice on how to do this. Colleagues, please take up your jobs. I ask very briefly.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-13-m0.u96	Dear colleagues, we have a bill first. You might not understand, I'll explain. There is Bill No. 5395 – a separate bill authored by a member of the "Block of Petra Poroshenko" faction of the Honourable Lieutenant General Palamarczuk. This bill has been supported, and unfortunately, there is no D.B.I. Manager here, which is bad, by the way, Andry Volodymyrovich. But they should always be both commenting and giving their thoughts. This project enables the DBR to run and work. The project proposed by the Cabinet of Ministers and a group of deputies expands the functions of the State Bureau of Investigation today and introduces them into a framework that has not been regulated by law in its time, do you understand? Here's the thing. So there is a dispute between the factions that today do not want such changes to happen. such changes have been made. Why? Because.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-13-m0.u97	30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-13-m0.u98	Because the deputies in charge of Mr. Mustafa Najem and Mrs. Sotnik have questions related to the National Anticorruption Bureau. No questions asked. Then the political compromise: we are 6430 of the bill and the bill that is in Mustafa Nayem, and we are transferring or asking them to reject it, that is to say they have returned it, we have revoked it, and we are voting in favour of the bill that awaits today for a year and a half.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-13-m0.u99	So, colleagues, I'm asking you to take up jobs. I'm going to turn to all the factions that I see in the atmosphere. The atmosphere is such that everyone is in favor of making a decision, but there is a dispute between the two laws. During the rating vote, the government bill gained more votes, it has a better chance. Me, too. Now we can either go back to the discussion, or we can move on to the decision. It's a discussion, isn't it? Let's have another round of discussion, let's go. Colleagues, I'm all those who advocate the law, and I'm telling you, right now we have a chance to accept it. If we go for another round of discussions right now, I think the chance will be a little less. But if we have that will, we can go again. Let's go again, an important question. So you didn't, Radical. One minute. Oleg Valeriyovich. Then there's Ruslan, then there's Najem.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-13-m0.u100	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Our faction is voting in favour of a law that allows for the work of the State Bureau of Investigation to be started. Because it's an extremely important institution to investigate crimes. But I don't think Mr. Palamarchuk's bill found most of the people in this room for one reason: what salaries did you write to the members of the bureau? Three hundred and fifty thousand dollars a month. Listen, fellow MPs, I'm talking to all of you, well, I'm tired of fooling myself and people. You don't pay teachers, doctors, builders, metallurgists for 360 grand because you say, "High wages, that's inflation." And millions of people are going to Poland and Portugal to make more money. And so-called anti-corruption fighters, who do nothing, you pay half a million dollars. Stop fooling people! The only way to overcome corruption is to overcome poverty so that people work in their own country, not abroad.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-13-m0.u101	I just want to point out that when Mikola Palamarczuk presented the bill, he announced that he was taking that position down. And I put it to a vote without it. Listen to me carefully, I put to the vote without having to say anything about the wages that Palamarczuk had asked me to take off during the interview. So one minute, Ruslan Sidorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-13-m0.u102	Ruslan Sidorovich, Self Help Union. Dear colleagues! I'm asking you to really concentrate. I see there are major discussions that need to be supported by a bill, whether governmental or parliamentary. But in this case, I want to focus: we're only talking about the first reading, just the first reading. Are we satisfied and personally content with each of these bills? No, it's not. There are certain things that would definitely have to be improved. But without adopting any of these bills, we block the beginning of the work of the most important investigative body. So I ask you to focus and vote for any of these bills. Finally, we can accept both in the first reading. Similarly, it will not cause contradictions. But it is critical that a bill be adopted today that will launch a selection procedure that will allow for the start of the bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-13-m0.u103	Mustafa Najem, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-13-m0.u104	Dear colleagues! I'm going back to the factions of the BP and the People's Front. I know you have a faction decision to vote only for a government bill. The problem is that the bill that we're proposing as deputies covers all the changes that the government has proposed. But we're adding those changes that the D.B.I. needs today. Our bill is publicly supported by the head of the FBI, it is also a representative of the government. Because the D.B.I. is one of the government's representatives. Our bill deals with more questions. You can do it right now because of ambition or decision. Or whose last name is not to vote, but actually our bill is just better. Logically, we just have to vote for it. It's not politics, it's not money, it's not assets, it's just a selection of employees of the State Bureau of Investigation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-13-m0.u105	Thank you. Colleagues, I'm asking you to take up your jobs. Now it's a closing statement from the non-fractional. Borislav Bereza, please, 1 minute. In a minute, we'll move on to making a decision. I ask everyone to come to the hall and ask everyone to join the factions' heads. Invite an MP to the hall. Please, Borislav.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-13-m0.u106	Dear colleagues, I'd like to draw your attention to all three bills. First of all, the law of Palamarczuk really, really needs to be adopted, we need to find votes. But what do we need to do with the law? It says here what's different. The head of the central apparatus can be a Ukrainian citizen who has high moral qualities. How will we determine whether he has these qualities or not? Where has this legislation been found? This is the first time. This needs getting rid of. So what we're going to say is, it doesn't have that. According to what? And second, and second, and third, the bill, and the government, and the MP, are underweight. Why should they be served in the first place? We only need to work after that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-13-m0.u107	Thank you. So let's move on to decision-making, colleagues. I'm reminding you, during the ratings vote, the government bill, by a majority, gathered a number of votes in the hall. And I would now go to the authors and the MPs and the government: let's unite around the government, because the worst thing is when we don't make any decisions. This is going to be the worst situation. So I ask everyone to unite now, and I will put a government bill to the vote. I ask everyone to unite around him and support him. Colleagues, do you copy? Is it accepted? Is everyone all right? Let's go to the vote. And I'm voting on the draft Act amending some of the Ukrainian legislative acts to ensure the activities of the State Bureau of Investigation (No. 6430) (government) as a basis. I ask everyone who supported both the bill and the other bill to support it, he has a better chance of uniting the hall. Please vote, please support the base. Please vote, please support, colleagues, every voice, carefully. Vote. Please be supportive. [[11:47:19]] For-189 189. Please, by the factions. Block of Peter Poshenko – 67, Front – 64, Opposition Block – 1, Self-help – 19, Radical Party – 18, Fatherland – 9, Will of the People – 3, Party of Rebirth – 0. Colleagues, now I'm going to draft the next bill, as it should be under the Rules. So I'm voting on the next draft of the Act amending some of the laws of Ukraine to improve certain provisions on the activities of the State Bureau of Investigation (number 7450) as a basis. Please vote, please support. Vote. [[11:48:17]] For 169 Colleagues, I have one last option: to return to the committee for work.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-13-m0.u108	Andry Volodymyrovich, Palamarchuka again.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-13-m0.u109	Let me put Palamarchuk on the way back, Palamarchuk. [[B in m in s a l in]] So, colleagues, I would like to point out that when Palamarczuk reported on the bill, he said under the transcript that he was proposing to remove all the rules of the law that regulate wages. And when I put it to a vote, I put it to a vote by removing those norms that Palamarchuk sounded like a stenogram. This provides some clarification for the deputies. And so I'm asking you to go back to the draft Law 5395 (it's technical), and it only regulates certain rules, taking into account the deletion of all wage regulations. So I'm voting on the proposal to go back to the draft law of Palamarczuk Mikol Petrovich 5395. Please vote and please support. Please be supportive. Vote. [[11:49:39]] For 228 We're back, colleagues. And now I'm asking everyone to take jobs. I'm asking everyone to come into the hall. Colleagues, you see, every voice matters. Please prepare for the vote. Careful! And I'm putting in a bill amending the Ukrainian Law on the State Bureau of Investigation to clarify certain regulations (5395), taking into account the law that Mikola Palamarczuk made on the basis of the transcript. Please vote. Please support me as a base. Please be supportive. Please be supportive. [[11:50:30.]] For-187 I'm tired of these games. So, colleagues, I propose that all three bills be returned to the committee for further work. This is the next rule option. And I, my colleagues, ask myself, does everyone support a position on the committee for work? So please, everyone. Attention! Do you support the committee for work? We're backing it up. I propose that all three bills — 5395, 7450 and 6430 — be read again. If we don't, they'll all be rejected. What do you vote for? How different can it be? Why not? Tell me. Arthur, can I talk to you for a second? [[B in m in s a l in]] Colleagues, given the great weight of the question — attention, colleagues! - I'm asking everyone to calm down right now, in the room with a lot of emotions, I understand why. Because all interested in the reform of the DBR, but the hall cannot unite around any of the bills. I emphasize and repeat: we can unite around 6430 (government), we can unite, there is a faction's decision and BPP, there's a decision of the People's Front faction, there's a decision of the Radical Party faction, the Fatherland and Self-help faction, so we can unite around it. So, colleagues, 6430. Why not, Andrew? So, colleagues, why not? 6430 I'm going to make another offer, go back to 6430. It's the only one of those three bills that we can make decisions about, boys and girls, we have gender equality. I'm asking everyone right now to keep their emotions down and adjust to the decision-making process. So I'm going to put a motion to the vote, go back to the 6430. So, colleagues, 6430, please return to consideration 6430. Please vote, please support. Vote. [[11:53:43]] For 203 So, three bills: 6430, 5395 and 7450 -- the proposal to return to the committee for a second reading. Please unite around this, or the bills will simply be rejected, simply lost, I simply unite around this proposal and please support, return to the committee for a second reading. Please vote. [[11:54:29]] For 230 230. All three bills are returned to the committee to review the first reading. Now, colleagues, I've had an announcement to announce a break from two factions: the Fatherland faction and the Self-Help faction. They're ready to change the time off from the rostrum, and three minutes for the speech is given to Rybchin, a national deputy. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-13-m0.u110	Alexei Rybchin, Fatherland, Doñecina. I thank the Self-Help faction for taking a break. Colleagues, today's fourth anniversary of the tragic events in Donetsk, when the Hero of Ukraine, Dmitry Cherniavski, was the first victim of the Ukrainian-Russian war. I'm really sorry to hear from the politicians that we have to forget about Donbas, cut him off, that there's all the people out there for Russian peace, that's not true. When you start. At the end of the events in Maidan, the authorities of Donetsk, the local elite and the Kremlin organized pro-Russian protests, and the Dozens answered on March 4 was a big rally in front of the Croat Church. On March 5, at the still uncommunized square of the central city of Donetsk, there was a very large rally, the ten thousandth, where people showed that they were Ukraine. On March 9, shevchenk’s monument, March 13, four years ago, the most bloody rally where Dmitry Cherniavsky died. April 17th, April 28th is a big walk. The Donetsks fought for their pro - Ukrainian Donbas. There have been many other actions and actions — from the chain of connection to religious prayers for Ukraine alone. And these rallies, I want to say that they're gathering more than the imported aunts from Rostov and Belgorod, and from other regions, they were gathering more. And our goal then was to show the whole world and Ukraine that Donetsk is Ukraine. And we managed to do this despite ideological, linguistic, I don't know, football other differences, we showed that Donetsk was Ukraine. Unfortunately, the authorities who then came after Maidan ignored these rallies, these protests. Only April 11th, after nearly a month and a half of fighting, were people on the ground, only April 11th, and the authorities arrived at Donetsk, but she did not meet protestors under the Ukrainian flag. They met with the local elite, the businessmen, and they tried to make a deal. It's a deal. We see what these arrangements have led to. And I always ask myself questions, and the people who took part in these events ask themselves, if it wasn't for 10, not 15,000 daughters, but for 20, 30, 50, did these events change? Maybe. But the questions I'm being asked by the military from Donetsk, from Luhansk, who are now defending our borders, and the settlers, and the people who are now living in occupied territories and leaving here, and the people who are going to be holding a six-hour rally today, the memory rally of those people who died in Donetsk, they ask, how long did it take for the daughters, the Lugansians and others to come out under the Ukrainian flag to give the order for the liberation of the Donetské ODA that was captured? I will remind you that in Kharkiv, Donetsk, in Lugansk, government administrations took over at the same time. However, Kharkiv has been ordered to release -- and until now, Kharkiv is the least troubled city, which is Ukrainian and has not been done in Donetsk. How many daughters did it take to get out in order for the columns of Hirkin, which went from Slovenian to Donetsk, to be destroyed? It's a rhetorical question, but I believe it. 30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-13-m0.u111	30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-13-m0.u112	However, I believe that we will return to Ukrainian Donetsk, Ukrainian Lugansk, and Ukrainian Crimea. Cordon will be under our protection and we will reintegrate not only the territory but also the people. It's going to be difficult, but we're going to do it. And we will definitely rename Postichev Street to Donetsk to the street of the Hero of Ukraine, Dmitr Czernyavski. And I very much ask the honourable chairman to declare a moment of silence in memory of Dmitri Czernyavsky and the thousands of people whose lives have been taken away by this bloody Kremlin aggression.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-13-m0.u113	Thank you. I declare a moment of silence, and we ask everyone to remember the hero’s memory. [[A Minute of Silence]] Thank you. We will release Donetsk, Lugansk and Crimea, and I fully support your position that we will release the key streets to Donetsk, we will call the names of the heroes of Ukraine who fought for Ukrainian independence against the Russian aggressor. Thank you. I now invite you to read Irina Heratchenko. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-13-m0.u114	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, allow me to inform you that today at 12 o'clock in the towers of the third floor of the Supreme Council, an exhibition of the calendar "View the Future" (2018) created by the heart of the cyborgs is being opened. This calendar presents pictures of 12 children of Ukrainians from families of dead cyborgs. And the money that comes from selling these calendars goes to rehabilitation and the children’s summer vacation. Our colleague, Irina Lucenko, has already purchased hundreds of such calendars. Let's also support this initiative together and raise money for the treatment of children. And I suggest that we all go on a break together, see this wonderful exhibition of beautiful Ukrainian children.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-13-m0.u115	I would also like to report that the Presidency has come up with an announcement that I will read. "In accordance with the application and in accordance with part three of article 60 of the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, I report the entry of the National Deputy of Ukraine, Berezkin Stanislav Semenović, into the MP group "The Will of the People". And according to the 12 o'clock regulation, I'm calling it a 30-minute break. At 12:30, we'll continue with the question of the law enforcement unit. And I'm asking everyone at 12:30 to come to the hall to continue our work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-13-m0.u116	Time spent for a break is over. I ask everyone to come into the hall and prepare for the vote. I'm asking the factions to invite deputies into the hall. So, colleagues, I'd like everyone to come into the hall. We are continuing to consider the issues of the law enforcement unit. After these questions, we're going to have a question that we didn't get to just a few minutes ago, that's BlackMornaphtogas. And, colleagues, in order to be able to work effectively, we need support in the position of consideration of the reduced procedure, so I ask everyone to come into the room and prepare for the vote. So I'm going to ask you to take up jobs. Please prepare for the vote. Please invite the head of the committee to the hall, now the laws he has to report. And I'd like the camera to invite representatives of the committee to the hall. Colleagues, I would like to inform you that the committee -- listen to me very carefully -- has requested that we move the draft Act amending some Ukrainian legislation on criminal justice (7547) to conduct political consultations. The committee requests that one of the laws be transposed. I think so. Yes, a member of your faction has been asked to move. Committee. So it's 7547. And there's a proposal for us to move on to Project 3542 right now. But I have a great request for everyone to support the reduced procedure. We have the following important bills. And I'm asking everyone to support the reduced procedure. I'll give you my word. So, colleagues, I ask you now to support the proposal that we consider the draft Act amending the Criminal and Criminal Procedure Codes of Ukraine to improve the amendment procedure (3542). Please vote. Please be supportive. Colleagues, I would like to ask you carefully to take part in the vote and to support the reduced procedure. Please vote. Please be supportive. Keep it up, fellows. [[12:39:53]] For 128 We didn't make it. Let's do it again. So, colleagues, please take up jobs. Now, I'm going to make another proposal, a shorter procedure. And I'm asking you to support everyone, colleagues. Take up jobs and support. So, colleagues, once again I urge everyone to support the consideration of the draft Law 3542 by a reduced procedure. Please vote and please support everyone. So we don't waste any time. Please support, colleagues, we vote carefully, each vote. Please be supportive. Vote. [[12:41:01]] For-154 Decision taken. And I invite you to report to the head of the Committee on the Law Enforcement of the Protective Activities of Kožemjakin Andrija Anatoliyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-13-m0.u117	Dear colleagues, I would like to say once again that unfortunately, there are very few people in Ukraine today who want the reform of the law enforcement agencies to go ahead with the planned plan. And my colleague said that 22 years ago, they had accepted a question related. They took on the responsibility of making the D.B.I. Colleagues, we're with you on the eighth, I think a 9-10 call will finish this job. And believe me, according to everything. And actually, I want to say the next thing to those political "drives" who run around the hall and give some commands to their national MPs. I used to run a faction, too, I know what it is. But in any case, you have to have respect for the head of the committee, one, the other, the other, the third. Why? Because yesterday was a clearly defined procedure and a compromise was found. Today, these guys decided, excuse me, to leave those who worked with them yesterday. It's a disgrace! I want to tell you that for the first time in the Supreme Council, it's hard, hard, for the first time in the Supreme Council to run a faction even harder. So I would like to advise you from my experience and from the experience of those who associate with us: have respect for those with whom you have to work, and also in opposition. Because you remember, as the classic said, life is very sometimes fatal in humans, and in politics too, it is sudden. I'm sorry. So it's a shame that today all the projects that were made. adopted and developed by the D.B.I., failed and failed by the methods of deception. As for 3542, I think it's today.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-13-m0.u118	1 minute, please add.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-13-m0.u119	I don't think they're going to support him either, so I don't really want to chase the air here right now, but I'd like to say the following. The bill deals with the issue of amending the Criminal Code and the Criminal Procedure Code only by law, as we have the Tax Code, the Customs Code, the Budget Code and the Law on Justice. And I'd like you to support it, but once again, there's no strong hope for that today, unfortunately. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-13-m0.u120	Thank you. So the draft of Law 7547 is being transposed, and we are currently discussing and discussing draft Law 3542. And I'm asking you to do a recording: two, two, no. Please. Palamarczuk, please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-13-m0.u121	Dear colleagues, I will speak very briefly, but I want to say that shame today to the Supreme Council, shame upon us that we declare one thing, and we do quite another. I want to say a few words about that bill we didn't adopt. We didn't accept the bill, not because we, it's bad, but because we play political toys. We're going to end badly. You can't do that. As far as the bill is concerned. I would like to say that for the members of the Supreme Council, this is the Constitution. And according to this Constitution, we have to work. And if anyone today does not vote in favour of this law, this person does not want to live by the Constitution, both by the Rules, and by the law of the State. I call on everyone to vote in favour of this necessary bill so that there will be no such coalitions as are taking place in us. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-13-m0.u122	Thank you. From the Fatherland faction, Sergey Mikolayovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-13-m0.u123	Sergey Eutuszek, "The Fatherland" faction. Dear colleagues, the bill defines the exclusive capacity of the Committee on Law Enforcement to be the main contributor to the drafting and drafting of legislation relating to the amendment of the Criminal and Procedural Code. That is, the draft law provides for changes to article 3 of the Criminal Code and article 1 of the more faithful, the Criminal Code and article 1 of the Criminal Procedure Code. Given the extremely high social importance of the changes to CPC, I believe that it is necessary to discuss properly with the Committee on Legislative Protection. And that's why we have that public procurement, the Public Procurement Act -- is made exclusively by laws. We have the Tax Code, which is amended exclusively by the laws of Ukraine. The Customs Code, too. The budget code is also made exclusively by the laws of Ukraine. About the judiciary and the status of the judges, too. And the Criminal Code and the Criminal Code are being amended. So "Paternality" calls for not only support on the ground, because there is no point in making any adjustments. In general, support this bill, which is to allow the committee exclusively and to be the main committee in the drafting of legislation relating to the Criminal Code and the Criminal Procedure Code of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-13-m0.u124	Thank you. From the Radical Party of Igor Mosiychuk. Please, Mr. Igor.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-13-m0.u125	Dear colleagues! The Honourable Ukrainian Parliament and the Ukrainian People! Before the break, we witnessed a disgrace. The disgrace that the presidential political power has shown here in an unwillingness to improve the creation of the State Bureau of Investigation. Today's bill, which we are currently considering, is essentially the result of the so-called judicial reform adopted and the reaction to the amendment of my colleague Andrija Lozov. I would like to say that Andrew Lozov's amendment is absolutely European and is absolutely true at many times. But the thing is, really, the committee that wasn't responsible for it was looking at it, and that's why it wasn't polished and brought to the standards that it was supposed to be. And now, essentially, against the Radical Party because of this amendment, the dirtiest campaign has been solved: the whole country is told that they will not be able to bury a person if these standards are in place, that the investigation will collapse, that the Maydan case will not be investigated. It's all a lie, it's all a complete lie, because the editing of Andrew Lozov predicts three things when it comes to blaming a person's funeral. Lozov's edit predicts that it's not partial, and the court will determine the fact of death and that's true around the world, because in fact, it's a European norm, it's in Germany as well. Now they're trying to discredit it. Discredit in what way? There is no mention of funerals.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-13-m0.u126	30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-13-m0.u127	In fact, it refers solely to establishing the fact of death, mention how the fact of Gongadze’s death was determined, and how a local wrote evidence that a person had just died. Thus, it is a purely protective norm, but it also needs improvement and will be improved. And the dirty campaign launched against the Radical Party and Andrew Lozov is essentially financed by those who hate the country and want to destroy the law enforcement system.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-13-m0.u128	So now there will be a closing statement in the discussion, after which the vote will take place. If no more factions come forward, we'll have a vote in three minutes. So I'm asking the factions to invite the deputies to the Hall, and I'm asking the Supreme Council Secretariat to invite the deputies into the Hall, and in three minutes we'll move on to the decision-making process. And now I give the floor to the self-help faction of Ruslan Sidorovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-13-m0.u129	Ruslan Sidorovich, Self Help Union. Let's go back a little bit to the subject of the bill that we're talking about. What is it about? It says that if one of the subjects of the legislative initiative wants to change the Criminal Code or the Criminal Procedure Code, such a bill should be separate and considered in a professional committee. Is this bad? No, it's not. This is definitely positive. What do we have when other laws make changes in procedural codes? Let's think about the fall of last year, October 3, 2017, when three new procedural codes were adopted, changes were made to the Criminal Procedure Code and to dozens of others. To this day, lawyers are dealing with what we have accepted. I will tell you more, not only does this bill need to be supported, but all changes to each procedural code need to be adopted only by a separate law. But will this keep some of our colleagues from manipulating them? I'm not sure. If we remember the adoption of procedural codes, there were changes to the Judicial Law. At the same time, when article 4 of the Judicial Act states that only a separate bill amends the Judicial Act. Recently, we considered issues related to land management, which included changes to the Tax Code and to the Budget, which is also a gross violation of the relevant legislation. I mean, is this bill going to be an obstacle to any manipulation? If you want to ignore the Rules, no, but at least we're on the legislative side.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-13-m0.u130	30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-13-m0.u131	However, the duty of this session hall, at least at the legislative level, to create preconditions where no one can cheat with changes in the most fundamental things, since the above codes are only the Constitution of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-13-m0.u132	Thank you. So, colleagues, the discussion is over, let's move on to the decision-making process. I ask everyone to take up jobs, prepare for a decision. Please. Please return to the hall and prepare for the vote. Heads of factions, please invite the deputies into the hall, and we'll move on to the decision-making process. And I am voting on the draft Act amending the Criminal and Criminal Procedure Codes of Ukraine to improve the procedure for making changes (number 3542). I first put to the vote the committee's proposal to accept as a basis and as a whole. Please vote, please support. Vote. [[12:54:50]] For-179 The next offer is to accept as a basis, colleagues. I ask you to vote in favour of the next proposal to adopt the law as a basis. Please mobilize, please vote. Please support, 3542 on the ground. Vote, please. [[12:55:22]] For-189 The next proposal under the Rules is for a re-reading committee. I'm asking everyone to get more involved, and I understand that you support me, yes. The committee. Do you support the committee? Arthur, you support the committee, too, for work. I would like to make the following suggestion: Send it to the committee to prepare for the re-reading of 3542. Please vote, please support. Let's get back to the committee for the first reading, so we don't crash the bill, let's support it. Vote. Please be supportive. [[12:56:18]] For-191 And the latter is the rule’s proposal: to return the subject to the right of the legislative initiative for further work. And I ask everyone to support the final proposal: that there should be no rejection of the bill, that the subject of the legislative initiative should be sent to draft Law 3542. Please vote, please support. Colleagues, please stand by! So that we don't reject the bill, please vote. Please vote, please support. [[12:57:00]] For 213 The decision is not taken. Thus, the draft Act amending the Criminal and Procedural Codes of Ukraine for the Improvement of the Procedure for Amendments (3542) has been rejected. And we are moving on to the next issue of the agenda, this is the Ukrainian Act on Amendments to some Ukrainian legislative acts on stabilizing the activities of the BlackMornaftogaz State Shareholder Society in connection with the temporary occupation of Ukraine's territory, with proposals by the President of Ukraine (5370). And I'm asking you to support his consideration of the reduced procedure. Please vote, please support. Keep it up, fellows. [[12:58:05]] For-161 Decision taken. And I invite you to the report of the President of Ukraine on the Supreme Council of Lucenko Irina Stepanovna. Please, Mrs. Irina.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-13-m0.u133	Dear Mr. Head, dear colleagues! The Ukrainian Act of 18 May 2017 on Amendments to certain Ukrainian Legislative Acts on Stability of the Activities of the Black Seaftogaz National Association in connection with the temporary occupation of Ukraine (registration No. 5370) cannot be signed by the President of Ukraine on the basis of such legislation. The law that came upon the signature proposes to extend the duration of special permits for the use of the nadrama provided by the Black Mornaphtogas on the area in the temporarily occupied territory for a period of temporary occupation of Ukraine. In doing so, the specified extension of the permit period will take into account the features of the legislation, which takes into account the features set out, inter alia, and the regulations. However, according to article 4 of the Law on the Free System of Economic Activities, the duration of a document of a permissive nature, or the unlimited duration of its operation, is determined solely by the laws governing the relevant relationship. This provision of the law that has been signed does not comply with the law and does not comply with the principle of legal certainty as part of the constitutional principle of the rule of law. In view of the above, the President of Ukraine proposes, in paragraph 1, paragraph 2, paragraph 2, paragraph 2, paragraph 2, and paragraph 2, of section 3, and replace the words "legislatively established" with the words "legislatively established". In addition, the law that came to the signature was proposed by January 1, 19th, to stop the execution of the enforcement and enforcement of the decisions on "Black Searnaftegas". The proposal is, firstly, contrary to the Constitution of Ukraine, which establishes the obligation of a court decision and ensures that the State implements it; secondly, it may lead to a loss of the state budget.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-13-m0.u134	Just give me one minute to finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-13-m0.u135	and reinforce the problem of improper enforcement of decisions in Ukraine. It should also be noted that the European Court of Human Rights is responsible for failing to execute decisions against the State if such failure is caused by the State’s very actions and is obliged to pay just satisfaction. In view of the head of State mentioned above, he proposes that section 6, paragraph 6, of the law should be deleted. Please support the proposals made by the President of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-13-m0.u136	Thank you, Mrs. Irina. And please now give the floor to the co-report to Mr. Dombrowski's first deputy head of the Committee on Fuel and Energy. Please, Mr. Dombrowski. We're on a short notice, so no questions asked.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-13-m0.u137	Honorable Presidium, distinguished colleagues, respected citizens of Ukraine, I want to make it very brief, but essentially explain what this is about today. Because from this high rostrum, we hear very often the political slogans, "Let's go back to Crimea." I think if we put to the vote today the possibility of returning the Crimea, at least four hundred votes would be in this room. And I think that this law should support the same number of national MPs because it's about the state assets of Ukraine that have been stolen and have been annexed. Because the state company BlackMornaftogaz is a company that paid -- one of them -- the highest amounts of taxes to the state budget. It is a company that has given more than two billion metres of cubic gas to Ukraine’s Ukrainian treasury of independence for one year. I would now like all Ukrainians to hear that we lost when we annex Crimea and when the assets of the Black Mornaftegasus were taken by the Russian Federation. The losses per year amount to more than sixteen billion dollars, and the assets collected exceed twenty billion dollars. It's dozens of gas wells, it's oil wells, it's an opportunity to extract oil and gas on the shelf of the Black Sea, it's licenses, it's floating devices and a lot more. What do we want to do today? We want to save the state company BlackMornaftegas, save it.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-13-m0.u138	1 minute, please let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-13-m0.u139	preserve its legal right to appeal to international courts in order to recover and protect the Ukrainian energy assets remaining in the annexed Crimea. This is the path to a new victory in an energy war that we can call Stockholm-3, but without that decision we can't win this victory. The committee considered, agreed with the President's proposals and asked Parliament to support the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-13-m0.u140	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear colleagues, I ask you to sign up for this bill. And it was absolutely fair for previous reporters to say that this is a critical law for Ukraine's ability in the next international courts to defend our property in disputes with the Russian Federation. So please. Mrs. Olya Belkova, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-13-m0.u141	Thank you very much, Madam Chairman. Dear colleagues, I very much ask you to support me. In the near future, there are several licenses to be completed in this company. In the last year, the company has shown a very good ability to operate within its own activities. Several joint agreements had been concluded that had previously been with private companies. The new leadership has shown that they understand how gas can be extracted at least in the part of Ukraine that is under our control today. At the same time, we have enormous expectations about defending Ukraine's interests in relation to the annexed assets left in Crimea. And so it's very important today for the company to remain operational, for the capital to remain and for the opportunity to resume its activities, and also to join our court cases, which are currently being dealt with in international judicial institutions. I ask you very much to support and show that everyone in the room today understands that our main task is to keep the company, let's say, in operational activities and to give it all the authority as a business subject in order for them to carry out their activities and to defend their interests in international institutions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-13-m0.u142	Thank you. Please, from Self-Help, Victoria Vojcitsky. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-13-m0.u143	Good afternoon. Victoria Vojticka, Self-Help Unit. My speech will be very brief. How long can you beat that water in the foot with the Black Mornaphthegas? Let's finally support our oil and gas oil flag, which unfortunately suffers from the occupation, the annexation of Crimea. So there is nothing more to talk about and to hold long dialogues. We'll support the bill and support the company. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-13-m0.u144	Thank you. Please, Alexander Kugel of Fatherland. I very much ask my colleagues to return to the session room. Alexia Rybchina is spoken of. And go back to the session room, because in four minutes there's going to be a vote. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-13-m0.u145	Alexy Rybchin, "The Fatherland" faction. I also support my colleagues: we shorten the discussion: we vote on this very important law that must protect this company. At the Energy Committee, we discussed for a very long time and made a law. Sadly, the president made a commitment to him and made a commitment to part of it. Yet, even with this part that allows this company to work, this is the solution to the situation. So we support, this is a matter of Ukrainian national interest, so we support this law, and hopefully it will pass. "Paternality" will vote in favour.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-13-m0.u146	Thank you. Please, Bondar, please turn on the microphone for the People's Front. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-13-m0.u147	Bondar Mikhailo, 119 constituency. You know, colleagues, for sovereignty, for Ukrainian territory, for Ukrainian companies, everyone's fighting in their own way: boys on the front with guns in their hands, diplomats on the outside political Olympics, and we're adopting laws. That's why the People's Front will vote in favour and urge everyone to vote in favour of this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-13-m0.u148	Thank you. Dear colleagues, have all the factions come forward? I very much ask everyone to return to the session room. Colleagues, please return to the polls from the towers. Irina Lucenko, one minute, please sum up while colleagues return to the hall. Please, Mrs. Irina.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-13-m0.u149	Dear colleagues, in responding to the replication of our friendly faction of Fatherland, we would like to mention the following: why did the President stop performing? The annexation of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea is no reason to avoid the responsibility of those who have failed to comply with their obligations to creditors. The executives of BlackMornaftogaz allow actual damage to the State as a result of the annexation of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea and the illegal actions of the previous leadership. I have here a reference from the Attorney General's Office and, in particular, from the Crimea Prosecutor's Office, which has detailed seven criminal cases against the previous leadership. So if we don't stop the executions, it allows us to record up to the only damage that we have today. And then in international courts, particularly in the Third Court of The Hague, where the case against Russia is currently being considered, including in another consolidated claim by Ukraine to Russia for the annexation of Crimea.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-13-m0.u150	30 seconds, please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-13-m0.u151	All the damage will be accounted for and returned. Please settle down and support our business. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-13-m0.u152	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I'm asking for jobs and I see that not everyone has returned to the session room. Thank you. I'm asking you not to run the presidency with all due respect for all the colleagues in this room. I ask once again all colleagues to return to the session room, and in 30 seconds we will vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-13-m0.u153	So, colleagues, let's move on to making a decision. And I urge everyone to take up jobs and prepare for the decision. I am voting on the Act on Amendments to certain Ukrainian legislative acts on the stabilisation of the activities of the Black Mornaftegas National Shareholder Society in connection with the temporary occupation of Ukraine with the President's proposals of 26.06.2017 (No. 5370) for a committee as a whole, taking into account the proposals made by the President of Ukraine. Please vote and please support, colleagues. Vote. Please be supportive. [[13:11:36]] For 230 The law is passed. Decision approved. We move on to the next issue of the agenda: this is the draft Act amending the Customs Code of Ukraine (for the preservation and development of the domestic shipbuilding industry) (No. 6475). And I ask you to support the consideration of the reduced procedure. Please be supportive. Please vote. So we can move faster into intellectual property, colleague. Please support everyone. [[13:12:14]] For-174 Decision taken. And I invite you to the report of the Ukrainian National Deputy Láško Oleg Valeriyovich, please. Then, with Southan’s co - account, prepare yourself.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-13-m0.u154	Dear colleagues! Today, unfortunately, Ukraine is the main exporter of cheap and cheap labour. And we want to export high-tech products with high added value. This means that Ukrainians have the opportunity to feed their families in order to earn their wages. The idea of our law is extremely simple: to restore the fame of the ships cities of Mikolayev, Herson, Odessa. Hundreds of thousands of people worked in the shipbuilding industry. Today, because of the lack of State support, most of these people are unemployed or abroad, trying to earn money. Our job is to get the Ukrainians home so that they can earn a decent job and a decent salary in their home country. The bill proposes to create conditions for the restoration of the shipbuilding sector in Ukraine. Stop trading raw materials. The shipbuilding industry is a high technology, it's a scientific development, it's a decent salary, and it's a flag, a Ukrainian flag, on Ukrainian courts that's going to penetrate the space of the world ocean, and key, it's a powerful economically developed country. All the countries that are today advanced in shipbuilding: the United States, South Korea, Japan, China -- all the countries are providing state support to their own shipbuilding enterprises. We suggest that we pursue the same policy, support the national producer, support the protection of jobs for Ukrainians and the development of our own economy. We don't have a problem with lack of credit or corruption, as the mantra goes on to say, we have the most important problem when they trade raw materials instead of trading high-tech products. Let's change this situation, let's rebuild the country, not get it.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-13-m0.u155	Thank you. The co-report invites the head of the Committee on Tax and Customs Policy, Nina Petrovna, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-13-m0.u156	Mr. Chairman, honourable colleagues, at a meeting of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Tax and Customs Policy on December 20, the draft Law amending the Customs Code on the Conservation and Development of the Domestic Shipbuilding Industry was considered. The purpose of the bill is to establish a well-founded processing period for goods imported by shipbuilding enterprises for the construction and modernization of vessels and, as a result, for the development of shipbuilding and water transport. In order to achieve the stated goal, the draft law proposes to amend part four of article 149 and part one of article 151 of the Ukrainian Customs Code and to increase the total processing time of goods in the customs territory of Ukraine for shipbuilding enterprises from 365 to 730 days. Given that you and I have already adopted many such amendments to the Tax Code that help individual sectors, and this is the request of the shipbuilding sector itself, the Committee has decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine that the bill be adopted on a basis and as a law as a whole. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-13-m0.u157	Thank you. I would like to point out that the government also supports the bill. And I now invite everyone to a discussion and I ask you to record: two in favour, two in favour. Krivenko, please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-13-m0.u158	Thank you for the voice. I must ask my colleagues to support this bill, which is one of the many sectoral tools that should be used to support our economic development itself. Of course, shipbuilding, engineering, KPC, aviation, many, many industries, where we still have skilled personnel, where we can still produce competitive products. So I ask all my colleagues who are not in the room right now to come in and support this very important bill. Look, we're in a crisis, and the same Nibulon has already lowered a 150-meter barge onto the water. Look at how many millions more road repair economies there are if we can move our cargo from the road to the water. The Dnipro River was transporting millions of tons, 60 million tons more than 20 years ago, now less than 5 million tons. Let's rebuild our shipbuilding, let's open our river Dnipro, and it'll be good for ecology then both for jobs and for many, many elements. Can you be a little quieter, Mr. Oleg? That's why I'm asking you to back me up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-13-m0.u159	Thank you. From Self-Help, the word is given to Auntie Ostrecki. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-13-m0.u160	Dear colleagues! This bill is certainly a positive one, but it's a dot, because it continues to be a processing deadline only for shipbuilding enterprises. Instead, there are systemic problems in the Customs Code, and we've been seeing this lately. What is it? This is the regime that will allow Ukrainian enterprises to load jobs, raw materials and create added value in Ukraine and to have jobs for Ukrainians. What is it? Today, all countries of the world are accounting for finished products, and in Ukraine, bureaucratic procedures in the Customs Code are prescribed in such a way that raw materials are administered at the entrance, not the volume of finished products at the exit. This is the first thing that needs to be systematically changed in the Customs Code. Second position. In recent times we've been seeing fiscal pressure from the tax side on those enterprises that are doing their business in a tax treatment mode. It's all about a known scandal with a tobacco company that's importing drug commodities on the basis of a sales contract. The tax system, therefore, is not a processing regime, but a completely different mode of import, and it is a tax liability. We need to systematically address the processing regime in the Customs Code, not to deal with the problems of just one shipbuilding sector. The term should be great for all I don't understand the meaning of limiting the processing regime by one year for all other enterprises, but only the shipbuilding industry to set aside in 730 days. It's a waste of leverage in the hands of a tax collector, and it's an unnecessary factor for them to take bribes -- an unnecessary factor that creates a corruptive factor. I think that for all enterprises there must be the same conditions for both shipbuilders and for any enterprise that manufactures and processors of Ukraine. Systemic changes are therefore made in the Customs Code, not in the point of the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-13-m0.u161	But I understand that you will uphold this law, Auntie. I invite you to speak with the Radical Party of Halasyuk Victor. Please, Mr. Victor.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-13-m0.u162	Victor Halasyuk, Oleg Lachka Radical Party. This is extremely important for Ukrainian industry and shipbuilding. If we take 91st year with you, there were over 375 ships in Ukraine with more than 5,000 tons, now less than 40. So essentially the Ukrainian fleet is destroyed. If we take the volume of shipbuilding, according to the Ucrossudprom Profile Association, the volume of our shipbuilding has decreased 10-15 times because of the lack of domestic demand and because we're being squeezed out into the external markets. So the adoption of this law is the foundation for the restoration of Ukrainian shipbuilding. But. It's an important step, but we need to take the following steps, to adopt a complex of industrial laws: industrial park legislation that will provide a systemic advantage, including for the creation of new productions in shipbuilding and other high-tech industries; the launch by the government of the export-credit agency that you and I have adopted as a law in this room, but it has not yet been created, exists only on paper, and it has to sell loans to Ukrainian exporting producers at the expense of dollars, to make our production, including shipbuilding, aircraft building, wagon building, other machine building attractive on foreign markets, to sell Ukrainian goods abroad, to Euros; it's also very important to adopt laws in the second reading and in the whole "Buy Ukrainian, payback in the foreign markets when the States, to pretend they're trying to do it now, that the seamen who are trying to do it." Thus, systematic support for shipbuilding and all the high - tech industries of the Ukrainian industry! It's not the sale of agricultural raw materials, it's the economic future.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-13-m0.u163	Thank you. From "The Rebirth Party" Bondar. Please turn on the microphone from the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-13-m0.u164	Dear Andrew Volodymyrovich, distinguished colleagues! I always say that we need to think and act strategically. To think ahead of time for at least 3-5 years about how Ukraine will continue to develop and maintain its industry. The whole world, a sector of maritime and river transports are now in stagnation. The river and sea fleet is now being carried around the world, and, for example, the Black Sea, the Mediterranean basin, the average age of ships that sail here, 25-30 years. This suggests that the next 5 to 10 years will be an active building of ships around the world. This tells us that if Ukraine holds back its shipbuilding industry, gives it a perspective of development and leaves prospects for growth, we will have an income and we will have a Ukrainian fleet, and we will have a sale, exports of our ships around the world. That is why we certainly support this bill. And I'm calling for this bill to be supported, because it's support for our own industrial production, it's support for our own jobs, it's intellectual support. intellectual things that happen, and scientific things, and so on. So this is Ukraine's perspective, not turning into a raw country, which is just an addition to powerful European countries. So I'm going to the hall, no matter who the drafter of the bill is, under which flag he's put it, let's all show together the Ukrainian position -- the position of pragmatism, the position that really looks forward strategically about Ukraine being an industrial, a big, powerful shipbuilding country that it's been to all the last 50-70 years and which it's been to celebrate. Thank you for your support, and I'm calling the hall, support it, and we'll support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-13-m0.u165	Thank you. From the opposition block of Dudenkov from the rostrum. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-13-m0.u166	Dear fellow Ukrainian citizens! This room is currently considering a bill aimed at improving the position of shipbuilding enterprises, just to improve, there is no fundamental change in the shipbuilding situation. Why? Because the prescribed bill is, of course, not systemic. He proposes to increase the processing period. Is it necessary to do so? Of course, it has to be done, because the shipbuilding sector is, first of all, a reprocessing industry. You'll think about the figures, in 91st year, the national economy was 20 percent of the manufacturing industry, and now we're down to 12 percent. What does this talk about? This suggests that goods are produced in low - quality, low - processing areas in Ukraine. Accordingly, this bill is a step in the direction of increasing the level of manufacturing, but public policy should still be systematic. First.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-13-m0.u167	Please give me one more minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-13-m0.u168	This is the creation of an appropriate debt regime for shipbuilding enterprises. And we don't have the right to restrict ourselves to the Customs Code of Ukraine, of course, that's a corresponding change to the Ukrainian Tax Code. The second is to look for markets. Where are the customers? Just remember what we had. Black Sea shipping, the world's largest shipping industry, was built by airlines in Mikolayev. There was the right customer, there was the right state support, at this level of state support now we won't find. So on the part of the state, these are the appropriate benefits for monetary legislation, and on the part of the owners of the listed enterprises, they are looking for markets and looking for new customers. There was an example of China and South Korea -- we can no longer compete with Romania and Poland. So we certainly support these legislative initiatives. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-13-m0.u169	Thank you. Kugel, from Fatherland, Alexander Kugel, and then from the Front, Taras Kremen. And this will be the closing statement of Taras Kremen. Please, Alexandra Kugel.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-13-m0.u170	I think it's been a while since we've been in this room to say we're lobbyists of our own industry. Is it normal when we can't accept a six-year extension of the space program? No, it's not normal, because these people who work there don't have a program, but they run satellites and celebrate Ukraine, not shame our work with you. And I urgently ask the Chief of the Supreme Council to introduce this bill and to continue the program because there is no funding. Is it normal that we don't support our own aircraft production? We were famous all over the world -- we don't have a proper design office today. Is it normal that we're looking at a really small amendment today, thank you to the authors? But yesterday I got a letter from this factory, 61st of Mikolaiivsky's 61 Communion. For five months no employee received a salary. Spend five months, MPs, without pay. I think the adoption in the first reading of this law needs to be finalized as a complex program. If the state doesn't rebuild the shipbuilding plant, we don't have a future. There's this saying, "Who doesn't feed his own army, feeds another state." If we don't have our own manufacturer, we're going to pay the added value to other countries. The Fatherland faction will support this bill. But I think we have to make normal lobby laws in every field. But it's only possible in one condition. Mr. President, please destroy the monopolies to connect to everyone, to the gas, to the light and to everything else you promised. Because today our businesses are shutting down and moving to Georgia, because there they are making all the economic conditions for work. The Fatherland faction will vote in favour of this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-13-m0.u171	Thank you. Colleagues, we're about to make a closing statement. All right, I'll give it back to the non-faulty Head. Now, please, the Kremlin, then the Head. And that will be the closing statement.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-13-m0.u172	Taras Kremen, People's Front. I want to thank the drafters for such an important initiative, which is essentially now starting a dialogue on the importance of rebuilding Ukrainian shipbuilding. And as the national MP who heads the interfractional MPs' union of Mikolayevstina, which includes ten national deputies, we invite all of our fellow MPs to visit the city of Mikolayev and look at the disgraceful state of our shipbuilding enterprises. Three of Europe's largest businesses, which, unfortunately, are on their knees today. This is the Ocean factory, this is the Black Sea Shipbuilding and the Mikolai Shipbuilding Plant, a former 61-communary factory, which is 230-year-old this year. What problems I see. We solve the problem of shipbuilding, that is, the civilian fleet, but we forget about the Navy for the Navy. There have been repeated attempts to restore some of the warships in the same Mikolai factory, and perhaps even the Gethman Sagaidajdajny will enter our Mycolayian shores for repair. But are there any guarantees, are there specialists, or are there working people to do so? Secondly, it is impossible to say this without the financial support of the higher education system, without the support of the University of Shipbuilding and vocational and technical education. And if today was already mentioned as our shipbuilding plant, I would like to remind you of the following. The Mikolai Shipbuilding Plant, which is personally supported by Prime Minister Vladimir Groissman, currently employs 584 workers from the previous 10,000, with debts to the Pension Fund. It wasn't since March 12th. And I'm asking this information about the liability of the Pension Fund to form as my MP's request, and I'm asking you to make an effort to close the debt on a salary basis for this factory. I ask you to draw attention to shipbuilding, not as a precise solution to these problems, but as a global solution. The People's Front will support this document. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-13-m0.u173	Thank you. It's a closing act. Then we move on to making a decision. So I ask the factions to invite members of the Chamber and the Secretariat to report that there will be a vote in a minute. And I'm asking you to turn on Michael's head. Please, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-13-m0.u174	Mikhail Golovko, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. Our political power will uphold this law, we are for the development of the shipbuilding sector. We understand that it is very important to the state economy and we understand that we should not stop at that. We also need to develop aviation, aviation and engineering, and all the industry that would lift our state from our knees and develop our economy, created jobs and goods with high added value. This requires a government lending support programme, which requires the adoption of our law, which Freedom has proposed, the cancellation of VAT and the import of equipment for job creation. So we're not going to be a raw addition to a developed Europe, we're going to be a truly industrialized country that can compete in international markets. But for this, society has to have a complex program and shipbuilding, and aircraft building, and rocket building. All of these areas need to be developed effectively. And without active State support, it's impossible. So keep this law, it's very good. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-13-m0.u175	Thank you. Thus, the discussion is concluded. And we're moving on to making a decision. I'm asking you, colleagues, all to return to work. Colleagues, in the government's bed, national deputies, so that I don't name names, please come back to the hall. So we're ready to vote. And I'm voting on the draft Law amending the Customs Code of Ukraine (for the preservation and development of the domestic shipbuilding industry) (number 6475). I am the first to propose to the committee to accept as a basis the totality of Nina Yuzanin. Please vote, please support the committee's proposal. Vote, fellows! Please be supportive. Vote! Please vote. [[13:34:23]] For the 250. 250-for. The law is passed. And we're moving to the second important block of today's agenda -- intellectual property. And I ask everyone to prepare for productive work. There are four bills in this block. Each one is of great importance. And we're moving on to the first one: the draft Law on Amendments to certain Ukrainian legislative acts on improving the protection of the rights to form semiconductor products (number 5694). And I'm asking you to support the proposal for a reduced procedure. Please support and please vote. [[13:35:21]] For-157. 157 – a.k.a. Decision taken. And I invite you to the report of Deputy Minister of Economic Development and Trade of Titarczuk Mikhail Ivanovich. Mikhailo Ivanovich, please go to the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-13-m0.u176	Dear Head! Deputies! The importance of intellectual property for Ukraine’s development is difficult to overestimate. It has long been an integral element of economic development, successful business, and the creation of a national cultural product. So the task of all branches of government today is to ensure the proper level of legal protection and protection of total property. The vector of our efforts and the pattern in this process is European legislation and European experience. Recently, the U.S. Office of Trade Representative at an open hearing on March 8, commended the efforts of the Ukrainian authorities to resolve the issue of activities and the organization of collective management. And I would like to take this opportunity to thank all the national MPs that on March 1st, you have adopted an important first bill concerning collective governance. Today, as we continue our systematic work on the implementation of the Association Agreement with the EU, I have the opportunity to present at once several bills aimed at bringing national legislation closer to European Union legislation and a bill aimed at overcoming fraud in the field of the distribution of copyright and mutual rights. Material mediums. To date, 5694 is concerned with the protection of the rights to form semi-conductor products with European Union law. The draft law provides for a new definition of the terms for the design of semiconductors, semiconductors. The precise period of validity of intellectual property rights expires 10 years later, which is counted against the earliest of such dates. And the end of the calendar year in which the design was first used, or the end of the calendar year in which the application was made. Also envisaged is the possibility of filing an application in electronic form, reviewing the application for registration, and clarifying the list of rights and obligations arising out of the state registration of the design.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-13-m0.u177	How much? How long do you need? 30 seconds, please, more.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-13-m0.u178	The expected result of the adoption of the bill is an increase in the level of protection of rights for the design of semiconductor products, the fulfilment of commitments made by Ukraine in accordance with the Agreement on Association and the achievement of the European level of protection of intellectual property rights. Please support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-13-m0.u179	Thank you, Your Honor. And now the word for the report is given to the first deputy head of the Committee on Science and Education, Alexander Spiowakovsky. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-13-m0.u180	Dear National Deputies! The essence of the three bills that we are about to consider is very simple, it's respect and protection of copyright and intellectual property. So the Committee on Science and Education considered all three of these issues, and there was a unanimous vote. So I'm going to read the following for the transcript. The draft law is designed to ensure that Ukraine fulfils its obligations in the field of European integration as part of the harmonization of the requirements of the current Ukrainian legislation on the protection of the rights to design (topography) of integrated microschemes with European Union law. The bill is intended to implement articles 224, 227 of the Association Agreement between Ukraine, on the one hand, and the European Union, the European Atomic Energy Association and their member States, on the other hand. The bill proposes to change the name of the current Ukrainian Law on the Protection of Rights to the Topography of Integral Microchemistry to the wording "On the Protection of Rights to the Design of Semiconductor Products". And accordingly it is proposed to amend the Civil Code of Ukraine, the Ukrainian Act on Protection of Rights to Topography of Integrated Schemes, and the Decree of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine on State Customs. Dear colleagues, I would like to point out that the committee is proposing, in connection with the comments of the NEU, that it develop it into a second reading and taking into account the above comments and other proposals made by the legislators. Therefore, in view of the above, the Scientific and Educational Committee recommends to the Supreme Council of Ukraine a draft Act amending some of the Ukrainian legislative acts on improving the protection of the rights to the design of semiconductor products (registration number 5694) as a result of the first reading review to be adopted on the basis and to instruct our committee to work on it. Please support this decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-13-m0.u181	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I ask you to sign up for this bill from factions, please. Please, Alexy Rybchin, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-13-m0.u182	Alexy Rybchin, "Fatherland" faction, Donetsk. Colleagues, this is a de facto analysis, if you look at it, this is a technical bill that implements European norms. And I think the government has to make quality bills so that we don't spend a lot of time on it. Now we've been listening from a distinguished co-conspirator, head of the committee that he needs to be worked out, and the GNEU is making some remarks, and when we're reading things there, we're going to have to replace the word "slayer" with "owner." I mean, there is. The government is bad at drafting bills, where these bills are, you know, not like launching planes into space -- this is a technical bill that doesn't actually need a lot of intelligence. But we're going to be spending time now discussing this bill, and the committee head is going to read something under the transcript. Then we're going to work on this for another 20 minutes, and we're going to spend on this bill, which is technically not supposed to cause any political debate. So, government, prepare quality drafts so that they can pass the Supreme Council Hall as quickly as possible, but once again, it's a technical bill that shouldn't put up opposition and coalition there. I see that the government is not at all interested in what the national MPs say, so we're going to think about whether or not to support this bill or not?
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-13-m0.u183	I just didn't realize the applause was coming? Dear colleagues! Dear colleagues! Anyway, we do have a parliament. Dear Mr. Titarchuk, distinguished deputy minister, distinguished Mr. Titarchuk, please sit down. Thank you. I want to ask you right now that there are a lot of comments in this room about the bills that your ministry is filing. I'm asking you to sit tight and listen to them, okay? Thank you very much. Please give the next speech from Mr. Ribczynski. I don't have to clap. I beg of you!... Let's each do our job. Please, Mr. Ribczynski.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-13-m0.u184	The question of intellectual property is one of the most important questions in today's Ukraine. We've already skipped that plank when we're second after Russia, we're number one. The adoption of such laws, which are now being passed by Kabmin, is a very important thing, and they must be passed. The only problem is in terms of these laws. Why are true experts not joining these laws? Mikhail, I'd like to ask you a question, which of the leading IT professionals, for example, film, in the field of intellectual rights at all, participated in your debates and the drafting of this law? That's the first question. And second, and that's probably the most important thing: I encourage the hall in principle to pay attention, because we only have a lawsuit from Microsoft, it's a billionth. In 25 years of independence for using closani, as it were, programs. Our only observation to Microsoft itself is why they didn't do the program in Ukrainian because we have the Ukrainian language, in principle, enshrined in the Constitution itself, and everything that is "klosano" in Russian doesn't predict, as it were, pure piracy, it's concentrated. But again, I repeat, I would like to, and I support Mr. Rybkin, I would like to see the laws more perfect. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-13-m0.u185	Thank you. Please give the next talk by the distinguished John Sporish. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-13-m0.u186	Ivan Sporish, Peter Dusty Block, 15th District, Winnitzkin. Of course, in every bill, and in this, as many speakers have already said, there is something to work on. So I would very much like to see this bill, where, under the Association Agreement, the Deputy Minister has already been told, to improve the protection of the rights to the design of semiconductor products, so that we, in the second reading, hope, will be further developed. So I ask everyone to support this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-13-m0.u187	Thank you. Dear colleagues, in just a minute we're going to the vote, three factions have had the opportunity to speak on the bill. Are they still desirable? Now. Then I ask you to return all the national deputies to the session room. I want to remind you that this is about the bill in the first reading. He will surely be worked out from the ministry to the second reading, and we ask that we take into account the critical comments that are made during the discussions. Colleagues, this is a very important bill, on which the actual work of Ukrainian exporters also depends. So all those who say, support the Ukrainian need to realize that without settling this important sphere: intellectual property, we're just going to put a cross on the work of Ukrainian exporters in many positions. So I ask that this vote of the hall unite all factions, and those representing the majority, and those standing in opposition. And please return to the session room of all colleagues. Please. Please give the Secretariat an announcement to come back and we'll now proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-13-m0.u188	So let's move on to making decisions. Colleagues, I'm asking everyone to go back to their jobs right now, stop consulting. Please, it's impossible to vote without you. So, colleagues, let's move on to making a decision. And I'm voting on the draft Act amending some of the Ukrainian legislative acts to improve the protection of the rights to form semiconductor products (room 5694) on the basis of the Committee's proposals. Colleagues, please concentrate, please. Please vote. Vote. An important bill, please. [[13:48:21]] For 208 We'll be back. Please show the factions now. "Block of Peter Poshenko" – 86, "National Front" – 59, "Opposition Block" – 0, "self-help" – 14, Radical Party – 9, "Fatherhood" – 9, "will of the people" – 3, "Party of Rebirth" – 5. So almost all the factions in Parliament support it. I ask everyone to come into the hall and vote carefully. Colleagues, please come in, we'll come into the hall. Please join Parliament. Now I'm going to put you back on the table and ask everyone to vote in a very responsible manner. All right. So I'm voting on the proposal to go back to draft Law 5694 is incredibly important both for Ukraine and for European integration. So I ask everyone to be honest and responsible in supporting this bill. Please vote, please support. Vote, please support the return. Please vote. Please support, we vote. [[13:49:54]] For 224 Two votes, two votes, I see they haven't made it. I'm told there's potential. I'll do it again. And I'm asking everyone to come into the hall, stay out of the hall. I will, but be careful how we are taught every Sunday when we vote. So we're prepared, so I'm going to re-introducing the proposal to go back to draft Law 5694 and ask everyone to vote carefully and not to be distracted by the vote. We vote, we vote, we vote, we vote, we vote, we vote, we vote, we vote, we vote, we vote, Please support the return. Let's vote, colleagues. [[13:50:57]] For 237 We're back. And I'm putting Law 5694 on the basis of the committee's proposals. Please vote and please support. Vote. [[13:51:23]] For 232 Decision taken. Colleagues, I propose that the next law be discussed more briefly so that we can accept it before lunch. So we are moving on to the next draft of the Law on Amendments to Certain Legislative Acts of Ukraine on Improving the Legal Protection of Geographical Indications (No. 6023). Please support the consideration of the reduced procedure. Please be supportive. [[13:52:03]] For-173 Decision taken. And now I'm going to ask for a very brief report and a report. I think we can get out of here. Please, Titarczuk Mikhailo Ivanovich. One minute, brief report. And I ask everyone to come into the hall, and there will be a vote now. Everyone, please come into the hall. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-13-m0.u189	Dear Head, honourable national deputies, the draft law provides for the harmonization of the requirements of Ukrainian legislation on the protection of geographical rights with European Union law. The draft law is based on articles 204, 207 of the Association Agreement between Ukraine and the EU and the EU Regulation on the quality of agricultural products and foodstuffs. The bill proposes to provide a new definition of terms of geographical indication, place names, origin, etc.; to clarify the condition of legal protection and the grounds for refusing to grant such protection. Expected result: this is the approximation of national legislation to EU legislation, the achievement of the European level of protection of territorial property rights. Please support the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-13-m0.u190	Thank you. Please report. Singer Alexander Volodymyrovich, Committee on Science and Education
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-13-m0.u191	Dear colleagues! The committee considered this issue on May 24, 2017, unanimously supporting it. This is a bill that harmonises Ukraine's right to European Union law. So we're asking you to support it as a basis. And then the committee gets to the second reading, and I think we're going to accept it. Once again, we ask you to vote on the basis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-13-m0.u192	Colleagues, may we vote? So please, everyone, take your jobs, don't leave the hall. We're gonna count every vote now. Please return to the workplace. So we're moving on to making a decision. A few national deputies have just come out. I'm asking you to call them from the towers. Please call from the people's deputies' towers, tell them we're moving on to the decision-making process. I'm asking everyone to take up jobs. You're ready, aren't you? I am voting on a bill amending some Ukrainian legislation on improving the legal protection of geographical indications (No. 6023) on the basis of a committee proposal, taking into account the committee's proposals. I ask everyone to take up their jobs, Volodymyrovich, Ivanchuk, to prepare for the vote. And please support the committee's proposal, 6023, based on the committee's proposals. Please vote and please support. Let's vote, colleagues. Please support everyone. So we vote. [[13:55:15.]] For 219 We didn't make it. We'll be right back, I see. Yes, so, colleagues, take up jobs, don't leave. Please return to the hall. I'll be right back. Borislav, please. All right, call me, have a squad of deputies come in. So there's no unit. All right, let's go through it ourselves. So the first offer is to go back. I'm asking you to prepare and I'm voting on the proposal to go back to voting for bill 6023. Very careful, colleagues. I ask everyone to vote for the return. Please vote. Please be supportive. Vote. For! Please be supportive. [[13:56:26]] For 229 229. We're back. Now, be careful, don't leave the hall. I'm putting bill 6023 to a vote, a committee proposal based on the committee's proposals. Please vote and please support. Colleagues, pay attention. Please vote and please support. Vote! We vote carefully and responsibly. Please be supportive. Vote. [[13:57:05]] For 226 226 — yes. Decision taken, colleagues. We passed two laws from the intellectual property cluster. After lunch, the next one is bill 4571. So I ask the deputy minister to come to the hall at four o'clock, and the committee head to be ready for further work. And I also want to let you know that there's an exhibition in the Supreme Council, a documentary and publicist exhibition called "We've been killed because we're Ukrainians." This exhibition is marked by the celebration of the 85th anniversary of the great tragedy of the Ukrainian people, the Holodomor. And I ask fellow members of the National Deputies to attend and participate in the exhibition during lunchtime and to honor the memory of those who were innocently murdered by the criminal Russian Empire. And now, according to the Rules, I declare the morning plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine closed. And I ask everyone to come to the hall at 2 p.m. to continue our difficult but necessary work. We're going to continue the intellectual property block. And I'm asking everyone to come to the hall at 4:00. Thank you.
