ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-06-m1.u1	Dear colleagues, break time is over. I'm asking everyone to come into the hall, get ready to sign up for the evening session. Please invite everyone to the hall and take up jobs. Colleagues ready for registration? Please sign up for the evening session. [[16:04:01]] There are 365 national deputies registered, and the evening session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is publicized. We had a very effective day before lunch: we made 16 positive decisions, 16 decisions, colleagues. Most ratifications and international agreements. But we stopped in the discussion on the draft Law on the Ratification of the Council of Europe Convention on Access to Official Documents. An expert discussion also took place between representatives of different factions and members of the committee. And we agreed that after lunch we would continue this discussion so that we would have a very balanced and very clear approach to voting on this international agreement. And that's why I'm inviting all the factions to the discussion. Now I'm going to do the recording: two in, two in, two in. And let's exchange thoughts, mobilize the hall. Yes, I will. I will. At the end, I'm sure it'll be the right thing to do. At the same time, I would like to stress that all factions invite deputies to the Hall. We have no right to fail international agreements, so I ask everyone to prepare for the discussion. And I'm asking you to do the recording: two in, two in, two in. Please. From the Self-Help faction, Zubak Lubomir gives the floor to Oleni Sotnik. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-06-m1.u2	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Let us first consider why this convention is being adopted today and why we are so insistent and hasty. First, I've already said about the opportunity for Ukraine to play a historic role in the ratification and acquisition of the convention. I remind you that today in the Council of Europe there is a very serious and intense struggle between Ukraine and a number of our partners against the blackmail of the Russian Federation and its return to the Assembly, and the lifting of sanctions in the Assembly. The argument that Ukraine is the leading regional leader in ratifying such an important document is that, for decades, this is one of the most authoritative decisions of the Council of Europe, it will enable our delegation to strengthen its position. That's why I'm addressing all the deputies. We all hear very often how well the delegation works, how well we've held on for four years, but now we need your help and your mobilization. The other one. I would like to dispel the doubts of the faction that made a warning about this convention. I've been on purpose for two hours now to analyze the existing law in Ukraine on public information access and convention. I ask you, please note, article 1 of the convention, the introduction of the convention and article 3 of the convention clearly have limitations and safeguards regarding access. More specifically, personal data (this article 3 of the convention) and article 1 of the convention on subjects who provide such data are narrower than the law already in existence in Ukraine. This means that we clearly and definitely do not put people’s rights at risk. Moreover, as national deputies, you have the opportunity to come and tell people: People, we strengthen your guarantees to the authorities.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-06-m1.u3	Please, 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-06-m1.u4	Thank you. Access these public documents. And the last. The image of the state, we're all talking about it, we need to raise the image of the state, the image of Ukraine. This is the same chance that we can publicly raise the image of Ukraine on an international injury. And I'm asking you to unify the hall. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-06-m1.u5	Thank you. I would like to remind you that the vote will take place shortly, and I ask you to mobilize the room as much as possible. I would like to invite you from the Radical Party of Láško Oleg Valeriyovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-06-m1.u6	Dear colleagues, I propose from the slogans of people who call themselves Eurooptimists to move on to the facts that the realists will tell you. The convention that we are discussing is signed in 2009. Of the 45 members of the Council of Europe, 30 countries did not sign the convention. In particular, the convention was not signed: Austria, Denmark, France, Germany, Italy, the Netherlands, Spain, Switzerland, and the United Kingdom. Of those countries that signed the convention, Belgium, for example, signed in 2009, did not ratify today; Georgia signed in 2009, did not ratify today. Slovenia, Serbia, Macedonia signed in 2009, did not ratify today. Once again, all the leading countries of Europe have not signed this convention, and some of those who have signed have not ratified it, even though it has been nine years since the signing date. Ukraine signed this convention in 2018, and we are asked to ratify it immediately. What's the sleep, what's the rush? And I'll tell you what, with access to information, that every person should be under the orders of the hand to watch you, where you go, what you do, who you sleep with, who you eat with, who you live with, and so on. This is what they want: to establish a society of complete control and loss of personality. That's why we don't vote for this fool who takes away people, Ukrainians of private life, the right to breathe freely in this world where they look at every hole. Stop watching people, let them live peacefully.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-06-m1.u7	From the Fatherland faction to the word, Sergey Sobolev is invited. Then from the "Peter Dust Block" Maria Ionova, get ready.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-06-m1.u8	Dear colleagues, a small clarification, 47 countries are members of the Council of Europe. Belarus alone is not a member of the Council of Europe. And you know, the Russian delegation's mandate is suspended, so they're going to ratify or not ratify, that's their question. What is the point? I think we're a little bit off from the countries that have ratified, we haven't ratified, because among those who have ratified, it's both Lithuania and Hungary and Sweden, and enough countries that have ratified this convention as well. But in fact, it's actually access to information from public authorities, not from citizens. And I think that each of us should have this right not only because of the parliamentary appeals that, you know, we're being answered, but that the representatives of the public authorities should be held accountable, coming out of the international legal agreements if you do, if you're sorry, because only the dowry will hide the information that citizens need, will somehow try to get away from it. The other one. This is really part of the information that they will provide regarding officials or informal individuals. But here's the question again, if we open up a society, if there's nothing to hide about any cases, whether it's the criminal past of someone, or any other case, I think we should have the opportunity, not just journalists, not just the national MPs, but all citizens, to get any information. Therefore, I am asked to support the position, including the Ukrainian delegation to the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe. We're going to have a very difficult session where we're going to be challenged by the possibility of getting the Russian Federation back without any sanctions. Our position will be stronger for Russia.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-06-m1.u9	30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-06-m1.u10	In order for the Russian Federation to permanently forget the road to a democratic club of countries until they implement key resolutions, including the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe on the liberation of occupied territories, annexed territories, of democracy, which must ultimately dominate the lives of the Russian Federation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-06-m1.u11	Thank you. Mary Ionov's "Peter Dust" Block, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-06-m1.u12	Thank you very much. Dear Chairman! Dear colleagues! Well, frankly, it's very hard to even comment on the fiction of some faction leaders, especially when it comes to police reporting information, and nobody cares about the details of who eats and sleeps with who. So it's a total ratification of the convention about something completely different. I would like more to count the differences, the content of the convention itself, and not in countries. On the contrary, we need to show here that Ukraine is indeed the leader of the civilized adoption of beautiful laws, of human rights. And so very, let's say, we didn't even expect that there would be this resistance and this misunderstanding. Because we ask you not to twist and, in fact, to get to know the text of the convention very carefully, because this applies to human rights and the protection of every citizen. Ms. Olena, she explained about all the safety nets, about personal data protection. I would ask the faction in more detail, which does not want to vote, to get to know the content of the convention. Thank you very much. Please be supportive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-06-m1.u13	Thank you. But I emphasize, one of the important factors is maximum mobilization in the room. So please invite the MPs into the hall, this is one of the key factors of acceptance. Look who's not around. Call me back. From the People's Front to the word, Maxim Burbak is invited. Two minutes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-06-m1.u14	Dear colleagues, the People's Front faction will support this ratification. Because as early as the 14th year, I want to remind everyone, you and I signed an Association Agreement between Ukraine, the EU, and where we made certain commitments. Now the President has registered changes to the Constitution, and we're going to be looking at them here regarding the acquisition of membership in the European Union and NATO. It also matches the programming principles of the People's Front. We're all going to Europe, so let's practice European values. We've all passed e-declaration laws together, these were the initiatives of the government of Arsenius Yatsenuk, and you and I have passed bills that were opened by all the registers, now all the information in free access. We have nothing to hide. Now why should we not support this convention? You see, as the leader of the Inter-Faction Labour Migration Union, we have to help our citizens, who have now temporarily gone abroad, who also exist in society, get information. That is why we need to support this convention. I think this will be the next step towards the gradual acquisition of Ukraine's EU membership. It is not far off, and we all need to draw close to it somehow. And that's why I'm addressing all the factions, our colleagues, let's support it. If all European countries have not yet supported it, Ukraine should be in the vanguard of support for European initiatives. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-06-m1.u15	Thank you. Two minutes, Irina Heratchenko
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-06-m1.u16	Thank you. Dear colleagues, allow me to join you in discussing this important ratification. Indeed, the Ukrainian side has often recently been a pioneer in ratifying important initiatives, such as Ukraine, which has entered the ten countries that first ratified, such as the Paris Climate Agreement, and this has only given us the right benefits. Similarly, Ukraine, when it comes to the Council of Europe, the first country that has now made a unilateral decision, and we have paid a voluntary contribution of 400,000 (dollars or euros?) The euro in the budget of the Council of Europe, whose Hansek is crying that Russia should be returned because they are not there, you know what to support this organization for. Those of us who don't often have differences in the session room, it's very important that we don't trade principles and uphold principles on the outside, and that's our huge advantage. Absolutely right are those colleagues who, in commenting on the recent ratifications, say that the language will primarily apply to public authorities, not to individuals, not to private individuals. The second thing is important. We are indeed facing an extremely difficult session at the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe. And we have to go there with (a) aggregated and (b) with arguments. And the ratification of this agreement is an extremely serious argument in that "companion" where Kremlin lobbyists are today. Well, look, I didn't kick anybody's ass. You know, I'm a member of the PARE, too, Mr. Parjet. And so, come on, we're not going to argue with you right now, which one of us is the bigger member or the smaller member, but we're going to talk about completely different stories, the ratification of this agreement. And you know, once again, I want to say that we greatly appreciate the faction that is now involved in this. an absolute exchange of views on this ratification. It's good that we now have the opportunity in this, in a more, perhaps full atmosphere to discuss this issue. We're asking you again. In your faction, there are very serious experts from international law. We refer to the National Deputies -- experts in international law in your respectable faction -- but notice that this ratification applies primarily to public authorities, not private individuals. And let's get ready with you for the PARJE session and now we're going to accept this ratification, we're going to vote in favour. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-06-m1.u17	Thank you, colleagues. I call for understanding in the hall, because we just need to get a positive vote. And in this matter of common understanding, I invite, I give, I give, I give, I give you my word, but before that, the head of the delegation of Paris. Because there was a discussion. And I'll give the word Igor Shurmi of the Opposition Block after that. But first, Vladimir Ariev. And look, there aren't enough deputies in the room. Invite the deputies to the hall. Please, Mr. Vladimir.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-06-m1.u18	Thank you very much. Dear friends, don't be afraid to ratify this convention. More than we've actually accepted here in this room about the control of MPs, about the officials, about the disclosure of information, more, sorry, you just shouldn't be afraid. Because we did it before this convention was signed at all. So Ukraine showed an example and showed an example in particular when there was a corruption scandal in the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, we talked about the need for a declaration on delegates working at the Parliamentary Assembly. And the Ukrainian clear example, by the way, wasn't acceptable because they said it was too much. But I think we should be consistent. And really, I can say that depending on the October session at all (honorable friends, I ask your attention), it depends on whether sanctions against Russia will be extended or whether European values will now be followed by European organisations as declared. And this will be an exam for the Parliamentary Assembly and for the entire Council of Europe. We should be examples. We must show that the Ukrainian Parliament is firm on the principles of openness, democracy, the rule of law and human rights. And it's true, we've often shown this example very much in Europe. And I think that we should go to the Council of Europe as a whole, to all the member countries of the Council of Europe in order for them to look closely at the situation that has taken place today in this organization, and not to allow the destruction of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, which is, in principle, one of the most important.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-06-m1.u19	Thank you. And, colleagues, I support that we need to unite on this issue and maximize mobility. And that's why I haven't been to the Opposition Block yet. I'll give you two minutes. Igor Šurma. And I ask everyone to prepare for the vote, to enter the hall. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-06-m1.u20	Igor Shurma, Opposition Block. Dear colleagues, we are now the days before the elections, we are the days before the elections that we are going to Ukraine, both presidential and parliamentary. And we're going to be witnessing an ever-increasing confrontation of oppression and opposition. On behalf of and on behalf of the opposition bloc, I appeal to all Ukrainian national deputies. From the very morning we hear arguments, we hear insults, we hear humiliation. It's not like Parliamentarians. Not only are the citizens of Ukraine looking at us, but we are looking at foreign delegations who are our partners and who are not our partners. We suggest that we stop the opposition, the humiliation, and the harassment. Every political party, every MP has a right to his or her point of view, they all argue on some sort of expert evaluation, on strategic, long and temporary evaluations. So it's the right of each faction to express itself either in green or in red or in yellow. It is not necessary to give degrading grades, who, who, who, who, who, who, who, who, who, who, who, who, who, who, who, who, who, who, who, who, who, who, who, who, who, who, who, who, who, Let's let people give us that rating, it's not long. And if we're talking about Ukraine, and we're initiators, and let's say we're introducing some of the norms that other states have been introducing, then from my point of view, enough to stop a test range in Ukraine. Enough of us what medicine has made of us today. We're being experimented with and tested, and we look like test rabbits. Each person has the right to express his or her position by voting. We stop humiliation and strife, that's what only our enemies want. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-06-m1.u21	Thank you. So I am trying to unite the maximum room so that everyone can join in making this decision. We have two speeches left, I'll give you my word. One minute, Easy, then your word, and we'll go to the vote. Colleagues, and please invite everyone to the hall. See if there's enough of us in the room. Please, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-06-m1.u22	Dear colleagues, this assembly of the Council of Europe, which we are discussing with you, has not been ratified by any powerful European country. Only the weak countries ratified the convention. This convention is an instrument of external influence on Ukraine. If we want to be always weak and be manipulated outside, accept these documents. If you want to be at the level of Germany, France, Switzerland, Austria and their standard of living, with their development of civil society, independent media, parliamentary control over law enforcement, you need to set an example: economic recovery, respect for citizens' rights and, above all, not to be humiliated. You're telling us about going to Europe, you have to come to Europe in a strong, dignified way, not half-legged legs in beggarly begging status, when our people across the country are picking up a rosary. I want us to come to Ukraine rich, smart, worthy and beautiful.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-06-m1.u23	So, colleagues, this is now the closing statement by the Deputy Justice Minister Petuhov Sergio Ivanovich. And in two minutes, we're moving on to making a decision, colleagues. In two minutes. I'm addressing everyone -- both the members of the Committee on European Integration and the members of the Committee on Foreign Affairs -- to see who's not there, to invite them into the hall and to come into the hall. So I give the floor to Petuhov’s speech. Turn on Sergei Igorovich's microphone, please. And I ask everyone to take up their jobs.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-06-m1.u24	Thank you. This convention was ratified by Sweden, Norway, Finland, countries that are examples of both the social system and democracy, and in terms of parliamentary control over human rights. Indeed, this convention does not refer to monitoring a person, but rather to accessing information created by government authorities or gathering them. Accordingly, it is a guarantee to citizens that all the information produced by the Supreme Council, the Cabinet of Ministers, is available to everyone. It's an important moment that I want to talk about. This convention is in principle already being implemented in Ukraine under the Ukrainian Public Information Act. Why so? And this is absolutely confirmed by the way we deal with it, because we usually pass an implementing law. In this case, we analyzed that this convention is already enshrined in Ukrainian legislation in the Public Information Access Act, which is even wider. We've been great in this regard since we were 11. We need to talk to all of Europe about Ukraine as an example and an example of access to public information and thus encourage other states to do the same. With this, in this case, we have agreed with the Chief Scientific and Expert Authority of the Supreme Council, I think you know how rare this is for the GNEU to agree fully with the Cabinet of Ministers. Therefore, we are ready to continue to answer questions, but the convention does not pose any risks to human rights or to expanding the powers of law enforcement authorities to monitor people. Please support this important convention. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-06-m1.u25	Thank you. So the discussion is over, and we're moving on to making a decision. And once again, I stress and remind you how important mobilization is when international agreements are ratified. So I'm very much asking you to invite everyone to the Hall, the heads of factions, please invite all the deputies to the Hall. People's deputies I'm asking you to take up jobs, we're moving on to making decisions. Please return from your beds and government and guest rooms and take your seats. It was not a simple, difficult discussion, but I think we can find an understanding. So I am voting on the draft Law on the Ratification of the Council of Europe Convention on Access to Official Documents (No. 0195). First sentence of the committee, based on the basis and in general. Please vote and please support, colleagues. We vote, each voice has a weight. And I ask you to support everyone as much as possible. Vote, please. [[16:30:13]] For 190 I'll make the following suggestion, colleagues, to the committee for further work. This proposal is important because it ensures that we will not reject the convention. So I'm asking, look, I'm going to read by factions now that the factions' heads are oriented and invite MPs. "Block of Peter Poshenko" – 87, "National Front" – 59, Opposition Block – 0, "self-help" – 17, Radical Party – 1, "Fatherhood" – 10, "will of the people" – 1, "rebirth" – 1, "non-fractional" – 14. Colleagues, let's mobilize, invite whoever's not here to the hall. And I'm asking everyone to take up jobs. I'll make the next vote. Prepare to vote. On this proposal, I know that there will be more concerted support, right? The committee. So I'm voting on the proposal to refer the draft Law 0195 to the committee for a re-read. Please vote and please support, colleagues. It's settled, please. Vote! Every voice, please stand by. [[16:32:01]] For 197 Colleagues, I'm going to make the next offer, but I'm going to invite you in. The next is to return the subject to the legislative initiative, but at the same time, I ask everyone to come to the hall. A few deputies have just left the hall. I ask everyone to come to the hall and take up jobs. So I put to the vote the following sentence: draft Law on the Ratification of the Council of Europe Convention on Access to Official Documents (No. 0195) to return the subject to the right of legislative initiative for further work. Please vote and please support, colleagues. Please be supportive. Vote! It's a compromise position, let's support it all. Please be supportive. Vote! Vote. [[16:33:07]] For 210 I'll put it back again, colleagues. And we're just at risk of it being rejected. Yes. Please don't leave the hall. It is we, going abroad, talking about supporting Euro-integration, who have to be supported here in the voting room. So, colleagues, please prepare. I propose to go back to the draft Law on the Ratification of the Council of Europe Convention (0195), and I will put: the subject of the legislative initiative. Please vote and please support. Vote, please support, please vote. Colleagues, every vote matters, we vote, we vote. [[16:34:15]] For 211 There are no votes. According to the Rules, we will be able to re-establish it. It's not accepted now, it's rejected. But the committee will prepare a new committee, and we'll put it back on the ballot as soon as possible. She didn't get the required number of votes. So my colleagues, the next two ratifications I'm going to place on the rating vote. I said the committee would move, move the committee. And, colleagues, I'm putting the next two ratings on the rating vote so we don't put them at risk. So the next is the draft Law on the Ratification of the Treaty on the Financing of the Danube Transnational Programme (0196). The rating vote. Please vote, please support, vote. [[16:35:25]] For 204 And the next is the draft Law on the Ratification of the Agreement between the Government of Ukraine and the United States Government to improve the implementation of the tax rules and to apply the provisions of the U.S. Law on Tax Requirements for Foreign Accounts (0179), the rating vote. Please take part, please vote on the rating vote. Vote. [[16:35:58]] For 206 We're not going to risk ratification. And, colleagues, the following questions of the agenda are actually supported by all the halls. And we move on to the next question of the order of the day. This is a draft law amending some Ukrainian legislation on the conduct of economic activity from a foreign employment intermediary (No. 6275-d). These are two laws of second reading. And I invite you to report to the First Vice-President of the Committee on Social Policy, Employment and Pension Insurance, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-06-m1.u26	At its meeting on June 20, 2018, the Committee on Social Policy of the Supreme Council of Ukraine considered the draft draft draft bill with proposals and the rights of Ukrainian MPs. Briefly on the substance of the bill. The bill is designed to allow the Ministry of Social Policy and Labour Inspectorates to monitor the economic activity and conditions of the licensing of economic entities involved in the employment of our fellow countrymen abroad. I would like to point out that the involvement of labour inspectorates is caused solely by the availability throughout Ukraine of territorial centres for the purpose of carrying out appropriate control, and accordingly by the absence of such networks in the Ministry of Social Policy and in general by the shortages of such personnel, which are limited to about ten persons working in the relevant department of the Ministry of Social Policy. The changes to a series of legislative acts provide for strict control and, more importantly, systematic serious measures of prejudice to trafficking in human beings as part of economic activity in the employment of fellow countrymen, our compatriots abroad. The committee supports the initiative and, as part of its discussion, has, in cooperation with the National Deputies, taken up the relevant rights, approved the 15 rights of our colleagues, and rejected 23 rights. A relevant working group was set up to deal with the proposals and rights submitted to the bill by the Committee on Social Policy, comprising representatives of the following ministries: the Ministries of Social Policy, the Ministry of Social Policy, the Ministry of Economy, representatives of the Ukrainian Security Service, the National Police, the Regulatory Service, representatives of the Commissioner for Human Rights and the social partners. As a result of the consideration of the bill, the committee decided to approve the text of the comparative table and recommended that Parliament adopt the bill on second reading and generally as a law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-06-m1.u27	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I ask you to proceed to the discussion of amendments. Please fix the 3rd, Oksana Prodan. Are you insisting? Please, Mrs. Oksani's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-06-m1.u28	On the third, yeah. Dear colleagues, with my amendment, I propose that the issues that relate to employment and decision-making be left to the courts first and foremost, rather than passing them on to the authorities who themselves make the violation protocols. I'm asking you to divorce those who make protocols on violations and those who make decisions about whether or not to attract, and the responsibility of attracting the employer. Thank you very much. Please support the amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-06-m1.u29	Please vote for the 3rd amendment of Oksana Prodan. Please. Comment, please. Mr. Kaplan, your comment.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-06-m1.u30	Dear Mrs. Prodan, your proposals, and the following, I understand, which you will also be defending in the discussion, completely nullify the mission and specific tasks of the bill, namely, operational timely control over the prevention of trafficking in human beings. Second ingredient. The legislator, Irina Lucenko, in the text of this bill, has graduated in terms of the categories of sanctions and the subject matter of the bill, dividing them into particularly difficult ones and those that may be allowed in response by the Ministry of Labour and Labour Inspectorate. So, I think your comments are perfectly well written in this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-06-m1.u31	Please specify 3 amendments. [[16:41:21]] For-127 The correction is being rejected. Next, please. The 4th, Semenha. Are you insisting? Don't insist. 5th, Antonistak. Don't insist. 6th, Oksana Sold. Don't insist. 7th, Antonistak. Don't insist. 8th, Levenchenko. Please, Mr. Levchenko's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-06-m1.u32	Lewchenko, Freedom, 223 District of Kiev. The fact is that this bill, in particular, sets out the conditions under which Ukrainians are employed abroad. The bill states that a mandatory supplement to an external economic contract, a contract for the provision of mediation services abroad, is a contract for foreign employment. But I think it's important to add that the organization of this process also provides adequate guarantees to the Ukrainians that it will work on conditions that are no worse than the locals are working on. That is, so that he gets a minimum wage in that country and that he gets a social package no less than the minimum social package that is given to the citizens of the country concerned. Because, unfortunately, it is very common today that Ukrainians who work abroad work in conditions far worse and even illegal than their citizens.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-06-m1.u33	15 seconds to complete.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-06-m1.u34	So it's very important that in this law, if we are already regulating this activity and we are thus revealing this activity, that there are appropriate requirements in this law, that if a Ukrainian goes abroad to work through such a system, these minimum ones should be prescribed.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-06-m1.u35	Thank you. Please explain the identity committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-06-m1.u36	The Committee generally supports your desire and desire for your colleagues to protect the interests of a hired worker who travels abroad to work in one country or another. At the same time, in terms of economic conditions, rules and legislation, labour legislation in other countries, such a norm, from the point of view of implementation, is unlikely. Moreover, Ukraine’s Labour Migration Act provides for a number of safeguards that generally guarantee the worker’s ability to protect his rights under working conditions abroad. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-06-m1.u37	Thank you. I'm asking you to determine the 8th Amendment of the People's Deputy Levchenk. Please, colleagues. [[16:44:28]] For 105 The correction is being rejected. Next up is the 9th Amendment, the People's Deputy of Semimenah. Don't insist. 10th, Oksana Sold. Don't bother Mrs. Oksana. Thank you very much. Next up, Oksana Sold. 15th, repair. Please, Mrs. Oksana, your microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-06-m1.u38	I insist on 15 amendments because it expands the mandate of the National Police of Ukraine to detect offences in the field of mediation in employment abroad. Today, article 53, which is being expanded, gives the authority to protect Ukrainian citizens abroad for the national police. This amendment excludes the authorizations given by the National Labour Control Police project already in Ukraine. Today, we have so many bodies that have the right to control labour legislation in Ukraine, and we have so many people who are not protected abroad -- Ukrainian citizens -- that I propose not to extend the authority to apply the police in Ukraine, but to allow them all the power to protect Ukrainian citizens just outside the country. This is not done in Ukraine, for there are other organs to do so. Please support this amendment the entire hall. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-06-m1.u39	Please comment to the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-06-m1.u40	By rejecting your rights, the noblest of Oksana Petrovna, we were guided by the requirements of law in part by the need to control the activities of the exhaustive list, a small list of large intermediaries who are doing the right work, with the need to establish, with a view to establishing the history of their activities, and assessing the integrity of the activities of the relevant owners.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-06-m1.u41	Thank you. I'm asking you to identify yourself for amendment 15 of the Oxana Sales People's Deputies. Colleagues, please identify yourself. [[16:46:44]] For 118 118 deputies supported this amendment, it's being rejected. The next 16th was also written by Oksana Sold. Mrs. Oksani, please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-06-m1.u42	Thank you very much. And I believe that it is my duty to oblige employers to place control and responsibility, as in this project, for failing or violating the order of reporting of persons employed abroad and their employers. This, on the one hand, complicates the relationship of future employers in general, because not every one of them wants to be published as an employer, but, on the other hand, it violates the Law on the Protection of Personal Information of Ukrainian Citizens, because not every one of them wants to be published about them information about where, for what, and when it is employed. So please support this amendment and protect the personal data of our citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-06-m1.u43	Please comment to the profile committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-06-m1.u44	Dear Oksana Petrovna, the standard is a continuation, a new norm in the design of a group of standards for the accounting system and the protected personal data list of those persons who were provided services by the appropriate host entities. Since we included the previous standard, it was not supported by the hall, it is from the point of view of the continuation and development of your previous proposal worthless. So I don't see any possibilities or motives for voting for her.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-06-m1.u45	Please identify yourself for the 16th amendment. [[16:48:47]] For 104 The correction is being rejected. Amendment 17, People’s Deputy of Simeon. Don't insist. 18th Amendment, Mrs. Oksana Sold. Don't insist. 20 repairs, Semenha. Don't insist. 21 repairs, Oxana Sold. Don't insist. 24 repairs, Semenha. Don't insist. 25 revisions. Don't insist on Mrs. Oksana Prodan. 26th. Ms. Oksana Prodan, the author of this amendment, does not insist. 28 repairs, Oxana Sold. Don't insist. 29 repairs to Oxani Sold. Don't insist. Ms. Oksana Prodan no longer insists on any of her amendments to the bill. 30th Amendment, Antonistak. Colleagues, we are almost to the end of this bill. So I'm very much asking you to go back to the session room, because there's going to be a vote now. 35th Semenha. Semenach's national deputy does not insist. And 37th, Oksana Bilozer. Oksana Bilozer doesn't insist either. I'm giving two minutes now to the first deputy head of the Socialist Committee, Sergey Kaplin, to sum up the bill. And I'd like to invite a colleague to the session room. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-06-m1.u46	Dear colleagues, according to the United Nations monitoring of the statement made by the minister of foreign affairs, other experts and government officials outside Ukraine for the purpose of employment, have left. He leaves every year with about a million of our fellow countrymen. In 15-20 years, the population is projected to decrease by about 25 percent because of labour migration. I am absolutely convinced that today’s composition of Parliament, today’s government, future governments, the future head of state, the Parliament of the Ninth Assembly together will do absolutely everything to stabilize the situation and to respond to the extremely serious macroeconomic, economic challenges that cause such a scale of labour migration. There are only three answers to this challenge. The first is a decent level of pay, which today is unprecedentedly catastrophically low and cannot be compared to even the world's largest outsiders in writing, wage rating in Europe, other countries. Next answer. It's a decent level, scale, job dynamics, the reindustrialization of our country, the innovative way in which our country develops, the creation and development of the real economy. We ask you to support this bill as the first very important step in the group of measures to combat labour migration and to protect the interests of our citizens who are leaving, I believe, temporarily seek a better fate abroad, but I will definitely return. And this is our extremely serious historical commitment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-06-m1.u47	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I would like to say, really, after discussing the bill for second reading, we don't have such a regulatory norm for giving a word to the drafters. But as long as the MPs meet with the Supreme Council, I don't think you'll mind, I'll give Irina Lucenko the floor as the author, so she can focus once again on the key novels of the law, so that we can mobilize more voices. Is there any objection? Thank you very much to all those who honor the Rules for our common position. Please, Mrs. Irina.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-06-m1.u48	Thank you. Mrs. Irina, one second. But this is going to be a closing act. That means that in two minutes we're going to make a decision. That's why I'm asking you to invite all the national deputies to the hall. I ask the heads of factions to maximize the mobilization of the people's deputies, and in two minutes we will move on to the decision-making process. Please, Mrs. Irina, two minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-06-m1.u49	Dear colleagues, what is the point of this bill. Ukraine, along with 193 countries around the world, has undertaken to combat human trafficking worldwide. We fell two years ago into category 2 minus. They're countries that try to fight human trafficking, but they're not trying enough. We asked, what does it take? We need to activate the police, because the Ukrainian police have moved on, we have reformed the police, and we have had a failure in the fight against human trafficking. We need to activate the work of the Attorney General. The work of the Ministry of Social Policy in the area of control of enterprises that provide intermediate services in employment abroad had to be intensified. What does this bill do? In this bill, the Ministry of Social Policy, apart from the mandate to grant licences, has given the task of controlling those who have been granted a license on the subject of whether they are complying with the agreement between the person that the mediator has given abroad, or whether he controls these issues, or whether he adheres to these world-wide international instruments. The other one. Labour inspectorates are given the right to fine those businesses of those natural, legal persons who try without a license to send people abroad without control and to provide them with employment. Next. The Ukrainian police, the National Police, have been given appropriate authority to control those owners, their owners, who were involved or suspected of committing trafficking crimes, to inform the Ministry of Social Policy through the working group and to disqualify them. Or not allow such owners to send our citizens and engage in such activities.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-06-m1.u50	30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-06-m1.u51	Dear colleagues, this bill is intended to protect Ukrainian citizens who want to temporarily, for a short period or for a long time to work abroad, we have open borders, we have to protect them through international legislation, through Ukrainian legislation. Please support this bill, which is very much needed by our Ukrainian citizens, first of all, who have gone to the European Union, to other countries.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-06-m1.u52	So, colleagues. I'm asking everyone to come to the hall, we're done talking, we're moving to making a decision. I'm asking everyone to take their jobs and go from the towers to the hall. I ask the factions to invite all the deputies into the hall and ask them to take up their jobs. From the government's beds, I also ask you to return to the hall. Mr. Victor, Mr. Oleg. Please take up jobs. Victor! Please prepare for the vote. So we're moving to a decision-making process, and I'm voting on the draft Act amending some of the Ukrainian legislative acts on the implementation of economic activity through employment placement abroad (No. 6275-d) on second reading and in general on technical and legal rights. If you'll excuse me, I'd like to vote. Vote, colleagues, every voice. Please be supportive. Vote. Please be supportive. [[16:57:47]] For-191 Two factions don't vote. So your position is. It's the second one again, isn't it? Colleagues, let me put it back once. If it doesn't, then I'll put the second one again. Colleagues, discuss this with each other. I'd like you to show us through the factions and ask everyone to come into the hall. The factions. "Block of Peter Poshenko" – 96, "National Front" – 42, "Resistance Block" – 20, "self-help" – 15, Radical Party – 3, "Fatherhood" – 0, "will of the people" – 1, "Party "Resurrection" – 0. There's a requirement. Colleagues, let me put out a proposal to go back to the whole discussion first, if there are no votes, then I'll put the second one back. But I think we can and should unite around this law. So, colleagues, I'm asking you to mobilize and take up jobs. I'll bet. So, colleagues. [[B in m in s a l in]] Everyone please take up their jobs. And I'm voting on the proposal to go back to voting as a whole. If there are no votes, then I'll re-read it. But I think there's a chance that we can mobilize and adopt the law. So I would like to support the proposal to go back to voting in general for the draft Law 6275-d. I ask everyone to take part in the vote, please vote and please support. Vote, please support, vote. [[17:00:03]] For 212 It doesn't, does it? Then, colleagues, I make the next proposal provided by the Rules. But let us unite around it, fellow workers. I ask everyone around her to unite. And I am voting on the draft Act amending some of the Ukrainian legislative acts on the conduct of economic activity from mediation in employment abroad (No. 6275-d) to read again the second reading. Colleagues, please support everyone, please vote, support, colleagues. Please support, vote, vote. Support us, colleagues, so we don't lose the bill. [[17:00:59]] For 226 Decision taken. Colleagues, let's move on to the next draft law. According to the Rules, the next draft agenda is the draft Act amending article 149 of the Criminal Code of Ukraine (as regards compliance with international standards) (No. 6243). Colleagues reporting this law to me are named Kožemyakin Andriy Anatoliyovich. Mrs. Irina, there is no reporter under the following law? So the next draft of the law, Palamarchuk. Colleagues, I invite you to the word of Palamarczuk, but there will be adjustments and they will have to be answered. Please, Mr. Palamarczuk. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-06-m1.u53	Dear Mr. Head, your colleagues, a comparative table is proposed for your consideration of the draft Ukrainian Law on Amendments to Article 149 of the Criminal Code of Ukraine (as regards compliance with international standards) (Registration No. 6243), prepared by the Committee for Second Reading. The project proposes that article 149 “Human trafficking or other illegal human rights treaty” of the Criminal Code be drafted in a new way with a view to bringing it into line with the United Nations Convention against Transnational Organized Crime and the Protocols supplementing them. The committee had 33 amendments and offers, 17 of which were proposed to be taken into account, 16 were rejected. The proposals taken into account are partially corrected by the shortcomings of the bill, which, in accordance with the rules of the Rules and the legislative procedure, may be corrected during the preparatory phase for the second reading. The committee decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine the adoption of a bill under registration number 6243 on second reading and as a whole as a law. At the same time, with a view to taking partial account of the observations of the Supreme Legal Authority of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, I ask you not to consider amendment No. 17, according to which it is qualified to act in appropriate ways with regard to the minor's father, mother, adoptive father, guardian or caregiver, and to leave part three of article 149 in editorial, first reading, except for the words "or a criminal organization". The reasons and reasons for the rejection of the proposals of the national deputies are given in a comparative table. That's why I'm asking you to make up your mind. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-06-m1.u54	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we're going after the amendments to the bill that we're discussing. Dear Mr. Palamarczuk, please remain in the rostrum. We'll do the repairs. 1 amendment, Lucenko, Lucenko Igor. Don't insist. Next amendment. Captain Olena, 4th. Olena Sotnik, I can't see you. Don't insist. Six repairs, Dmitrenko. Don't insist. 7th Amendment, Dmitrenko is the same. Don't insist. 10 repairs, Captain. Don't insist. 11th, Logwinsky. Don't insist. Colleagues, there are very few amendments that have been rejected. I ask you to return to the session room. 15 repairs, Captain. Don't insist. Colleagues, please return to the session room, there will be a vote now. 20th, Logwinsky. Don't insist. Now, colleagues. The 23rd Amendment, Captain. Don't insist. 24th Lucenka. That's not the way he insists. And the last amendment will be now. Colleagues, I'm asking you to mobilize, get back to the session room. A vote is about to take place. Olena Sotnik, 29th. Don't insist. Colleagues, we have exhausted the amendments that were rejected by the committee. None of the authors insist on their amendments. I ask the representative of the committee of the honourable Mr. Palamarchuk to sum up the discussion and, two minutes, please. And my colleague is asking me to return to the session room. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-06-m1.u55	Dear colleagues, so we went through the amendments and the Committee of Concerns, decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine the adoption of a bill, registration number, second reading and generally as a law. Please vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-06-m1.u56	Thank you, Mr. Palamarchuk. Colleagues, there will be no objection, I just need another minute to get everyone together in the session room, after the second reading, to give the floor to the author. Is there any objection? Please, Mrs. Irina Lucenko, two minutes. Colleagues, there will be a vote for Bill 6243 in two minutes. I ask you very much to return to the session room.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-06-m1.u57	Dear colleagues, 5,000 children are just as missing this year in Ukraine by August of the month. Not all of them just ran away from home, most of them filled the market in human trafficking. This is a major problem not only for Ukraine but also for every family, for every child, and for every adult who gets into such serious trouble and situations that he may be forced to beg for, engage in prostitution, add him or kill him for the sake of biomaterials. It's killing our children, kidnapping them, making them engage in prostitution. Anyone who does not consider it a problem has no right to call himself a person. And a society that can't fight this can't think of itself as a civilized society. So I'm asking you all to mobilize now, if you don't want to support the strengthening of the monitoring functions of the organs, of our executive authorities, who are licensing and who have no control over this, at least send responsibility to the Criminal Code an article that is responsible for banning trafficking in human beings. First, think about these 5,000 children. 3600 registered missing persons in the 16th year. Trafficking in human beings is responsible for murder for organs, slave labor, and prostitution. These figures, not counting those who enter slavery by cheating on their way to work abroad, are only 7 million. I'm only talking about Ukrainians. The volume of trade by Ukrainians in the money equivalent can be compared to that of Ukraine’s arms exports, as the United States compares these two markets. That's why 193 countries.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-06-m1.u58	I'm going to add 30 seconds. Colleagues, there's gonna be a vote in 30 seconds. I'm asking you to invite everyone into the hall so that we don't have, as in the previous law, low-mobilization in the hall. And I'd like everyone to come into the hall. Please prepare for the vote. Please, Mrs. Irina, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-06-m1.u59	The cost of trafficking in human beings is commensurate with the cost of arms trafficking, which is commensurate with the cost of drug trafficking. If we consider ourselves a civilized state, let us remember and vote and support. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-06-m1.u60	Thank you. So the discussion is over. I'm asking everyone to take up their jobs and come into the hall. Please inform the Secretariat that we are moving on to the decision-making process, and please invite everyone to the hall. We're moving on to making a decision. Call the deputies. Take up jobs. So, colleagues, I'm asking the committee members to speak out so that there's a general understanding in the room and a general mobilization. And I'm voting on the draft Act amending article 149 of the Criminal Code of Ukraine (to bring it into line with international standards) (No. 6243) on the proposal of a second-reading committee and in general on technical and legal remedies. Please vote and please support. Let's vote, colleagues. Please be supportive. Vote. [[17:11:25]] For 219 Seven votes, we'll be right back. I can see we didn't make it. Please, colleagues, take up jobs. We're short seven votes. This means that each voice is of great importance at the time of acceptance. I would like to point out that the bill has united the entire hall. Block of Petra Poshenko – 94, National Front – 59, Opposition Block – 12, Self-help – 15, Radical Party – 7, Fatherland – 7, Will of the People – 3, Rebirth Party – 1, non-fractional – 21. We just need to mobilize. Please take your seats and take part in the vote. So I'm voting on the proposal to go back to voting for draft Law 6243. And I ask very carefully everyone to participate in the vote. Please vote, please support the return. Let's vote, colleagues. Every voice. Please be supportive. [[17:12:34]] For 245 We're back. And now I'm putting draft Law 6243 in second reading and in general with technical law. Please vote, please support. Let's vote, colleagues. Please be supportive. [[17:13:00]] For 240 The law is passed. The next draft of the law, which we have in our agenda -- by the way, it's very short -- is a bill amending the Ukrainian Law on State Registration of Legal Persons, Entrepreneurs and Public Forms (for the drafting of documents of religious organizations) (No. 6642). The bill unites all factions in Parliament because it applies to all religious communities in Ukraine. And I invite the head of the Committee on Industrial Policy and Entrepreneurship, Halasyuk Viktor Valeriovich, to report. Please, Mr. Victor. And I ask everyone to enter the hall, the bill is very short and the vote will be quick. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-06-m1.u61	Dear Andrew Volodymyrovich! Dear fellow national MPs! In my second reading, I will introduce Bill 6642 on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on the State Registration of Legal Persons, Entrepreneurs and Public Forms (on the drafting of documents of religious organizations). Two major innovations of this bill. It unifies in substance the procedure for the state registration of religious organizations with the state registration of public associations, charitable organizations, the introduction of similar rules, and the release of appropriate registrations from the administrative congregation. Therefore, honourable colleagues, the Committee on Industry and Enterprise has decided to recommend the adoption of this bill on second reading and generally as a law on technical law. In addition, there is one technical moment. In view of the fact that the bill is already awaiting consideration in the second reading of the previous session, it is necessary to adopt it technically, with paragraph 2 of the bill as follows: "This law takes effect from the day of its publication." Please take this into account when voting, as it is now provided with a table that takes effect on July 1. So this needs to be clarified. Dear colleagues, please support the committee's decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-06-m1.u62	Thank you for explaining. And I hope all the factions support it. But right now, I'm going to be sounding. The authors would like to prepare themselves. 1st. Don't insist. 3rd, Eugene. Don't insist. Four. Don't insist. 6th. Don't insist. 9th. Don't insist. 11th. Don't insist. 16th. Don't insist. And 21st Ungurian. Don't insist. So, colleagues, we've been through all the revisions. There's one piece of paper that Nina Yuzanin insists on. Please, everyone, go into the hall and get ready for the vote, we've already had our discussion. This applies to all religious communities and to the simplification of taxation. So I ask everyone to be very careful and to take part in the voting. Please take over the jobs and heads of factions, please invite the deputies to the Hall. And I'm asking everyone to take up jobs. Let him read it now. There was a discussion. Let Victor Halasyuk read out the final version so that we have a united position. Please, Mrs. Nina, give us some advice on what is going on. And we're getting ready to vote. Please, Mr. Victor.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-06-m1.u63	Dear colleagues, I emphasize once again what we're doing. We harmonize, bring the procedures for State registration of religious organizations into the same standards used for public associations for charitable organizations. This is the agreed position of the committee in which representatives of all factions are represented. And I would also like to take into account that technical correction that I said about what the law takes effect from the day that it was published. Please be supportive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-06-m1.u64	13th Amendment, Eugene. 13 Amendments. Please read it.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-06-m1.u65	Dear colleagues, we agreed with you on the first reading of this draft law that we will not allow all actions to be excluded from a notary certificate, because there is a transfer of property in those places that you now want to apply to religious organizations. We talked to you about the transfer of property so that illegal activities between religious organizations would not take place there, so let's leave a notary certificate. And we agreed that you would accept this amendment. At the same time, you didn't count it. Why, please explain?
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-06-m1.u66	30 seconds, please. Are we done? 30 seconds, wait. 30 seconds, Nina Petrovna. Please, Victor Halasyuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-06-m1.u67	It's completely incomprehensible, because the drafters of the bill and I agreed that this action really should be documented. These amendments are now unaccounted for. Explain why? Three amendments that relate to this transfer of property from one religious organization 3, 13 and 19 amendments.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-06-m1.u68	Please, Halasyuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-06-m1.u69	Dear Nina Petrovna, I would like to stress once again that the editorial in the right column is the result of an agreed position on the committee that also has your representatives. So if there's a denial and they're principled, I can't change the committee's decision on my own. Then we resend to the second, resupply these positions, and make decisions.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-06-m1.u70	But, Mr. Victor and Mrs. Nina, but the Supreme Council can count. I mean, if there's a general position, why should we delay for a few weeks? If there is a general position to adopt a law that takes into account 13 amendments. Yeah, it's the Supreme Council's will, and we can take it today, not drag it off for a few weeks. I wasn't in the essence of that bill, I was sure all the moments were agreed upon. Let's talk about what adjustments we're going to take into account right now, and if there's a general position, we're going to support these changes. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-06-m1.u71	Dear Nina Petrovna! Dear colleagues! Once again, I emphasize that the positions that you have heard today in the current law - making system of charitable organizations apply to public associations. All we've done on the committee and co-agreed with the drafters of the bill has been added by religious organizations to this line. So, if you're being warned about religious organizations, I'd like to ask you, don't you have charity? You don't have them in public? Therefore, if so, this issue needs to be addressed more comprehensively, and it does not specifically refer to the subject matter of this bill in religious organizations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-06-m1.u72	Colleagues, in fact, should have such discussions before the law enters the hall. I've been informed that all positions have been agreed upon. Now let me name and put a two-point rating vote. First position: committee rating, second: 3, 13 and 19 revisions. And which of the seats will receive more votes, perhaps there will be a room around it. So, colleagues, please prepare for the rating vote so that we can resolve this dispute by voting. First offer. Who's in favour of supporting the law in an editorial committee, the rating vote, please vote. Vote. [[17:21:53]] For-149 And second position. Who's in charge of passing the law with 3, 13 and 19 rights, as the head of the tax committee insists. Please vote, please support me, colleagues. Vote. Please be supportive. [[17:22:22]] For 229 The second proposal gathers more votes, colleagues, and so we move on to making a decision. And I'm voting on the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on State Registration of Legal Persons, Natural Persons and Public Forms (No. 6642), taking into account amendment 3, 13 and 19 in the second reading and in general with technical law. Please vote, please support me, colleagues. Vote! We will support religious organizations. Please back up! Vote. [[17:23:09]] For 237 The law is passed. So we've completed the block of the second-reading laws, and we're going through the next block -- the first reading. Colleagues, the committee head called yesterday. Mikhailo Volodymyrovich Dovbenko appealed to the committee board for the urgent need to adopt this law more quickly. So I am very much asking everyone to unite and support him right now. We're moving on to his consideration. This is a draft law on mandatory civil liability insurance for land transport owners (3670, 3551 and 3670-d). And I'm asking you to turn around. I ask everyone to support the consideration of the reduced procedure. Please vote, please support. [[17:24:11]] For a hundred and Decision taken. We, colleagues, have a delegation of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe and a member of the Austrian Parliament of Shenach among them. Let us welcome them to the Hall of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Ambassador of Austria, and show our respect. Welcome! [[Applause]] Welcome, fellows! And thank you for the support of Ukraine. So we're starting the discussion. And I invite you to speak to the first deputy head of the Committee on Financial Policy and Banking of Douben Mikhail Volodymirovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-06-m1.u73	Colleagues, our Ukrainian citizens have a serious problem, the essence of it is the following. There is a mandatory national insurance for civil liability owners of land transport assets, we all have to insurance our car. In 7 months 4.6 million contracts were signed. In 7 months, there were 81,000 road accidents in different majority districts, all of them. People suffer, people die, they have to be compensated on the basis of these agreements. And here's the problem for the citizens: they've been going for years to get compensation. And the second problem is that an unregulated mechanism that has to be reimbursed to people. And here, in order to resolve this state-wide problem, two different bills were registered on the committee. There was a serious discussion. But as a result of the expert environment, the experts, the committee, we came out unanimously on our committee, all of us, for a harmonized, finalized version of 3670-d. What does that mean? We now want a) to be a comprehensive approach to this, the interests of insurance companies, people, victims, victims, families, and so on. We've come to a reconciliation: we're introducing an electronic version, we're introducing an information element that now allows people not to be in the corridors, but to be able to find when, to whom, and how this sum is to be compensated. Let's move on.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-06-m1.u74	One minute, finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-06-m1.u75	Yes, one minute, thank you. We went out to get the amounts of compensation that work in the European Union because we have a signed association agreement with the European Union. So, colleagues, given that the committee has unanimously come out to recommend you to vote for 3670-d, please support this opinion of our experts. And I think we're going to do a good thing in first reading, and secondly, we're going to work out and have a good law and a good thing for the state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-06-m1.u76	Thank you, Mr. Doubenko. I understand that we now have reports on the alternative laws of Fishing and Poles, right? No, it's not, is it? Thank you very much. Dear colleagues, please sign up for a faction discussion. Please sign up. Doesn't anyone want to? Please, National Fisherman, give me your word. He'll come out of the place.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-06-m1.u77	Good afternoon, dear colleagues. I think it's a really important law, we're bringing it to European standards. We clean up all kinds of fraudulent actions that we can do, and we give our people the opportunity to see who has to compensate, what amounts. We actually had a very lively discussion on the committee. We've made an amended bill. I mean, I'm asking you, Your Honor, to support this bill and vote it. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-06-m1.u78	Thank you. Please, national MP Sidorovich has the floor. Please, my dear colleague.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-06-m1.u79	Ruslan Sidorovich, Self Help Union. Dear colleagues, in fact, we must support this bill in the first reading. Those who have ever encountered accidents and the need to compensate for damage caused by another means of transport know how difficult this can be. How many fraudulent actions have there been in connection with the fact that some insurance companies have already been bankrupt have continued to collect funds and thus have failed to pay their dues. I am not saying that the amount of civil liability insurance payments is no longer appropriate, given the level of inflation. So the law really needs to be supported in the first reading. There are things that need to be done, but it's not difficult to work on the second reading. And this is primarily for people, for those who are suffering from road accidents. And in this way, it guarantees a civilized recovery of damages. So we support, we vote on the basis.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-06-m1.u80	Thank you. Please, Ruslan Demczak.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-06-m1.u81	Dear colleagues, the compulsory insurance of the civil liability of transport vehicles, it does not work according to the standards that are currently in Europe. Two problems. The first problem is low payout. The second is because of the low control of the insurance companies themselves, we have a very large commission for agents. And we need to solve these two problems in a complex way. Today, we are laying the groundwork for making it possible at the legislative level to raise the amount of the payment required for those who are to receive such insurance payments. And I want to emphasize that we could increase it gradually. Not necessarily, you don’t have to put pressure on insurance companies. And in Europe, for example, such payments sometimes make up ten times as much as they do in Ukraine. And we also have to solve the second question that he's asked, that's a commission fee for agents that we sometimes have 50 percent if it's 5-10 percent in Europe. If we fail to address this issue in a comprehensive manner, we will not increase the authority of the institutional regulator, and we have another bill in turn, this is the Presidential Bill 2413, which transmits the authority of the regulator of the insurance market to the National Bank of Ukraine, only then will we be able to get to the European level comprehensively. So please support me in the first reading. And hopefully that's just the kind of support that we're going to get the next bill that we're going to be putting into the hall in the near future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-06-m1.u82	Thank you. And please, Mrs. Kugel. You have the floor, Mrs. Alexander.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-06-m1.u83	Alexander Kugel, "The Fatherland" faction. I would stress that all the legislative rules in the proposed bill, I understand that 3670-odd worked out, we are looking at car insurance, primarily because of the benefits of the insurer. It's very relevant to this committee of the Supreme Council: it's for the benefit of bankers, and it's for the benefit of the insurance company. Let's face it, there's a standard here that predicts change, starting in the 20th year, to pay damages to a million dollars and 500,000 for damage to property, that is to say, more pay changes. If more payments change, and it's a rule that since the 20th year, insurance payments have been set up by the insurance company on its own by getting the size of the basic insurance payment. That is, all Ukrainian citizens should understand that every person who now votes in favour of this law in the first reading pushes you into such a critical time of crisis to increase the cost of compulsory insurance payments. In addition, there are very serious changes in the coordination of the board of the motor-vehicle insurance office. They introduce such an understanding of the Coordinating Council, there is no law as to how it forms, which it is responsible for, but it leads the most important question: it is control and it determines the main directions. But no responsibility. In addition, the laws provide that members of the Coordinating Board may send a representative instead if they leave or get sick. Excuse me, these are the most important people to be responsible for transparency, for competitiveness, for legality. And I also want to point out what.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-06-m1.u84	Please, just a minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-06-m1.u85	It's very nice to talk about whether there's electronic contracts. Ladies and gentlemen, go to the people, even in the Kyiv region, and every village has the Internet. And if you imagine they're going to take an electronic signature on the old gigulos.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-06-m1.u86	Thank you, Mrs. Alexander, for your position. Last speech, please, from the People's Front. It wasn't, but, yeah. But we have a right, if the faction, we always do, Mrs. Alexander, and you can be confirmed by the colleagues in the hall that all factions have the right to speak. Our system is not ideal, so only four can sign up, but all factions have the right to speak. Please, Leonid Yemen from the People's Front. Please, Mr. Leonid. I'm asking you to come back to the hall. Two minutes to vote. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-06-m1.u87	Leonid Yemen, People's Front faction, city of Kiev. Dear colleagues, in this Parliament, national deputies have to work for the interests of Ukrainian citizens. And clearly, these interests can be introduced both through entrepreneurial activities and in the relationship of this entrepreneurial activity. This means that the law and the bill should be balanced. And when we talk about the fact that we're protecting the insurance company's rights by this law, we have to be sure that the insurer's rights, the ordinary person's rights, will be protected by this law no less. And when we're talking about what might be a single, one-person insurance company increased the amount of compulsory insurance payments, it means that right now this law is not enough to protect the rights of an ordinary citizen, it's unbalanced, and it doesn't reveal the answer to a number of other questions that need to go in parallel with the Compulsory Insurance Act. We have to solve the questions about the so-called "eurovoltaics", which today have flooded the roads of the Ukrainian State, which do not pay any premiums, and there is no way that neither those people who got into the "eurolocher" accident are protected, nor the drivers who ran these European so-called cars. Therefore, respected colleagues, the laws must work for a Ukrainian citizen. This is a priority. The position of our faction is to return the bill to work on the first reading and only then can it be put to the vote in the session room. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-06-m1.u88	Thank you. I'll give my word to the committee head. But please invite everyone to the hall. Because even to return, it takes 226 colleagues. I'm asking everyone to come into the hall. We conclude the discussion and move on to the decision-making process. I, my colleagues, ask you to invite the factions of all of us to the hall. In two minutes, we'll move on to the decision-making process. I now give the floor to the first deputy head of the committee to Doubbenkov Mikhail Volodymirovich. After two minutes of voting, I'll invite everyone to the hall. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-06-m1.u89	Colleagues, I quote what is written in the law. The terms of the decision on the payment of insurance payments that had not been made before: "During the 10 days since the documentation of the settlement of the damages, within 3 months of the date of receipt of the claim for insurance; within 10 days of the date on which the insurance company became aware of the decision of the court of law, the insurer makes payment of insurance compensation within 5 working days from the date of the decision to make insurance compensation." And they set up another rule for those who didn't hear: a fine of 20 percent of the amount of late insurance in case of a breach of payout period of more than 5 working days. Colleagues, a foam the size of a double National Bank's account rate, that works during the period during which the penalty is paid each day. These are the ones who say that this law does not protect a person. This is the first time we've recorded this. So, colleagues, please read. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-06-m1.u90	Thank you. So let's move on to making a decision. Under the Rules, I will lay down all three laws as a basis. If none of them gets the majority, then I'll put them on the committee for work. It's a deal, isn't it? So take up jobs. And I'm voting on a draft law on mandatory civil liability insurance for land transport owners, first of all, 3670. Whoever supports this, I ask you to vote. Let me remind you, the committee is offering 3670-d. [[17:40:01]] For-126 Now I'm putting in draft Law 3670-d. In fact, the committee suggests that it be accepted as a basis, just as a basis. The committee requests that this offer be accepted by the hall. So I'm voting on draft Law 3670-d as a basis. Please vote and please support. Vote. [[17:40:35]] For-142 And now I'm making the next proposal under the Rules, and it's not coming through. Re-read it, send it to the committee for processing. Please, colleagues, now in this vote we have a chance to unite the hall. I ask everyone to take up their jobs, prepare for the vote. Please invite the deputies to the hall. And I'm voting on the proposal that the draft Law on the Compulsory Insurance of Civil and Legal Responsibility of Land Transporters (3670-d) should be sent to the Committee to prepare for the re-reading of the first reading. Please vote, please support. Let's vote, colleagues. Please be supportive. Vote. [[17:41:33]] For-191 I'll bet you the next offer. Return the subject to the right of legislative initiative for further development. So draft Law 3670-d restore the subject to the right of legislative initiative for further development. Please vote, please support. [[17:42:05]] For a hundred and The bill is rejected. And, colleagues, the next unifying law. I'm asking everyone to mobilize. Draft Act amending some Ukrainian legislation on access to special educational services (8556). I ask you to support his consideration of the reduced procedure. Please vote. We've got 18 minutes left, we're about to be able to look at it. Please be supportive. Vote. [[17:42:43]] For-142 Guys, we're not gonna be able to look at it. Why don't you support me? I'm asking you to support Bill 8556 with a reduced procedure. Please vote and please support. Vote. Please be supportive. Otherwise, we won't be able to see it. [[17:43:11]] For-160. Decision taken. And I invite you to report to the First Vice-Chairman of the Committee on Science and Education of Spiowakovsky Alexander Volodymirovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-06-m1.u91	Good afternoon, dear colleagues. The bill we're presenting today. It's probably unusual, because for the first time, we're actually launching a system to implement people's support with special needs. This bill was actually developed jointly with Marina Anatoliyevna Poshenko’s Foundation and received full support from the committee. And I want to stress that this is primarily a bill that fully synchronizes the entire legislative system to support people with special needs. Dear colleagues! Just a year ago, we passed the Basic Education Act. It's a law that says a lot of things, but unfortunately there are many norms that we have to do today, if we vote for this bill, and we have to vote for it, it actually implements all the rules of the basic Education Act and allows people who have special needs to effectively address the issue of access to persons with special educational needs to free educational, psychological and educational, correctional and development services in public education and communal property institutions, which in turn will contribute to the development and socialization of such children. Dear colleagues, I am addressing all of you, this law, the law shows the attitude of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to people who have special educational needs. So I'm talking to everyone, now find the strength, go back to the hall and vote. That is why for the first time in Ukraine, based on our mutual agreement, based on the efforts made by Marina Anatoliyevna Poshenko, we will be able to start implementation and respect in Ukraine for the first time and ensure the rights of people with special needs. Please vote and please support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-06-m1.u92	Thank you. Please record: two in, two in. From the People's Front, Podobraznjak Vadim Ivanovich. Passes the word to Taras Kremen. Please, Mr. Taras.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-06-m1.u93	Taras Kremen, People's Front. Dear colleagues, we're not just going back to the problem of providing better services, special needs education, we're going to continue to work to increase the accessibility of such children to 18 years of education. To preschool education, general secondary education, preschool. At the same time, we should tell ourselves the following. We are the second year in which we passed the Act on Amendments to the Education Act of Ukraine in part of inclusive learning. For the first time in years, Ukraine this year, thanks to Parliament, has allocated over half a billion dollars to create an accessible educational environment. Since this year, inclusive resource centres, architectural accessibility, allocated funds in local budgets to assist teachers and assistants in kindergartens have started to work. We continue this work, and it is extremely important that we show society our willingness to do this work qualitatively and beyond. So I'm asking each of you to support this document, help in places where children have access to educational facilities, thereby increasing the level of respect, trust in every Ukrainian citizen. It's very important. People's Front votes, we vote in favour.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-06-m1.u94	Thank you. From the "Fatherland" faction of Kirilenko Ivan Grigorovich, please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-06-m1.u95	Dear colleagues, this law must be voted for, at least, because it has a very high humanistic component. We owe many categories of citizens in our country with special needs, and this is a conversation for children, for those who are still educated and then work to the extent of their strength and opportunities for the interests of the Ukrainian State. Once again, I would like to stress that this law provides for an increase in measures to ensure that people with special educational needs are educated. The State undertakes to ensure that they receive education in the most comfortable and effective form, taking into account individual needs, and that is the key. There's going to be an individual development programme for each child, psychological and pedagogical and developmental services, and that's also very important. Inclusive education, for his own sake, is proposed to be made at the expense of public and local subsidies and other sources. And there are conditions for vocational training, vocational training, retraining with special needs. Well, the terminology has to be clarified, because it's for the actual budget to be used for the purpose, because without it there's a problem with the House of Accounts then, with the Treasury, it's going to have to be irreprehensible. Friends, once again, the law with a high humanist component. Let's vote everyone, there's no politics here and there can be no political differences. I call for a vote in favour of "Fatherland," of course, will vote in favour.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-06-m1.u96	Thank you, colleagues. I emphasize that all the expert evaluations of all factions are to support this bill. Now, it's just important, I see, after the adoption of the law, part of the people's deputies have come out, we just have to call everyone in the hall, walk through the towers, invite everyone into the hall, call someone who's not in the factions. In a few minutes, there'll be a vote, we'll have to maximize the entire hall, our colleagues, call everyone to the hall. Heads of factions, please gather as many men as possible through your secretaries. From the Peter Dust Block to the word "Sergey Kaplin" please, two minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-06-m1.u97	First. I want to thank you twice: Professor Ischeikin, by the way, he is the only one in the House of Parliament who is so kind, and thank you, Andry Volodymyrovich, for having stabilized the activities of the Supreme Council in the second half of your work today. And we're already looking at another important bill. In fact, it's a multi-law that takes all aspects into account, implements all the necessary relevant standards both for vocational and technical education, and for initial education, for school education, for children with special needs, for young people with special needs, for educational needs. At the same time, I would like to draw attention to a very difficult situation where our fellow countrymen with you are children from the gray zone of Lugansk, Donetsk region. Regrettably, they are not able to give in equally with other schoolchildren, since the left hand side of the teachers has, unfortunately, moved to other cities in the country. And without a teacher of physics or biology, eventually their average is, unfortunately, sitting. And at the same time, they often go, according to my information, to study at DNR, LNR, or to study in Russia, and they don't stay here in Ukraine. We agreed, I'd like to announce with Mr. Spiowakovsky, Head of the Education Committee that we're going to have a serious meeting in the near future with the Social Committee, set up a working group. I ask you to join everyone who cares about finding this decision. This could be a quota, and the return of the right on general terms through examinations, not through the ZNO to the heights of Ukraine. And together we have to help these children, and this will be another step towards reintegrating Donbass and finding the key to peace in our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-06-m1.u98	Thank you. Colleagues, there will be a closing statement in the discussion. So once again, I am very responsible to all the national MPs. This is a question that applies to persons with special educational needs. This question is indeed, as the committee head pointed out, a very humanistic question. So I'm asking everyone to come to the hall, see who's not here. There'll be a vote in two or three minutes. Look at the texts. Because of the factions of your factions, I'd like to maximize the invitation of members of the Hall who are in the towers to all participate in the vote. So two or three minutes to vote. It's from the Radical Party Lazko Oleg. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-06-m1.u99	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. On September 1, I was at the Stock Exchange in Montenegro in my home boarding school. This year 260 children went there. 130 of them are children with parents. In general, children or orphans should be taught in boarding schools or deprived of parental rights. When children in live parents actually become orphans, why did parents turn their children into boarding schools? Because they have nothing to feed their children for. Because they expect children to be fed, dressed, trained, and trained in boarding school at the expense of the state budget. Borznian boarding school is a great boarding house. I finished it, thousands of other talented graduates. But the best part is when children are next to their parents. What must we do if our children are to be with their parents? First, parents should have money. That is why our team requires the government to make changes to the budget and to raise wages for working Ukrainians so that people do not beg, so that it is not a tragedy for them to send a child to school because many families simply do not have 20, 30 dollars a day to feed the child. As a result, children do not eat, fall unconscious, and grow up without health. That's why we're trying to make changes to the budget and to restore state funding, and we're restoring the feeding of all Ukrainian children in schools. To avoid the fact that some children eat and some do not eat because their parents do not have a job or have no normal wages. Restoration of school meals at the expense of the state budget. Each day, the baby has a glass of milk, a spoon of honey, a lump of meat, so that they can see the meat more than once a year, but at least every day they eat a normal bursack and a normal glass of milk and honey. Then they will grow up healthy, successful, intelligent, and their parents will rejoice over their children. And the second, the key, is the restoration of vocational and technical education to make it work.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-09-06-m1.u100	Thank you. Colleagues, so the discussion is over. I'm asking everyone to come in. I go to non-fractionals separately, because often non-fractionals give more than some factions. I'm asking everyone to come into the hall right now and take part in this vote. Voting that applies to children and persons with special educational needs And I ask everyone to be very responsible, every vote will have meaning after this vote, to take part in the vote. So, colleagues, please prepare. Please invite the deputies to take up their jobs. And please prepare to make a decision. Colleagues, every voice, very carefully. Take your seats. So I'm voting on a draft Act amending some Ukrainian legislation on access to special educational services (No. 8556) by a committee on a basis. Colleagues, based on. Let's show all the halls unity and support. Please vote. I'd like your support, colleagues. We're voting on the basis. Please vote. Please be supportive. Vote. [[17:56:15]] For 236 The Committee requests immediately in general. No objections, colleagues? Vote. I'll do it. So, colleagues, I'm putting in draft Law 8556 on the access of persons with special educational needs to education services in second reading and in general with technical and legal rights. Let's support, let's vote, colleagues! Vote. Please be supportive. Vote, please. Vote. This will be the right decision. [[17:56:57]] For 226 The law is passed. I know how long the committee's been preparing this law. I know how important this is to the committee, but most importantly to those with special educational needs. And for today, I want to tell you, we've made more than 20 positive decisions, more than 20 positive decisions in one day we've made, it's rare when there are. Today we have worked very actively and actively, among them very important laws such as the changes to the statute and the greeting "Glory to Ukraine". That's why today will be the right day to end with the greeting of "The Glory of Ukraine." Thank you all for a successful day. Tomorrow at 10 a.m., I invite everyone into the hall to continue our work. And the evening session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, I declare closed.
