ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-18-m1.u1	Dear colleagues, please come into the hall and prepare for registration. Take up jobs. Before Santa's day, everyone's got to be nice, they've got a lot of work to do. So please come in and prepare for the busy work. So we can register? Everybody ready? So, if you'd like to conduct the registration, please take part in the registration. [[16:02:41]] 349 national deputies registered. I declare the evening plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine open. The next one is the day-to-day draft Decision on the award of the annual Supreme Council of Ukraine Prize to teachers of general education, vocational and technical, pre-school and extra-school institutions (No.9319). And I remind you, this is the second decision that came to us at the Conciliation Council, the head of the committee of Singer Alexander, supported by the entire hall. All we have to do is mobilize. I am the first to put to the vote the motion for a reduced procedure. Please vote. [[16:03:44]] For-59 The decision is not made. The hall is set up to consider the decision in full procedure. And so I invite you to report to the First Vice-Chairman of the Committee on Science and Education of Spiowakovsky Alexander Volodymirovich. Please, Mr. Alexander.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-18-m1.u2	Good afternoon, dear fellows! It is a great privilege to consider such a matter in full procedure. I understand that all the political forces are interested in discussing this issue comprehensively, and that is understandable. So, using my rules, I'm going to read the formal part, because the question was being considered by the Committee on Science and Education, and the members of the committee unanimously voted in favour of the ruling. And that's why I want to announce it, and then I want to talk about what we're not looking at in a formal way. In accordance with the Supreme Council of Ukraine Order on the establishment of the annual Supreme Council of Ukraine Prize for Educators, I emphasize that the general education schools are majors and listers, so that it is clear who will not vote on what he will say in the district – further – professional and technical; further on, pre-school, extra-school institutions, under No. 131-V of 14 September 2006. At its meeting on 21 November 2018, the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine reviewed the submission of local self-government bodies for the annual Supreme Council Award to teachers of general education, vocational and technical, pre-school and extra-school institutions. Dear colleagues, I'd like to say that this is 30 prizes of 20,000 dollars, just count it, it's 600,000 dollars, some of the colleagues have cars that cost a lot more than that bonus that we're going to be voting for right now. Regrettably, I am here to address my faulty colleagues, unfortunately for objective reasons, who are not in trouble with the Winniek District Council, which has not made a decision, and therefore, unfortunately, the committee has not been able to remove the nominee. So we're actually going to approve all of them in all of these areas, except for the Winnitz area, and I'm just paying attention, this is, by the way, this is a matter for district deputies to solve these issues. Now I want to say that any person, where as well as a family, where as a country, is always looking for a balance between debts that need to be paid for their past part of life, which we call current, and investments in the future, and we always find this balance. Today we're actually discussing investment, because when we invest in teachers and teachers, we understand that they will shape the future of Ukraine. Unfortunately, we still see that the maturity of the Supreme Council is very low, because if we were to consider issues that are not raw, if we were to consider issues that are not material, but when we were looking at the formation of a future human capital that would come back to view these times and look at this Supreme Council and say, were there people who thought about the future of Ukraine? Dear colleagues, I want us to understand, gas, oil, power distribution, CFC and everything else is fine, but, dear colleagues, for whom will this be for when young people continue to leave this country? Dear colleagues, I call upon everyone once again, be careful and watch, and set priorities, the country is looking at this direct meeting and it sees what priorities our colleagues have. The Supreme Council is the highest authority to make such decisions. And I want to say that if we don't vote for it today, not because those who sit here will be against it, they'll all be in favour. And if we don't vote it's going to be the first case in 11 years, when our teachers and teachers won't get it because the budget year is going to be over. And that's going to be an evaluation of how we care about our future. Dear colleagues! There's still time, we're talking in full, I think everyone will be able to say, say, what he thinks. But it is better to turn to our political powers. I'm going to Peter Prashenko's Block, whoever hears me on TV in their offices, come back, please, and give an example of who we should vote for, for our future. Other political forces will determine for themselves, but the people of Ukraine, the students, the teachers will evaluate our actions. Not for the current, but for the future of Ukraine. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-18-m1.u3	Thank you, please stay behind the rostrum. And I ask the honourable national deputies to prepare themselves to ask the rapporteur a question. Please hold the recording. I'd like to invite you to the floor of the People's Deputy Kuril.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-18-m1.u4	Dear National Deputies! Dear TV setters, listeners! The decision of the Supreme Council, which we must accept, is of great importance, primarily the moral and psychological significance, stressing that we care about teachers, we care about teachers in kindergartens. And for those who receive this reward, it also has a material incentive. Dear reporter, Alexander Volodymyrovich, I would like to ask you this question. How much do you think the Education Act, which we, the basic law, passed last year, prescribes a wage increase, first of all, how much is it done? And how much pedagogical pay today is worth.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-18-m1.u5	Thank you. Please answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-18-m1.u6	Thank you. Thank you for asking. Now I want to say that unfortunately, there is already such a tradition that we are adopting laws, laws that are either not being implemented or are being implemented in general, with great delays. And this is about the Science and Science and Technology Act, where we see that only two years later, three years after adoption, we actually started the National Research Fund. As far as the basic Education Act is concerned. I mean, you know, we've decided that by the 23rd year we have to get to four minimum salaries and then three. Four living minimums, and then three minimum wages. That means that a teacher who completes a pedagogical specialty should be getting 6,000 800 if we're taking into account this minimum of living. Unfortunately, we don't have that. That's why we see that today there are 112 future physics teachers in physics, 208 in chemistry, in mathematics.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-18-m1.u7	30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-18-m1.u8	Dear colleagues, simply, if we continue not to be able to comply with the basic standards of the Basic Education Act, we will never put young people's talent back in the classroom. It's very important, but there won't be a teacher -- there won't even be a national MP, or the national MP will be uneducated. So we have to say, starting from the following fiscal year, four living minimums and three years from now, three minimum salaries, as we voted here. That's my answer, unfortunately.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-18-m1.u9	Thank you. I'd like to invite you to the floor of the People's Deputy of Sporish.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-18-m1.u10	Ivan Sporish, Peter Dusty Block, Winnitzkin, 15th District. Of course, in the previous decision you voted, it's a bonus to our students, and it's a good thing that the whole room voted unanimously, and all the factions also voted. And we accepted it, this determination. And I would very much like the Supreme Council Prizes, in line with all the teachers, to be voted on as well. But here's the question. Please tell us that our faulty session of the district council has failed to deliver any pedagogical staff. You've worked it out and you've solved the matter on the committee. Is there a reason, do you know this reason, or perhaps they have failed, or have they not considered it at all? I think the committee's been looking into this. Please give an answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-18-m1.u11	Thank you. I want to say that all the other district councils have found the time and decided on this issue. This is a question like ours, you know, that this last resolution we voted three times, four months voted, and that's probably what happened there. That's a priority issue. If local deputies, district deputies believe that investment is a problem. small, but investing in teachers, teachers is a priority for the district council, they'll always find time. If it's not there, you know, education will always fall behind. Unfortunately, we understand very well, now is a difficult time in the country, now that much of the money is going to defend the country, we understand that we have a big hole in the Pension Fund -- we understand everything. But if you don’t invest in young people, it leaves and creates great added value abroad, not here, in Ukraine. So the key to solving these economic issues is investing in education, and education will see it, education will leave talented young people here, it will create great added value here in Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-18-m1.u12	Thank you, thank you to the reporter. We're moving on to a bill. I ask the distinguished national deputies to prepare themselves for discussion. Now we're going to have a discussion from the MP factions. Please record and participate in the discussion. Welcome to the speech of the Mellnik Sergey People's Deputies of "Peter Prashenko's Block."
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-18-m1.u13	187th District, Sergey Melnik, the city of Hmelnicki. Dear Alexander Volodymyrovich, I would like to pause at some of the algorithms for the award. It seems to me that you know better than anyone that 50 percent of a child’s success depends on a teacher’s work. And we have a lot of kids who are the winners of the Small Academy of Sciences, all-U.S. competitions. And I think it was more logical not to give district councils to the winners, but to identify those teachers and to join your committee and profile ministry, and to those teachers who work with these children, who are spending a lot of time ahead of schedule for these kids to become winners and, in fact, a lot of work. I think there's something here that needs to change the algorithm. District councils are district competitions, let them set their prizes and score at their own level. This is the highest prize that should be given to those who reach a certain level on a national level and have, and become the winner of all-U.S. Olympics and competitions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-18-m1.u14	Thank you. May I have a word with the People's Front of the People's Republic of Kremen?
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-18-m1.u15	Taras Kremen, People's Front. Dear colleagues, you and I have just gone to an apparently objective form of consideration of the very problem, which is that once a year, we will not solve the situation of better pedagogical or pedagogical workers with increased attention to the problems of pedagogical education. Just like we're not going to solve the situation with the fact that today there is a fundamental lack of funding for science and teaching staff, higher education institutions to pay for their work. Today, in some cases, the wages of my fellow professors or professors are to order, or perhaps even less than the salaries of teachers in general educational institutions. We have a similar problem with paying for extracurricular work. And what I want to remind you is that the National Center of the Small Academy of Sciences of Ukraine, which works in areas that support extra-school educational institutions, the tourism center, the district art buildings, unfortunately, they also have a lot of cash wages, and that's why we have a huge problem here. I'm not talking about preschool anymore. But what was I trying to stop at? First of all, I want to reiterate that, together with the annual award of the prize to the pedagogical workers, we keep the brand of our legislative body at the highest level and that this prize should be a high example of our attention not only in the amount but also in the system's decisions. I see them in that we increase our education subsidies every year, help our teachers feel more confident about this unfair world, come to school, and think about education, not how to get paid. Another important ingredient. Since January 1, 2019, representatives of the public education service will be active in many areas of Ukraine. And the issue of voluntary certification, and then of legal sequential certification of the skills, skills of our teachers, should have objective and reasoned effects on the level of their wages. I am absolutely in favour of having a review of both the scope of funding for bonuses and district councils and local councils, and perhaps the award should be given to the better pedagogical workers of the united territorial communities, who today are preparing not only the winners of the U.S., but also the international substantive Olympics. Not long ago in this room we listened to a brilliant performance by the winner of the Global Teacher Prize Ukraine by Paul Wheat. But I want to remind you that we have our own winner this year, Alexander Jacques of Zaporozhye, an information teacher from an boarding school who was conducting his masters in Ukraine a few days ago. How are such children provided, teachers, with what level of financial support and assistance? And finally. In the near future, we're going to have an all-U.S. Final "Teacher of the Year," which is also funded by the budget. We need to work with you in a comprehensive manner on this issue, and in this case, we need to support the decision to support our teaching staff.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-18-m1.u16	Thank you. I invite you to speak from the opposition block of the Shurma People's Deputies.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-18-m1.u17	Igor Shurma, Opposition Block. Before I express my thoughts on this draft Decision on the award of the annual Supreme Council Prize for Pedagogical Workers of Public Education, Vocational Technical, Preschool Institutions, I would like to say that the faction of the Opposition Block will support this bill. Although, you know, the soul doesn't have to support it. You know why? Because of this draft decree, it testifies to the attitude of our nation toward education. You see, in the presentation of the main reporter, there was this phrase: "The district councils should have priority, and investment in education should be an example." And you imagine the district council, you were someone at the session? Come to the district council, see how many teachers, teachers, and teachers are there. And you have to choose at most one person to receive the pitiful prize of the Supreme Council. It's like it's better. You can imagine, and what can you do to all those who are loyal to their profession, giving their soul, their knowledge to children in preschools, in schools, in schools? They don't deserve it? Why is it that a person from Ukraine who travels abroad is needed there? We're always being told that our education is bad, that our doctors are bad, that they're learning here. Sixty thousand doctors left. Why do our educators leave and take care of themselves? And for you, it's not an example of a better teacher of Ukraine in his time, it's quite recent in our cadence, 15th or 16th year, I don't remember right now, I left Ukraine and went to England. Do you think she's teaching anyone there? I don't think so. I think she's looking after someone. This is the level of attitude in our country towards the problems of education. And for me, the Supreme Council today, looking at the prizes, the scholarships for the students and considering this draft decision, should not be talking about the allocation of the pathetic 15 million to support the better: both those who are learning and those who are learning. Today, hundreds of millions must be allocated, and they can be found. See, only the Ministry of Health this year has made a 16 - year agreement with American experts to evaluate students in Ukraine’s medical facilities, and that is the case everywhere. The 16 million needed to be given, not by the Ministry of Health, but by education. And to support a rural teacher and to see what conditions those students are learning there? We will, but this determination shows how we feel about education in Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-18-m1.u18	Thank you. I invite you to speak with the Radical Party of Oleg Lášek of the People's Deputy, Oleg Lášk.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-18-m1.u19	The Radical Party faction will support the draft Order on the award of the annual Supreme Council Prize to pedagogical workers, but such people throughout the country are 28 people. By the way, the bonus is less than the monthly salary of a national deputy. I propose, by taking a decision in general, that the prize should be no less than the monthly salary of the national deputy to the teachers who are awarded the Supreme Council. That's the right thing to do. Because giving money bonuses to the country’s better educators rather than investing, those countries have a future that invests in health and education. What does modern - day authority do? She invests in judges and prosecutors. Teachers, doctors are told there is no pay, judges have 300,000 dollars per month of wages. To the prosecutors today, he again made a decision, raising 25 percent to the prosecutors. That's not where you invest, gentlemen, who are in power. So the first thing we're going to do after the presidential election, we're going to review the budget, we're going to radically change the priorities of public policy. Wages will be raised for teachers, doctors, preschool teachers, unfortunately few mention them as social workers, since they are people who depend on the future of Ukrainian children: both education and health. As the people say, "If you're sick and stupid, no one needs you." It is vital that our nation, young people, be educated, healthy, and have a future. We specifically require the government to cancel their decision on how to finance vocational and technical education into local budgets. As a result, many professional and technical facilities have been closed throughout the country, especially in my own Chernig. The priority of public policy in the focus of government attention should be education policy. It's the state's responsibility, not the local budgets. So funding for vocational and technical education should only be made at the expense of the state budget, not the local budgets. Local budgets should address those issues locally. And the government should be responsible, along with employers, for training professional staff. Because we have economists and lawyers at every center. Then these talented kids with the degree of economist, the lawyer on the market, they trade. And the country lacks builders, carpenters, mechanics, miners, metallurgists, teachers, doctors. We need to train those who earn money to feed their families, not with three diplomas of higher education in markets. Thus, a radical change in the state’s approach to education will give the country the opportunity to have a future. In the new year, with a new policy. And the treatment of teachers, of teachers, of those who shape the future of our nation. A radical change in the budget, a radical increase in wages and support, and attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-18-m1.u20	I'd like to invite you to speak to the "Rebirth Party" Group of People's Deputies Billowol. Please, People's Deputy Litwin, right?
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-18-m1.u21	Dear National Deputies! Who met the meeting schedule for this plenary week, see the Friday that is proposed for consideration. A draft decree amending the Ukrainian Supreme Council Order on the appointment in the 16th year of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's nominees for the most talented young scientists. The draft committee was presented on December 22, 2016. We are just before 2019. The Supreme Council has not been able to consider this issue of education in two years. And we're here to convince each other that we need to take a decision from the Supreme Council to celebrate those teachers who show examples of love, professional approach to children. But we don't want to pay attention to the main obvious problem -- it's the end of the year, in many areas and schools, there's not enough pay fund, that's the question of the state budget. An example. Baranja, Baranja City Council In November, the month was short of 2.8 million dollars. I had to run, I had to swear. They redistributed the money, paid it, and closed it. The same thing will happen in December. And this shows that the Supreme Council of Ukraine adopts irresponsible laws, including the Education Act, which is not being implemented at all. We are essentially in the matter of our own weak decisions and treaty policy, as demonstrated by the Supreme Council of Ukraine in part of the parliamentary coalition, we go about destroying the education system in Ukraine. I think that before December 19, many deputies will be leaving, especially those who plan to travel to the Presidents, to the Supreme Council, to give gifts to their children. Please take a look at first class and see the pathetic New Ukrainian School, where teachers who brought carpets brought pillows and showed that it was the New Ukrainian School. There's no party! There are no visual aids! There are no textbooks! New Ukrainian school! Let's at least make that decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-18-m1.u22	Thank you. And I'd like to invite you to join the Self-Help faction of the People's Deputy Anna Romanov.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-18-m1.u23	Dear people of Ukraine! Dear colleagues! "The Self-Help Union, of course, stands for education. But including "The Self-Help Union," acting as an educator, doesn't always go so far as to vote in favour of these decisions and not vote in favour of a budget that doesn't take into account the needs of education. We did not vote in favour of this 2019 budget. Why? And because it has this budget on January 1, 19th, you know how many deficits there will be on the payroll of 13 areas of Ukraine, the deficit in education is one billion dollars. Now, the government, in order to pay teachers by the end of the year, is redistributing funds and cynically writing an article on the government's website entitled: "The government guarantees salaries to teachers." But you know where they got the money, where they redistributed it to give people a salary in the new year? They took 228,000. Oh, 228 million from the New Ukrainian School program. 120 million of them have benefited from funding for local budgets for people with special educational needs. I mean, it's not a concession to the students, it's actually when they took from the same educational need for people with autism, Down's syndrome, and they pay teachers for it. If you look at the budget that most of the hall voted for and didn't have to vote in November, you had to make sure that our students were provided. If we look at this budget, the New Ukrainian School is underfunded by 100 million dollars. And here's the question of priorities, not just for executive power, but for us. You didn't have to take the budget so fast, you didn't have to push the green button. If we're saying that education is not in the top priority right now, we're going to have to give up voting to a budget where there's a complete zeroing of education needs, until the budget is formed from these needs until the educators enter as a priority. So let us be true when we go out to this rostrum. Self-help will only vote for a budget that first takes into account the interests of education, medicine, vulnerable social groups. It's just... it's not the way it is now.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-18-m1.u24	30 seconds, please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-18-m1.u25	So I am very much asking you to vote for these awards. And to respond constructively, systematically and responsibly to this microphone and to this rostrum when statements are made. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-18-m1.u26	Thank you. We're moving on to a discussion from the National Deputies. I ask the distinguished national deputies to prepare themselves. Please hold the recording. I'd like to invite you to the floor of the People's Deputy Kuril.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-18-m1.u27	Dear National Deputies! Dear voters! We are really considering a very important decision that both morally and financially supports the best educators in Ukraine. And that's very important because the profession of a teacher is a major in the state. We trust the teacher with the most valuable – our children. And thanks to our skillful teaching work, we also have scientists, and we also have deputies. Therefore, the support of teachers, the identification of better teachers, is very important. One school principal from Lysicanska used to tell me, "We don't care that much about teachers, the wages, but give us, as before, the flag on the tractor, mark us, and we'll work much better, and we'll do better." That's why this prize is like the flag that we're celebrating better teachers, because they're going to realize that they really mean something to the state, to society, to their region, to their educational institution. In this system, I agree with the preceding ones, there are many imperfect things to determine this better. I think there's a lot of approaches here, including when you define a better teacher as a profession -- you can do that. You can look at the external independent evaluation in five years, which is the best subject, you can easily identify better mathematics, a better philosopher in Ukraine, but that's not even the case. What we have may not be entirely satisfying. And I also agree with the statement that that amount of payment, it may not be as high as it would like to be, but let's at least get together today and vote for what it is. Because I have the impression that we may not have enough votes today to confirm this decision. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-18-m1.u28	Thank you. I would like to invite you to the floor of the People's Deputy Illenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-18-m1.u29	Andrew Illenko, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union, the city of Kiev. Honorable colleagues, Ukrainians, certainly need to vote in favour of this decision, this is the least that the Supreme Council of Ukraine can do for Ukrainian teachers, for Ukrainian teachers in this situation. Because, in fact, we understand how difficult today, sometimes incredibly complicated, they continue their work, they continue to do it for all of us, for the benefit of society. Because this is the future of our country, it's being shaped in schools, and we have to realize that. I urge everyone to vote in favour, the only thing is that it's very sad that we have a working day today, even though we have so many people's deputies sitting in the Supreme Council, unfortunately we don't have the results of the vote. In particular, on such obvious issues as this decision. That's why I think today we should call on all the national MPs to come to the hall and vote in favour.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-18-m1.u30	Thank you. And I'd like to invite you to the floor of the People's Deputy of Dombrovsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-18-m1.u31	Dear colleagues! Viennese, 11th constituency, Alexander Dombrovski. I don't think there will be any national MPs in our parliamentary room today who won't support this bill. I am absolutely convinced that there is a range of rewards for teachers and the amount of premium that we could give to increase. But at the same time, to some extent, my native Winnitsky area was excused for the sad mistake that came out of this rostrum today. As the man who gave the town of Winnitz, as the city's head and the Winnitz region very, very many years, perhaps the best years of his life. I'd like to say from this high rostrum that Winnitzkin has a huge, deep tradition of supporting education and supporting better teachers from the best. Both those who work in schools and who work in rural and urban schools and those who work in universities. I want to give an example that for 25 years at Winnitz we have been conducting an international tournament of champions where we are gathering the best schools, the best teams in physics, mathematics and information. It's an elite of Ukrainian technical thought. And given today that progress, innovation, technology are concentrated in engineering. I think by voting for this bill, supporting teachers, we need to realize that today we need to pay great attention to technical engineering disciplines. We need to talk today about a catastrophic situation with subjects like chemistry, with subjects like mathematics, with objects like physics, and we need to be clear, if there are no classroom teachers who can give science and education in such subjects, we will not have a higher education. And accordingly, we will never have a higher school. So I ask all the MPs to support this bill, because it is very important not only for those teachers who receive this Supreme Council award, but it is important for this Ukrainian education system and for our future generations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-18-m1.u32	So, colleagues, the discussion is over, in two minutes we're moving on to making a decision. And I ask all the factions to invite deputies to the Hall, the Secretariat of the Supreme Council, please inform the deputies that we are moving on to a decision-making process. Now, the closing words of Sperm Alexander Volodymyrovich, and we move on to the vote. So, colleagues, I ask all the factions to invite deputies to the hall. And I invite you to the conclusion of the First Vice-Chairman of the Committee on Science and Education of Singer Alexander Volodymyrovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-18-m1.u33	Good afternoon! Once again, I want to thank completely all the political forces, all the colleagues for the speeches that have shown once again that, including our committee of profile, the Committee on Science and Education should, in fact, work on the algorithms that are appropriate. We've just raised these questions on the committee, that's what algorithms are all about. We really agree that the procedure can be imperfect, but on the other hand, understand that the secretariats that we have are 8-9 people, we don't have the ability to create appropriate expert groups to do this. Thus, since 2006, it has been a tradition for the district council to decide the issues and nominees, and a suitable working group has been formed to make decisions. That's the first one. Secondly, I completely agree with the fact that 20,000 dollars today at this level of inflation is really a very small figure to say that we are investing significantly in our teachers. So if the observations we have heard have such a basis, then we are ready to consider and make appropriate proposals to change the decision-making process, and accordingly the figures that will be rewarded to our teachers. Thanks again for the discussion. I very much hope that all my colleagues will immediately appear in this room and vote. This vote is a signal before we move on to 2019. This is a signal to our teachers, to those who really create our future in Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-18-m1.u34	Thank you. So I also hope that MPs will appear. And, colleagues, I'd like everyone to take a seat, come into the hall. And whoever's in the beds to get you to vote, I ask you to take up your jobs. Colleagues, please come into the hall. The discussion is over, we move on to the decision-making process. You're ready, aren't you? Please come in. And I put to the vote a draft decree on the award of the annual Supreme Council of Ukraine Prize to teachers of general education, vocational engineering, pre-school and extra-school institutions (No. 9319) at the proposal of a committee on the basis and as a whole. Please vote, please support. Vote, colleagues, support. Please go to the workplace. Vote. [[16:45:22]] For 207 I'll put it back on the table, but please return to the hall, colleagues, and during the vote, take part in the vote. I'll read the factions and ask everyone to come to the hall. "Block of Petra Poshenko" – 79, "National Front" – 51, "Opposition Block" – 17, "self-help" – 12, Radical Party – 13, "Fatherhood" – 5, "will of the people" – 2, "Party of Rebirth" – 7, "non-fractional" – 21. Colleagues, please come into the hall and take your seats during the vote, please be in the workplace. I'm going to put the first vote back, and then I'm going to put the vote again. Don't leave the hall, colleagues. So I'm voting on the proposal to go back to Project Decree 9319. Please take part in the vote and please support the return vote, colleagues. Let's wait, let's wait. Vote, colleagues, return, support, vote. [[16:46:54]] For 226 We're back. Now I ask everyone to be in the workplace, we have a voice to each other. Everyone, please prepare and take part in the vote. So, colleagues, come in and I'll put to the vote the Bill of Decree 9319, at the suggestion of the committee, on the basis and in general. Please vote, colleagues, every vote, please support, vote, support, vote. [[16:47:40]] For 233 It's been decided. Welcome to both the committee and all the employees. Colleagues, pay attention! The next in the daytime is 7306 and 9284. The authors ask them to take them off, and this will enable us to do so. [[B in m in s a l in]] Colleagues, this allows us to move immediately on to the issue of resisting bulling. This is a question that will unite the entire hall, which will be able to assemble the entire hall, which is relevant. We don't have much time left. Colleagues, we're planning to get through. Listen carefully. We have little rights on the bulling. Then we have to use safety belts -- very few rights. And we're going to be able to get to the support of coal miners. [[B in m in s a l in]] But you're interested in getting us to support the coal sector. We're going to lose an hour of time, and the miners are going to lose their wages. Who should have a heartache over miners, you or me? And you and I are supposed to have a heartache over miners! So, colleagues, let's both support the miners and support the bulling. Now there will be three questions in the second reading. They're very short, colleagues, so I'm asking you not to break up. They're really, really short, just a few rights. The first is a draft of the Law amending some of the Ukrainian legislative acts against bulling (8584) (second reading). And once again, I invite you to report to the First Vice-Chairman of the Committee on Science and Education of Singer Alexander Volodymyrovich. Please. And, colleagues, so that we can get through more questions, that's why we're all interested. Please, Mr. Alexander.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-18-m1.u35	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I, first of all, want to say. The question that we are considering may concern each of you. Each of you has a child. Each of you will be. someone today has, someone will have a grandson or granddaughter, and I want to say that this is a question that will go through everyone. So the meaning of what we're looking at applies to every Ukrainian. Unfortunately, such a disgraceful phenomenon as bulling, the Ukrainian beautiful word "rape," is unfortunately there. And I want to be here, and I'm asking my colleagues that bulling and bullying are different things. The bulling, as documented by the UNICEF analysis, refers to 67 percent of Ukrainian children. So in fact, every two children out of three are facing this problem in one way or another. Dear colleagues, we do a very big job: for the first time, we define such a disgraceful phenomenon and we provide tools to solve these problems. I would just like to say that between the first and second readings, a working group was set up, including the Ministry of Education and Science of Ukraine, including the National Police of Ukraine, including the Ministry of Education and Science of Ukraine, including the Ministry of Health and so on. This question has been studied, and now I want to say that 88 amendments have been made. Of these, 29 are complete, 4 is editorial, 37 is partial, and 18. So we've taken almost 80 percent of what we've been offered. Dear colleagues, if we vote today, it will be a very powerful presidency for us to resolve the issue of such a disgraceful phenomenon as harassment in Ukraine. I'm asking you very much. You have all the materials you need. And I want to say that we very much hope that the Supreme Council of Ukraine will today be able to unite, regardless of its political preferences, and make that decision. We realize that nothing is perfect in the world. There may also be problems in this bill, but 99.9 percent thanks to the committee’s work, thanks to the participation of all interested persons, we made the right and the right decision. I want to thank the lead author, my colleague Mrs. Bilozer, for introducing this bill. And I think we can get our education to a new level. Thank you all for that.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-18-m1.u36	Thank you. Colleagues, I'm going to read the papers, I'm going to have a big request, if there's no urgent need, not to insist that we go through the discussion quickly, and as long as there's mobilization in the room, we've been able to support it. So I'm going to read the adjustments that are rejected. 6th. Don't insist. 10th. Don't insist. 12th. Please, Pinzenik.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-18-m1.u37	Dear colleagues, I'd like to ask for confirmation of the 9 and 11. They refer to questions that were not considered in the first reading. The regulations of the Supreme Council of Ukraine prohibit the second reading of questions that were not accepted or considered in the first reading. Please bet on confirmation.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-18-m1.u38	Please, Mr. Alexander.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-18-m1.u39	Dear colleagues, well, we just agreed, we agreed that we should take into account the observations that are in order to make these decisions. I'm just saying again, I understand your insistence, I'm just asking you to understand, the Committee on Science and Education was working absolutely openly: we set up a working group, all the interested people came, discussed the issue, voted by the working group, and then on the committee it was discussed. Dear colleagues, after all, have a form, and there is a meaning. We agreed on these questions in the context. I really don’t want the appropriate confirmation to affect the decision - making process in any way. So, yeah.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-18-m1.u40	You insist, don't you? So I'm betting on confirmation of amendment number nine, the committee's asking her to support it. Whoever supports Amendment 9 please vote. It's for confirmation. [[16:54:54]] For 106 The decision is not made. Now I'm betting on confirmation of amendment 11, and the committee is asking her to support it. Please vote. [[16:55:14]] For-92 The decision is not taken. 12 rules, Levechenko. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-18-m1.u41	Lewchenko, Freedom, 223rd District, Kiev. Of course, there is something to be done about harassment. Especially the fact that we are seeing more and more now, the videos that are being uploaded to the Internet, how children are being bullied by other children. We have to react to this somehow. But unfortunately, the bill's proposal to define bullying or bulling is completely blurry and will be arbitrarily treated. This term does not correspond to the principle of legal certainty. Its application by various legal entities can be ambiguous and can be viewed as a matter of course. Actually, frankly, as you've prescribed the term "building," it's not going to be properly, the question will not be solved. What is more, innocent people may suffer and the guilty may not suffer at all. So we propose to define clearly the term "buling," to give it a clear definition of a new term as: "psychological pressure in the form of insults, humiliations, threats, ignorings, etc. and/or physical abuse by the task of beatings, shocks, humiliating physical contact, beatings, etc., with the aim of humiliation, domination, physical or psychological self-determination, which has signs of conscious cruelty." The thing is. Please, give me 10.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-18-m1.u42	30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-18-m1.u43	The point is that in the original version of where you say, where you propose and prescribe that bulling is "moral or physical violence, aggression" and it's still going through the text, part of your definition, it's "moral violence," it has no legal definition at all, it's impossible in court to prove. And what's related to physical violence is now covered by the notion of "hulliganism." So you're not bringing anything new. And that definition won't solve the problem. So I'm going to ask you to take this into account, to give you a clearer definition of harassment or bulling.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-18-m1.u44	Please, Mr. Alexander.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-18-m1.u45	I thank you for your point of view. Once again, the amendments made by the author – the reasoning of the working group and the committee – the amendments made by the author do not cover the entire circle of participants in the bulling (rape) of the educational process, nor do they define all the components of the administrative offence, which may lead to its ambiguous treatment when the court has made the relevant decisions. And I'm just reminding you again. You see, I read, those experts who were from the Ministry of Education, the Ministry of Social Policy of Ukraine, the Ministry of Justice of Ukraine, the National Police of Ukraine, the Commissioner for Children's Rights, the National Academy of Peduncos of Ukraine, the Association of Cities of Ukraine, public organizations. Dear colleagues, I understand your point of view, but the working group was formed by experts, so they voted. That means they see it that way. The committee supported an expert point of view. So thank you for your position, but the committee voted as it voted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-18-m1.u46	So I'm putting to the vote 12 people's deputies, Lewchenk. Whoever supports it, please vote. The committee turned her down. [[16:58:31]] Z-71 The decision is not taken. Next up, 16th. Don't insist. 21st. Don't insist. 23rd. Oksana Prodan insists. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-18-m1.u47	Dear colleagues, thank you to the drafters for their preparation, thank you to the committee for taking most of my rights into account, because that's the right thing to do, I think. At the same time, I would like to draw the attention of all of us now to the fact that it was with my amendment that I proposed to remove 23 from the bill. I propose removing the responsibility of parents, the financial responsibility of parents for committing crimes by minors. Why am I talking about this? Because if an unwholesome family has a problem with children’s behavior, it turns out that these children will be ordered one more time because they have a difficult family situation. So I don't think this article in this bill, in the right bill, should be. And I'm asking for the 23rd amendment to vote. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-18-m1.u48	Thank you. So I'm voting on Amendment 23. Whoever supports it, please vote. The committee turned her down. Please. [[16:59:59]] For-79 The decision is not taken. 25th. 21st. 21st. Please, Anointed.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-18-m1.u49	Andrew Pomazanov, People's Front faction. You know, number 21 is the same as number 17 is mine, same thing as 17 is written in partial terms, it was about increasing fines. So is the 21 revisions that were written by the "refused" committee, but I think that's something that needs to be taken into account because it foresees an increase in fines. We all realize that today a phenomenon such as bulling, harassing, or whatever else we call it, can be punished by parents or persons who replace them with solely punitive sanctions. If we set a limit of not more than 1 thousand 700 dollars, I don't think that this sum could scare anyone, and this whole thing as harassment is going to continue. For today, I think we need to increase these sanctions. Unfortunately, the committee, both in this direction and in others that I propose to increase the fines, unfortunately, does not support them. I think that this moment can balance the law and not actually give the required number of votes for it. Thank you. Please vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-18-m1.u50	Thank you. Please, Mr. Alexander.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-18-m1.u51	Honorable colleagues and a respected colleague! I want to say right now, I personally think we need to increase fines, but it was a subject of hard discussion. Look, we have a very clear rule on the committee, each one, including the head of the committee, has a point of view. But after discussion, they voted on the committee to make such a decision. I also think it's small, but it's the first step, it's already parents and kids are going to think that even 1 thousand 700 or 3 thousand 400 dollars should pay this fine. We should take the first step toward the material consequences of such unwholesome conduct. So the committee made that decision, and we voted for it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-18-m1.u52	Do you insist on voting? I'm putting to the vote Amendment 21, and the committee has rejected it, who supports it, please vote. [[17:02:24]] For-88 The decision is not made. 25th. Don't insist. 27th. Don't insist. 33rd. Don't insist. 35th. 40th. 41st. 42nd, Levenchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-18-m1.u53	Lewchenko, Freedom, 223rd District, Kiev. This is my amendment, it's written that it's partially accounted for, in fact, it's completely unaccounted for. This refers to the same definition of bulling, the harassment that I was talking about in the first amendment. Sadly, my first amendment was not included. And I would just like to respond to the words of the reporter who quoted many experts, some respected experts, and some, in my personal opinion, to me personally, completely disrespected experts, so-called experts. But the point is, these experts didn't go on similar cases in court. And they didn't face most of the time or make the appearance that they didn't face, the very "just" (in paws), the "human" Ukrainian and the "honest" court (in paws) -- everything in paws. And the Ukrainian humane and fair court, when you give it absolute legal uncertainty, always makes a decision that is not in favor of justice. He solves matters against justice. And that's why this Ukrainian court should be given the most precise definition of "human" and "honest" (in quotes). And unfortunately, what you're proposing in this bill is completely inaccurate and absolutely will not solve this problem.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-18-m1.u54	Do you insist on voting? I'm betting on the vote 42, it's part of the committee, but the author insists on accepting it completely. Who supports the author, please vote. [[17:04:24]] Z-62 The decision is not made. 54th. 60th. 67th. 68th. 81st. 82nd. Please, Victor Pinzenik, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-18-m1.u55	Dear colleagues, I'd like to ask you for confirmation of the 83-, 84-, 85-, 86-, 87- and 88-. The profile committee violated the law by including these amendments in a comparative table. Article 116 of the Rules allows for the granting of rights only to those laws that were voted on in the first reading. None of these standards were voted on in the first reading. Please put to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-18-m1.u56	Please, Mr. Alexander. And, colleagues, this is actually a final vote, in two minutes we'll move on to making a decision. And I ask all the factions to invite deputies into the hall, in two or three minutes we will move on to making a decision. Please, Mr. Alexander.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-18-m1.u57	Dear Mr. Victor! I answer very simply, there is such a norm, there is an opportunity between the first and second readings of the committee to make the relevant amendments, then on the committee to vote that we did, i.e. we complied with the rule of the Rules, and after the approval of those rights, we voted on them. That's why we think there's a proper coalition, but we're looking at the Colosseum that the Committee has the right to approve new amendments, to table and vote what we've done. We haven't violated any form or substance of the law, it's your right to bet on confirmation, but once again, I want to say, great work by experts, great work by experts to take all these things into account, okay? But as a national MP, you have the right to put and break or not to break the philosophy of this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-18-m1.u58	Everyone, please come into the hall. So I'm going to put it separately on every amendment for confirmation. It's the approval number 83. Whoever supports this amendment, please vote, the committee supports it, we vote. [[17:07:14]] For-79 The decision is not made. 84th, for confirmation. The committee supports it, I ask you to vote. And, colleagues, invite the deputies into the hall. [[17:07:34]] For-74. The decision is not made. 85th, to be confirmed, the committee's backing her up. Whoever supports the committee, please vote. Vote. [[17:07:55]] For-88 The decision is not made. 86th, for confirmation. The committee supports who supports it, I ask you to vote. Vote. [[17:08:15]] For-82 82. The decision is not made. 87th, for confirmation. The committee supports who is in favour of the vote. [[17:08:37]] For-86 The decision is not made. And, colleagues, now we're going to vote on the final amendment. Then we move on to making a decision. I'm asking you very much. We don't have a whole wing. People's deputies. Colleagues, I'm asking everyone to mobilize, come into the hall and ask the factions to invite the deputies into the hall. In one minute, we'll move on to making a decision. I'm asking everyone to come into the hall, and I'm now putting 88 votes to the vote for confirmation. The committee supports who supports it, please vote. Vote. [[17:09:30.]] For 106 106. The decision is not made. So, colleagues, we've finished the discussion and we're moving on to making a decision. So I ask everyone to take up their jobs, get out of the government's beds and go into the hall. Please invite all the deputies from the towers into the hall, please, colleagues. We're moving on to making a decision. And I'm voting on the draft Act amending some of Ukraine's legislative acts against bulling (No. 8584) as proposed by the second-reading committee and as a whole. Please vote, please support. Please take part in the vote. Vote. Please be supportive. [[17:10:48]] For a hundred and Colleagues, I'm going to put it on the way back, and I'm going to read the factions so that I can mobilize. And please invite the deputies to the hall. Peter Poshenko's Block – 86, People's Front – 48, Opposition Block – 18, Self-help – 10, Radical Party – 1, Parenthood – 6. "The will of the people" is 1, "The Rebirth Party" is 7, "the non-factional" is 17. Colleagues, perhaps, are there circumstances under which you would support them? I'm asking my colleagues at the Radical Party, there might be some circumstances for you to support. Oksano. The Radical Party doesn't vote. So I'm going to put it back. Please do not leave the hall or enter the hall. So the first vote for the return. And I am voting on the proposal to go back to voting for the draft Act amending some of the Ukrainian legislative acts against bulling (No. 8584). Please vote, please support the return. Vote, please. Vote, support! [[17:12:58]] For 209 Dynamics are good, colleagues. Yes, gather, gather all the will of the people, all together! And "Our End" bring it in. Colleagues, be responsible! So look who's not around, call. Well, there aren't a couple of deputies out of fact. Come on, I'll wait 30 seconds. Please, colleagues, it's not. Irresponsibly! It's the fate of our children, and unfortunately, we have these facts in schools today -- child abuse. And we have a chance to take a step today so that we don't let it go on. How can we do anything else in such a vote? Look who's gone, call me, invite me to the hall. I'm going to read by factions, "Peter Prashenko's Block" is 87, "The People's Front" is 55, "The Opposition Block" is 18, "The Self-Help" is 11, "The Radical Party" is 8. Very positive that they joined! "Paternal" is 6, "Will of the People" is 2, "The Rebirth Party" is 8, non-fractional is 14. I need more, colleagues! You need more non-fractional and a few votes than each faction. See to it that everyone participates carefully in the vote, so that everyone is in his place of work during the vote. So I want to stress that the first vote is going to be for the return, and then we're going to put it all together. I'd like you to come into the hall from the bed, because you're just not going to be able to vote. Everyone please take up their jobs. Not everyone's in the workplace yet. Please, keep busy. You're ready, aren't you? They took up all the jobs. So the first vote is for the return. I am voting on the proposal to return to the vote in favour of the draft Act amending certain Ukrainian legislation on resistance to bulling (No.8584). Please vote, please support, support our children, our schoolchildren. Please vote, vote, support, vote. [[17:16:08]] For 228 We're back. Now let's move on to the decision-making process, colleagues, please. Thank you very much, everyone's been mobilized. So I put to the vote draft Law 8584 on the proposal of a committee in second reading and in general. Please vote, please support, vote, colleagues, responsibly and in agreement. We support Ukrainian children, we vote as a basis in the second reading and in general, we vote. [[17:16:55]] For 228 The law is passed. Congratulations, fellows! And I want to warn you, the next two laws are very short, very short, there on one or two sides, so please don't go away. Next. Draft Act amending article 121 of the Code on Administrative Offences (to reduce mortality and trauma on Ukraine's roads by increasing the use of safety belts and motorcycles) (8492). From the committee, who will report from the committee? It's a pantyhose.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-18-m1.u59	Palamarchuk, Heratschenko, who will report from the committee? Palamarczuk, please report. What took you so long? You've seen the law. Please. There are only two deductions here, colleagues. Only two revisions are rejected. So I ask, colleagues, more intensively, to report in a concise manner so that we can move on to the decision-making process.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-18-m1.u60	Dear Mr. Head! Dear colleagues! For your consideration, a comparative table of the draft Ukrainian Law amending article 121 of the Code of Administrative Offences (to reduce mortality and trauma on Ukraine's roads by increasing the use of safety belts and motorcycles) (No. 8492), prepared by the committee for second reading, is proposed. The bill was adopted by the Supreme Council of Ukraine on September 18, 2018. The project proposes to increase the responsibility for violating the rules on the use of seat belts and motorcycles 15 times and to set it at 50 untaxed minimum citizens’ income, i.e. to raise the fine from 51 bracelets to 850 bracelets. In all, six suggestions came to the committee: two committees suggested counting, four suggested rejecting. Thus, the committee decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine the adoption of a bill, registration number 8492, in second reading and generally as a law. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-18-m1.u61	So I call the adjustments the ones that are rejected. Just a couple of right-handers turned down. Stay where you are, please. 2nd. Don't insist. Third. Don't insist. Four. He insists. Lechenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-18-m1.u62	Lechenko, Freedom.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-18-m1.u63	I'll ask right away. 5th. You'll insist, won't you? Please, Lechchenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-18-m1.u64	Lewchenko, Freedom, 223 District, Kiev City. The point is that this bill and my amendment are just trying to solve the problem that very often happens in this room. In an effort to do the right thing, this bill balances legislation in a different direction. The point is that in other parts of article 121, KUPAP, which does not change the bill, is administrative offences that have no minor or even greater social harm. For example, it's about driving a vehicle that has malfunctions in the brake or steering system, the tractor, the external lighting equipment or other technical failures that prohibit its operation in accordance with the established rules. And this is no less a major offense than the one mentioned in the project. However, the penalty for such a violation is, and once the bill is passed, there will be 20 non-taxable minimums of citizens' income, that is, less than the fine for the violation that we are currently considering. It is logical indeed to raise the fines for a violation that we are currently considering, but at the same time to raise the fines for larger socially significant violations, not to leave them smaller than they are now after this offence. That's ridiculous, and it's totally not answering.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-18-m1.u65	30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-18-m1.u66	Ten seconds. And accordingly, if you leave a bill like that, it will. then the principle of the conformity of the nature and harmfulness of the infringement of the size of the administrative assembly will be violated. So please consider the bill and raise fines for all violations that are even more serious than what we are currently considering. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-18-m1.u67	Please, Mr. Mikolo.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-18-m1.u68	Yes, an honourable colleague, a distinguished national MP, you raise your questions that you raise, have room. And you rightly say that you have to take responsibility for everyone, but the committee has concluded that your proposal is contrary to article 116 of the Supreme Council Rules. And that's why we didn't count, just because. And exactly what you're saying is, yes, we need to pick up for other offences. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-18-m1.u69	Do you insist on voting? No, you're on. You insist on voting, don't you? So I'm going to vote number four. The committee turned her down. Whoever supports it, I ask you to vote. [[17:22:10]] For-100 The decision is not made. Next. 5th, Sold. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-18-m1.u70	Dear Andriy Volodymyrovich, reverend Mikolo Petrovich, distinguished colleagues! I suggest you don't put 50 numbers on it, but 10. Not 850 fines, 170 dollars. I'm telling you why. The same amount of fine exists today both in safety belts and in helmets that are required to wear motorcycles. I can’t remember the last time I saw a motorcycle without a helmet because people realize that it’s their safety and their lives. All we have to do today is explain to people how much security is needed, but not allow corruption for those who will fine and take bigger bribes if the fine is bigger. So please support this amendment and leave a fine, set a fine of 170 dollars. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-18-m1.u71	Thank you. I'm betting on the vote number 5 of the People's Chamber of Commerce. The committee turned her down. Anyone who supports it, please vote. Let's vote, colleagues. And I'd like everyone to come in, take jobs. Fellows, don't leave the hall, come in. [[17:23:32]] For 118 The decision is not made. And, colleagues, it's final. In a minute, we'll move on to making a decision. Look who's gone, invite me to the hall. Final amendment, Anton Gerashchenko, and then we move on to the adoption of the law as a whole. Turn on Anton Heraszczenko's microphone and invite MPs into the hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-18-m1.u72	Dear colleagues, this is a very strong vote. It's a vote to save thousands of lives every day. Because we have a lot of people forget to wear seat belts because the fine is only 51 bracelets. I very much ask you, all factions, major MPs, non-fractional deputies to support this law. We need to introduce increased responsibility for this, not to fill the budget, but to get people into safety belts and to preserve their lives and the lives of their passengers.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-18-m1.u73	Thank you. So let's move on to making a decision. Colleagues, every voice is going to be very important right now, so I'm going to ask you to come into the hall and take your jobs. We're done here, we're moving on to a decision. And I am voting on the draft Act amending article 121 of the Code of Administrative Offences (for the reduction of mortality and trauma on Ukraine's roads) as proposed by the Committee on second reading and in general. Please vote and please support. Let's vote, colleagues. We're backing it up. Vote. We're backing it up. Vote. [[17:25:29]] For 185 I'll be back. I'm going to read the factions. But too big a breakup, colleagues, too big a breakup. So, Peter Poshenko Block 75, People's Front 51, Opposition Block 8, Self-help 12, Radical Party 6, Parenthood 7, People's Will 2, Rebirth Party 6, non-fractional, 18. Colleagues, now that there is no discipline, the law can be broken. Please come into the hall and prepare for the vote. So you're ready, right? I propose to return to draft Law 8492. Please vote for the return to the draft Law 8492. Please vote and please support. Vote. [[17:27:04]] For 186 The voices don't get any bigger, do they? Colleagues, I'm going to put it again, please prepare for the vote, this is going to be the third time. By factions, show them to see. So I'm voting on the proposal to go back to draft Law 8492. Please vote and please support. Vote. Please be supportive. Vote. [[17:27:59]] For a hundred and 194. 30 votes, 32 votes. Fellows, I'll put it again, but this is going to be a closing call. I'm asking the committee members to look and help. I'll read the factions. Block of Peter Poshenko – 78, National Front – 53, Opposition Block – 12, Self-help – 13, Radical Party – 5, Fatherland – 8, Will of the People – 2, Rebirth Party – 5, non-fractional – 18. So, colleagues, I'm going to put it again. Everyone please be in the workplace. All factions support. It is only important to maximize our mobility. So I'm voting on the proposal to go back to draft Law 8492. Please vote and please support. We're voting for the return. Vote. [[17:29:36]] For 197 30 votes, colleagues. Unfortunately, draft Law 8492. [[B in m in s a l in]] It's the second one again, isn't it? Colleagues, there's a second offer, a second offer. Colleagues, there is an offer for rereading. So the next suggestion is that we re-read Law 8492. Please vote and please support. Vote. Please back up, second one. Vote. [[17:30:30]] For 196 Same result. Regrettably, Law 8492 was rejected. It's a huge job. This is a huge and long work of the committee. And, colleagues, this is unfair and wrong. Colleagues, I'm going to put the second draft of the law on a rating vote. I'm asking you to get ready. Don't leave the hall. I am voting on the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Criminal Code on the Inevitability of Penalty for Certain Crimes against Property, Traffic Safety and the Exploitation of Transport (8184). It's a rating vote. The committee's asking for a meeting. Whoever supports this bill, please vote. Vote. [[17:31:32]] For 180. The committee's asking for a lift. The committee requests that it be removed in connection with the lack of sufficient support. Colleagues, I'm sure we've been promised that there will be all the votes for providing state support in the coal sector. We have 6424 now, and I'm going to put it to a rating vote. So I'm betting on a 6424 rating vote on a draft law amending the Ukrainian RSR Housing Code. Please participate in the rating vote. Please vote. Please be supportive. Voting, rating. [[17:32:27]] For-164 No votes. And, colleagues, they convinced all the factions that 9049 would be supported to support the coal sector. I'm going to run a rating vote, too. I'm asking you, colleagues, to mobilize as soon as possible, especially those who are in pain for the fate of miners. Because this bill supports the government, although it's a parliamentary one, and it's a real opportunity to give money to miners -- it's a real opportunity to support miners, and we can do it now. So get the hell out of here. I am conducting a rating vote on the draft Law amending certain laws of Ukraine concerning the creation of conditions for State support in the coal sector (9049). And this is the law that can, all of us together today give miners a chance to raise wages. Please vote. Please participate in the rating vote. Let's vote, colleagues. We're backing it up. Vote. For Ukrainian miners. [[17:33:36]] For-187 Colleagues, do you think we can get the deputies together? I think we can. Where are they? Colleagues! No, I think all miners will be able to gather people. Fellows, attention, I'll re-set the ratings. I'll tell you, we won't have another chance. I'm telling you, in 20 minutes you can get people together, you can get people together. Let me put it again on the rating vote. But I was sure we could find voices on it. I'm asking you, colleagues, to mobilize, to enter the hall. We still have to look at this bill. We still have to work. And I'll remind everyone who's trying to hurry right now, right now, working hours, colleagues, working hours of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. And some demand that we work every day because of the state of war. And now it's time for work, 17:35. And I don't know where the deputies might be. Please come into the hall. I'm re-voting draft Law 9049, please take part in the vote, and I'm asking for your support. We won't have another chance, we'll support the miners, we'll vote, we'll vote, we'll vote. [[17:35:29]] For 172 We have a huge number of questions on Thursday, and we have a huge number of questions on Thursday. I see some factions don't vote. I'll put the next one on the rating vote. Colleagues, attention, we have the next draft of the Law, the authorship of Silantiev, on the moratorium on the change of destination of land with a view to preserving physical and sports objects. Let's see if we can back him up, colleagues. I'm conducting a rating vote on draft Law 6487, please take part in the vote and please support. Vote, rating vote. [[17:36:38]] For-166 Colleagues, I'm gonna have to run a rating vote right now and publish who's not here, or I can't close the session. Colleagues, I have no other, let everyone know, while in a country of war, while working in the Supreme Council, they are outside the Supreme Council. That will not be the case, fellow workers, and when someone thinks that this can be done with the Supreme Council, he is deeply mistaken. We will publish in the Voice of Ukraine everyone who does not exist, let society know how they carry out their duties as Ukrainian national deputies. Now, I'm going to re-evaluate the miners, if there are no votes, I'm going to run a rating vote for the presence in the hall. And it will be published in the Voice of Ukraine. I promise we'll publish in the Voice of Ukraine. And each one will report to his own electorate and to his own communities. I'm going to re-establish the law that had the most support. I'm giving you one minute to get into the hall, I'm giving you one minute to get the deputies into the hall. If the ratings show there are no votes now, I'm going to be publishing in the Voice of Ukraine. Everyone who's acquitting us for discipline but who's not in the hall. So one more minute to gather, please. Please invite everyone to the Supreme Council Secretariat. I'm going to put again a bill that had the most support -- this is a bill amending some of Ukraine's coal-supporting laws. If we can't move on to this issue, I'm voting on the presence of MPs in this room. And those who are not, all of them, will be published in the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Voice of Ukraine. I can't see any other way. Now, everyone, please prepare for the vote. It is not the elections that we have to do, but it is the welfare of the Ukrainian people and the security of Ukraine that we need to do. So I'm betting on a rating vote on a bill amending some of Ukraine's laws to create conditions for ensuring state support in the coal sector (9049), a rating vote. Please vote and please support. We stand, we vote. Please be supportive. Vote. [[17:39:33]] For 213 Copy that, colleague, 213? We'll take it, yeah. Shall we? We have time for 15 minutes to enter 10-12 deputies. Look, there's just a few other deputies. Attention, colleagues, attention! I ask everyone to be responsible, we have the power to adopt this law. We can do it. A few more deputies have arrived, and I'm re-voting to support 9049. Please vote, please support, 9049 is a rating vote. Please vote. [[17:40:29]] For 196 None. Yes. So, colleagues, now I'm putting a rating vote on the subject of presence, if there are 226 votes in the room, of course I'm not going to publish, but if less than 226 figures are published. So I ask everyone to prepare now for a rating vote to see if at 5:40 all the national MPs are in the workplace. If there's 226, of course I won't publish if there's no 226, that means that I can't hold meetings anymore and all those present will be published at the meeting. So please take part in the vote and I stress that the results of this vote will be published in the Voice of Ukraine. Now we're voting "yes" for presence in the hall. It's not the law. I emphasize once again whether we are voting now or whether there is 226 in the room, if there is not, I will publish in the Voice of Ukraine of all those who were not present, and then the session will be closed. Please be prepared to vote for the presence of the national MPs in the hall. Please vote, please take part in the vote. Vote. This result will be published in the Voice of Ukraine if there is no 226. Please vote, please take part in the vote. Vote. [[17:42:10]] For 230 Colleagues, voices are there, and why are there no votes under the law? Colleagues, I'm betting again on a 9049 rating vote. The rating vote. Please vote, please support. Rating vote, we vote. Please be supportive. If the MPs come, then we vote. [[17:42:47]] For 197 So there's no vote in the 30 votes for this bill, right? So, colleagues, I suggest you come in, consider and make decisions. Over and out! I'll bet on it. Let's move on to Bill 9049, which has the most support in the room. Please support the consideration of the reduced procedure. Please vote. All miners, please gather men into the hall. [[17:43:25]] For-140. Once again, I propose that we consider it as a reduced procedure. Please vote, please support. Colleagues, please support everyone! Vote please! Support, vote. We're supporting, colleagues, we're voting! We won't have a chance to look at it again. Vote! [[17:43:51]] For 135 Explain the logic. [[B in m in s a l in]] If we start now, we'll switch to Wednesday. It'll be better on Wednesday, right? There'll be more deputies on Wednesday, right? There won't be any more deputies in the middle, colleagues. It won't! I suggest we mobilize now and adopt the law. There's no other way. Wednesday morning there will be no votes, Wednesday morning. I ask you to vote in favour of the summary procedure. Please vote, please support. Vote! Please back up! Vote! We won't have another chance. In 15 minutes, we'll consider and make decisions, colleagues. [[17:44:41]] For-142 I'll do it again, third time. You're making the law a dead end right now. Let's see the factions. I don't know what I'm aiming for. We have 15 minutes -- enough to consider. I'm asking you to back me up. All those who support miners, please vote now, please vote in favour of the reduced procedure. Colleagues, members of the coalition, please support, please vote and support, we vote. Voting, supporting. Keep it up, fellows. All those who support the miners, please support. [[17:45:25]] For 148 Two votes. There are voices in the hall. What is the purpose? What Is the Purpose? So you don't want to look at it? Or do you want to take it down on Wednesday? Please, I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. We vote, colleagues, we vote every vote. Please support, please vote, vote. Hold on, guys. [[17:46:02]] For 148 Two votes. Guys, I'll put it back on. If not, I'll tell you what will happen. We're going to go into full procedure, we're going to take him down tomorrow, and we're going to take him down tomorrow -- that's everyone's responsibility. So, colleagues, I'm asking you to support the review of the reduced procedure, to support the miners. I'm asking you to support the miners and consider a reduced procedure. Please vote, please support, vote, please support, vote. [[17:46:44]] For-149 One voice. Is there a voice? Please, colleagues, otherwise the law will be overturned, we have already come into his consideration. I ask you to support the consideration of the reduced procedure. Everyone, please vote carefully and support the miners. Please support me, colleagues, so that the law is not overturned. Please vote, please support. Vote, support, colleagues, carefully every voice. Please support, we vote. Colleagues, every voice, we support miners. [[17:47:26]] For a hundred and Decision taken. I invite you to the report of National Deputy Bondar Mikhail Leontijovich. Please be brief.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-18-m1.u74	Dear colleagues, this is a bill that continues until the 22nd year of the moratorium on the executive conduct of state-owned, stressed, state-owned industries. Before that, we voted in favour of the law by January 1. So please, colleagues, support and continue the moratorium. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-18-m1.u75	Please record: two in, two in. Please. From "Peter Prashenko's Block" Rybak Ivan Petrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-18-m1.u76	Dear colleagues, let us support this important bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-18-m1.u77	Thank you. From the People's Front, Benduzenko Fedir Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-18-m1.u78	[[Unheard]]
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-18-m1.u79	He's handing over Burbak. And, colleagues, we have five minutes to gather all the deputies who are not here. Five minutes to get everyone together. Please, Burbak.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-18-m1.u80	"The People's Front" is for. Vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-18-m1.u81	From the Opposition Block, Martovicki Arthur Volodymyrovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-18-m1.u82	The Opposition Block faction will support this bill. In general, non-payment of salary or debt is a crime. And in front of miners, debt on salary is a double crime. That's why I support it. Vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-18-m1.u83	Thank you, colleagues. At the same time, especially the miners' protectors, I ask you, look who's gone, invite me to the hall. It's wrong and it's not serious. It's the fate of the miners. It's nice to protect them on the air, but it's harder to be in and vote. We have to be in the hall, at work. Colleagues, come on, we've got two more minutes to get together. Alexei Rybchin, from Fatherland, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-18-m1.u84	Alexei Rybchin, Fatherland, Doñecina. I was born in a mining country myself, and I know very well what hard work miners are. Fatherland will support this bill. However, when we have the Rotterdam Plus schemes, when we have schemes that are completely unoccupied, when we have debt to miners, and these debts every year, and we vote every year when we have a lot of problems with miners, it's unfair and unfair to these people who are working very hard and are now saving the economy of Ukraine and many other sectors. Even though we're trying to increase the amount of green energy, trying to make coal greener, there's a lot of challenges to this sector. So the government's policy of not supporting miners and every year continuing or underfinancing the sector, bringing it almost bankrupting to save our important, important sector here, is a disgrace. The Fatherland faction will support this bill, but unfortunately, what we see is that we don't have voices in the room right now. I don't understand why we're putting up such an important bill by the end of this day. We support the miners, we support the sector.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-18-m1.u85	I'm also from the mining country, Alexei, I'm on the scene, I'm on the vote. I hope that all your colleagues will also be there when such an important bill is being considered at the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Please, Shahov, then Berezuk, and let's go to the vote. And the Radical Party, okay. Please, Shahov.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-18-m1.u86	Sergey Shahov, the political power of Our End. Dear colleagues, it's not a political issue that we don't support today, that we don't get together. I call on every faction, the Opposition Block, the Self-Help, the Radical Party, the Peter Poshenko Block, the People's Front, to gather around this bill. Sailors who work thousands of feet [1,000 m] underground suffer constantly from the absence of wages. I am grateful to every parliamentarian who voted in favour of the wage for miners, and now I am asking you to rally and vote, to support miners. Sergey Shahov, the political power of Our End. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-18-m1.u87	I'm sure all your colleagues will be there during the vote, and we have two minutes before the vote. I have no doubt that everyone will be in place. Please, Oleg Berezuk, Self-Help.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-18-m1.u88	The government’s free policy leads to such a vote and to such bills. They're just robbing people, miners, and then at the end of the year, we're kicking these taxes into the government. This is the government's criminal swindling position on the coal sector. Don’t worry, the coal - earning oligarchs don’t ask for money, but they steal physically. The "self-help" of the tenth is voted in favour of such a law. But the car is still there, because the government physically serves oligarchs from coal and steals from coal miners thousands of feet underground. Fraud, hypocrisy, and Pharisee.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-18-m1.u89	Now it's a closing statement from the factions. Cooper, it's a radical faction. And I'd like everyone to come into the hall and take their jobs.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-18-m1.u90	Oleg Kuprienko, but not the "radical faction", but the faction of the Radical Party of Oleg Lášk. Thank you. Dear colleagues, what do we see now? An important law for the development of the coal sector is set at 5 to the 18th. Please tell me, who in our country doesn't know that there are no votes at the end of the day? Andrew Volodymyrovich, is this the first time you've heard of this? Why put in a bill that we can deliberately crash so it doesn't exist. Even if we went into full procedure and there would be a vote tomorrow morning, maybe someone had a chat and they came and voted tomorrow. So what, conscious support for the mining industry? No one else but us has made any effort, especially through the Selidium Mine, the Armor of War. We all chose it! And now you're going to tell, there's no national MPs on the job. And the fact that they went to meet Walker, with other important people who helped us, you don't know that people in the room aren't because they went for a walk, but because.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-18-m1.u91	So, colleagues, you're a member of the regulatory committee, you came to me. I'm telling you, you have to be at work by 6:00. We entered the law at 5:45. Oh, I'm sorry, Walker, I know where and who Walker's dating. You have to be on the job, and I think that any military, when he's got a shift to six, he's on military duty, and he's not saying that without 15 to the end of service, he's gone, like a teacher, like a doctor, like any decent person. A decent person at work. And who's not there is their responsibility, colleagues. And I'm asking everyone to take up jobs right now, so we're going to vote. One minute, Michael Bondar. In a minute of voting, colleagues. Look who's gone, invite me to the hall. In a minute, we're voting on the bill. Please, Michael Bondar, one minute from the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-18-m1.u92	Thank you. Dear colleagues, on the committee, we've considered this bill and I'm going to ask the committee for a basis as a whole. Once again, colleagues, this is really a very necessary law. I'm asking who's in the towers, who's still there, to step up and vote for this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-18-m1.u93	So, colleagues, let's move on to making a decision. I'm asking you very much right now, don't move away from your jobs. Now, everyone, please come into the hall. Colleagues, I'm asking you from the government's beds so we don't put a couple of returns on the table, please come into the hall. Guys, guys, I'm asking you to be human, every voice will have weight right now. Look, factions' heads, so everyone's in the workplace. So we're moving on to making a decision. And I'm voting on a bill amending some of Ukraine's laws to create the conditions to provide State support in the coal sector (No.9049) for the proposal of a committee on the basis. Yeah? On the basis and in general. The committee also offers a foundation. Take up jobs. Colleagues, please have every vote voted and supported. Please vote. Please be supportive. Colleagues, pay attention! Colleagues, Yvchenko, please vote. Please be supportive. Vote. We'll support it. Vote, fellows! Please be supportive. Vote. [[17:56:45.]] For 230 The law is passed. I told you the law would be passed? 230 is the law. Block of Peter Poshenko – 84, People's Front – 64, Opposition Block – 19, Self-help – 11, Radical Party – 7, Father's Front – 8, Will of the People – 7, Rebirth Party – 5, non-frakation – 25. The Supreme Council has to work, colleagues, until the last minute. And whoever thinks that half six should be separated is a person who is irresponsible about his duties and the Supreme Council. I welcome everyone to the adoption of this law. Colleagues, we had a hard, stressful day, but we were able to make important decisions. Congratulations, fellows! And tomorrow at 10 a.m., I'm waiting for everyone in the hall to resume our work. And now, unfortunately, I'm forced to call the evening meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine closed. Even if it were not for the Rules, we could still adopt and adopt laws that matter to the country. Thank you, colleagues. See you tomorrow.
