ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-19-m0.u1	I ask everyone to come in, colleagues, good morning, and prepare for registration. So, please come into the hall. And I'd like you to sign up. [[10:03:41]] 336 national deputies registered. The morning plenary session of the Supreme Council is open. Dear colleagues, the Ukrainian Supreme Council is today under the leadership of Prime Minister Groisman Volodymyr Borisovich. But before we go to "the hour of questions to the government," I want to report that there have been two petitions for a break that the factions are willing to replace with performances. The first is from the Opposition Block and Rebirth, the second is from the People's Front and the Peter Prashenko Block. First I invite you from Igor Shurma's Opposition Block and then from two factions of Maxim Burbak.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-19-m0.u2	IgorShurma, the Opposition Block. It's a statement from the opposition block faction. We demand the immediate introduction of the draft Decree 8587 (emphasis) of the legal status of the Ministry of Health of Ukraine, the inadequacy of the positions held and the appeal to the Cabinet of Ministers for the discharge of the First Deputy Minister of Health of the Suprun Uljana Hope and Deputy Minister of Health of Lynchevsky Alejandro Volodymirovic. This decision is implemented as a sign of the initiative of the National Interest of Ukraine. Number 8587. I would like to point out that all members of our committee who are members of the various factions voted in favour of the decree. Ukrainian National Deputies, members of the Committee, have repeatedly addressed Andrija Volodymyrovich, the attention of the authorities and the need to consider this issue, since the Ministry's work has been denied nine times in every direction that we would not have raised: the purchase of medical supplies through specialized international organizations, the report of the government program. By the way, it is now understandable why the government program is not a subject of the report, since the Ministry of Health’s unsatisfactory assessment. Upon opposing tuberculosis, question number one raised at the World Health Organization. Why are we asking you to do this without delay? Because the Cabinet of Ministers, which should be an example of order and obedience, is now setting precedents for international scandals. See, on Zakarpatta officials who had two passports, they have been writing their discharge applications today. Mrs. Klimpush-Cincadze, our deputy prime minister, said that I am an official and I understand that it is impossible to serve two kings or two states. Thus, this action of officials who have dual citizenship is at least honest. And this is the minimum that should be expected of a government official. So why do you expect the Zacarpathian officials to be praised, and why is there a man sitting next to you who is not allowed to sit there in violation of Ukrainian regulations and the Cabinet of Ministers? It's with two passports right here. This is a unique case. I want to tell you one more thing. Enter the hall, "The Opposition Block" has nothing personal, enter, support, you can do it, you can do it, you can do it in medical reform, on TV, you can do it all, vote for it, yes, or no. And the last. I read with interest the last post on what smartphones, our smartphones, writes Mrs. Suprun, ten times as dirty as toilets. So when you're sitting there, at least you don't do anything on those smartphones, because it's hard for people to understand what you're doing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-19-m0.u3	From the faction of Peter Prashenko and the People's Front to the word is invited to the head of the Burbak Maksim Juryovich faction. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-19-m0.u4	Dear colleagues! Mr. Prime Minister! Mr. Head! Burbak Maxim, People's Front, 204 constituency. I'm drawing your attention to the illegal takeover of power that may have gone into secession in the village of Lomachínka of the Sokirian region of the Cherniewets region, which is now a two-man country. I have a call from the people of the village who are asking for protection in central power and protection not only of their own interests but of their rights. The history of joining the village of Lomachinci in the Novodnystrovsk OTG is already well known for all of Ukraine. They had hostages, they were MPs of the village council and representatives of the media, and they were deputy heads of the government. There was a discussion of the situation at the Parliamentary Committee. And finally, victory and long-awaited for the peasants to begin the process of joining the New Year's OTG. However, this is not yet the happy finale of this story. At the time of the process of joining the village of Novodnostrovska OTH, a small group of people, who call themselves an initiating group, began the process of recalling the village council’s deputies, later found to be unreliable signatures. Early in October, there was a quick midterm election to replace the 100,000 dollars. The Regional Council managed to give 100,000 dollars to the local budget for the elections. The schools, the gardens, the infrastructures, they didn't get the election. They have chosen six new deputies, and they have already taken an oath to an existing council. All of this, of course, was carried out under close supervision by the head of the territorial electoral commission and for the active support of the leadership of the Sokiryan region, both the regime and the district council. Worst of all, since the outbreak of the conflict, the district administration has withdrawn and has refused. Now in Lomačinci, when the village council ceased to exist by law, Lomačinsky District No. 1 was created in its place, and there is a group, as it were, of newly elected deputies, who call themselves selrada and plan their future activities accordingly. The Sokiryan Treasury Service is now refusing to allocate money to maintain the budget institutions of the village of Lomachinci under the signature of the Novodnystrovsk City Head, the head of the newly created OTG. Although these functions are defined in the Ukrainian Law on Voluntary Unity of Territorial Communities, the bi-government in the village is causing great social tension. So far, it's just social. This is an unacceptable situation, and it requires immediate intervention by both law enforcement agencies and the CLTC, especially the government. The leadership of the executive authority of the Sokirian region is ready for anything but to preserve its authority and influence over the communities and to prevent the further creation of uncontrollable communities. Mr. Prime Minister, I am addressing you -- and today will be my request -- to investigate the events and to make hard personnel decisions about officials involved in illegal activities in the village of Lomachnica. And most importantly, to prevent dissension and secession in the village of Lomachinci in the region of Sokirian district of Cherniewec. Vladimir Borisovich, you and I have embarked on a decentralization reform, and I think that together we should protect those communities that have dared to take this decisive step towards future history, a happy history as the history of future Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-19-m0.u5	Thank you. So we're going to "the hour of questions to the government." Today, the government will be the first Deputy Minister for Economic Development and Trade, Maxim EvgenovichNefyodov – up to 15 minutes. Then, usually, there will be questions from factions and questions from national MPs. Maxim Evgenovich, I'd like to invite you to the presentation. Please. Please include the presentation and the presentation in 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-19-m0.u6	Dear colleagues, thanks to our fruitful cooperation at the end of last year, it was accepted and signed by the President of Ukraine in January by the new Act on Privatization of State and Municipal Property. And I'd like to take this opportunity right now to tell you what we've achieved in this time, and what are the closest plans we have by the end of the year and the beginning of the next. It's not a secret that privatization in Ukraine is more a subject of conversation than an object that can be appreciated by both voters and all of us. In fact, when we proposed a new law, the main idea was quite trivial. Let's look at the main bottlenecks in the process and try to fix them. As a result, instead of seven laws, we have one, instead of a complicated process, which, frankly, even I find difficult to understand, and probably impossible for potential buyers at all. We have a simple one, divided by just two options: or a large privatisation, that is, roughly top-50 objects in the country that need to be prepared for sale, where investment advisors work, and where, we really hope, the process will soon be completed at least after the first object, and there's little privatization. These are all the rest of the many thousands of state and municipal properties, ranging from relatively small enterprises to separate buildings, underdevelopments, land plots, and so forth. Small privatization required the adoption of 64 legal acts adopted by the Government of Ukraine and the State Property Fund. As a result of the summer, we started with the introduction of the first objects into the base, and literally two days ago we celebrated the first two months of real trade. To be honest, the results we achieved personally surprised me very positively, perhaps I was a greater skeptic. But we can see that there is a huge demand for objects, and there are completely different objects, ranging from perhaps not very successful factories to some rural houses and buildings. We have auctions coming from dozens of potential buyers, and the level of success of auctions even for the first time is significantly more than 50 percent. We see prices on average rising by 83 percent today in terms of start-up. I think that's a perfectly good indicator. Among the objects that we're selling are some sign objects that we're selling under conditions and with investment requirements for a potential investor, such as "The Shretelefilm" -- a legendary enterprise where dozens and hundreds of Ukrainian paintings were created, and we're really hoping that the investor will be able to breathe a new life there. From the point of view of potential buyers -- and I want to use this opportunity to go to business all over the country -- a little privatization is a great way to find a room or a place to expand a business or an industrial site. You get a completely transparent process where you can participate remotely from your smartphone or tablet. It's fast, in principle, within 30 to 35 days for most objects, you can already get this object into possession. It's completely clean, there's no problem with the controlling authorities, there's no problem with the frequency of assets that are sold and, finally, it allows you to get really market prices. Because the big problem for most of these, relatively small and less quality objects, is that none of us really know how much they can cost. It's about objects that are pretty inviolable; it's about objects that are interesting to sometimes very specific buyers, in a good way, because they require some expertise to turn what someone doesn't need, into a working asset, into a created job, into a budget, or a central level, or a local tax authority. And finally, which is equally important, especially in terms of municipal property, and also in terms of public control over privatization at the central level, this process is completely transparent and controlled by people. Each of you, each of you journalists, each of you just voters and taxpayers can at least go to ProZorro right now. Sale, see all the statistics, see the documents that all the applicants were offering, see the prices they were offering, watch the auctions run. And if something doesn't like it or you think there's a problem, takeonline again to write a complaint and get the attention of the law enforcement system. In fact, it's a new approach, I repeat, it's even something unexpected to me, but it's shown remarkable results. Clearly, there is a general auction theory that there are Nobel laureates working in this area. And in fact, we invited them to look at ProZorro. Selling or looking at our auction design. And I'm very pleased that Roger Meyerson, who actually won the Nobel Prize for auction theory in 2006, has responded favorably to what we're doing. But I can be completely honest with you again, and I personally thought that theory was a theory, practice would probably make some adjustments or there would be at least some partial problems. I can say no, everything is going exactly as it was written in the manual, both in terms of price increases and in terms of demand on the part of potential buyers. You see now on the screens statistics, actually, sales that are there. We're selling now for over 30 courses, standing at 33 yesterday, a few more at the accreditation stage. As a result, we were able to capture the entire market and we have already conducted over 200 real successful auctions. The record is 32 auctions, successful auctions that took place in one day. In total, there are auctions where the start price is over a billion dollars. The figures that have already been included in the State Budget and the local budget are shown here in the presentation the figure of 277 million, this morning still, again and again, the auctions pass every hour. I was just checking in the hall, it was already 285 million. There are still about a thousand items that have been placed on the base for sale. And it is clear that there are still many thousands who, we hope, both the State Property Fund and the local authorities will not delay, and they will look at the positive experience that there is. I want to mark those who first believed in the system and first used it. The first Lots were established in the city of Zitomir. The first successful auction took place in the village council in the Cherniewice region. From the point of view of the local authorities, Lviv’s best work so far was not only to introduce a large number of objects but also to make a real interesting advertising campaign for them, to publish his infographics, and to place it on urban information resources. All of this allowed even the traditional constructions seen by every person who entered the city and probably thought that if they were their own, they would be like standing in Soviet times. Our children and grandchildren will see them. Fortunately, now we have the prospect that all of this will change. If we talk about any possible problems in this process, yet again, to be completely honest with you, we are pleasantly surprised by the absence of complaints, the lack of dissatisfaction among potential buyers. This means that we are working and we are walking on the right path. Of course, our goal is to implement the plans that are related to small privatization and to re-engage in state and local budgets, at least a few billion dollars by the end of this year. We very much hope that the positive experience that cities and various authorities see will move them to take a more confident view of the privatization process and, in fact, to get rid of those assets that are indeed a burden on the state. I urge each of you to look at what we're selling. Very often, populistally, it sounds like we're giving up some kind of asset, that the state is taking away something that it doesn't want to be responsible for, or the oligarchs are spraying something, and so on. Look at the real pictures. It's just to make sure that what we're selling is something that states don't come to and never reach hands, that unfortunately there's never going to be any investment in the state, that we don't have any investments to rebuild some of the countries that are broken down in Soviet times and that are now state-owned, and that, well, they're just physically dwindling. Some of the objects that are on paper that are numbered as non-construction, just in the photo, again and again, located in Google Maps, you can see that this is a real field, a field that is sown with grass. If it was once not built, it would have rotted long ago or just collapsed. So when we talk about privatization, we say first of all about involving an investor, first of all about someone maybe not needing it, or maybe some neglected assets will make a real business: they'll create real jobs there, they'll pay real taxes. And actually this is the support, including the small and medium-sized business that a government apparatus can do. I want to point out a few very important things separately. I would like to thank all the deputies who have supported this law. I know how difficult it was from a political point of view to give up the question of start-up evaluation. I know it's much easier for any statesman. No matter how hard it is to have a negative result. What's not positive is, well, it's like invisible. Of course, it's much easier to say, we're trying to sell all the objects for billions, well, no one's coming. Well, what do we do? But we've kept all the property of the state. I want to tell you that we've really shown in the examples that you can even put objects at the start price of 100 bracelets, we had this one broken house in the hops area with classic six hundred lands under the city. So this is 100 dollars, the price went up a thousand times, because there were 11 buyers and because they were actively competing with each other. And once again, I understand how politically difficult this is. I'm grateful that you believed our arguments, and I can be absolutely honest and there on the numbers show you that we didn't let you down. This trust was absolutely justified. I also want to talk about other things about customer involvement. Classic theory always says that the minimum price is much less important than the number of buyers who claim to be more competitive leads to an increase in prices. The auction mechanics are now built in such a way that the object is displayed at a balanced cost, if no one comes, this cost begins to decline. We had a great example when the object was exhibited for a million dollars -- no one came, the price was reduced to 500,000 dollars -- there were many buyers and actually the object was sold for a million 200. Yeah, theoretically, if you wanted to offer a million 200, why didn't you come to the first round? But this once again shows that sometimes for advertising purposes, yes! – we have to go to lower prices to attract investors to show them and advertise public assets. Clearly, there is a substantial lack of confidence among investors in the state, and it is clear that only in such ways can we, well, win this trust. In particular, I would like to note and thank you for yesterday's successful vote on the bill, the new bankruptcy code, Bill 8060. I am grateful to the great team of authors, thank you to Mr. Ivanchuk, who has done amazing things to make this law acceptable. I want to say that in our plans to do the same with the property of businesses that go bankrupt. Not a secret about high interest rates.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-19-m0.u7	Of course. The main idea of this codex, and in fact its innovative idea, is that businesses can effectively get into and out of the sanitization. Because bankruptcy was a protection against creditors, just as it is in the entire civilized world. But if, God forbid, there is a property disposal, we all know that now the arbitration officers are, unfortunately, very often taking advantage of it by exhibiting these objects on some handiwork, selling them at no cost. This isn't even about corruption, any of you, any of you businessmen can't control the 600 markets that we have in the country, and every day, see if they put anything there. So we very much hope that in a few months, as stipulated by the Final Provisions of this law, we will be able to run this property through ProZorro in the same way. Sell, and I'll be happy to report positive results to you. So once again, I want to thank Mr. Ivanchuk for, indeed, his titanium work, because it's real truth. And I just want to say that just as we worked very successfully on privatization, and the law that came out of the committee was better than the law that went in there, we worked very well here. And I'm absolutely convinced that we can do a lot more economically. So thank you so much for your confidence. Hundreds and thousands of objects that we're ready to implement to investors are still ahead of us, and this is one of the real possibilities of creating growth points and actually achieving the economic growth rate of 5-7 percent that Vladimir's government is targeting. Mr. Groysman. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-19-m0.u8	Thank you. Thank you, Mr. Deputy Minister. And we're moving on to the factions. Ladies and gentlemen, please prepare for the National People's Party. Please hold the recording. I'd like to invite you to the floor of the People's Deputy, from the Rebirth Group.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-19-m0.u9	Good afternoon! I have a question before the acting minister of health Uljana Suprun. My parents from Nnipropetrov district in my constituency addressed me. I quote, "We, mothers of children with diabetes and type (insulin dependent), address you on the grounds that our children have been deprived of life support for permanent replacement therapy with foreign insulin products in the syringe." They then write that the MOH, by its order 1553, erased this drug from the register of reference prices, and now the local authorities cannot buy these drugs, and this is about children, little children. At the request of the parents of the MOH, it was said that the nearest inclusion of insulins in the reference list could be February 1, 2019, or five months later. On my parliamentary request, the MOH has not yet answered the question of September 20.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-19-m0.u10	Thank you. Ten seconds, please don't take the time.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-19-m0.u11	I demand immediate change to Commandment 1535 and return this drug for surrogacy for children from all over Ukraine, not just Nicopol.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-19-m0.u12	Thank you. Who Will Answer? Madam Minister. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-19-m0.u13	Good afternoon, everyone! First. I would like to thank the people of Ukraine for voting a year ago for medical reform. Thank you. Today, 19.5 million Ukrainians have selected their doctors, the National Health Service is already paying for services, and our doctors on the original chain are making twice as much as three of their former wages. Thank you for your support. It's about insulins. Funding for insulin-dependent patients: two-thirds of the government's subsidy, one-third of it's local. For the local. Costs. The regions showed their inability to cover this one - third. It, insulin is not excluded, it's a separate program that's going on. And every year, local authorities purchased one - third of the insulin. The fact that they're giving up this year is already at the level of local authority. Since the following year, we have put insulin in the budget in 2019 to cover 100% of the public expenditure. And we've created an electronic registry of insulin addicts, where each patient is defined by their own doctor. E - prescriptions are already in progress, and the patient gets his insulin from the pharmacies. In the pharmacy. And since the 19th year, there won't be a problem with the local authorities that they don't want to finance this part. I encourage the deputy to come to me so that I can talk directly to you about this so that we can solve this problem right in your area, just as we do step by step in every place and in every area in Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-19-m0.u14	Thank you. From the Opposition Block, I invite the People's Deputy Dolzhenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-19-m0.u15	Alexander Dolzhenkov, the Opposition Block. I have a personal question to the Prime Minister and the Minister of Finance regarding some of the indicators that have been analysed in the budget. You're talking about the state budget being set as a budget for the development and enhancement of the social standards of life of the population. But based on the content of this bill, we don't see it, especially with regard to the allocation of subsidies to local budgets to reimburse housing and utility costs. In particular, if you predicted 70 billion in this year, 55 billion in next year. Why you cut subsidies to the population for services. supply of thermal energy while increasing natural gas tariffs to 25 percent, up to 10,000 dollars? Why is this happening, and would you at least set the level of subsidies for the following year at least this year? Why is it reduced by 15 billion?
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-19-m0.u16	Thank you. Who Will Answer? Prime Minister, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-19-m0.u17	Good afternoon, fellow countrymen. Thank you for your questions. Once again, I want to thank the Ukrainian Parliament for being united yesterday around the adoption of the first reading of the State Budget Act. We actually started with you preparing for the second reading, where we need to improve the positions that we consider important in this process. Why am I talking about this budget being a construction budget? Because we're leaving and adding to the programs that we started, including in 2018. The Armed Forces will finance, including an increased salary for the military. We're going to build roads, we're going to modernize Ukrainian weapons, we're going to continue to invest our resources in medical renewal, education. We're introducing "New Ukrainian School" and I can tell you a lot of these examples. So in a balanced budget there are realistic incomes and expenses. And now, with regard to the burdens of this budget. So, the burdens, the respectable colleagues, especially those who have been in charge of the country for many years from 2005 to 13, why did you take tens of billions of dollars and throw them in the unknown and leave them to all the Ukrainians, the debts that we owe today -- $5 billion a year? And this is your area of responsibility. You'd get up, you'd better repent. That's the first one. Now for the subsidies. I would like to emphasize to you, a noble colleague of the people's MP, last year, the truth is you said there were 71 billion dollars in subsidies, that is, in the 18th year. Do you know why? Because on January 1st, 18th, debt for past periods of subsidies was almost 20 billion dollars. And if you subtract the debt by January 1st and compare it to the fact that the money used for the 18th year subsidies is going to be used, you'll see that we've increased the subsidies by almost 5 billion dollars. So all those who will need social protection from the state by.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-19-m0.u18	30 seconds, please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-19-m0.u19	Anyone who needs to really need social protection on subsidies will be protected by the State. And this is our responsibility with you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-19-m0.u20	Thank you. Welcome to the People's Will Group of National Deputy Shahov.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-19-m0.u21	Sergeyshakhov, the political power of Our End. Mr. Volodymyr Borisovich, you gave the floor to meet with the people's deputies on the miners' case and discuss the matter of the Ministry of Nasalik on the grounds that wages are not paid. And I want to tell you that it's Lysicangugil. Mr. G. "Caucasine" today began a termless protest and did not come out of the mine. And secondly, Volodymyr Borisovich, I ask you to take into account and order the Ministry of Health and the Ministry of Finance to place in the budget of 2019 and take into account the immigrants of Donetsk and Luhansk region, and the Ministry of Health grant. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-19-m0.u22	Thank you. On the first question. I gave my word that next week I would hold a meeting with the Ministry, including inviting MPs to pay the miners themselves. But I want to stress the nature of this debt from the wages. So coal that is mined by Ukrainian miners costs more than can be sold. And that's the only difference we're making for miners. So we don't keep the mines, we help make up for this difference. So that doesn't mean we owe people a salary. Just what they produce is not enough for them to pay. And here's a question that we're going to be discussing, including the restructuring of the whole sector. Because the way things work in the coal sector doesn't work for me. You know, it's kind of like a closed circle. Every year we spend on upgrading, and then we release them to compensate for this salary. And then next year, we're going to allocate 2.3 billion to upgrade the mines. But if it goes on like this, it doesn't work for me either. Because these funds will not be designed for development. We need to increase the production of our own coal, not the other way around. So there's a lot of systemic problems and I think we need to find the right solutions together. In the case of subsidies, in 2019 all subsidies will be taken into account in absolute clarity by immigrants who are temporarily forced to move to Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-19-m0.u23	Thank you. May I have the floor of the People's Deputy Timish, please, from the "Peter Prashenko Block"?
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-19-m0.u24	Thank you. As long as Peter Prashenko's Block is determined who will ask questions from them, I give the floor to the question of "Fatherland" Evtushka Sergey Mikolayovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-19-m0.u25	Thank you, Mr. Head. Eutushka, Fatherland. I have a question for Mrs. Ulyana Suprun. You, Mrs. Uljano, are already talking because you asked my colleagues about insulin. So what I'm saying is that you don't realize that you're in that position where insulin is the drug that allows you to live every day. You do not realize that people still need to live until next year. 40 percent of all of this is funded by your government program. And I want to tell you that the next time, Friday, we're going to demonstrate here in the session hall across the country, what's going on in the queues and what people are saying about you. When a man comes in at 7 a.m. and he becomes 160, they swear power and they swear everything. And what they're talking about is the financial money you're sending there. Please consider my address to be the duty of minister.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-19-m0.u26	Will you answer, Mrs. Uljana? Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-19-m0.u27	I can give you one example of insulin. In the 18th year, 45.4 million bracelets were allocated to the State Budget for the Kharkiv Region to provide insulin. And that's covering the entire area by 76 percent, that's three-quarters of the area's needs. The electronic register revealed differences. The health department of Kharkiv ODA was in need of insulin in the 17th year for 16,000 905 adult patients, although at the end of the 17th year only 13,000 615 insulin-dependent patients were admitted to the register. Step by step through the electronic registry, we will know every patient who needs insulin, and we will be able to do so through their doctors, through the National Health Service, each patient to have access to insulins through an electronic prescription and through their pharmacy. This is the most appropriate way for every patient to have access to and quality medical services. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-19-m0.u28	Thank you. From the Radical Party, Lajsko Oleg Valeriyovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-19-m0.u29	Question to Prime Minister Vladimir Groysman. Mr. Prime Minister, this week I've been visiting Ravensky and Volinsky County, talking to people, many people asking questions? they do not have the ability to form subsidies. In particular, Mrs. Galina of the Korean Region: A pension of 1,460 dollars has not yet been established. And there are millions of such people in Ukraine, because they have made a decision by the government to actually restrict the right of Ukrainians to receive subsidies. In the budget for the following year, $20 billion is less than in the current year. You don't raise people's wages, you don't count pensions for Ukrainians, you don't create new jobs for people, you raise gas prices and you reduce subsidies. Please tell me, why pay people money? And why would you save up on Ukrainian workers instead of dealing with smuggling, restoring your own economy, creating jobs, and raising wages so that people don't need these subsidies? I'm asking you to answer this very important question for people.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-19-m0.u30	Reverend Oleg Valeriyovich, I also hear that people are somewhat dissatisfied with the subsidy system in the regions. Obviously, we've changed the subsidy rules in May, but for one thing, the goal is to give a subsidy to those who need it. And believe me, that's the basis. Next. I think the Minister of Social Policy is going to respond more technically right now, but I'm stressing that in order for us, the system can't fully account for all life situations of people, but in each region, according to the government's decision, there's a commission that has to make a special decision if there's a certain deviation. And I'm hearing that these commissions are misinterpreting the position of granting subsidies. I want to state once again that all Ukrainians who need subsidies, who need their targeted support, will receive it in 2018-2019. One more thing I'd like to mention, Reverend Oleg Valeriyovich. We had a debt last year, and here's the answer to a colleague from the previous question, we had a debt of 20 billion dollars per grant on January 1st 18th. That means that we put it out in the 18th year, and for the next year, the 19th, 55 billion, that's actually 4-4.5 billion more than this year. So we'll have enough money this year to pay off subsidies to all those who need them. And what's more, we're going to go to the monetaryization of subsidies this year. We also put in place a system of economic compensation. It's about a million and a half families, but largely, it's started to work. I realize there are many imperfections, but our job is to protect everyone who needs them. We're just in the Kyiv region, I've been bringing in a figure of 20,000 people. About 20 percent of what we're counting on today is that people just have money and abuse their position of getting it.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-19-m0.u31	One minute, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-19-m0.u32	It's better to give this money to people than to people who have money, and they use this system. Another one, Oleg Valeriyovich. I realize that I want to take a more substantial step, but the minimum wage since 2019, which we're betting, is already increasing by more than 16 percent, that is to say, to 4173. I understand, but a few years ago, it was 1,000 450 bucks. I wish I could, but we need to understand the real state of affairs. And about pensions. In line with our changes that we have made with you since 2018, late 2017, we will have our first independent review of pensions for pensioners since 1 March 2019. This means that the process has begun. Next. I totally agree, we need to minimize the shadow sector of the economy, including the childishization of wages. Childishing wages fully affect the payment of pensions to Ukrainians. The childish treatment that applies to the customs office itself.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-19-m0.u33	Finish 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-19-m0.u34	I think by the end of the year, the first electronic scanners will be installed. I think a huge sector is the childification of oil products in the country. And we're going to need legislative support here, because all the power and resources in the government are very difficult to overcome. So we are set up to be absolutely constructive in order to give people the support they need at such an unforgivable time. Thank you for asking.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-19-m0.u35	Thank you. From the People's Front, Michael Bondar. Turn on the microphone from the spot.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-19-m0.u36	Thank you. Vladimir Borisovich, you have a question. Vladimir Borisovich, you just said about the increase in coal yield. And I'll tell you that by increasing the yield, domestic coal will lie in warehouses because they import imported, anthracite and including a gas group. Is it no longer necessary to remind those who work on coal of their own production, that is, domestic production? I ask you today to ensure the presence of ministers at committee hearings, which will take place at two o'clock, where questions and questions will be raised, including just after the ruling for the priority of TES, which works on coal of their own production, domestically.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-19-m0.u37	Thank you for asking. I think it's pretty obvious, and I think a lot of people in this room are totally positive about that. We have 100 percent to burn and process our Ukrainian coal. And then, we have a deficit to compensate for the import. I think it's the right thing to do. So in this case, I support the idea that we have to burn Ukrainian coal first. And then, or let me put it this way, brands "H" of coal, not anthracite, because we're anthracite right now, we're not getting temporary. And then the situation is, if we don't have the "H" stamp, so we're going to import it, that's all. And now the Department of Fuel and Energy has already registered such a draft decision, and I can see there's criticism and all that. I don't understand these critics when it comes to getting Ukrainian coal, including from government mines, we're getting it. It's a Ukrainian economy, it's Ukrainian wages, it's Ukrainian mines, it's Ukrainian budget accounting. And I think that's a perfectly normal approach. The only thing to think about is how not to discriminate against imported coal, this is important, then we have price competition. I think this decision has this issue to settle. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-19-m0.u38	Thank you. Peter Dustenka's Block was defined as: Janick will ask questions. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-19-m0.u39	Vasiljanicki, 155 constituency, Equinox. I have a question for the Minister of Infrastructure, Vladimir Omelyan. We all know the state of the economy of Ukraine today, we need to support the national manufacturer, especially those who have come to the international market, who are doing external economic activities that ensure the arrival of currencies in Ukraine and form the image of Ukraine as a reliable international partner. What do we do to help our manufacturers? In 2017, we ended up with international motor vehicles in November, and this year they ended in September. What should our manufacturers, our carriers, do to meet international contractual obligations? Why are we not monitoring the situation and making this a transparent situation? Why do we resolve this issue only when it has already collapsed? That's one question, because it's a very big question.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-19-m0.u40	30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-19-m0.u41	The question is, this is about my constituency in Equinox: the Lviv-Kiev train, 141st and 142nd. I'd like you to take control of this question, because it's been a year since the question of closing this connection is the only connection that allows us. North Plains to get to Lviv or Kiev, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-19-m0.u42	Thank you, distinguished national deputies. As for your first call, I'll inform you. As we have a positive trend each year, trade with European Union countries is increasing, so is the share of road transport. Every year we have intense talks with our colleagues from Poland, Hungary, Romania, Slovakia, and other countries. Over the past two years, we have been able to substantially increase the quota for Ukrainian car carriers, but it is certainly not enough. In fact, last week we concluded very difficult negotiations with the Polish side on the issue of additional permits for this year for Ukrainian motorists. Such permission has been obtained, but there remains a problem with their transparent release and the absence of a corruption factor. This was highlighted by the head of the State Security Service on transport. And what's more, by the end of the year, we're going to have a complete electronic registration and a customs release on the actual number of licenses issued, their border crossings, and a QR code for everyone to prevent corruption in this case. With the railway connection, I'm sure I'll be able to get your position to the head of the Cruise Station, and there was a long conversation yesterday with the Supervisory Board, and personally, I hope that we will finally see the reform. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-19-m0.u43	Thank you. And a final question from the factions. From Self-Help, Yegor Sobolev. Then the MPs.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-19-m0.u44	Mr. Prime Minister, I would like to draw your attention to the problem of social speech. Like everyone else in the country, you see that there is no commercial television channel where there are no manipulations, no purchase materials. In this sense, we should thank the public for clearing out the lies and lies paid for from their news. But there's one problem this year that they don't have enough money for the next year, which is provided by the law that we have approved, to uphold this truth, they're bringing to people information that's very important right now for the creation of democracy. And I understand that you, as any government, face the problem of saving taxpayers' money. There's the Attorney General's Office that we've actually circumcised, but its funding is increasing by billions, take it there and give it to the public.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-19-m0.u45	Thank you for asking. Security and defence expenses are incurred under the law for at least 5 percent of gross domestic product. The distribution of these resources between all structures is carried out by decision of the National Security and Defence Council, which is then approved by the Government and submitted to Parliament for final decision. This is about the adoption procedure for the defence budget. And in terms of public speaking, the Ukrainian government, according to legislation, predicted 100 percent of the expenditure for 2019 in that draft budget that you didn't vote for yesterday. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-19-m0.u46	So, colleagues, now from the national MPs, questions. Who's got it. Excuse me, sign up. So, colleagues, please record a question from the deputies. 15 minutes to question the national MPs. Shevchenko Viktor Leonidovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-19-m0.u47	I give the word to Irina Konstankevitch.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-19-m0.u48	National Deputy Konstankevich, 23rd constituency, Volinj. Dear Volodymyr Borisovich, I will address you with my question. Over the course of this year, I have repeatedly addressed you with the problem of blocking the transfer of agricultural land to OTG in the Volin region. In particular, my last parliamentary request was addressed to you on September 5. My request was addressed to you in Dergeokadastr, the head office. And here I'd like to ask you that the answer that I got from Mr. Kolotilin shows that either they don't understand the essence of the question or they deliberately base you. The last paragraph of the answer states that they really need to make a transfer, and they know about it. I want to ask you what is this level of officials, top officials.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-19-m0.u49	30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-19-m0.u50	finish. And why do they base you on their response to your commission, but they actually find that they are completely helpless? And the second thing I wanted to tell you. Mrs. Ulyana Suprun's response to the fact that there are costs for insulin is not really in Volina. And I want to say that thousands of people really don't have insulin for the next 10 days. So we don't have to deceive the population.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-19-m0.u51	Please, who will answer from the government?
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-19-m0.u52	I'll answer that. As far as insulin is concerned. I think it's true in your words, and it's true in the numbers Ulysses cited. In fact, I think a lot of people know that 20 more, 30, 40, 50 percent have always been added to the need for actual insulin, and that's just hand-heating, and that's the problem. But I agree that diabetes patients should not suffer. I'm now going to assign the Deputy Prime Minister to re-examine the areas of availability and the need for something to be adjusted. Thank you for asking. As for the answer, see what I had to do at the beginning of the year with Geocadastra to decide the right decision of the government, we decided that all the countries within and outside the united territorial community we were transferring to a united territorial community. We passed over 400, and if you're right, 460. Seventy-two percent of the communities have already received it. More than 400. have already got their land, I think, if my memory doesn't betray me, 350,000 acres of land. And by the end of the year, it's going to be a maximum of 100 percent to ensure that they're transferred to where they're already made. And we do it, and we do it. I'll take a look at that answer. If you give it to us, we will review it again in the government secretariat. And if we see any problems there, we're going to be called to account. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-19-m0.u53	Thank you. Kirsch Alexander Viktorovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-19-m0.u54	Dear Mrs. Suprun, I don't know why you have information about 75 percent of the supply of insulin in Kharkiv. I have accurate information that only 30 percent of the insulin is needed, that the 8,000 Harkians in need of life - sustaining medicines do not receive these drugs and cannot receive them at any cost, simply do not have, 70 percent. I don't know where you get 75 percent when you don't have 70 percent and there's only 30 percent. The government doesn't answer, the Ministry doesn't answer. You have some sort of non-terrestrial statistics, and statistics on earth are completely different.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-19-m0.u55	The statistics I gave are from the electronic registry of insulin-dependent patients. As you know, patients need insulin every day, their endocrinologists, they put it in the register, then there's an electronic recipe for this patient who's being transferred to the pharmacy, and the patient gets insulin in the pharmacy for free. This number of patients, the figures are from the electronic register of true people who receive their prescriptions every month, and from the need that was given for 45.4 million dollars, it was transferred to the Kharkiv area 76 percent of what was needed in the register, and when we adjusted with the Kharkiv Department of Health of ODA to be as much of a subsidy, 25 percent should come from the district budget.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-19-m0.u56	Thank you. Please, next question, National Deputy Yuri Bereza, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-19-m0.u57	Vladimir Borisovich, I would like to refer to the Minister of Infrastructure, whom I have officially addressed on a number of occasions, regarding the road of the Fifth-Sofiyovka-Bloody Rig, through which they are driving the birth to the city of the Horn of Creature from the Fifth District of the five united communities, there is no road. Minister, you know, he didn't even have the care to answer those questions. Not enough being in Dniper, just 100 kilometers from this place (this is from Dniper, Mr. Minister, to the west of the area), where today the hole is 3 meters deep to 1.5 meters deep. The last time they failed to prove the birth, she gave birth directly in the ambulance. So this kid's parents came to me, and they said, "Well, how long can it take? Five references are no answer, no answer." Mr. Vladimir, Minister of Infrastructure.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-19-m0.u58	Thank you. Please respond.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-19-m0.u59	Thank you for asking. If, unfortunately, I have no pleasure in repairing the roads with my answers. I have a road fund and funding for the repair of roads. As you know, for the first time this year, for the support of the People's Front faction, the Petra Prashenko faction in Ukraine was working on a road fund, and it finally got funding. We approved a strategy for developing Ukraine’s roads by 2022, under which the government committed itself to repairing all roads of international national importance that connect district centers. We decentralized the Kravtodore. Now it is the responsibility of each area personally over 123,000 miles [13,000 km] of roads with adequate funding from the road fund. I will definitely take another look at your request and give you the full answer regarding the possibility of repairing the road at the expense of the road fund. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-19-m0.u60	Thank you. Amelchenko Vassilovich gives Galasuka Viktor a word for questions. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-19-m0.u61	Victor Galasuk, Oleg Lachka Radical Party. Mr. Prime Minister, as soon as the representative of the Ministry of Economics reports from the rostrum on the so-called success of economic reforms: 277 million dollars received from privatization. You probably know that only one of us and Oleg Lášk has invested over 600 million dollars in the Ukrainian industry in the two-year period of import VAT. And that's only in eight months. The adoption of industrial park legislation, which you, Vladimir Borisovich, have included entirely fair priority, will allow you to invest billions of U.S. dollars in the Ukrainian industry. The launch of the Export Credit Agency, which has not yet taken place, will allow less than 10 percent of Ukrainian exporting producers to be credited to their purses. The legislation on the free integration of engineering networks, which should be adopted in Parliament, will remove the biggest barrier to entry into the Ukrainian industry and economy. I have a question: Why isn't the Ministry of Economics doing this to raise wages for Ukrainians?
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-19-m0.u62	30 seconds. Have you finished? 30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-19-m0.u63	Dear Vladimir Borisovich, the adoption of this industrial reform package, on which, in principle and consistently, the Radical Party of Oleg Ljaška insists, will allow, firstly, to raise the income of the Ukrainians not by percentage, not by tens of percent, but very much. And secondly, stop inflation, because it's development at the same time and production, social protection and justice, not the simulations we hear today from the Ministry of Economics in the rostrum. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-19-m0.u64	Thank you for asking. I think that one of our top priorities is that I mean, including the commons, it's a matter of economic growth. In fact, for growth to take place, we need investment, and these investments need to be designed to make these investments successful. I agree with you that we need to speed up the launch of the Export Credit Agency. What's more, you and I have formed a common package, a common package. And what I'm happy about is that there's a lot of different bills in this package, TOP-35, which have completely different initiators from different factions, but they're all about creating mechanisms for more rapid economic growth. And we accept them with you, we accept them, we go. One of the top-35 bills was adopted yesterday. So we actually have a few dozen laws left to change the system itself. What you're talking about is the VAT breakdown. You know, I fought for this standard so that we could modernize the core funds, the technology equipment, and I'm glad that 600 million of this tool is up to date. As far as small privatization is concerned. That's it. What Is Little Privatization? Actually, the word "privatization," well, it's very negative, because it's always under that word. Back in the '90s, people gave their certificates for cash, they just cheated on them. That's true. But now it's about creating an electronic site where no one can be fooled. In order to include abandoned objects, objects that refer to them. Without farms, without farms, or objects that are a source of wealth to their leaders and that belong to the State, to sell. And what the First Deputy Minister of Economics said, he said that the process had gone. What does that mean? It itself is a fundamental and stable small and medium-sized business.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-19-m0.u65	30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-19-m0.u66	This is a small and medium-sized business. There will be objects of life, there will be objects of public food, other services, other businesses. This will mean that there will also be investment. But I agree that only in a complex of measures can we find rapid economic growth. And in your words there are many right things that need to be implemented. I support that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-19-m0.u67	Thank you. Iluk Artem Alexandrovich gives the floor to Kulinic. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-19-m0.u68	I have a question for the Minister of Infrastructure, Vladimir Omelyan. Mr. Secretary, once again, I'd like to speak to you about raising freight rates. And I'm particularly worried about agriculture because it's for the agrarians that they've already raised 60 percent this year. These questions were raised on the Conciliation Council by virtually all factions in the session hall. The leaders of all factions signed a petition to the Prime Minister. A group of agrarians from the agrarian committee were at a government meeting, the Prime Minister gave an order. I'd like to see if there's any improvement in this problem. Your view of how the question will be solved, because it's very disturbing for the agrarians, everyone's calling. We'd like to understand your position. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-19-m0.u69	Thank you, Mr. Kulinich. Yesterday was the subject of a meeting of my Supervisory Board of Crossroads and the management of the Crossroads. In the event of a recent increase in the so-called "districtway" car component, it was fully entitled to do so, because this is only done for the sole purpose of removing corruption in the market and setting the only market price for wagons. What they did without warning and proper information is, of course, their protocol, to which I drew their attention. And we agreed that in the future, if there's such an increase, because this is our percentage of 30 is behind the market, all market participants will be informed in advance. At the same time, if we really want to put order on the Railroads, if we really want a very transparent company, it's actually in the hands of this Supreme Council Hall. It was yesterday that the Law on Rail Transport was first read. And I was just sad and hurt to look at people's MPs who didn't vote, didn't vote, or went out of the room demonstratively during this discussion. I ask you very much to support, because this is the only key to reform and the prosperity of this company. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-19-m0.u70	Thank you. Revega Alexander Vasilovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-19-m0.u71	63th Precinct, Žitomirščina, Revega Alexander. Vladimir Borisovich, Vladimir Borisovich, I am addressing you repeatedly on a painful matter, on the town of Berdichev. Building a house for military personnel. 3 military units are located in a micro-region, 12,000 inhabitants. All of them, three military units, are taking part in the eastern part of our nation's state of protection. Three years of funding has been allocated by the Cabinet of Ministers to the Ministry of Defense, three years of construction! Over the course of three years, half a roof was built or perhaps up to the ground. Please help me. All families live there. Let's build 60 apartments, a little house.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-19-m0.u72	I think the Deputy Minister of Defense of Pavlovsky will now give an answer. There are probably technical questions. Because on our part, I mean the government, to provide funding. In fact, the Ministry of Defence is organizing all the works. Please comment.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-19-m0.u73	Thank you for asking. And we understand the questions about Burditch who they were. First of all, we had to buy a house that was already built to provide an urgent need. In this house, you also have a situation where all the research has been done. This building will virtually be rebuilt for the next year. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-19-m0.u74	Thank you. Colleagues, time's up for questions. I now give the floor to the First Deputy Head of the Supreme Council, Irina Heratchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-19-m0.u75	Thank you. Dear colleagues, my first question will be about Mr. Troyan, who represents the Ministry of Internal Affairs. But I would like to appeal to the entire government to hold a discussion on the issue that I want to raise right now. Yesterday, along with my colleague Mrs. MariaIonova, we received an answer from the Ministry of Internal Affairs regarding the fact that there was no criminal case against the killing of a Ukrainian citizen who was not, the criminal Zacharynk. And there was no criminal case in the same way as there was a Russian Federation investigation committee conducting some sort of investigation in Donetsk territory, because it's occupied territory. I'm sorry, there was a killing of Ukrainian children in Kerch. And the D.A. filed a criminal case for the murder of Ukrainian children. I can't understand why we don't have criminal cases about undermining Ukrainian children on a mine in occupied Gorlovka, about all the killings that take place in occupied areas. And when yesterday the State of the Russian Federation in some sort of schizophrenic frenzy makes statements aggressive as to the fact that it's like in Ukraine the blood that they killed Zacharychenka, we have nothing to answer for. I want to pay your attention, colleagues, to the next. The occupied Donetsk, occupied by Crimea, occupied by Lugansk, is Ukraine. And we are obliged to raise and open criminal cases for each murder in order to have a proper register, so that we can then appeal to international courts. And today we need to call on international experts to give us access to both the international experts and the Crimea, and to Donbas, and to Luhansk, and to Donetsk for investigation, which is what happened there. Who killed him? Who committed these crimes? Who was the one who planted the bootlegs? Who lays mines on which Ukrainian children fall? Who's gonna blow these colleges up? I want to appeal to the government. I think it would be very appropriate if we were to appeal with you today to international experts requiring access to every crime scene, and that international experts, not the Russian Federation investigators, would carry out the following actions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-19-m0.u76	Thank you for asking. You know what happened a few days ago: the terrible massacres of Ukrainian citizens in Kerch, children. I say it like a father, like a man. And I think for each of us, for every normal person, this tragedy is just very, very terrible. And for me, and for my family, well, it was such a big shock on that day. But it should also be noted that not only in the Ukrainian Crimea, there are killings today but also in the Ukrainian Donbashi. And I absolutely agree that this is the Ukrainian territory where the investigation is to be carried out. I don't see anything else here but to store materials, all of these killers, they're going to be responsible. Anyway, not today -- not in a year, not in a year -- in five, but they will be responsible. And the International Tribunal has not yet been rescinded. I saw terrible things happen. The tragedy in Kerch, I saw the statement, I think Yuri Vitaliyovich, I might be wrong about them violating or studying a criminal case. So I take it that's where the work is going. All that will be required of the government is that we are willing to contribute as much as possible here in order to conduct such investigations. And I just really want to express from my family my compassion for the families close to those children who died in Kerch. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-19-m0.u77	Thank you. So, colleagues, the "hour of questions to the government" is over. Let's thank the government, Prime Minister, for the discussion in the hall. Thank you. [[Applause]] "The year of questions before the government" is over. We're going to chapter two of our Rules -- that's reading and announcing queries. And I invite you to speak to the Deputy Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Oksana Siroid. Please, Mrs. Oksana.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-19-m0.u78	Thank you. Such requests were made by Ukrainian national deputies. From Viktor Razwadowski to the head of the Zitomir district administration for the financing of renovations, house No. 7 was covered on the street of Voronkin in the village of Visna Picz of the Žitomir district of Žitomir district. Viktor Razwadowski to the head of the Zitomir district government regarding the allocation of funds for the purchase of the insulin pump by Alexander Lebedu in 2012 of his birth, resident of the village of Wilshanka Zudnowski district, Žitomir district. Alexander Abdullin to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the inaction of the Ministry of Occupied Territories and Internally Moved Persons, as the only central government body to consolidate the issues of internally displaced persons and to contribute to their resolution. Victoria Wojętsiecki to the Attorney General of Ukraine regarding property derived from criminal activity. SergiaLabazuka to the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Budget, Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, Ministry of Finance of Ukraine, Ministry of Social Policy of Ukraine on the freezing of the wage fund for civil servants. SergiaLabazuka to the Guard’s United Territorial Community of Hmelnicke District, Hmelnicke District State Administration, for the violation of the right to land. Michael Bondar to the director of the Institute for Agriculture of the Carpathian Region of the National Academy of Agricultural Sciences of Ukraine for the transfer to the community of the village of Sabanovka Radehivska district of the property complex NAAN, which has not been used since 2004, for the reconstruction of the National House. Oleg Musia to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Defence of Ukraine, temporarily acting as Minister of Health of Ukraine, National Security Council and Defence of Ukraine for ensuring the proper level of safety in Ukraine. Michael Bondar to the Minister of Energy and Coal Industry of Ukraine, the Head of the National Commission for State Regulation in the Field of Energy and Municipal Services, the Head of the Government of the Public Shareholders Association Lvivgas, on the unsightly actions of the GM operator in the Lviv region of Lvivgas in the process of checking the gas supply nodes and its components in consumer households. Vasila Brenzowicz to the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the use of necessary measures to stop the collection of signatures of the illegal petition "Deprival of Ukrainian citizenship". Vasila Brenzowicz to the Authorized Supreme Council of Ukraine for Human Rights on the use of necessary measures to stop the collection of signatures of the illegal petition "Deprival of Ukrainian citizenship" and to take steps to verify the activities of the Peacemaker site. Olesia Long to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, Ministry of Social Policy of Ukraine, Ministry of Finance of Ukraine on unacceptable delays in payment of subsidies to the population for the acquisition of solid and liquid spent fuel and spent gas. Olesia Long to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine regarding the state registration of means of transport and the issuing (exchange) of driver's certificates through administrative services centres. Sergija Melnika to Prime Minister of Ukraine on the transfer of an unfinished building and a multi-floor house on the street of Panas Mirno, 29/1 in the city of Hmelnicki from state property to the property of the territorial community of the city. Victoria Wojcietsky to the Director of the Department of Health of the Kyiv City Public Administration for the purchase of test systems for screening. Sergey Rybalka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, temporarily acting as Minister of Health of Ukraine, head of the Dnipropetrov Regional Public Administration for the financing and completion of the reconstruction of Pavlograd City Hospital No. 4 of Dnipropetrov. Vladimir Litvina to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Agriculture and Food of Ukraine, Minister of Ecology and Natural Resources of Ukraine for the conduct of complex work with the organisation of the Černyav water shelter. Vladimir Litvina to Prime Minister of Ukraine, temporarily acting as Minister of Health of Ukraine for operational intervention, treatment and provision of medicines at the expense of budgetary resources. VitaliaCuprya to the Head of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine on the legality of appointment as Counsellor of the Head of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine, citizen of Sinyan Oleg Grigorovitch. Vladislav Buhareva to the head of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Budget, Prime Minister of Ukraine, on the need to take account of the funds in Ukraine’s National Budget for 2019 for the capital repair of the road of the state importance of Sumi - Ohtirka. Vladislav Buhareva is headed by the National Security and Defence Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the Prime Minister of Ukraine, the Secretary of the National Security and Defence Council of Ukraine for the non-admission of the closure of the Prat "Lebedinian Push Ring Factory", which produces products for the defence and industrial complex of the state. SergijaLywoczina to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the exacerbation of unemployment problems. Jacob Bezbach to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, the Authorized President of Ukraine from the Rights of the Child, the Authorized Supreme Council of Ukraine for Human Rights, the Ministry of Justice of Ukraine, the State Fiscal Service of Ukraine regarding the need for measures to protect the rights of a minor child. Sergia Kiwalova to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on contributing to the problem of implementing infrastructure projects in Odessa. Sergia Kiwalova to Prime Minister of Ukraine on the use of measures aimed at providing social housing for orphans and children deprived of parental care. Vasila Petítovka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine about the allocation of funds for the reconstruction of the Delovetské ZOŠ II-II gymnasium. Branches of Rahiv district of Zakarpat district VadimKrivochatka to the temporary duty of head of the State Geology and Geology Service, head of the Vilnius Regional State Administration of the Zaporozky Region to violate the legislation on nagras by the Society with limited responsibility of the "Billijov Enriching Combined". VadimKrivochatka to the Minister of Ecology and Natural Resources of Ukraine regarding the non-fulfilment of the terms of the Special Permit to Use the Nadrama Association with Careful Responsibility of the "Biliyan Enriching Combination". Jurya Odarchenka to the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine for investigating the assassination of Fedorenko A.V. Jurya Odarchenka to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the investigation into the criminal assassination of Fedorenko A.V. AnatoliaGirschfeld to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the destruction of infrastructure objects in the development and recycling of the Oleshkov sand heritage in the Kharkiv district of Kharkiv. AnatoliaGirschfeld to the head of the Kharkiv District State Administration for the acceleration of the gasification of the village of Nové Mažarové Zacepiliv district of Kharkiv district. HanniGopco to the Minister of Justice of Ukraine for the lifting of Order No.2059/5 from 27 June 2018, which set a number of restrictions on copying information from archive documents. Victor Vuk to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine on systematic sabotage by the central authorities of the executive authority of the protection of state property interests and property rights for industrial assets purchased from the World Environment Fund grant under an international agreement ratified by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Victor Vuk to the head of the National Police of Ukraine, the Attorney General of Ukraine, on investigating the facts of obstructing the legitimate professional activity of journalists from the Pat "Miron bread product". Vladimir Aresonkova to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on compensation for the expenses of carriers on a separate category of citizens on inter-urban inland and inter-district routes. Vladimir Aresonkova to the Prime Minister of Ukraine to reduce the financing of R-49 and M-21 repairs in the Gitomir region. Anna Romanova to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Justice of Ukraine, acting as Head of the Ukrainian State Property Fund on the situation of trips to the former residence of “Megigira” and its legal status. Jacob Besbach to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, the Ministry of Environment and Natural Resources of Ukraine, the Ministry of Health of Ukraine, the State Agency for the Roads of Ukraine, the State Environmental Inspection of Ukraine, the State Forest Resources Agency of Ukraine, the State Service for Food Safety and Consumer Protection, the Ministry of Regional Development, Construction and Housing of Ukraine, the State Architectural and Construction Inspection of Ukraine on the need for a comprehensive review of citizens' views on the inappropriate provision of housing and social services and the enforcement of environmental and environmental legislation. Anatoly of Denisenka to the Minister of Youth and Sport of Ukraine on ensuring adequate state financial support for talented Ukrainian athletes to participate in international sports competitions in 2019. Anatoly of Denisenka to the Minister of Social Policy of Ukraine to ensure the implementation of Cabinet of Ministers Decision No. 551-2018 in order to prevent the untimely receipt of new certificates to persons who have suffered as a result of the Chernobyl disaster. Igorya Shurma to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the improper work of the Commission of the Ministry of Health in directing citizens to medical treatment abroad. Igorya Shurma to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, Prosecutor General of Ukraine, on the involvement of officials of the Ministry of Health responsible for the death of people. GrigoryTimisa to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, the head of the Montenegrin District State Administration, to facilitate the speedy resolution of the issue of the formation of private property on the land of Ukrainian citizens, primarily participants in the ATO, for the construction and maintenance of residential buildings, farm buildings and buildings on the territory of the Tarasovetske Rural Council of the Novoselice Region of the Cherniewice region. RomanaMatzoli to Shepetov City Head, Head of Hmelnicka District State Administration on the need to allocate funds to install an autonomous boiler room to heat up the I-III boarding school and a dormitory in Shepetovka Hmelnicka County. RomanaMazoli to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, the Attorney General of Ukraine, the head of the Hmelnick district administration, the Shepetov City Head on the collapse of the heating season 2018-2019 in Shepetovka Hmelnicka district. Tarasa Jurika to the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine for the purpose of ensuring proper pretrial investigation. Dmitra Kolesnikov to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the environmental situation of the environment after the bombings on military bases. Dmitra Kolesnikov to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Ecology and Natural Resources of Ukraine for the implementation of the State-wide Target Programme for the Development of Water Management and the Environmental Recovery of the Dnipro River Basin until 2021. MichaelaHmila to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the preservation and further development of the national RRT concert and the national information radio space. Andrija Lopushanski, head of the State Agency for Roads in Ukraine, heads of the Lviv District State Administration, on the need to carry out capital repairs of the road to the Upper Sinyovdne-Wedneska in the Skoliv region of Lviv. Andria Lopushanski and Michael Doubbenko, head of the Ukrainian State Service for the work on the operation of smoke and ventilation ducts of residential buildings. VitaliaGudzenka to the State Agency for Motorways of Ukraine on the allocation of roads of national importance in Biloczerkowsk, Voddarski, Skuriski, Stavishtenski, Tarostian, Tetijivsk region of the Kyiv region. VitaliaGudzenka to the Kyivoblanergo Private Shareholders' Association for the provision of information and documents confirming the ownership of the Kyivoblanergo Pat on the support of air transmission lines and transformer substations in the settlements of the Tetian City united territorial community of the Kyiv region. Maxima Chicken to the Minister of Infrastructure of Ukraine about the work of the Office of Security in the Dnipropetrovsk Region. Alexander Kodola to the Chief of General Staff, Commander-in-Chief of the Armed Forces of Ukraine, Minister of Defense of Ukraine, for a public report on the emergency situation that resulted from the fires and explosions at munitions depots near Ichael, Balaklia, Svatov and Kalinov. Alexander Kodola to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the use of appropriate measures to ensure compensation for the damage caused by the property of local residents as a result of a fire in a military warehouse near the city of Inja Chernigiv district. Oksana Sold to the Head of the Government of the Public Shareholders Association of the National Shareholder Company Naftogaz Ukraine on contracts for the provision of legal services to the PAT "NAC Naftogaz Ukraine". Dmitra Dobrodomova to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, head of the Lviv Regional Public Administration for the provision of adequate funding and the operation of the Lviv Regional Children's Hospital OHMATDIT. DmitraWelcome to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the use of measures to combat desertification in Ukraine, as part of Ukraine's accession to the UN Convention on Combating Desertification in Those Countries Experiencing Serious Drought and/or Desertification, Particularly in Africa. Alexander Gehrega and Andrija Shinkovič are under the executive responsibility of the head of the Government of the Public Association of Ukrainian Railways for the preservation of the Lisovod station in the Hmělnicke District. Mr. Alexander Gehrega and Mr. Andrija Shinkovič to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Social Policy of Ukraine, on pensions for former military personnel. Jury Bublika to the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, Minister of Justice of Ukraine, on failure to comply with the requirements of the legislative act on strengthening the protection of the child's right to due maintenance and non-application of his intended actions to debtors who evade alimony payments and are in arrears. Alexander Nechayeva to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the verification of the pressure exerted by officials of the Smilian Local Prosecutor's Office of the Cherkas region on the physical person-owned company of Vitalia Pilipenka. Alexander Nechayeva, head of the Ukrainian Pension Fund, Minister of Temporary and Internal Affairs of Ukraine, Minister of Social Policy for the Retirement of Citizens of Peychev, who lived in the Donetsk Region. Groups of National Deputies (Novak, Sidorovich and others, only 13 deputies) to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, the Director of the National Anti-Corruption Bureau of Ukraine, the Head of the National Anti-Corruption Agency of Ukraine, the Attorney-General of Ukraine, on the use of measures of reaction to the illegal activities of the police. AlexandraVilukla to the State Bureau of Investigation, the Ukrainian Security Service, the National Police of Ukraine, the Ukrainian Attorney General's Office for the commission of a serious cynical crime by officials of the Prosecutor's Office – torture of the former head of the Dnipropetrov district government administration of Kobilitzhky V.J. For the purpose of beating him up, he's testifying against a national MP. AleksandraVilukla to the State Bureau of Investigation, the Ukrainian Security Service, the National Police of Ukraine, the Ukrainian Attorney-General's Office for the attempt to illegally extradite officials to the prosecutor's office 20 hectares of state-owned land in the Dnipropetrov region for their free transfer to the bankrupt private enterprise. Constantine Pavlova and Alexander Vilukula to the Office of the Attorney-General of Ukraine on the absence of the results of the investigation by the Office of the Attorney-General of Ukraine into criminal conduct, which was initiated according to the approval of the investigating judge of the Pecher District Court of Kiev for violating the secret of the telephone conversations of the Ukrainian national deputy and other obstacles to its activity. Sergey Larina to the Head of the National Bank of Ukraine, the Attorney General of Ukraine, on the review of the appeal of a citizen of OlgaSamishenko regarding the unlawful actions taken by AT "Ucrossbank" on the illegal enforcement of debt. Jury Boyka to the Attorney General of Ukraine for the conduct of an objective, impartial and full investigation into the facts of uncontrolled deforestation in the Carpathian region, the use of legal measures to respond, the establishment of the culprits, and their accountability. Irina Konstankevich to the head of the Wallin County Administration for the allocation of the cost of a stabilising grant to pay the salaries of technical staff at the Kamen Qashir School. Irini Konstankevitch until he was temporarily acting as Ukrainian Minister of Health on the issue of the signing of declarations with family doctors. AndriaShipka is under the temporary responsibility of the Ukrainian Minister of Health for the organization of emergency (fast) medical care in the district centers. Jury Pavlenko to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the use of measures to form a public council at the Zitomir District State Administration. Jury Pavlenko to the head of the Provincial Regional Government Administration, the head of the Kirovograd District State Administration, the head of the Hmelna District State Administration, the head of the Ternopil District State Administration, the head of the Herson District State Administration, the head of the Ravenna District State Administration, the failure to comply with the requirements of the current legislation to grant status to children who have suffered as a result of military actions and armed conflict. Paul Rizanenka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for amendments to the Cabinet of Ministers Decision of 17 March 2017 No 152 on ensuring the availability of medical supplies and the Cabinet of Ministers Order of Ukraine of 23 March 2016 No 239, "Some issues of compensation for the cost of insulin products". PaulRizanka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Justice of Ukraine, on the use of measures to lift restrictions on access to archives in connection with the adoption of an order issued by the Ministry of Justice of Ukraine on June 27, 18th, No2059/5, "To amend the order of the Ministry of Justice of Ukraine since November 19, 2013 No2438/5". Edward Matviychuk to the Ministry of Regional Development, Construction and Housing of Ukraine, Odessa District State Administration, Odessa City Council on the need for effective response measures for residents of Odessa's Odessa Odessa Odessa's Odessa Odessa Odessa Odessa Odessa Odessa Odessa Odessa Odessa on a comprehensive solution to the issue of water management and on an audit of the long-term management system. MaximaBurbaka to Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, on the illegal capture of power in the village of Lomachinci of the Cherniewice region. MaximaBurbaka to the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine on the investigation of the legality of the allocation and the use of funds by members of the Montenegrin City Council. Ruslana Solvar to Prime Minister of Ukraine, head of the Kyiv District Council for the resolution of road repairs in the streets of Kyivska and Necrosova, the city of Fastów in the Kyiv region. RuslanaSolvara to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, the Kyiv District Council, the Kyiv District State Administration for the establishment of appropriate funds in the State and District Budget for the financing of 91 districts. Andrea Illenka to the deputy head of the National Police of Ukraine, the head of the National Police Department in Kiev, the head of the Kyiv State Fiscal Service Department, the Kyiv City Public Administration, for the illegal operation of an alcoholic drink facility in the rightful district of Kiev. Andrea Illenka to the deputy head of the National Police of Ukraine, the head of the National Police Department in Kiev, the head of the Kiev State Fiscal Service Department, the Kyiv City Public Administration, for the violation of public order and for the sale of forged alcohol at a facility in the Dniprov district of Kiev. Andrija Galchenka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the mass appeals of citizens involved in refusing to grant subsidies to social protection authorities. Sergio Rudika to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the abolition of the principle of "loved roads" and the introduction of a mechanism of proportional distribution of funds for construction, reconstruction, capital and current average repair of public road use. Sergey Rudika to the Minister of Infrastructure of Ukraine on the issue of the registration of passengers using air transport services within Ukraine. Jury Wozniak to the head of the State Service of Ukraine for work on non-legislative violations of labour and the restoration of workers' rights by the management of T.O. "Blitz Information Publishing House." Tetjana Rickova to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the financing of social protection projects for families with children, orphans and children deprived of parental care. OlegKulinich to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the implementation by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine of section II of the Ukrainian Act on the amendment of certain Ukrainian legislation on the issue of collective property on land, the improvement of land use rules in agricultural land, the prevention of raiding and the promotion of irrigation in Ukraine. TetjanaOstrichov to the executive duty of the Head of the State Fiscal Service of Ukraine to provide the Acts of Customs Verification of the State Fiscal Service of Ukraine Andrija Nemirowski to Prime Minister of Ukraine for initiating conservation projects for abandoned salt mines and for ensuring the safety of the population, warning of environmental catastrophe as a result of numerous karst failures in the territory of Stebnik, Truskavets, Drogobic, Modrichi Lviv district. Andrija Nemirowski to the Stebnicki Urban Head, the Modric Rural Head, the Drogobic Urban Head, the Truscavetian Urban Head on the unsatisfactory ecological situation resulting from the formation of karst failures, the shifts in the underground holes of abandoned salt mines in the cities of Stebnik, Truscavet, the village of Modrichi, and the accumulation of solid household wastes in the town of Drogobich Lviv. Vladimir Parasyuka to the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, the Attorney General of Ukraine, for possible violations of the rules of material and procedural law to senior investigators of the Yavorowski Investigations Department. Head of the National Police in the Lviv region by police captain Stecishin V.M. in the decision on the closure of criminal conduct of 25 September 2018. Sergey Lechchenka to the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the protection of Black Sea, Odessa and Ishmael ports from corruption schemes. Sergey Leshchenka to the head of the Kyiv City State Administration for the repair of the overpass of the overpass on the streets of Natalia Zhvij and the avenue of truth in the Podilj district of Kiev. Bogdan Matkovsky and Oleg Musia to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, temporarily acting as Ukrainian Minister of Health for the provision of information on the legality and relevance of the liquidation of the branches of the State Department of the Kiev City Laboratory Centre of the Ministry of Health of Ukraine. Bogdan Matkovsky is the head of the public shareholders' association of Naftogaz Ukraine National Shareholders for providing copies of the decisions of the Pat Supervisory Board of Ukranafta. Groups of National Deputies (Dowbenko, Berezenko and others) A total of 4 deputies) to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, acting as Head of the National Fiscal Service, acting as Minister of Finance of Ukraine for the payment of personal income tax to the local budget. PaulDublika to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for ensuring the proper level of salaries for civil servants. PaulJublik to the Prime Minister of Ukraine regarding the inaction of the National Police and the Prosecutor’s Office in investigating the crime of illegal sand mining by the Chinese company Sinohydra Corporation Limited in the construction of the road to the northern bypass of the city of Zitomir. Alexander Marchenka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the inclusion of expenditure on compensation to Ukrainian citizens for the loss of money savings from the former USSR Savings Bank in the Ukrainian National Budget Act 2019. Alexander Marchenka to Prime Minister of Ukraine, First Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Economic Development and Trade of Ukraine, acting as Minister of Finance for the financing of social protection programmes for citizens affected by the Chernobyl disaster. Jury Derevyanka to the head of the State Service of Ukraine on the issue of work on the provision of information on the status and results of the work carried out by the State Service of Ukraine and its territorial authorities on State oversight (control) in 2017-2018. Jury of Derevyanka to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, the head of the Ukrainian Pension Fund, on the need to establish a separate unit (becca-fis) to serve in the area of pension insurance for residents of the settlements of Nadrujnjansk, Bogodchansk district, and Jaremcan City Council with a centre in the town of Nadvirna. Mikhail Golka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, temporarily acting as Ukraine’s Minister of Health, acting as Ukraine’s Minister of Finance for the Payment of Wages to Medical Workers in the Ternopil region. Romana Semimenha to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the provision of information on roads and/or streets that are in the knowledge of national educational institutions. Roman Semenha to the executive responsibility of the head of the Ukrainian State Road Agency for providing up - to - date information on the cost of repairing road operations in Ukraine. Borislava Bereza to the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine on the illegal operation of gas fillings in Kiev. GregoryTimisa to the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine to ensure the necessary support for the employees of the Novoselice Police Department of the Department of the Watchkeeping Department of the National Police in the Chernivsky region by inspectors of the Administration of State Architecture and Construction Inspection of Ukraine in the conduct of the actions of the state-owned police on the arrival in the apartment building and the construction of the garage by the citizen Makarevic on 1 May, 4 in the city of Novoselice Černiewec. Alexander Dombrovski, until he was temporarily acting as Ukraine’s minister of health, was responsible for providing treatment for the seriously ill Voronin Aleksija Mikolaiovich. Julia Ioffe to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the need for urgent measures to ensure gas supply and operation of facilities in the heat supply of the city of HirskéPospasnian district of Luhansk. Julia Yooffe to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the need to increase the medical subsidy to the Luhansk district budget in 2018 and the target costs for the treatment of diabetic and non-sugar diabetes in 2019. Edward Matviychuk to the Ministry of Regional Development, Construction and Housing of Ukraine, Ministry of Interior, Ministry of Justice of Ukraine, State Service for Geodesy, Cartography and Cadastre, Odessa District Public Administration, Odessa City Council on the objective consideration of the collective address of the Odessa Gardeners' Association "North" to find out and solve all the situations that have arisen over the past 20 years to avoid the negative consequences of water supply and water supply, as well as the comprehensive protection of the rights of citizens involved in society. OlegaOsukhovsky, Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine, Viacheslav Kirilenko, Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Justice of Ukraine, Head of Administration of Ukraine, Prosecutor General of Ukraine, Head of the Kyiv City Public Administration, Head of Shevchenkov District in Kiev, State Administration for Unlocking the Activities of the Social Institution. OlegaOsukhovsky to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Education and Science of Ukraine, Head of Education and Science of the Irpin City Council, Head of the Kyiv District State Administration for the Management of the Education Process in the State Language. Groups of National Deputies (Shinkovica, Gerega, Macola) to the head of the Hmelnicka District Council on the forecasting of funds in the district budget for the completion of the second round of the construction of the Theophilus District Cultural House in the Hmelnitsk Region. Groups of National Deputies (Shinkovica, Gerega, Macola) to the head of the Hmelnicka District Council on the forecasting of funds in the 2019 District Budget for the implementation of Project "Reconstruction of Cleanhouses No. 1 in the City of Krasilov Hmelnicka Region". RuslanaDemczak to the Minister of Ecology and Natural Resources of Ukraine for the inclusion in the plan of conservation of the construction project and for the purchase of equipment for a garbage collection in the city’s Illenic united district community of Winnitsk. AlexanderKorsa to the Minister of Defense of Ukraine for information on how to take part in the elimination of the Chernobyl AES disaster in the city of Kharkiv. AlexanderKirsha to the director of the public limited liability company Skretelekom for the restoration of fixed telephone communication in a residential building on the street of the Guards-Shironines, 111 in the city of Kharkiv. Jaroslava Markevich until the temporary duty of Ukrainian Minister of Health to pay medical workers. Jaroslava Markevich to the Head of the Supreme Court of Ukraine for information on the budgetary request. Vasilyanicko to Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Social Policy of Ukraine, on the legislative provision of equal rights and opportunities for members of multi-child families. Vasilyanicko to Prime Minister of Ukraine, Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Regional Development, Construction and Housing of Ukraine, Head of the National Commission for State Regulations in the Field of Energy and Utilities, Minister of Energy and Coal Industry of Ukraine, Head of the Provincial Public Administration on the issue of electrification of newly built arrays and the integration of land under construction to the general electricity grid in the region of Rokitna. Igor Alekseieva to Kiev’s city head for the capital repair of Apartment No.3 on the Kremenacki Way in the Kjejeva District of Svetoszyń. Igor Alekseieva to Prime Minister of Ukraine, Kiev City Head, for the fence around Preschool School No. 376 in the city of Kiev. JuriyaTimoshenka to the head of the Ukrainian State Architectural Inspectorate for Information. JuriyaTimoshenka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the preservation and effective functioning of the sport complex. Valeria Pisarenko to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the pension provision of internally displaced persons living in Kharkiv. Valery Pisarenko to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the state of enforcement of the decisions guaranteed by the State in the interests of the Children of War. Jurya Berezi to Prime Minister of Ukraine on the Government's inappropriate reaction to the catastrophic state of the T 0419 road on the Five-Halley-Ordo-Wasilovka road and the T 0434 road on the Ordo-Wasilovka-Kryiv Rig Dnipropetrovska road. Jurya Bereza to Prime Minister of Ukraine on the extension of funding for the repair of the road cover of the international M04 on the road. Yellow (Petachat district) - Svetlogirské village (Kriničan district) Dnipropetrov region. OxaniJurinac to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the enforcement of the law. JuriyaLevchenka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, the Authorized Supreme Council of Ukraine for Human Rights on non-compliance with the legal requirements of the Ukrainian National Deputy and the decision of the court. JuriyaLevchenka to the head of the Kyiv District State Administration, Prime Minister of Ukraine, on illegal refusals to pay benefits to citizens on inter-city bus routes. IgoryaGuza, head of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Budget Affairs, Prime Minister of Ukraine, on the need to establish 1 billion dollars in the State Budget 2019 for the implementation of the "Available Housing" programme. IgoryaGuya to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the issue of compensation to budgetary and non-budgetary institutions for actual expenses to pay the average wage to mobilized workers. Groups of National Deputies (Gorva, Petovka, Lunchenka) to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the prohibition of imports into the customs territory of Ukraine of wheeled vehicles originating in the Russian Federation. Groups of National Deputies (Gorva, Petovka, Lunchenka) to head the National Security Service of Ukraine on transport with regard to the proper provision of gauge-weight control on road transport when transporting cargo in the Zakartat region. AloniBabak to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the need to address the problem of inadequate consumption standards for natural gas and social regulations for natural gas consumption. Sergia Soboljeva to the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, Head of the Ukrainian Security Service, Attorney General of Ukraine on the cost-sharing and loss of the Zaporezki Horse Factory No. 86, and the willful admiration of the head of the branch of the "Restricted Horse Factory No. 86" of the State Enterprise "Konship of Ukraine" of the land located on the territory of the Labor Council of Novakolai district of Zaporezki district. Igora Lucenka is the Managing Director of the Fund for the Guarantee of the Investments of Individuals for the provision of information on the appointment of Record S.V. as the winner of the competition to replace the post of deputy director, managing officer of the Fund to guarantee the contributions of natural persons. Igor Luzenka to the head of the National Agency of Ukraine for the Detection, Search and Management of Assets received from Corruption and Other Crimes regarding the Current Status of Responsible Preservation of Arrested Persons, within the Criminal Code of November 1, 16th, No. 420160000001070, property of KVC "Parkowow". RuslanaDemczak is head of the Vinnitsk district administration for the inclusion of R-17 "Billa-Churva - Tetiev - Lipovec-Humenne" in the list of priority items for the repair of the Winnitsk region's road. These were questions that came about today. We have a number of appeals from national deputies who are not satisfied with the answers to the questions sent before. And I invite you to the floor of the People's Deputy Hannu Gopko.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-19-m0.u79	Good afternoon, dear Ukrainians! I'd like to tell you that on August 9, regulation 122 was adopted, essentially, which blocked the reform of decentralization. Then Ohendowski and his colleagues did not understand the legal consequences of declaring unconstitutional the Law on the All-Ukrainian Referendum. And under this argument, the CIA deprived Ukrainian citizens of their ability to choose heads and boards of OTG until the Legal Policy Committee conducts a written legal license for the members of the CLTC. Many MPs have made calls to the CLTC to unlock the reform of decentralization. And in principle, think about where the Constitutional Court and the referendum, and where OTG were created by local councils under the Act on the Voluntary Union of Territorial Communities. And in fact, after making parliamentary appeals, especially with my colleagues, and then the request to the CTC came back with a note. And then after we replaced it, we sent the old C.V.C. to history, even though it's not. We've already begun to work with you with the new C.V.C. to appoint an election to the O.T.G. And that's what happened. I would like to say immediately, colleagues, that the new composition of the CEVC has appointed elections in over 120 united territorial communities, 20 areas on December 23, with which I would like to welcome them. I also want to point out that unfortunately, there is no Zacarpathian area among the areas where the OTG elections will take place. And it's not because the carnations against decentralization. For days I visited the Carpathian community, including the Perinatal Community, and found that, on the one hand, the creation of the OTG really gives impetus to positive changes, and in particular, very excited about women who work at the Perinatal OTG, develop schools there, involve investors. On the other hand, I have a question for the head of the Zacarpathian ODA. Why does all methods prevent the creation and development of communities? More than 800 united territorial communities have already been established in Ukraine. There are only six of them on Zacarpatha, and those with battles are created. OTG covers 30 percent of Ukraine’s territory. In many areas, more than half of the territory has been occupied. The inhabitants of these areas have received their own budgets and have a wide range of opportunities to change for the better. What do we see on Zakarpatta? Only six OTGs mentioned are 4 percent of the area. I have a question for the President, for the government. How long will you be in the position of an open saboteur who breaks down the actual reforms of decentralization? I think that after Mr. Moskal criticized both medical and educational and other reforms, so I wanted to stop being hostages of one person's position. And finally, given the security situation that is at Zakartat, taking into account bilateral relations with Hungary, braking the decentralization reform at Zakartat, it only adds additional arguments to both the "Russian peace" and hostile to some representatives.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-19-m0.u80	Please, 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-19-m0.u81	So, colleagues, I'm once again calling on the President, the government to get rid of the man who sabotages the reform of decentralization, and to make it possible through the creation of O.T.A.D. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-19-m0.u82	Thank you. There are still a number of appeals from deputies. Let's see who's in the hall. From Tetjana Ostrikov. None. Roman Semenha. None. Two phone calls from Mustafa Massie Nayem. It's from the people's deputy, Kupri. I can't see. None. There's no Vojcitsky Victoria. And two petitions from the People's Deputy Leschchenk. None. We turn these back to the Secretariat. Ladies and gentlemen, I am addressing both the deputies and, in principle, the people and the people, that is, the dissatisfaction of their request is the instrument of the National MP, the opportunity for him to draw attention to his problem once again. And if the MPs already care about it, we should be there in order to be able to explain the problem that the MP considers relevant and urgent. Since we've exhausted our section that deals with the questions asked by the national MPs, it'll be at 12 o'clock in 30 minutes. The meeting will continue with the First Deputy Head of the Supreme Council, Mrs. Irina Heratchenko. So I'm going to call it a 12-hour break for 30 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-19-m0.u83	Good day again, dear fellows! I ask everyone to return to the session room, to all the national deputies, we continue our work. And I want to remind all my colleagues, as well as the Ukrainians who are currently watching the broadcast of "The Council," which on Friday is traditional when we have a plenary week, at 1:00 or so, at 12:30, like now, we have time for national MPs speaking on various issues. And actually, I'm asking my colleagues right now to sign up for the "Variance" feature for these debates on various issues. Colleagues, therefore, I invite you to the floor of the Ammelchenka People's Deputy. He's handing the word to his honorary colleague, National Deputy Kuprienka. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-19-m0.u84	Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-19-m0.u85	Your microphone is already working, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-19-m0.u86	Oleg Kuprienko, faction of the Radical Party of Oleg Lášk. Honorable colleagues, honourable presiding, distinguished viewers and listeners, distinguished people of Ukraine! Recently, we all witnessed how in Kharkiv region the bastards tried in a raiding way to seize the crops, to take away the peasants' income from their land rations, to cut off businesses, as it were. Our entire team came up for protection, and not just our team, Oleg Lazko personally came to the site to deal with the situation. And what do you think, on October 8, following the decision of the Kotilovski court in Kharkiv district, I pay attention, Kharkiv region, to the decision to arrest, to search businesses -- attention! - which are located in the territory of Chernigiv and Suma. Rostok Holding has 18 agricultural enterprises that process 60,000 acres [60,000 ha] of land, which employs 2,000 workers who rent 10,000 pâteaus in peasants who produce 300,000 tons of grain. What's going on? Large law enforcement officers from Kharkiv County are arriving, who, according to some sort of Gribov Jacob, who did not share something with someone, reveal criminal conduct. And on October 8, I emphasize this date, October 8, Ukrainian security officials arrive in Chernigiv district to arrest documents, remove computers, and, most interestingly, arrest uncharted crops. There are crops in the field that these businesses have planted and grown, they arrest, and they don't allow them to harvest. And that's not much or less -- 18,000 acres of corn, 4,000 acres of sunflower, more than a thousand acres of soy. Dear Guardians, I emphasize the date again: October 8th. Do you remember when the warehouses in Ignatius burned down? The night after October 8th. Thus, instead of ensuring Ukraine’s security, you help the unscrupulous to shut down the business. Shame! I ask the Supreme Council's Office to make a statement in a parliamentary address to the Head of the Security Service of the Ukraine of Greece, the Attorney General of Ukraine of Lucenka. It's hard to figure out what's going on, to call it a responsibility.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-19-m0.u87	15 seconds to complete, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-19-m0.u88	To bring to justice, including the criminal, officials of the Security Service of the Ukraine of Kharkiv, judges who make such decisions. And give proper assessment to the actions of such so - called law enforcement officials. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-19-m0.u89	Thank you. Please welcome National Deputy Victor Halasyuk. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-19-m0.u90	Victor Galasuk, the faction of the Radical Party of Oleg Laszek. In the new report of the International Monetary Fund, it is absolutely embarrassing for Ukraine: we are taking the last place at the level of prosperity in Europe. The lowest level of citizens' income, the lowest wage. This is absolutely unacceptable for an extremely rich human capital and the country's natural resources at the center of Europe, which is Ukraine. The World Bank claims that it takes Ukraine 100 years to catch up with Poland if it is to grow at the current economic pace. Oleg Lášk and the Radical Party team have stated this dozens of times from this parliamentary rostrum, and from the central TV channels, unfortunately, the authority of the deaf. And instead of adopting the anti-crisis economic plan proposed by Oleg Lazko and our team, they go back and forth to the International Monetary Fund and act. And they're bottled under the earrings of the IMF. The results of such policies are seen in the IMF report itself. It's a failed economic policy that makes Ukrainians poor, a dependent country and push our fellow citizens abroad as forced employees. The government budget does not address the main tasks of economic development or social protection. So the Radical Party team formed a whole package of budget amendments to turn it into a tool to boost the Ukrainian economy and increase Ukrainian income. This is the key today, it needs to be done immediately. The first priority is to raise wages and recalculate pensions so that people have more money to buy what they need: clothes, medicine, food, so that life expectancy in Ukraine is like in Europe, not like the most distant countries in the world. But in order for the money that people receive not to be turned into paper in order for them not to be consumed by inflation, it is necessary to develop their own industry, their own economy at the same time. To this end, the Radical Party team led by Oleg Lášk proposed an anti-crisis economic development plan and an industrial reform package. These bills are already in Parliament, they're waiting for their adoption. These are laws on industrial parks that will allow billions of U.S. dollars to be invested in the Ukrainian economy. You don't need IMF loans when there's healthy investment costs. It's legislation on free integration into engineering networks in Ukraine to build factories, not to run to Poland, Turkey and not to spend money offshore; it's the adoption of an absolutely key Ukrainian economy law on "Buy Ukrainians, Pay Ukrainians", which will give billions of orders to Ukrainian factories that will promote small and medium-sized enterprises, and it's hundreds of thousands of new jobs for Ukrainians with decent wages, that's the policy.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-19-m0.u91	Please finish, 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-19-m0.u92	This is politics, this is a real alternative to our IMF policy, this is a policy that will bring Ukraine into a new economic orbit. We are Europe, we are Europeans, but in order to live as Europeans, we need to strengthen our own industry, we need to develop an economy. That's what the Radical Party team is offering. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-19-m0.u93	Thank you. Please welcome the national deputy. Please, Mrs. Valeria.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-19-m0.u94	ValeriaZarztko, faction of the Radical Party of Oleg Lašek. The Radical Party faction has repeatedly stressed the need for an immediate solution to the problems of Ukrainian miners. We have repeatedly talked about this from every possible site, but unfortunately, the authorities do not share our point of view. This week, I was at a government meeting where profile minister Nasalik said that it was as if the mines of the state-owned Selidowogil company were not working, and that's why miners shouldn't pay their wages, as if they were just being subsidized. I want to point out that it's not true that people go down the mines every day, they work, they extract coal, but unfortunately, the authorities don't find a way to repay them for this hard work and pay them their wages at the right time. Today, the Prime Minister here, at the "hour of questions to the government," said that unfortunately, buying Ukrainian coal was not convenient and more convenient to buy coal anywhere else in other countries. We want to say it's a disgraceful practice. The Radical Party faction has long called for the adoption of the Ukrainian Buy, Pay Ukrainians Act and the purchase of Ukrainian coal itself to pay Ukrainian miners and create jobs for Ukrainian miners so that every Ukrainian miner can count on stable jobs and decent wages, we should not create jobs in Kazakhstan, Russia, Africa, we should create jobs here. That's why we're a hundred percent out of line with this situation, and it's the government's job to make government mines profitable, to make mining work prestigious, to finally join Europe's energy supply, when we say we want energy dependency, and we want to go to Europe, we want to be progressive. That is why the faction of the Radical Party, Oleg Ljaška, has proposed an industrial reform project, which is based on the Ukrainian Buy, Pays to Ukrainians Act. That's why we're talking about putting into practice the anti-crisis plan of the Radical Party to restore the economy, to restore the industry, particularly the coal industry. Because every Ukrainian citizen, wherever he's working, especially if he's working on held businesses, has to count on government support and responsibility for authority, not that the authorities will use miners as slaves' labor to meet their needs, and people will not have four months' wages without the salaries of employees of the Selidivwowiel State Company for four months. They are forced to come to Kiev, protest under the Supreme Council, under the Cabinet. The shahtars are stable jobs, decent wages and decent living in their home country, so that people do not go abroad and work there as gastrobytes, but work here and believe in the future of their own country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-19-m0.u95	Please welcome the national MP, Martovicki. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-19-m0.u96	Respectable Ukrainian citizens, respected colleagues, have been involved in the chaos of the Ukrainian Pension Fund regarding the violation of the constitutional rights of pensioners, including the status of internally displaced persons. Lately, I have received numerous petitions from citizens about not paying them or even ending the payment of the assigned and accrued pension. As evidenced by the materials of the appeal, on the basis of the non-payment of pensions, the Pension Fund of Ukraine and the managers of its district offices are referring to the fact that, to date, the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine has not developed a separate order for the repayment of such debt. an understanding of the regulations of Cabinet of Ministers No. 365, "Some issues of social pay to internally displaced persons." In turn, I understand very well that the government's first priority is to save the money when it counts and recalculates the pensions of our citizens, but I would like to point out that all of these actions regarding the termination of pension payments on the basis of the Kabmin ruling, the indemnity of the pension debt, are a gross breach of European contracts with mandatory obligations. agreed by the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the Constitution of Ukraine and the Law of Ukraine, "On mandatory government pension insurance". Article 46 of the Constitution regulates the social protection of citizens, which includes the right to provide for them in their old age. There are no grounds for termination of pension payments as defined in article 49 of the Ukrainian Pension Insurance Act. The list set out in the above article is comprehensive and is not subject to extended interpretation. So the Pension Fund of Ukraine has the right to terminate the pension of any person on the sole basis of the law. The decree of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine falls under the law, so I would like to remind the government that a legal and regulatory act is a legal act issued on the basis of the law, in accordance with the law, and aimed at its implementation through the drafting of legislation. This means that Kabminu’s decrees, including those concerning pension payments to internally displaced persons, should specify laws. There is no way that Kabmenu’s regulations restrict the rights of individuals. According to article 92 of the Constitution of Ukraine, the basics of social protection, form and type of pension insurance are defined exclusively by Ukrainian laws. Therefore, any suspension of pension payments on the basis of a decision by the Cabinet of Ukraine is illegal and in fact such that it violates human rights. Thus, taking into account the foregoing, I demand that Prime Minister Groisman personally intervene in this situation and stop the shameful practice of violating the constitutional rights of our citizens. I also demand that the government meet at the nearest meeting.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-19-m0.u97	Please, 30 seconds, finish, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-19-m0.u98	I also demand that at the next government meeting, the issue of repayment of arrears for previously appointed and registered Ukrainian pensioners be resolved. Please consider my statement a question to the Prime Minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-19-m0.u99	Please form a statement by the MP and Deputy Kupriyenka, who spoke as appropriate MPs. And now the word is given to the people's deputy Kodola, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-19-m0.u100	Alexander Kodola, Montenegro, 209 constituency. Dear colleagues, I spent three years from October 9 to 11, near Icinna, where there were explosions and fires in the territory of my constituency, in the 6th Armory of the Ministry, the Ukrainian Armed Forces. I mean, in the last three years, these are the fourth major explosions in our Ukrainian ammunition stores. And of course, we need to draw very serious conclusions and lessons from these situations. What happened near Ina, all these days were in my sight, so I know in detail the whole negative situation that unfortunately was. Thanks to rescue workers, the Nazgwarts, in the first few hours, we managed to evacuate some 13 thousand locals together. At the same time, by a miracle and thanks to God, no one was harmed, no one was killed, and no one was injured. But this is certainly a very difficult and difficult economic blow for our nation, because ammunition that is not produced in our country has been destroyed, which is worth tens or maybe hundreds of millions of dollars. The second question is that today, as a result of the commission's examination, 222 homes of the local population have been damaged, 4 houses have been completely burned down, 7 are in an accident and unfit to live. That's why I'm calling again today at GenstabuMuženka, Minister of Defense of Poltorak, demanding a public report on what happened at the Ammunition Remembrance near Inja, conduct a service investigation and establish the real causes of this situation and bring the guilty to justice. Likewise, I appeal to the government, to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, to provide quickly all necessary resources to the affected population, so that before the winter and heating period, the entire population of the Ichnyan region, which has suffered, is provided with housing and all the necessary conditions for living in this area. What we will all draw together from this extraordinary situation will depend, without exaggeration, on the peace and tranquillity of our citizens and on our victory in the future. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-19-m0.u101	Thank you, Your Honor. And the word here is Ostapednak. Please, Mr. Ostap.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-19-m0.u102	Ostapednak, the political party "The Force of Men". Colleagues, we've just been looking at a draft budget for 2019 with my colleague Hanna Hopko, and we've seen an increase, a significant increase in expenditure on the Ministry of Internal Affairs, the Public Prosecutor's Office. And the question, do we see an increase in the quality of the activities of law enforcement agencies, an increase in their effectiveness? Because on Monday, October 22nd, it's been a month since the attempt was made on the life of the leader of the political party "The Force of Men" at Odessa Oleg Mikhailik. Thank God, Oleg survives and recovers, and he will continue his political activities. Because at the end of August, when I was in Odessa and met with Oleg, there were very serious complaints about the activities or rather the inaction of the district police, the district prosecutor's office in the fight against organized crime, which is actually in spay with the political elite of Clothing, and obviously not just the clothes, but also the Hersonians, Mikolayevščina, Kharkishina, and in many other areas there are systematic attacks on public activists and opposition politicians. And I have a question: is this a systematic approach to the quality of government? Because there's a very stable feeling that this situation is being driven, it's from the center, it's being driven from the Bank. And so, instead of ensuring the rule of law, democracy, human rights, our regions are devoted to the background of local elites, who are in a coma of criminality, organized crime. What are the consequences of such a compromise? Compromise for future political dividends during elections? The result is that smuggling flourishes, especially in Odessa. Corruption thrives under such conditions. In such circumstances, there are no investments in the area that so require. And it is in such circumstances that public activists and opposition politicians are completely defenseless. Investigations are under way. Dozens of perpetrators of these attacks have been detained. But no buyers were found. So once again, I have a clear feeling that the customers will not find that organized crime is actually a customer of this kind and are in the management of these regions. I have a question: is this a compromise for ensuring political stability in these regions? I want to say that organized crime has led to the establishment of an authoritarian state in Russia, along with special forces in Russia. So I'm confident that organized crime and criminality will be the first to open the door to the "Russian world" and the Russian Special Forces when there will be substantial and massive political destabilization in the regions. This is a wrong approach to government. I call on the Bank and the President of Ukraine to intervene in the situation and finally to induce law enforcement authorities to carry out their direct functions in the interests of the country.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-19-m0.u103	Thank you, Your Honor. And please, let me ask you, Mikhailo Golovko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-19-m0.u104	Mikhailo Golovko, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union, Ternopolishte, 164th constituency. Dear voters, dear colleagues! We saw the budget presented by the government, in the first reading that was voted on, and it has been discussed repeatedly in the hall walls and in the towers. And what I'm saying is that this budget, really, it's dangerous, it's dangerous for our state: including, today, the least protected species of people, including social workers (these are doctors, teachers) who are once again without wages. The sharp underfunding of education, medicine is a disaster: only on the pay-out of education -- about 4.5 billion, for medicine -- more than 7 billion, etc. And of course, every time we offer money, no one hears us, no one wants to see us. When we say that the state spends huge billions on corruption schemes like Rotterdam Plus, which wash away at least 75 billion experts from the state economy. These costs, which could actually go to modernizing our economy, to energy efficiency, to lending small, medium-sized businesses, to starting our economy, they just wash away. But unfortunately, the so-called Naftogazu NAC management, which is going crazy from the revenue that space premiums write at $46 million, is a half a billion dollars, it's obviously the money that was going to go to pensioners or education and medicine workers, they don't understand it, they just want to say that we need to raise tariffs on gas, on electricity and for the population to increase tariffs. This is unacceptable. Because actually raising tariffs is killing our economy, it's closing our factories, it's cutting jobs, it's people going to go to Poland, to Europe. So Freedom condemns such actions. And by the way, I've repeatedly appealed to all law enforcement agencies to file criminal cases against Koboljev, Vitrek, this entire gang, who have written such space bonuses, but unfortunately, no reaction from the NAB, from the prosecutor's office, from the BAF, from all law enforcement agencies. So we understand that today, when we see such corrupt schemes for energy, when we see the lack of the government's desire to fight the shadow economy, to adopt our free package of anti-oligaric laws that would stop the export of funds to offshore, which would bring them back here to Ukraine, which would force the elimination of private monopolies that would give, for example, the law that would restore state control over lotteries, and that would be tens of billions to the state budget. Here we see a deaf wall. No one wants to vote, no one needs to vote, the oligarchs want to sit on their schemes, and the government and parliament serve them. Therefore, we realize that nationalists are to come to power in order to come out of the crisis of our nation. We need to adopt a policy of economic nationalism that will relaunch our economy to develop jobs, create jobs and pay a decent wage to our people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-19-m0.u105	Thank you. And the word is Tetjana Ostrova. Please, Mrs. Tetjana.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-19-m0.u106	Aunt Ostrikova, Self-help. Good afternoon, dear Ukrainians! Yesterday, the Supreme Council adopted the draft budget for 2019 in its first reading. Self-help didn't support him for a few reasons. We think it's the budget of building a police state, that it's the budget of robbing local communities, entrepreneurship and the budget of the profits of financial and financial and oligarchic groups. We made our bids to the budget. In particular, we've offered to focus our spending primarily on energy efficiency measures, allowing people to reduce housing consumption and invest money in a hot loan program. We offered to raise the salaries of military personnel, finance housing for them, finance education, and increase the salaries of doctors and teachers. Unfortunately, however, such priorities do not exist in the government’s budget. And in order to finance the needs of people, basic needs, there was no money in the government for a decent life. But the biggest resonance was our proposal to establish a national national programme for each participant in an anti-terrorist operation, and in fact it must be recognized that these are veterans of war for Ukraine's independence, from the state budget, to receive 100,000 dollars. At present, such a program is in operation in Lviv. And these funds are given to ATO participants at the expense of the local budget. If this is within the power of the city of Lviv, it is also within the power of the state budget. However, our opponents argue that a popular proposal that needs funding is needed. We've calculated that there are about 326 anti-terrorists in the country today. Each of them will need about 32 billion dollars each. So where's the money, you ask. And the money, we immediately made balanced proposals and pointed out to the government where it needed to look for funding. First of all, we don't need to increase the funding of law enforcement officers of different kinds: B.S.A., prosecutors, police, M.S.O., State Security, the Foreign Intelligence Service, by 18 billion dollars to 18 years. We all know that the crime rate in Ukraine has not improved, and these organs have not improved. So we shouldn't add 18 billion to the 18th. More than that, it may be possible to reduce to a holding that is actually converted into pre-election headquarters and management headquarters in a year of elections. There's about 5 billion more. Chief, the Court of Auditors is not a faction of Self-Help, it's not opposition deputies, it's the Court of Auditors' conclusion on the draft budget clearly.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-19-m0.u107	Please, 30 seconds. Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-19-m0.u108	At least 4 billion from the excise duty, and the Prime Minister himself claimed at least 100 billion from the customs plans he planned to close. He probably didn't close it. So we want to say to the Prime Minister: look for money on customs and then close the budget holes and you can fund the money.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-19-m0.u109	Please give your next speech to the national deputy Bondar Victor. Welcome, Mr. Mikhail. Excuse me.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-19-m0.u110	Good afternoon, everyone. Bondar Mikhailo, 119 constituency, Brodovščina, Bushina, Kamyanecina, and Radehovščina On October 12, the CEC approved the election in 125 united territorial communities. Two such communities will be formed in my 119th constituency in the Radehiv region. This will be the Radehiv and Lopatin United Communities. I would now like to address the voters who will come to the elections, and I urge everyone to come, to show their position, not to be indifferent to their region, to their village, to the village, to the united territorial community, to choose those worthy, to examine the candidates, their activities that they have been able to do in the course of their lives, to listen to their pre-election programs, and, again, to make the right choice. A great deal will depend in those territorial communities on the transferred land that is in this region. And I want to look accordingly at the leadership of the Academy of Agricultural Sciences and the Institute of the Carpathian Region, which is subordinated to the State Enterprise Radehivsk Research. I did. I literally read today the request to the head of the institution to transfer one of the premises to the people's home in the village, because the village doesn't have a national home, and the premises are deserted, destroyed. And I also want to make an appropriate reference to the transfer and land of this state-owned enterprise to those territorial communities that will be created because they hope on this earth. It's also pies that people can use, it's also handing over land to autsies, boys who are very much in this region, in this area of Radehivsk. I hope that my questions will be answered. The proposals will also take into account the management of the Academy of Agricultural Sciences and the Institute of the Carpathian Region with respect to those citizens who want decentralization, want to manage their property themselves, and hand over the land. Thank you very much and I hope for your cooperation.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-19-m0.u111	Thank you. And we invite you to the words of the People's Deputy Bloody Hennadia.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-19-m0.u112	Good afternoon, dear colleagues, Madam Chairman, distinguished Ukrainians. Today, I would like to contact the people of the city of Mironovka and the region of Mironov. We all know that last week, the Central Election Commission decided to hold elections before the Mironian united territorial community. Thank God, all I can say. Unfortunately, however, it is only a small minimum that the Kyiv District State Administration has managed to submit to the Central Electoral Commission. Among such communities that have been awaiting for a year is Boguslav’s united territorial community, as well as the Kagarlic united territorial community. By the way, almost the entire area is composed of 23 villages along with the town of Kagarlik. And in order, in principle, for the people of Peace and Peace to understand what the plus is going to be, and I hope that it will be, after the elections to the United Nations, I want to give some figures, according to the so-called calculation, the calculation, the state of 2018. For example. To date, the total budgets of the Peacekeeper and other rural councils, which are part of the Mironian United Territorial Society, account for just over 26 million dollars. After the elections are held, the Mironowska United Territorial Community, the total cost, the total budget of the Mironian United Territorial Society will reach some 185 million dollars. Among these, at least 10 million will be allocated for medical subsidies and about 20 million will be allocated for educational subsidies. At the same time, the community’s own income will reach some 137 million dollars. This is provided that, of course, the district administration or some local authorities in the area or in places will not block or interfere with the work of the United Territorial Society itself. I would like to go to the Cabinet of Ministers, give all the appropriate assistance after the elections are held, how the head will be chosen and the elected deputies of the Mironian United Territorial Society will be elected, so that the community will actually work, so that the community can show its positive side, and that every person living in this community understands how promising and positive that decision is. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-19-m0.u113	Thank you. And the National MP, John Rybak, is invited to the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-19-m0.u114	Dear Madam Chairman! Dear fellow national MPs! Dear Ukrainians! Ivan Ribak, 202 constituency, Cherniewec district. I'd like to raise my colleagues' attention today on the important issues that concern the Bukovin region, the region of Cherniewec. In particular, for several weeks now in the area between the Visniki district and the Putil district of the Cherniewice region, which is located in the region of Ivano-Frankiv, because this is the only possible road to reach the Travelling area of the Cherniews region. People have blocked the road because a few years in a row, starting in 2008, after the floods that have just taken place in the Carpathian region are not being repaired, the T-2601 road in the Vižnica-Patila area. In fact, this is a really important question, since in the past year, 31 million dollars were allocated in part to the capital repairs of the road. At the same time, three and a half miles [3.5 km] of road to this day is completely unrepaired, in a state that cannot be used by road. The car breaks down, and the children are almost drowned in the mud as they go to school. So this is really an important question. I would like to ask the government to give immediate instructions to the Ministry of Infrastructure, the Ukrainian Road Service, and to help solve the urgent problem that affects tens of thousands of Ukrainians. I would also like to draw attention to the budgetary process that is currently taking place in the walls of the Ukrainian Parliament, and yesterday a positive decision was taken on the budget as the main financial document for 2019 in the creation of the new State Environmental Protection Fund. Yes, such a fund existed before 2014, and it was really a positive tool for solving environmental problems. There funds were put in place for conservation measures to deal with the consequences of actions, water damage in the Carpathian region. But this year, less than half a billion dollars are budgeted for, despite the fact that Ukrainian operators pay more than 4 billion dollars for environmental taxes. So I think the government is going to solve this problem and listen to our committee of profile in the parliament walls. And finally. November 3rd, 2018 at The beech will mark the 100th anniversary of the Bukovin Age, the merger of the Bukovinian lands with the Ukrainian People's Republic. I invite everyone to participate in these celebrations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-19-m0.u115	Thank you for the invitation. And we invite you to the speech of the People's Deputy Maxim Burbak.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-19-m0.u116	Maximburbak, 204 constituency, People's Front faction. Dear colleagues, respected citizens of Ukraine! On the eve of International Air Safety Day, Ukraine received a fine gift from the official authorities of the United States. I would like to welcome all Ukrainian air traffic controllers to the upcoming festival. And I would like to welcome the entire team of the state-owned firm, the Ukrainians, who have made great efforts to restore flights to three airports: Dnipro, Kharkiv and Zaporozhye. The United States Federal Aviation Administration has agreed to the restoration of flights to these cities by American airlines. Another very important achievement of Ukraine, the State Service and the Ministry of Infrastructure is that from now on Ukraine will be able to fully control flights on four routes over the Black Sea. Despite attempts to discredit the Russian Federation, which occasionally makes provocative publications that deter international air carriers from using safe routes over the Black Sea, even though our compatriots don't fail, there are also many rods published in the native media. But today we have a beautiful spoon of honey: a bright result of the fruitful work of all aviation professionals in Ukraine. Yes, flying safely over Ukraine and at Ukrainian airports. Thank you to all who have made the effort to make this positive decision for Ukraine. And this is a positive decision for the entire image of our nation, because this is a huge step for Ukraine in developing the economy through the development of the regional airline. Let me give you a little example. The International Airport Chernivci, my hometown, thanks to the decision of the coalition government of Arsenija Yatsenyuk in 2015-2016, allocated additional funding for the renovation of the runway, and already in 2018 in the nomination "Aviation of the Year" our airport took an honorary second place. And step by step, by joint effort, I am convinced that we can make better infrastructure and improve the airports themselves, both Dniper and Kharkiv and Zaporozhye and Odessa and Cherniv. This requires funding, and we will support everything necessary, the programme implemented by the Ministry of Infrastructure for the Development of Regional Aviation. Airports and regional airlines. Thank you once again to all who have worked directly to realize today’s good news for Ukraine and its image. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-19-m0.u117	Thank you, too. And we invite you to the words of the National Fisherman. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-19-m0.u118	Dear Ukrainians, dear colleagues! Last week he personally became convinced of the inefficiency of medical reform by visiting Pavlovgrad City Hospital No. 4 in my native Dnipropetrovska, and I can conclude that Uljana Suprun’s medical reform has failed completely. The most important problem for doctors is low wages. They only got a salary raise last year and a $100 raise. Today, the wages of a beginner medical practitioner are $2,000,700, the head of the department is $4,000,200. Because of the increase in the number of patients, doctors are forced to work 15 hours a month, and this is free. Doctors do not want to work under such conditions, and today the lack of personnel is 35 percent in this hospital. Ukrainian doctors and physicians are moving out of the country in a mass way. Consider: During the past two years, 70,000 doctors have left Ukraine. The conditions of the Upavlograd hospital are terrible: the repairs are almost complete. The hull's almost a year old, and that's despite both the budget and the donor spending. The next problem is a catastrophic lack of stationary facilities for patients. For the 300,000 inhabitants of Pavlograd, Ternopil district, there are only 225 beds in the town of Prvotravensk. As a result of this reform, FAPs and hospital districts are closing down. The area has grown to 120 kilometers, even though the standard is 60. Now, people who have to go to the hospital for hours, the fast ones can't get people in. Local budgets are catastrophically short of the cost of maintaining medical facilities. The Pavlovgrad Hospital is funded by 50 percent of the state budget, 50 percent of the local hospital. The following year, nearly 10 million dollars are planned for funding, resulting in a modest level of patient nutrition financing. Please tell me what you can eat for 5 bucks a day. I want to show you now. This is a small piece of black bread, one beet and one potato. I would very much like the authorities today, including the Cabinet of Ministers and the duties of Ulysses Suprun, to come to the city hospital, to see what conditions there are for patients who get paid by doctors and how they are fed, because food workers say that they don't even want to buy meat and fish, Oleg Láska’s Radical Party highlights the removal and discharge of Ulysses Suprun’s acting minister of health. And we stress the need for an effective medical reform that will pay worthy wages and is worthy of maintenance.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-19-m0.u119	Thank you. [[B in m in s a l in]] Take it with you, give it to your family, and cook a delicious bologna today. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-19-m0.u120	[[Unheard]]
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-19-m0.u121	Add to that what you can cook with a bursque. I see you know how to cook. Please, Ms. HannaGopco, Ukrainian national deputy, is invited to speak.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-19-m0.u122	Good afternoon, dear fellows! I'd like to draw attention to what's going on in the Russian Federation, especially those statements that we've seen from the State that they're going to provide an adequate answer for the aggression that Ukraine's doing on Donbassa. We've also heard Putin's statements that he's going to make a deal with the future president of Ukraine. In fact, it is a statement of interference with the elections in Ukraine, and it is quite clear that Putin does not deliberately fulfil his international obligations when we do not see a truce when we do not see an exit of Russian technology when we do not see the liberation of Ukrainian citizens. We actually see the Kremlin's paranoid statements as a reaction to Ukraine moving forward. In fact, we have seen that there is a decision by Constantinople regarding autocephaly. Much more needs to be done to strengthen the Ukrainian Orthodox Church, to choose the Patriarch, not the Metropolitan. And we see how we're still moving to strengthen the Ukrainian language, against the Russians that's been going on for centuries. This also causes tremendous irritation, and we see references to it in the Kremlin’s statements. We see what irritation is causing the Kremlin to strengthen the Ukrainian army and the joint learning that is taking place with the NATO member states to strengthen our resilience. We see how irritated the Kremlin is when they see how proactively we are in order to strengthen our ability to protect ourselves on the Azova Sea, on the Black Sea. Colleagues, these are all the gains that there is. But it is extremely important now to maintain internal political stability and unity. It is vital that the support of the West be maintained so that those who want to continue trading with the Kremlin, with Russia, do not wave. Why is it so important that we now, when we talk about unity, adopt a balanced budget? I understand very well that everyone in the faction, a magician, has some kind of vision that they would like in the budget next year. Someone wants to use the budget to then have a campaign. That's why I urge the voters of Ukraine to understand clearly: there is no money for a deputy like this or a deputy like that, there is a government budget for taxpayers. So don't believe in the billboards that "I made you a road, fixed your school" and so on, it's all our money with you. Back to the subject of the budget. Why is it important for him to be balanced and budget for the development of the Ukrainian economy? Because we don't have this budget proved how we're going to make money. At the same time, when a well-deserved teacher was speaking here, he was talking about education, he was talking about the very economy that should be based on knowledge. And these are the perspectives that we need to develop. I really hope that when they put 4 billion in the budget to finance, support the animal industry, and actually the agro-holdings that owners then buy their own yachts, it's better to increase that money to finance the Foreign Ministry. Because the funding of the Ukrainian Institute is not approved, the ICC is represented in Uzhgrad, and in Zakarpat it is important.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-19-m0.u123	Thank you. Please give the next speech, National Deputy Caplin. Mrs. Hopko, thank you for your timely presentation.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-19-m0.u124	Dear compatriots, you know, in a famous song, "there's no empty space in the hall." There are nine people in the hall today, nine plus a photographer. I don't understand what the Ukrainian national deputies expect from a simple man whose respect, whose attention, and, in fact, whose support. I don't understand how a national MP who was a member of the Supreme Council during this call can count on winning, of course, if he's not from our party and he wasn't fighting for the common people. Dear compatriots, the Ukrainian Truth has just posted information on the state of the so-called wealth of our fellow countrymen. So by the incomes of our citizens, we're 123 out of 130 countries. It's terrible to have countries like Nepal, Cameroon, Kenya, Bangladesh in front of us -- countries whose names look like mattresses. We hooked up, we lived, it's a complete collapse, it's a complete default, it's the bankruptcy of all state institutions, it's the bankruptcy of state policy. I don't understand how you can support Parliament, the government, all the other state institutions and the first people in our country. And that's why our political power, along with the unions, fights for the common people. That is why, a few days ago, we brought about thirty - five thousand citizens to the Christian congregation, representing virtually every region, every city, every sector of our economy. That's why we've been trying to get the Cabinet of Ministers to improve the subsidy situation. And Kabdin heard these people and accepted our firm demands. From now on, dear Ukrainians, one and a half million citizens will receive an additional grant. The procedure for obtaining it will be maximized. You will file papers only once a year, not go to social workers and ask for subsidies. Those who have a debt under the EU, who have a debt on their salary, will automatically receive subsidies. Commissions are given additional rights to grant subsidies to those who live in difficult conditions: disabled people I, II groups, those who are sick. It's a very simple procedure to argue that those people who are prescribed by you don't live with you. In addition, for peasants, for those with low wages, new opportunities have been obtained accordingly. I would like to point out that such a plan and such a grant work does not solve the problem as a whole. Today, we have a number of challenges in the energy sphere of our country: low quality of work of generating objects that give heat to citizens, loss of about 35 percent; transportation costs about 25 percent, although 13 percent are declared. We just have a catastrophic situation -- in the 21st year we're going to have to get out of operation.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-19-m0.u125	Please finish 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-19-m0.u126	In the 21st year, dear compatriots, we're going to have to take out some of our energy capacities that will require about 25 billion dollars to modernize. Where are we going to get that money? Of course, new governments and new authorities will translate this into common people through tariffs. The situation is as critical as possible, which requires the inclusion of socially oriented political forces in the Supreme Council. You'll have a choice next year: to bring new forces to Parliament or.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-19-m0.u127	Thank you, Mr. Caplin. And please welcome Yuri Timoshenko. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-19-m0.u128	I welcome at least 15 present in this Chamber of Deputies. Logically, there are those who want to speak. Dear viewers, the glory of Jesus Christ! Unfortunately, I have to read it because this is my open letter to President Peter Alexiovich Dustenk. "Mr. President Peter Alexiyovich, without having the opportunity to address you personally, I am writing to you with an open letter concerning the crimes of some of your immediate subordinates, of which you may not even know. I'm referring to Military Prosecutor Matios and Justice Minister Petrenko. From the great book of crimes of their subordinates in all prisons in Ukraine, at the prisons of the execution of Ukraine, I will give an example of only one page concerning prisoners of war from the Tornado Battalion, whose wines have not yet been proven and on which matters have yet to be considered. These men of yours have placed the above - mentioned heroes of war, some of whom have five injuries sustained during the war, instead of the S.E.S.O. in prison. It's been a few months. In these prisons, they were not put in cells, but in cells, in cells, 3 by 1 meter. In these concrete bags, they're shown inhumane behavior, they're starved, they're tormented with sound sirens, they're raised at 5 a.m. every day. Subtle Petrenko tortures our heroes every day and abuses their human dignity, stripping them under cameras, and for long periods of time. When they abused their religious beliefs, they removed the Bible from the boys, while Denissa Lyashuka, a citizen of Belarus, was removed from the Koran and, while harassing his faith, they shaved naked and shaved, shaved. He is not even allowed to be spoken to by an interpreter and is not addressed to the Belarusian ambassador. At the same time, the judges themselves do not understand the address given in Belarusian. The boys were robbed, all their personal records were stolen on all 30 volumes of their case files, and they removed and destroyed over 40 T-shirts with a logo called Tornado and big letters on all the chests of "Glory to Ukraine!" A hero of glory!" Only that there was a little logo on those T-shirts on the side. The same T-shirt was ripped from Ruslana the Destroyer, commander of the battalion, personally on his chest. I mean, at the same time that you, Mr. President, and other senior officials of the country are making incredible efforts to bring our state to European standards and to integrate us as soon as possible into the family of the fraternal peoples of Europe, away from Russia, prosecutor Matios and minister Petrenko, or not for Putin's money."
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-19-m0.u129	Please, 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-19-m0.u130	They're doing everything they can to keep us from ever getting there, because they know very well that their crimes in Europe are long and well known. And in the days leading up to all their crimes and crimes, a request will be made to the European Court of Human Rights. And it's clear that with this level of violation of fundamental human rights in the country, it's a long time before we even dream of having them and the entire aggressor state led by Putin. Mr. President, the fault of these people is in front of all of us."
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-19-m0.u131	Please give the following address to the national MPKorsch. Thank you. Your time is running out, even with extra seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-19-m0.u132	Alexander Kirsch, Kharkiv. Ladies, I'm talking about gas counters again, because the problems with gas counters are not solved. In many buildings, even most buildings are equipped with these colgasborous counters, i.e. they all pay on average, which is built in each house. Well, it's the same way to pay for goods in the store on average, who took them and then split them all, and everyone pays the same amount, regardless of who bought them. That's how we get paid for gas, because tariffs keep rising, and that's not fair at all. It's said that we've already installed a public alarm clock, we're not going to dismantle it because it requires new costs. Okay, you don't have to dismantle them. If it takes money, all you have to do is enforce the law and install individual counters. And we have to pay for the testimony of individual, own counters, not for the testimony of public alarm clocks. If they already exist, let them stay, but they don't have to affect the size of wages for gas and other energy supplies, because they have to have only individual counters everywhere, and let them stay, but they don't make any sense, just so they don't spend any money on dismantling them. It must be said that the government had to comply with the law and had to establish a specific order, but he did not. So now I'm proposing a bill that replaces the government's decision to accelerate this process and not to set bureaucratic barriers to citizens meeting, to set up meetings, to make decisions at these meetings, to make or not to make decisions on individual counters, just to enforce the law. Individual counters have to be in everyone's possession, and let's not call on citizens to make any decisions about their meetings, but let's say that if a gas company doesn't have money, let it ask citizens to do it, somehow it's collecting signatures that citizens agree to have a general alarm clock. But they never collect these signatures, because it's not fair when someone cooks samn -- and they have some energy losses, and the other one just freezes, saves -- and instead they have completely different energy losses, but they pay the same. So my bill is very simple, it's already been first read on the committee, and it's going to be done by a working group. I really hope that everything is going to be accepted and that this year there will be all-inclusive and individual counters to pay for gas and other energy for justice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-19-m0.u133	Thank you. And Igorshurma, Ukrainian national deputy, is invited to the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-19-m0.u134	IgorShurma, the Opposition Block. I want to tell you what non-professionalism and unskilled actions look like today literally on the bottom of government. On the question of my colleagues of political opponents that today there is no money for insulins, so to speak. The minister stated officially, sitting behind the Prime Minister's back, that, for example, the Kharkiv region was provided with 76 per cent insulin. So, I can tell you, I don't know what they're doing in the Ministry there, Deputy Minister Kovtonuk wrote a letter saying that Kharkiv region got 45 million, which for a year is 40 percent of what it needs, 60 is missing. It's an official letter from him. We're referring to what they found in the registers. You know what non-professionalism is. This is a person who has no idea how sugar diabetes registers are being formed today. Sugar diabetes is the cure, I'll read it to you -- people who, unfortunately, die every year because they don't have the same insulin, and generally because it's the result of diabetes. Every year, new patients are revealed. If they have 13,000 insulin addicts today, that means that 5 percent may be fluctuating. Someone died, someone came new, one year more, the other less. They say it's unreliable data. This is the first one. Does this mythologist know that without insulin, a person cannot live a short period of time at all? People are fed with the promise that insulins will be from the new year. What does unprofessional cynicism look like? This is what the U.S. standard was for Suprun’s applause when Bill 6327 was voted on, when it was pre-booking and when counterfeiting took place. And it was written there. In order for this bill to be implemented, at least 5 per cent of the gross domestic product must be introduced. Of the totals, this should be 190 billion for 2019, and 95 - half of the required amount is allocated. And that's what they're telling us is that reform is going to work. It's already well known that there won't be any problems with pay and implementation of all programs. It's an order, a letter from the Ministry of Health to eliminate Order 54 of the Year 93 and enforce Order 1093. Do you know what it's about? Disposal of all payments that are made on orders from medical schools. You want to talk about quality education -- and you want to put a professor's bookcase on zero rates, and then you're going to enter English to get students to pass those exams. Here's an example for you. What should we do about it? It takes people to sit there, there, in government.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-19-m0.u135	Please, 30 seconds, please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-19-m0.u136	To keep Ukraine’s legislation in the government’s bed. Look, an international passport scandal in Zakarpat. Officials in the Zakartat district cannot work in two passport positions. You can't serve two kings, as Vice Prime Minister of Euro-Inclusion said. And Suprun gave her second passport, American? No, I didn't. So why do you keep breaking the law and appeal to the honesty of those people? They look at you and do what you do. And order.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-19-m0.u137	Thank you. Please, colleagues, I now invite you to the speech of the Medunic People's Deputy. And, if I understand correctly, we still have a word to speak to the people’s deputies of Derivyanka, Silantiev, and Kochaly. And this is where we finish our work.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-19-m0.u138	Dear colleagues! Dear voters! My presentation today is dedicated to the subject of grants, more faithfully, to the topic of non-subsidization, which began massively after the adoption and entry into force of the government's decision of May 1, this year, when this regulation was artificially limited to the right of a significant category of citizens to receive subsidies. What categories does this refer to? First of all, they are those who do not pay the only social contribution. Accordingly, hundreds of thousands of citizens have been deprived of subsidies. But we have objective citizens who can't pay the only social contribution, they can't pay for anything. For example, mothers who raise children with disabilities. They live on a child - care pension, and the pension does not pay the only social contribution. They are accordingly deprived of this right. This is unfair and discriminatory for this low-income category of citizens. For example, those who do not receive a salary have a debt on wages, by the way, on state enterprises. There is no salary, there is debt, therefore the employer does not pay the EU. And these people, who have been deprived of their earnings by the State, are now deprived of their subsidies. Therefore, I demand that this category of citizens be included in the government’s decision to change this decision and that justice be restored in relation to those who are objectively unable to pay the only social contribution. The second category of citizens is those who do not live by their place of registration. Other citizens who own homes are forced to provide information on the incomes of those who, well, objectively do not live there, who have gone abroad. This injustice also needs to be removed because we need to take income to base the calculation of subsidies for those people who actually live there. Because there are circumstances, and these people who have left cannot be unjust in taking and accounting for their income. Next. The third category of citizens is separated families. If the father was divorced from his mother, why should a mother who has been divorced for 10 years seek the income of her father and bring them to the Department of Social Protection? He has already created a second family, living in an unknown place, but social protection agencies require help about family members who were formerly members of the family. Clearly, alimony is taken and accounted for. But how can income be taken, where he already lives in another family, maybe he's already getting a grant there? So these three categories of citizens who are artificially deprived of the grant, I demand that the government.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-19-m0.u139	Please finish 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-19-m0.u140	included this category of citizens in the regulation, and they could normally get the subsidy, as they had received it before, and lifted these dragon discriminatory restrictions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-19-m0.u141	Thank you, Your Honor. And we invite you to the words of national deputy Yuri Derevyanka.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-19-m0.u142	Dear Ukrainians, dear colleagues! Yuri Derevyanko, "The Movement of New Forces". Today we have an oligarchic, corruption system in Ukraine, a system where several people, such as Ahemtów, Firtash, Ljovczyn, Boyko, Kolomoysky, Pinchuk, Grigorishin, Prashenko, other oligarchs, think they own our country and all the Ukrainians are their subjects. It's these people who now own much of the economy. It is these people who now have much of the resources. They own all the central channels of television by influencing, forming, and influencing our future. Dear Ukrainians, what are we to do in these circumstances, when these people control virtually all the factions of the Ukrainian Parliament, form a government, and all the authorities work in their interests, not in the interests of every Ukrainian? We, the average Ukrainian class, people who are creative, think, creative, have to unite, we have to do everything we can next year so that we don't lose the chance to change this system so that next year we can win the presidential election, and in the parliamentary elections, we can throw them all away from Ukrainian power and Ukrainian power to bring the Ukrainian people back. "The Movement of New Forces" is the only party that today has nothing to do with any oligarchic structure that is not part of this system today, which is struggling to influence the Ukrainians' future, their lives, and they can here, in the Ukrainian Parliament, as well as at all other levels of power, represent the interests and protect the interests of the Ukrainian people. We know how to operate when we don't have much money, when we don't have access to central television channels. We invite all Ukrainians who want Ukraine to have a strong, European, democratic, Ukraine where each of you will have new opportunities, where each of you will live confidently, where Ukraine as a state will become a service to each of you, to unite, not to hide, to take responsibility, to go to all the local levels, to be the deputies of all the local levels, to be the councils that will soon also be held in united territorial communities, to also prepare and become members of the Supreme Council and all of this oilline, all of these representatives and puppet-oligarch puppets to be expelled from the Ukrainian Parliament, from the Ukrainian authorities. This is the only chance that the next year, a year when we're not a revolutionary, but an evolutionary way, through elections, through the formation of real Ukrainian strong Ukrainian citizens and a real Ukrainian strong team based on the New Forces Movement, could do what we've dreamed of for many and many years. I invite all Ukrainians to unite, form our joint teams, and present their first results in the elections of the regional communities in December of this year. And we have this knowledge, we are ready to pass it on to you, and we are sure to win. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-19-m0.u143	Thank you. Please give the next speech to the Silantiev People's Deputy. Please, sir.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-19-m0.u144	Dennis Silantiev, faction of the Radical Party of Oleg Lášk. Respectable citizens of Ukraine, respected colleagues! Now from this rostrum I speak on behalf of all the young people of our country. On behalf of those young people who are so fond of being proud and boasting about our masters and high officials, saying that it is for young people that they work, that our youth is all that the future of our nation is in the hands of our young people, but I have a simple question: are those people who say it really so far away from the reality that our young people are in today, or are they suddenly lying to the eyes of the people who have come to power? So I'm speaking on behalf of the young people who are still in Ukraine, but I'm one step away from leaving. And also from the young people who want to fight for themselves and for the future of our country, but they need to create conditions for that. The terms are simple. I am talking about our young people being associated with the future of our country, not only with the fact that they were born but also with the possibility of getting a job and their own home. I'm not talking about yachts or helicopters or palaces, no. The possibility that they could get their first job so that they could create a family so that they could support their family. So, of the two things I said, I want to stop at the apartment. So, by 2015, the government budget was like this, but it was funded by a program on the granting of extended government loans to young families and single young citizens for construction and housing. Since 2015, however, four years of government budget money has not been allocated to the program. How does an active government want to stop this multimillion-million-dollar migration of young professionals, which does not even consider it necessary to allocate funds from the state budget for young people to get loans, cheap loans, credits, which will then return and with interest back to the state budget? This would allow young professionals to realize themselves here, not elsewhere, but in their homeland. Thus, the faction of the Radical Faction of Oleg Láska demands that an active government, in the form of a budget for the following year, provide funding for the restoration of the grant of a long - term government loan to young families and single young citizens for the construction and acquisition of housing. Either we invest in the future of our nation, not spend it in vain, or we continue to run with our hands stretched out all over the world. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-19-m0.u145	And this is the last performance today, dear colleagues. People's MPs, it's kind of like Dmitri's turn. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-19-m0.u146	DmitriLenko, Oleg Lachka Radical Party. Dear Ukrainians, the previous adoption of the 2019 budget would like to bring to your attention the situation in the agrarian sector and the gains that we were told last year about the billions to be donated to farmers to ordinary peasants. What have farmers and ordinary peasants received today? We traveled with the Radical Party team across Ukraine and did not find, in fact, any farmer in Ukraine who would receive a grant or support at least a penny from the state. Only a few points per grant and what actually happened. For example, the cost of purchases for the further reproduction of tribal animals: 300 million dollars are planned, zero sums are actually allocated; special subsidies for the cultivation of young cattle: 6.7 million dollars of the 700 million dollars planned have been used; cost compensation for added objects: a billion, less than 2 million dollars spent; and financial support for the development of farms called low-cost loans: out of a billion to 43 million dollars. And it's been a year and no one's getting that money. Why did this happen, and why is there no support in fact? But because all of these procedures for receiving these grants, they're completely corrupt, they're controlled from the very beginning, and before you get them, you have to put half that money under there and then maybe by the end of the year you'll get that money. So in fact today the agrarian sector is completely cut off from the country, from any support and this money that is actually planned is not being used. For the next year, the government is proposing to increase subsidies for farmers, but the procedures will remain the same, and this money will be exclusively on paper and billboards we will only read about support for farmers and the agricultural sector. Our team of the Radical Party proposes: first, to change the procedure for receiving subsidies, to make them transparent so that every farmer, especially the one holding animals, who restores cattle in the countryside so that he can understand how to obtain this support, and for each cow to receive specific support. We also propose to change legislation on the problem of raiding. Because in the last year, 2017, 400, more than 400 raid attempts, in 2018, it's over 300. We're proposing a radical change in the situation and all the notation contracts, and all the notation procedures are fixed on the video camera, it's really going to protect our farmers, it's really going to help. First, we need to add real, transparent subsidies, secondly, to protect our farmers from raiders. If we don't do it radically, our agarna branch will just die. And if Ukraine could feed the whole of Europe and the whole world, it would soon not be able to feed itself. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-19-m0.u147	Dear colleagues, all the national MPs who signed up for the speeches on various issues, had the opportunity to take advantage of this opportunity to speak. And let me thank all the deputies present, as well as our colleagues who are already working in the districts, for a very effective parliamentary week. Let me remind you that next week people's deputies are supposed to be working on committees, commissions, factions. On the week from October 29 to November 2, national deputies work with voters in their districts. And the next plenary meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine will take place on Tuesday, November 6, and will begin, as usual, at 10 a.m. This morning's meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, I declare closed. Thank you all. And productive work in committees, factions, and districts.
