ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-04-m0.u1	Good morning, dear fellows! Please enter the hall, prepare for registration. Are you ready for your registration? So please register and participate in the registration, please. [[10:04:58]] 328 national deputies registered. The morning plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Today is the birthday of the national deputies of Ukraine, our colleagues, Andrija Jaroslavovich Lopushanski (welcome Andrew) and Viktor Leonidovich Shevchenka (welcome to our colleague). Also, according to the decision of the UN General Assembly on December 3, the International Day of Persons with Disabilities is celebrated annually. About 1 billion of the planet's population are people with disabilities. In Ukraine, according to the Ministry of Social Policy, more than 2.5 million people with disabilities are disabled. Sadly, most of our cities are not yet inclusive, but they have barriers that people with disabilities can overcome. That's not fair. That's not supposed to happen. So today, together with the profile committee, we've formed a block of bills that are called upon to make the situation much better and to make people with disabilities more comfortable. And today we're going to start our day-to-day routine with the disability protection unit. But before I start speaking from factions, I would like to invite you to make an oath to the Ukrainian National Deputy. On November 29, 2018, the Central Election Commission registered the Ukrainian People's Deputy, elected on the electoral side of Ukraine's National Deputies on October 26, 14th, in the state-wide multi-mandatory constituency, Kuren Vladimir Kostinović, who was included in the election list of the Party "Block of Petr Prashenka". In accordance with article 79 of the Constitution, Ukraine’s national deputies take an oath before the Supreme Council of Ukraine before taking office. To make an oath to the rostrum, the national deputy of the Ukraine of Kurený Volodymyr Kostinović is invited. Mr. Volodymyr, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-04-m0.u2	I swear allegiance to Ukraine. I commit myself to upholding Ukraine’s sovereignty and independence by all my actions, caring for the welfare and welfare of Ukraine’s people. I vow to abide by the Constitution and the laws of Ukraine, to carry out my duties in the interests of all fellow countrymen.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-04-m0.u3	Thank you. Congratulations. And, dear fellows, we are moving on to the speeches by the national MPs. And I'm asking all the factions and groups that are going to participate in this discussion to record. So please sign up for the factions and groups. Please. From the People's Front to the word, Burbak Maksim Yuriovich, head of the faction, is invited.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-04-m0.u4	Good afternoon, dear fellows! I'm going to start with a few important budget positions, because different color populists are already telling stories about it. Thus, from January 1st of the following year, the minimum wage of the Ukrainian Armed Forces contractor will increase to 10,000 dollars, and in the area of United Forces operations it will increase to 21,000 dollars. Under the insistence of the People's Front in the State Budget, in the 19th year, the salaries of military personnel were increased and the cost of equipping the army with new technology was increased. The Third People's Front stands for an increase in the salaries of the military. Since the beginning of 2016, Yatzenuk’s government has made three payments to the military. Then, for the first time in the history of an independent Ukraine, contract soldiers began to receive more than the average wage per country. Later, in the 17th year, the People's Front insisted that a fairer proportion be established, making the wage of a fighter even more profitable. The following year, under the insistence of the People's Front and the Minister of Interior Arsen Awakov will be working on a new social security mechanism for DNS and the National Police, which will raise salaries, compensate for renting apartments and provide financial lysis for the acquisition of their own housing. Two billion dollars are allocated to this program. There will also be an increase in the minimum wage for DNS employees to 9,000 dollars and for police to 9,000 200 dollars. The 2019 budget will be a budget for economic stability and growth. The People's Front faction calls on the National Bank to ensure that the currency is stable. There's no reason to panic. Even the state of war isn't the reason for us to charge a dollar and a price. Any fervor is artificially created and speculative. And now for national security. Our faction supports the President's initiative to terminate the Treaty of so-called friendship with Russia. We have consistently advocated breaking all agreements with Russia, including Ukraine’s common status agreement on the Azova Sea. In any event, Moscow is violating this treaty by the very fact of daily sea aggression and the occupation of the vast Azov Sea waters. As a reminder, some merchant ships waited for more than a week to pass under the bridge and check the FSB in November. Moreover, we see no point in maintaining diplomatic relations with an aggressor. The events of four years have shown that consular protection simply does not work in the Byzantine Empire, and there is no other reason to maintain this relationship for a long time. The People's Front also requires additional sanctions to be imposed on Russia through its naval aggression and the blockade of the Asian ports. Arsenius Yatsenuk took this initiative at the end of May. Russia must be forced not to calm down, but to force international agreements to leave Ukraine. The People's Front faction demands that the President, the S.B.I., the Henprosecutors finally bring criminal responsibility to the Russian agent Medvedchuk. (Let me finish.)
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-04-m0.u5	30 seconds. Please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-04-m0.u6	and give a legal assessment of his public relations with the dictator of the aggressor country and his statements regarding the state of Ukraine, its Armed Forces and parliamentarians. We demand that Medvedchuk be immediately stripped of any, at least, semi-formal, status of negotiators from Ukraine. We have to finally put an end to all of Putin Medvedchuk's corruption business in Ukraine. The SBA and other authorities should open up sources of financing for proputin media that work in secret to capitalize on Russia. Information sovereignty must be protected against anti - Ukrainian provocation and propaganda.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-04-m0.u7	Thank you. And I invite you to the words of the People's Deputy Sidorovich of the Self-Help faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-04-m0.u8	Ruslan Sidorovich, Self Help Union. There has been a war situation in the country for a week. This is the question that people talk about in all cities, on the streets of all our cities and towns. In a normal country, there is a legal regime of martial law to ensure order, to provide for people, first and foremost. But what do we see? The President, the Council of National Security and Defence, the government would have to inform people what the consequences are for them from the introduction of this state of war, which will mean to them whether there will be any restrictions on movement, whether there will be any other things for them in their daily lives, but we don't see any information. District authorities, district government administrations are silent and do not explain to people what this will mean to them. In addition, these questions are of concern to people not only in areas where war has been imposed. Traveling through various regions of Ukraine last week, even in areas where there is no military situation, people ask what this will mean for them. There's no answer. And besides, people have the right to know, people have the right to understand what measures the State will use to protect their rights, to protect their security. And this ignorance and misunderstanding that the state will use gives rise to fear and uncertainty in tomorrow. This is absolutely unacceptable. In the Supreme Council before the Parliament, those structures that are required to implement the necessary measures in the state of war should report regularly to both the Ukrainian Parliament and to the Ukrainian people made during this period in order to increase that security and to make each citizen feel safe and secure. The issue of local elections is also raised in areas where the state of war is established. You can't juggle it and you can't experiment. In fact, the local elections in the united territorial communities have already been torn down. And now to speculate that we seem to want to ensure an active electoral right of citizens is propaganda and deception. You have to be honest with people: in a state of war, elections, free, those that meet world standards are impossible by definition. Therefore, it is not possible to turn the state of war into a proponent; it is not possible to turn the state of war into a farce. People need to understand that the state is actively preparing, increasing its ability, and people need to understand how and how this is happening. So we demand a report this week and what is planned to be done next.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-04-m0.u9	Thank you. I invite you to speak from the People's Will Group of the People's Deputy Labazük.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-04-m0.u10	Dear colleagues, Mr. Head, dear Ukrainian people! One of the main achievements in the country in recent years is the reform of decentralization. During this time, 723 united tergrosses were formed. Some of them are scheduled to hold their first elections on December 23. It is difficult to overestimate the benefits of the community’s consolidation. In my home hamlet in three years, in this neighborhood alone, income per inhabitant increased by almost 50 percent -- figures speak for themselves. But today, when the state is in a state of law, we have no moral right to stop decentralization. In 10 areas, the state of war is under way, and the elections are to take place in about 40 communities. They need to be able to do so and to give positive impetus to the development of these areas. And in this situation, the ball is now in the territory of our Supreme Council. Less than two weeks before the OTG election. The People's will MPs call not to delay, but to allow this process to begin. Colleagues, we have a December month on our calendar. This means that in less than 30 days a moratorium on the sale of agricultural land is officially completed. I want to dispel the myths so that there is no speculation on Ukraine's main wealth on earth, and I want to remind you that paragraph 15 of the Transitional Regulations of the Earth Code provides for a ban on buying and selling land before the entry into force of the relevant Earth Circumstances Act, but not before 1 January 2019. I mean, even if we don't continue the moratorium, from January 1st he'll still act before choosing the validity of a bill on the circulation of land that there is no state of affairs in Parliament today. But as a member of the Land Working Group, I report, an agrarian committee is working on preparing an appropriate legislative framework and a project on land consolidation has already been adopted, a developed concept for the development of the agricultural sector, which also includes the development of a project on land circulation. But these are important mechanisms for launching a normal and civilized market that have not yet been fully developed. Convinced, taking a moratorium just for the sake of a moratorium is pointless. But we don't have the moral right with you today to allow a black market in which people will start to speculate and at no cost to take away the land. Therefore, the moratorium should be continued until the law on the circulation of land becomes effective. And it's also very important today to finally look at the agrarian cluster of issues that no hand ever reaches for weeks at a time. Among the bills: No. 4611 – on requirements for food contact items and materials, No. 3157 – on the order of the transfer of water objects to rent, are also important.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-04-m0.u11	30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-04-m0.u12	Important Euro-Integration Bills, such as 4611 – on the identification and registration of animals and 6527 – on cooperation. Colleagues, I urge everyone to support these bills and not to "drive on a goat" but to work productively this week. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-04-m0.u13	Thank you. And I'd like to invite you to speak to the People's Deputy Arthur Gerasimov Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-04-m0.u14	Dear Madam Chairman! Dear colleagues! Dear Ukrainians! On November 25 of this year, Russia committed open aggression and actually launched an open war against Ukraine. Our ships, which, according to international law, moved from Ukrainian Odessa to Ukrainian Mariupol, were attacked by 11 ships, helicopters, and aircraft of the Russian army and the FSB. The enemy fired fire at the impact, rockets and large - scale cannons were used. It was only by a miracle that the crew of the Berdians survived when the missile was launched into the captain's section. The bravery and endurance of our sailors broke the enemy’s plans to provoke armed conflict. As a result of the attack, 24 U.S. military personnel were captured by the Russian forces. We need to make every effort to get them home as soon as possible. The act of open aggression against Ukraine finally raised the civilised world’s doubts about the threat posed by the Kremlin regime. The reaction of our allies was brilliant: The President of the United States cancelled his meeting with Putin for the release of Ukrainian sailors and vessels, and NATO and the EU officially sided with Ukraine. The democratic world strongly condemned Russia’s actions in the Kerchny Strait and demanded the immediate release of the Ukrainian military. The provocation at sea took place against the background of a large - scale crowd of Russian troops along the Ukrainian border. The introduction of the state of war was the only faithful decision after an open attack under Russia’s flags and an increase in the risk of incursion. And those who call the introduction of martial arts obviously want to repeat the events of 2014, when Russia captured Crimea almost without opposition. I emphasize that Ukraine does not declare war on anyone but only increases its own security. A number of special measures are under way, the redeployment of troops, the fighting of brigades, the strengthening of the protection of strategic objects, the border, public order, and other warlike states. The introduction of martial law is not a political act, but a decisive step taken by Chief Commander Peter Prashenko, who is called upon to preserve our state in the event of a full-scale attack. Despite the state of war, the rights and freedoms of the civilian population remain untouchable. Their limitations are only possible in the event of a large - scale invasion of our territory. So I ask you to stop all political speculation and attempts to shake things up inside the country. The president of Ukraine, Peter Poroshenko, has also submitted to Parliament and calls for a bill on the termination of the Treaty of Friendship with Russia. This decision will be another clear signal: Ukraine has chosen its future as far away from Moscow as possible and will not allow the dark forces to choose for themselves. Last week there was another event that disrupts Moscow's centuries-old imperial folds: the Holy Synod of Constantinople Patriarchate approved the final text of Tomos and the date of the United Council — what Ukraine fought for during the last four centuries — finally takes place before our eyes. And finally. (Please, 30 seconds.)
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-04-m0.u15	30 seconds, please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-04-m0.u16	And finally. I invite everyone to attend the exhibition on Ukrainian Donbas in the towers of the Supreme Council. I am grateful to the organizers, and I want to assure everyone that Donbas from ancient times has been Ukraine, remains Ukraine and will always be Ukraine. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-04-m0.u17	Thank you. Welcome to the speech of the People's Deputy Oleg Laska of the Radical Party of Oleg Lášk.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-04-m0.u18	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Millions of Ukrainians today receive such bills for utility bills, for gas. And in these accounts, the note that from 2015 to 2018 you have a 92-cub debt. It's an account from the city of Chernigow district. Other people tell me that they've sent 200 cubic metres of gas, someone who's 150 cubes to blame. This is because people have counters. So people, you imagine the reaction of a family that spent money on counters that would save every penny, every cubic meter of gas, sleep under three blankets at night, turn off the heat to save, pay less -- and then they get the bills that they have to pay. These accounts are the verdicts of all government talks of overcoming corruption in the oil and gas sector. Because today it's actually a confirmation that corruption continues to be that, despite the cost of counters, people still have "out of the lamp" accounts that they don't have, and then they're going to turn off the heat because people feel like this debt. That is why we demand that the government immediately – immediately! - to come here, to Parliament, and to report when people stop robbing people, when people stop getting these "happy leaves" about the debt they don't have when the authorities stop ripping three skins off of gas that doesn't cost them? That is why we insist that Parliament immediately consider the draft of the Government's decision to increase gas prices. We demand a moratorium on the price hikes on the utility station, we demand that Naftegasus, from the skyscraper, stop scaring people and send out these "killers" accounts that actually lead to a heart attack. The government is obliged to immediately release the Naftogazu Supervisory Board, most of which is a foreigner who has Ukraine's interests in the light bulb. We need to release Naftogazu's head from Kobolev, return all the cosmic wages and bonuses that they paid to each Ukrainian in their pocket, and give Ukrainian gas at Ukrainian cost to the housing and utility needs. This will double the cost of gas, which means the cost of tariffs. So that people don't rob, they don't get these unfair, incredible gas prices and utility prices. 60 percent of the family’s income should be paid by each Ukrainian family for a utility, while they receive low wages and pensions. In the same Germany, 13 percent of families pay for a utility. So output one: a radical salary increase, a recalculation of pensions, a fair price for gas -- this will allow people to stop being robbed, as the current government does. Get your hands off me.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-04-m0.u19	30. Thank you. 30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-04-m0.u20	And more than that, it's very important. At the end of the year, a moratorium on the sale of agricultural land ends. We were the authors of this moratorium. We ask Parliament to consider the bill without delay and to continue the moratorium on the prohibition of the sale of land. In addition, the Constitutional Court supported our changes to the Constitution so that farmers could be the foundation of Ukraine’s agricultural system. We demand that these changes be considered immediately and that the land be fixed permanently by the Ukrainians and that the sale of land be banned to foreigners.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-04-m0.u21	Thank you. May I have a word with the national deputy Bodnar's rebirth group? Bondar, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-04-m0.u22	Dear colleagues, respected citizens of Ukraine! Of course, we support the first paragraph and the main question is to put to the vote a draft decree on the abolition of these shameful gas tariffs that the government has introduced in the last month and to fully conduct the energy audits of all the tariffs that exist today in Ukraine. We've done it over and over again and said that Ukrainian gas costs $70 -- it's four times cheaper than the government is offering us import gas, which is called from Europe and other countries around the world. This says that the good story is that we're building energy independence by not buying our own, not allowing citizens to get cheap Ukrainian gas, but offering them import gas. At the same time, 76 percent of Ukrainian citizens receive pensions that are not even able to cover their tariffs, which is a shameful policy of power that today leads to the total destruction of the population of Ukraine and the departure of young people abroad. At the same time, what happens in other issues of so-called energy independence? Look at our Ukrainian miners. If Ukraine had mined nearly 84 million tons of coal in 2013, 7-8 million tons had been sold abroad, we are now extracting 34 million tons -- minus 50 million tons. You think Donbas is the only reason? No, Donbas reduced its output by 20 million, 30 million tons, and Ukraine deliberately does not buy from Ukrainian miners in Dnipropetrovska, Volin, Lviv. What's more, our miners have been owed 1 billion 100 million dollars, and there's no calculation. The question is: Why? The answer is very simple because coal began to be purchased in the United States, South Africa and Russia. We spent two billion and 150 million dollars last year buying imported coal. So what's the point? We can't pay our miners a billion dollars, and we overpay 60 times more to the United States and feed Pennsylvania miners instead of feeding our own and getting coal at normal prices inside the country. That's our energy policy. That's why we demand that the budget spends on upgrading mines and paying wages. Now all you need is 4.8 billion dollars. You find $2 billion to send abroad, and you can't find 4.8 billion dollars?Oh, my God! The government found 2 billion 200 million dollars in this 2019 budget. What do you think it's for? 650 million -- to close the Ukrainian mines and 1 billion 600 -- to other wages, including wages. In fact, American miners, African miners, and Russian miners began feeding. And this is a conscious policy of Ukrainian power. That's why we insist. Give me 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-04-m0.u23	30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-04-m0.u24	That's why we're asking the Ukrainian Parliament to call on the head of Naftogazu Ukraine, to hear a report on the price of Ukrainian gas and on Ukrainian energy tariffs. The other one. Listen to the head of the Chamber of Auditors and Naftogaz Ukraine, why they don't allow the House of Accounts to be checked; why they don't let them check out the cost of Ukrainian gas and the real wages, the bonuses they've written down. And call the Minister of Energy, hear about the coal situation, and why we're feeding today.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-04-m0.u25	Thank you. From "The Fatherland" to the word "Sobolev" Sergey Vladislavovich is invited. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-04-m0.u26	Sobolje, Fatherland. Dear colleagues, reverent radio listeners! In fact, today ends on the last 30th day, when the profiling committees were to consider the submission of a number of groups and factions regarding the review of gas and heat tariffs, as well as municipal payments. In fact, from tomorrow we have good reason to start looking at this issue on a daily basis, and therefore we support the positions of those groups and factions that insist that it is a priority issue for the development and the economy and for the social protection of our citizens. The other one. There are only two weeks left when we can decide to continue the moratorium on the sale of agricultural land. In fact, we have a constraint that is set out by the absence of a profile law. But this limit allows those who are dishonest in hand, because of the various agreements, in fact, from January 1st, to start the process of disposing land from those who directly own it, and to continue to resell these land to anyone. That's why the "Fatherland" faction refers to the head of the Parliament of Mr. Parubia, to the leaders of all factions and representatives of the people's deputies, that over the last two weeks we have considered this issue and adopted and approved a final decision that would not allow the land to be manipulated by the salt industry. Third. As reported by the media, the President is making changes to the War Status Act in the United Communities. I know that the factions analyzed at their meetings yesterday, in fact, all the risks the country is taking in connection with such changes. When decisions are effectively suspended in the courts, since the registration deadline has not been completed, when the state of war has been declared and not everyone who has the right to register has actually been registered. There are also a number of issues that are not addressed by this law. That is why several factions of Parliament are initiating an alternative bill that regulates a number of provisions that will amend the Presidential Election Act. This is: a clear order for the establishment of the number of members of the district election boards and district election committees; an order for the absence of electronic declarations by 400,000 members of the district election committees that are now required by law. This is a question that is directly related.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-04-m0.u27	30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-04-m0.u28	This is a question that is directly related to the organization of elections and to bringing them into line with existing legislation, namely, the repeal of a so - called written declaration that no longer exists for three years in the country, and we have electronic declarations. And all the agitation is being done on a channel called Public Television. It is these changes that we are proposing, and they will be today.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-04-m0.u29	Thank you. From the Opposition Block to the word Wilkul is invited.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-04-m0.u30	Dear people of Ukraine, this is the last week of the Supreme Council's work this year. The country’s leadership reports will now begin. So last week, I went through Dnipropetrovsk, Zaporezka and northern Donetsk region, I was at businesses, I was seeing people. There I heard a real report and an attitude toward what was going on. People give simple examples: a colossal increase in prices and tariffs, since the beginning of the year, the minimum wage has not increased by a penny, and the minimum pension has only increased by 124 bracelets, and you have picked up more by increasing food prices and heating, but several Naftogazu officials have received a bonus of 1 billion 200 million dollars. Is that fair? In 2018 the price of gas rose by 23 percent, and since early 2014, it has increased by almost 10 times. Mr. Speaker, we demand that our ruling be put into the room, which has been supported and signed by several leaders of opposition factions, and that we vote in favour of lifting the shameful increase in gas tariffs. However, the number of recipients of subsidies decreased by 75 percent. In October 17th, there were 6 million, and in October 18th, there were only one and a half. And it's not statistics, it's people's fate. Even if you cheated when you said that everyone who needed it would get a scholarship, don’t do that! I understand that this autumn and this winter is the last for you, but it's enough to bully people. The utility debt is nearly 40 billion dollars. Is it normal for people to be afraid that they'll be expelled from their apartments for debts? And our bill banning people being evicted from utility debts and banning the work of collectors is not even brought into this room. Military status. People know who runs the country, and they don’t understand whether they should buy matches, salt, grains, or spend that money on a New Year’s table. Companies with reduced export volumes account for losses and are preparing for a further reduction of workers. International partners, including from Europe, switch to overpayments and terminate contracts. The state of war is a force majeure. With Ukraine, no one wants to do anything about it. However, to whom war is to be fought and to whom the mother is to be born. Taking advantage of the fact that serious investors in the face of lawlessness and chaos, and even more war, will not come to Ukraine and pay a real price, the government wants to sell at reduced prices.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-04-m0.u31	30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-04-m0.u32	sell their most important businesses. I defend the interests of the state and the labour groups of these enterprises. So I demand that the privatization of strategic objects be postponed to a period after the presidential elections and the economic stability. And it's very important that people are protected. This week, I'm going to be in the Hersonian and Mikolai region, because there are signals coming from here that, using the state of war, have already begun to take power. People ask for help and support. And we will be.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-04-m0.u33	Thank you. So, statements from factions and groups are complete, colleagues. Let's move on to the agenda. And I remind you that the first block is the question of protecting people with disabilities. And I'm asking everyone to come into the hall, take jobs and get ready to vote. So, colleagues, I'd like everyone to come into the hall and take their jobs. We have two blocks today: a block of protection for people with disabilities and a second block of agrarian politics. I hope we can get through them effectively. But in order for us to be able to work effectively, I'm going to suggest that we consider the laws in a simplified procedure. So I ask you to prepare for the vote. And I am the first to review the draft Act amending article 9 of the Law on the Judicial Assembly on the creation of conditions to ensure that persons with disabilities and other low-income groups have access to the courts (No. 6211). And I, colleagues, ask you to support the proposal to consider this draft law in a simplified manner. Everyone, please take your seats and vote. Please be supportive. Vote! Please back up! [[10:40:49]] For-99 My colleagues, I'll explain to you once again the general logic of this day. We're not going to get to the agrarian block if we're going to consider the first block in full procedure. For me, it's not that hard, we can go into every law by full procedure, but we just can't get to the issues of agrarian politics. The law that is now being proposed is not complex in its essence. And I emphasize once again, we can consider the full procedure, except I don't know who gets the benefit of it. Guys, I'll put it back on. Please hold consultations, take a look at the agenda. And if there's a general position that we can go through effectively and both blocks, I ask you to support the proposal for a simplified procedure. So I'm going to ask you to take up jobs. Please enter the People’s Deputies Hall and prepare for the vote. Please take up jobs. And I'm voting once again on the proposal that the draft Law 6211 of the Disability Protection Unit should be considered on a reduced basis. Vote please! Please back up! Vote! [[10:42:32]] For a-117. Colleagues, I'm going to put the third time in. If there are no votes, we're going into full procedure. I'm asking for factions. Peter Poshenko Block – 67, People's Front – 34, Opposition Block – 0, Self-help – 4, Radical Party – 0, Fatherland – 0, Will of the People – 1, Rebirth Party – 0, non-fractional – 10. So once again, I emphasize that we have four questions in the box on the protection of persons with disabilities. If we look at them in full procedure, we'll be able to get to the agrarian policy block as much as possible after lunch. I believe that the question of the protection of persons with disabilities is unifying and that we will be able to get through them quickly. And, colleagues, please all mobilize. I'll put it to the vote for once. If there are no votes, we're going into full procedure. Heads of factions, I'm asking you to mobilize the national MPs. Please be prepared. And I'm putting to the vote the proposal that the draft Law amending article 9 of the Law on the Court of Justice on the creation of conditions to ensure access for persons with disabilities and other low-income population groups to the courts' premises (6211) should be considered in a simplified procedure. Please vote, please support. We vote carefully, colleagues, each voice. Vote, please. [[10:44:37]] For 121 The decision is not taken. So let's move on to the full discussion procedure. And I invite you to report to the First Deputy Justice Minister of Sukman Olen Valerievna, please go to the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-04-m0.u34	Dear Lord Chairman, distinguished national deputies and present! Such calls for the observance of justice and equal access to justice for all our citizens are very common in this room. Now imagine an elderly person in a wheelchair or a blind person standing in front of a common district court and trying not to protect his or her interests but to try to get to the district court. Sadly, most such attempts will fail. Now think about this figure -- over 3 million people in Ukraine are people with disabilities for whom we have to create special access, including to the courts. What is it? It's not just the Braille entry, it's not just the call buttons, it's not just the negotiating devices, it's video surveillance, and the pandas, and so on. Now let's go back to the reality: only 35 percent of the courts, the courts are equipped with basic pandas, not all of the materials and not all of them. I ask you very much to support this bill, it's very short, but it's very important. He predicts that a portion of the judicial congregation will go to the courts to facilitate access to the courts. Ladies and gentlemen, I urge you to support this bill not only for the implementation of the Convention for the Protection of Persons with Disabilities, but not only for the implementation of the National Strategy for the Protection of Human Rights. It was developed by the Ministry of Justice, including to make life easier for people with disabilities and to give them equal access to justice that we have with you. Thank you very much for your attention and please support this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-04-m0.u35	Thank you. Please remain in the rostrum for 3 minutes. Stay in the rostrum. I just announced, three minutes of questions to the reporter, passed the recording. Happy Natalia Vasilovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-04-m0.u36	Please pass the word to Victor Krivenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-04-m0.u37	Victor Krivenko, National Movement of Ukraine. Mrs. Olena, I respect the position that we're looking at: the problem of registering and violation of the rights that are currently in the registration system. Thank you for your response. The other one. The very logic of this law, although probably correct, is wrong and, you know, post - Soviet. Why do we treat people with disabilities exclusively as their access to justice, and not think that they will work there, that they are the eligible members of our society, and that we really need to approach them, and that in the very argument that they will not just come to court, but that they will be judges with disabilities, they will be lawyers, and that's perfectly normal, and the logic itself should be in this -- accessibility to both the police and to all the other bodies, because it's not just the courts? So the question is, this is more of a request: to comment on these changes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-04-m0.u38	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-04-m0.u39	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-04-m0.u40	Thank you for asking. As far as the logic of this law is concerned. Note that changes are made to the Law on the Judicial Assembly. So this is a source of funding that ensures the very existence of courts, including, of course, people with disabilities and lawyers, and judges, and other workers as well. As for the activity of the registrars. I would like to point out that today, in the Supreme Council, there is a bill that provides for the abolition of the ability of utilities to carry out registrations that are based on statistical data to carry out 80 percent of the infringements in the area of registration. And the Ministry of Justice is proposing an initiative by which the government has already decided to cancel the possibility of branches. Municipal enterprises that exist somewhere in the district or village council and have branches: Kharkiv, Odessa, Kiev, and so on. We have now banned the existence of such branches. And I hope the people's deputies support the bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-04-m0.u41	30 seconds. Finish it. Thank you. So now, Krivenko. Again, huh? Please turn it on. Guilty Victor.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-04-m0.u42	Victor Krivenko, National Movement of Ukraine. Dear Mr. Golovo, the President introduced a bill regarding the election to the local councils, to the united territorial communities, where the state of war regime was introduced, he promised it here in the hall. I thank him for giving it to me. But I think that the bill that I passed last week, which gives a warning to the law that the President's decree on the establishment of martial law is more appropriate. Therefore, the request to place both of them on the committee as soon as possible before being considered in the hall. And so that we don't have to repeat the story that happened with Bill 2915, which I and my colleague Krulk, Kishkar, passed with many colleagues -- this canceling the break between 12 and 12:30. Three and a half years of this bill, then all the faction leaders signed a completely similar bill to vote, because it's as beautiful as they think it is, and they haven't voted. And it turns out that there are laws on the same subject. The question is, no matter who the author is, it's important that we vote on him. That's why, sir.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-04-m0.u43	Please. And the word is given to Rybczyn Aleksei Mihajlovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-04-m0.u44	Alexei Rybchin, Fatherland, Doñecina. I have a question for the Ministry of Honor. Why does the government continue to submit bad - quality bills to Parliament? Because we have GNEU's point of view, in which there is (a statement) a bill would be appropriate to add a proper financial economic justification that would assess the need for the corresponding costs. It would also be appropriate to obtain the opinion of the State Judicial Administration, which, according to the analysis, does not support the bill, but believes that they already have all the powers and that there is a deadline for ensuring that the judiciary and the functioning of the judiciary are carried out, and they already have the authority to do so. So the question is, when are the quality bills going to be, because there's a certain controversy? And the second. What is the sum of the judicial congregation in one year? In order to understand what the cost is and what the need is for these pandas in a year. I didn't see that. Please give me the numbers.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-04-m0.u45	Thank you for asking. What I'm saying is that we were just based on data from the State Judicial Administration. This figure, almost 35, about 40 percent of the available court equipment is a figure from the State Court Administration. I can't respond to a specific size of the court, but I want to say that counting a portion of the court's office that goes into setting up the courts' premises is the discretion of the State Attorney's Office, and they're going to decide on their own sub-law, and we're not going to get involved in this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-04-m0.u46	Thank you, Mrs. Helena. You can take your place. And the co-report invites the head of the Committee on Tax and Customs Policy of Eugene Nina Petrovna. From the rostrum, right? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-04-m0.u47	Dear Mr. Head, dear colleagues! The draft registration number 6211 of 20.03.2017 was reviewed by the Supreme Council Committee on Tax and Customs Policy at its meeting on November 8, 2017. The rapporteur has already presented the bill in fact, and I will not stop at its position. But what I want to point out is that the purpose of the bill is to provide architectural and informational access to the courts' facilities for persons with disabilities and other low-income groups by using the funds from the payment of the court to refurnish the premises in the adjacent territory and by providing information to the specified category of persons. But I would like to draw attention to what the Committee has called for, that is to say, to the conclusion of the Chief Scientific and Expert Office, which has made its observations, and, equally important, is the opinion of the State Judicial Administration of Ukraine, which does not support the bill, and believes that the term in accordance with article 9 of the Law on the Judicial Assembly, paragraph 3: "the costs of the Court of Justice are aimed at ensuring that the judiciary and the functioning of the judicial authorities" - which includes, inter alia, the implementation of expenses for the provision of architectural and informational access to court premises for all participants in the trial, including persons with disabilities. But while considering this issue as absolutely important to our society, the Committee recommends that the Supreme Council of Ukraine adopt the bill as a basis and as a whole as a law of Ukraine. And I would like to point out that if there is no separate reference to direction, the mandatory channelling of these funds, I think this standard is never going to work. So regardless of what we're repeating, we're strengthening the norm, we should adopt this bill so that maybe it's already working in this way. Thank you for your attention and for your support as a whole.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-04-m0.u48	Thank you. And a question to the co-conspirator. Please record, three minutes. Alexandra Kugel, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-04-m0.u49	Nina Petrovna, we understand with you that when you've increased the court's congregation very significantly, it's coming to the state budget. Do you know what the cost of a year is? And does it take a year to take into account the proposals offered by the Ministry of Justice, these costs? Because, for example, they built pandas -- it's not very expensive. They put up $30 worth of cameras in Chinese. What's next? Next, if we do not understand the use of these funds, it cannot be a permanent norm. We need to know what the amount of a year is, what the cost of doing that problem is, and that's how we count it.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-04-m0.u50	Dear colleague, I think exactly as you do, and I raised this question because we are really trying to make the fate of the judicial congregation the greatest in maintaining the judicial branch of power. But at the same time, we're still giving more money from the government budget. Now, even though I have pointed out that the Court of Justice itself believes that the active legislation in article 9 allows them to allocate funds specifically to the facilities for access to the courts. And we're doing, and we're still strengthening this norm without certain instructions on whether or not we're doing it in any amount or in what size or exactly we're doing it for. As a result, I too have been surprised to see why this bill is prepared. But it's government, so we supported it, and I think they'll figure out how to do this.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-04-m0.u51	Thank you. Eutusek gives the word for a question to Rybchin.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-04-m0.u52	Alexei Rybchin, Fatherland, Doñecina. I thank my colleague, Mr. Evtushka, who is a high school senior from Plainsland, from Sarna, who, when he was a mayor and even in those conditions, without decentralization, increased budgets, did great things for people with disabilities, and you can go to Sarna and look. I have a question for Nina Petrovna. We haven't heard from the government, yes, as far as this court is concerned, as far as it goes, we haven't heard any financial and economic justifications. It is clear from Nina Petrovna's very diplomatic response that there is a question that this bill is going to work. It's so impressive that they just took those bills that had something written about people with disabilities that they put into the Supreme Council Hall. Let's put it on People's Day with Disabilities, let's take something. That's why we have to accept the bill and submit it from the government, it's not the MP's, it's from the government, it's a bill that's fully agreed upon, it's not the majority's questions, it's not the opposition that we're spending too much time discussing such bills.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-04-m0.u53	Dear colleague, I support what you have said. But it seems to me that if this rule strengthens responsibility, including the judiciary, in order for them to channel money, maybe this clarification will give them more opportunities, let's support this bill. He's fine. The norm will not lose its substance, it will only be strengthened. So we voted in favour of the committee as a whole.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-04-m0.u54	Thank you. And the final question is Missik Vladimir Yuriovich. Writer's got a word for it. Valerius Pisarenko, he. Yes, there is.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-04-m0.u55	You know, we've always been in a balance between paying the court and accessing human justice. Because, on the one hand, the courts cannot work unless there is a judicial assembly, and on the other hand there is a category of people who really, if the judicial congregation exceeds any limits, are actually a barrier to accessing justice. So the question I have is, did you take this moment into account when you count and calculate the numbers that were put into the bill? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-04-m0.u56	The thing is, there's no numbers in the bill, that's the question. We're just expanding, clarifying rule 3 of article 9 of the Ukrainian Law on the Judicial Assembly regarding the spending of the judicial assembly. So I hope that the amount of money that needs to be directed towards this very goal will be determined by the Cabinet of Ministers.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-04-m0.u57	Thank you, Nina Petrovna. Question time is over, and now he's speaking from factions and groups. Colleagues who intend to speak from factions and groups, please record. From the Opposition Block, Natalia Royal, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-04-m0.u58	Dear colleagues! Yesterday, really, there were proud people around the world -- people who are leading their experiences to all who are worthy of fighting, winning and moving on. Unfortunately, in our country, these 2 million, more than 2 million people, have a very special attitude because, unfortunately, only in the canon or after the holiday are they considering issues that would improve their lives today at least a little bit. But let's take a real look at this situation. So what's the proposal now? It is proposed to create unhindered access exclusively to the courts’ premises. Ladies and gentlemen, today a man in a wheelchair can't get to the walls of Parliament, today a man in a wheelchair can't get into the spheres of Parliament. And we're doing populism right now, and we're distributing a court-martial, a court-martialed, rather than dealing with a question of barrierlessness, which we've adopted three or four years ago, a purpose-oriented program where today the accessibility issue is being considered at the level of each area where every district council has an accessibility committee, and people with special needs understand very well what needs to be done today. But unfortunately, this is a question that we've started to discuss here today, not only will it not solve the issue of accessibility, but it actually demeans people who today, getting little money from you, unindexed child care payments with disabilities -- well, think about it, we haven't been able to index child care payments in the last four years, almost not indexing pensions for people with disabilities -- you've now denied these people the right to move because they've been denied the debt pass, you've denied them the right to treat because today the drugs are completely unavailable to them at these prices. You have deprived these people of living in a warm home today because they cannot even pay bills for housing and heat for their pension. And you've denied these people today the right to buy medicine and food because you don't index payout and pension insurance. So we insist on solving this issue in a complex way. And this decision is prepared and registered by our faction in Parliament. And that's why.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-04-m0.u59	30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-04-m0.u60	And that's why we call for today's unification of efforts, putting aside those dot bills that the government has proposed, so that we don't offend these people, and the term is a week to a new year to consider those issues that would really allow for the protection and support of people, powerful people with special needs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-04-m0.u61	Thank you. From the Radical Party of Igor Mosiychuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-04-m0.u62	Igor Mosiyczuk, Oleg Lachka Radical Party Of course, our faction supports this bill, like all laws that support people with limited capabilities. But considering this in today's Ukrainian realities is cynicism. It's just cynicism! Why? Because there is no justice. No Ukrainian citizen has access to justice except the authorities. President Dustenka's judicial reform eventually denied Ukrainian citizens access to justice. That is why Oleg Lalashka’s Radical Party initiates changes to the Constitution in part of the judiciary, according to which judges and prosecutors will be elected by people, as is the case in the United States and many other civilized countries of the world. Of course, there is a need to care for and treat people with disabilities, especially those with mental disabilities. Some are sitting here in this room — the mind is gone, they are slapping to the left and to the right with their tongues. The brother is the head of the obljadmistration, an absolutely adequate man, and she is a dog running around in a tie, barking at whom they say: the Kremlin agent, the Kremlin's leg, you are a member of the Kremlin. Therefore, the Radical Party insists that everyone who will travel to the Ukrainian Parliament should undergo drug and psychiatric expertise so that all kinds of dogs do not enter parliament, do not drift, do not talk to the authorities. And they're tearing the last scroll out of the Ukrainian, raising the price of gas, making payments, 200 cubes for the sake of the oligarchs, running here, pulling out what they want, and making 30 pieces of silver. Shame!
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-04-m0.u63	Colleagues, I would like to remind everyone that we are discussing Bill 6211, and I ask you to speak only on the subject of the bill. May I have Irina Lucenko's "Peter Dust Block" address, please?
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-04-m0.u64	Dear Mr. Head, distinguished colleagues, distinguished voters! Yesterday, an expanded meeting was held by the President of Ukraine, where representatives of all public organizations with disabilities of sight, hearing, wheelchairs, others were invited by ministries and departments. The Ministry of Regional Development has developed building standards that will need to be put in place for the inclusion of buildings and buildings. In fact, today’s bill, where a part of the judicial congregation is proposed to use accessibility for small - celled groups, speaks of only one thing. In 2000, Beijing gathered 13 goals of the Third Millennium, which the world must overcome in order to make better use of the human resource. Three millenniums to which I want to draw your attention: first, overcoming poverty, second, overcoming discrimination and equalizing rights, and third, making good use of human potential. This little bill that we're discussing with you right now solves one question: we're equalizing the rights of low-income groups, and it's not just people with disabilities, it's pregnant women, it's moms with wheels, it's also people who have functional limitations at some point in time, for example, a broken leg or a broken arm, who are not mobile in their access to social services, medical services, and, above all, access to justice. So this little law that we're considering with you today, we're trying to align human rights with limited access to justice. These debuts, which are designed and approved by order and will be approved by the Cabinet of Ministers, will allow DBNs and, through the use of part of the funds of the judicial congregation, to align and enable people with limited capacity to protect their rights, which means to have another job, to be free, not helpless, not poor in their capabilities. So, dear colleagues, even though on this day when the world celebrates People's Day with Limited Opportunities, let's stop discussing, and just take a little step to meet and reduce this helplessness, we will increase people's ability to feel full citizens without any limitations, without any help, and just vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-04-m0.u65	Thank you. From Fatherland, Rybchin Alexei, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-04-m0.u66	Alexy Rybchin, "The Fatherland" faction. She's a princess. Dear colleagues, today the Supreme Council is looking at four bills on the protection of persons with disabilities. The first is that the judicial assembly spends on increasing access for the low-mobile population groups. The second is about road traffic (about the organization of road traffic for people moving in wheelchairs). The third is some changes in the regulation of urban activities. And the fourth is about the basics of social protection for disabled people in Ukraine in relation to administrative and economic sanctions. As of this year, we have adopted two or three or four bills that do nothing but change terminology -- a disabled person. It takes time for Parliament to, instead of one, once solve this issue, we're going to spend it again. For example, the fourth bill is government law, and it says "protection of disabled people," not "person with disabilities." So we see that the government is systematically failing in this area. We have already found out that the Ministry does not have economic accounts, and the deputies vote without knowing how much money is needed. And the judicial administration doesn't know, can't calculate, and that's the administrative influence that has to be decided. Moreover, Bill 6535, which also regulates the issue of access for people with disabilities to the premises, and refers to the city restrictions that we voted for the first reading, I no longer remember how many, a year ago, February 8, I see, are on Mr. Tretlyakov's committee, and it is not being considered. And he could really change the situation in this area. We applied our regulations, and we demand that it be considered as well. The question is very global, it cannot be solved by these dot bills, which must be voted on, even though they are flawed. The only way to solve this question is to solve it in two ways. The first is economic growth. These things, they cost, and we have to spend money to help people with disabilities who don't have the same opportunities that all the rest of the people have in order to be free to exist. We've seen everyone doing parliamentary diplomacy, which, for example, on buses in Europe, a bus can even bend down and deploy special equipment to get a man on a wheelbarrow. We have seen free access in European parliaments, and all the elevators that are, they are also elevators for people with disabilities. In Britain all cafes are required to have a toilet for people with disabilities. It's a constraint and it's certain things that business should invest in, but without it there will be no equal access. And the second thing, besides economic growth that doesn't happen, is just the humanity of officials. I don't think there's any law I need to pass in order for the head of the court to just make a panda. There are funds in the judiciary, so please just be human to the people, to the Ukrainians. We vote in favour of this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-04-m0.u67	Thank you. From "self-help" to "self-help" is the word of Roman Semenich. Out of place, right? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-04-m0.u68	Semenha Roman, "The Self-Help Union" faction. Dear colleagues, Mr. Golovo, the bill proposes a single amendment: to direct the use of funds from the court, it adds the provision of architectural access to court premises, the availability of information in court, persons with disabilities, and other low-income groups. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to point out that, for today, the Safe Environment Programme is not even implemented in Ukraine by 50 percent. For people with special needs, public transportation, taxis, banks, government agencies remain unsuitable today. People with disabilities face opposition even on the way to establishing a Panda to their own home. Consider the scandal in Kharkiv with a member of the Paralympic congregation of Ukraine, Anna Pashkov. The central authority should not only give orders for the organization of a barrierless environment but also create appropriate mechanisms for the implementation of such a program. Local budgets today are already overburdened by the non-proprietary expenditure that their government weighs down each year. This certainly does not relieve local authorities of the responsibility to carry out this program, but it is the central authority that must contribute to the creation of mechanisms to finance and implement such programs. In fact, the bill provides for the distribution of revenue from the judicial assembly for the construction of the courts by pandas, the provision of information in Braille, and other expenses related to the provision of access for people with disabilities to the judicial system. The monitoring, initiated by the public back in the 15th year, revealed that only 44 percent of Ukrainian courts were provided by Pandas and only 9 percent of the courts were provided by elevators, and that was because they were not always on the first floor. But at the same time, the bill is, unfortunately, only point. The Kabmin initiative should be much more complex. And an article on the costs of the judiciary, the functioning of the judiciary, the costs of the court's expenses today, and thus the provision of architectural and informational access to the courts for all, I would stress, for all parties to the trial, including for those with special needs. Of course, the self-help faction will support this bill. But it must be understood that this is, unfortunately, just a point approach that will not solve the overall problem of the absence of a barrier - free environment in our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-04-m0.u69	Thank you. From the "will of the people" to the word, Shahov is invited. And then Pisarenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-04-m0.u70	People's Will Group, Sergei Shahov's political force "Our End". Dear colleagues, surely our group will support this bill. But I would like to pay attention not only to disabled people who can't go to the courts, but I would like to point out that disabled people who can't get out of their apartment by the time they're five years old, and where they don't even build out of wheelchairs for people with disabilities who are still beggars, 1,400 dollars are all out of the state budget to support them. What is 1,400 bracelets for a disabled person? Can a person survive on this money today? Next. What can you do to boys who have returned from a war without hands, without legs? No one is paying attention to them, for today the deputy corps, for example, in the city of Severodonetsk, is once again furious and has not established 48 pandas that needed to be installed in the most important way in the city in the driveways. Next. As far as the pass is concerned. Please tell me if there are bus drivers who are driving today, not just with pandas, but with buses. There is also no way for a person, for a disabled person today, to travel in social transport. Next. Please tell me, is it today the possibility of an architectural or kindergarten, or in schools of children with disabilities to engage in or engage in sports at all? Neither did I. You have to pay attention to that. Thank you. Sergey Shahov, the political power of Our End. We will uphold this law. And I would also like to draw attention to all the disabled people that we have 3 million people in the state today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-04-m0.u71	And a closing statement from factions and groups. Pisarenko Valerius, Rebirth Group.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-04-m0.u72	Dear colleagues, Your Honor Andriy Volodymyrovich, indeed, the issue is important both for professionals who are concerned with issues and the system of justice and generally for the protection of human rights, especially those who are socially vulnerable. But in doing so, unfortunately, we do not hear our calls to vote and to consider matters that are really important today. We've talked about that there are already enough draft regulations that regulate the level and size of tariffs. They can't hear us today. We suggested that for a week we consider only tariffs, gas prices, other questions that people today want to hear that the Supreme Council embraces them. I want to remind you that on December 1st we celebrated the anniversary of the referendum on the declaration of independence of Ukraine. A considerable amount of time has passed, but the results are disappointing. Today we've lost a lot of population, and migration is only increasing. Only recently did a Polish official claim that about 2 million Ukrainians are now working in Poland. Think about this figure, it works, it's people who needed it to build an independent Ukraine and its economy, they're rebuilding Poland today. I think that at least the figure, or maybe more, is rebuilding the economy and increasing the GDP of the Russian Federation. I think that the issues that today should be in Parliament's agenda are unfortunately not in the front row. If we don't take care today of how to save the population of Ukraine, how to save the country, unfortunately, all the bills aimed at improving any issues will not be necessary. Because no one needs it. We don't have people who can enforce these laws. Therefore, we call once again on the issues that really speak today about the preservation of Ukraine as a state. I called on the Cabinet of Ministers to conduct a nationwide census next year. We need to understand how many citizens we have left, where we really need them, and we can count on them. This is a question of the economy and the question of the next election next year. We're talking about going back to the most painful issues. Look at sociology. Sociology is exactly the price of gas, economic reconstruction, wages, pensions, that's what really bothers people today. And the other issues that are unfortunately the first in the order of the day are important, but not so much so that Parliament spends a lot of time on it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-04-m0.u73	So, colleagues, now he's six minutes away from the National Deputies. And let's go to the vote. I'm asking you to record a statement from the National Deputies and ask the factions to invite the deputies into the Hall. In six minutes, we'll move on to the decision-making process. Please. Shahov Sergey is handing over Sergey Melniczuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-04-m0.u74	Good day, citizens of Ukraine, distinguished colleagues, presiding! The issue of social protection for people with needs is very acute in the country. And they need to be protected not only in this case. These should be complex legislative acts that will cover the entire sphere. One thing I want to say is that in a warlord country, there's going to be a robbery of those social security funds that we and you and the common citizens pay for the budget, that's the only social contribution. This is the only social contribution, compared to last year and this year, robbed by 5 billion! Unprecedented! The Social Insurance Fund last year, with a surplus, is no longer paying hospitals this year. There's a fundraiser, and someone's getting ready for an election, and someone's getting ready for an election at the expense of taxpayers. I ask you to pay attention to the law enforcement agencies, the Ukrainian Security Service, the police, and I ask you to consider my statement as a parliamentary request and to look into the situation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-04-m0.u75	Thank you. It's Victoria's bird. Kishkar. And now you're taking down Kiskar, the next. And the next one will be your performance. Please, Kishkar, get out of here.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-04-m0.u76	Thank you, Mr. Head. Thank you. Thank you, Mrs. Sukman, for her position. Indeed, it is balanced and proper to fight against the registration that exists on the basis of the laws that we have unfortunately adopted. It's very sad to vote without calculation and without the mathematics of the process. But before that cluster of questions, I had a series of meetings with people with disabilities, people moving in wheelchairs, with Oleg Ivanenko from Borovav, with Sashk Desert who heads the organization of people with limited capabilities, in wheelchairs, in Kiev. Their main neighbours were not about spending or access to the courts, but what my colleague Krivenko said was about ideology. I'm sorry, but it's a little juicy when we're talking about accessibility, not to mention opportunities for these people. Soreness, because we don't view these people as members of parliament or judges or police or heads of large state enterprises, and we're just worried that they might come in, apply or pay for the court. We insist that people with disabilities demand compliance with existing laws first of all, rather than adopting others to determine accessibility to objects. A whole series of projects at the local level, which are provided by local funds, are implemented, like downhills or pedestrian crossings, crossings on over-ground pedestrian crossings. And they're implemented, and they're functioning well, and that's really the responsibility of the local government. Today's system of coordinates for people with disabilities, it's called "creatures of a disabled athlete," because only as a disabled athlete can you make any money. But people with disabilities demand one: socialization. Socialization is primarily a job. In fact, from all people with disabilities, I extend a big welcome to members of Parliament and demand socialization, not to athletes here, but to create a system in which each person, whether he is in a wheelchair or with limited mobility, will have the right to work, including in the walls of this Parliament. Thank you. And I'm asking you to back me up.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-04-m0.u77	Thank you, colleagues. And now for the closing act. Gives the floor to Irina Sisoyenko Kishkar. Please, Mrs. Irina. And three minutes to vote. Everyone, please come into the hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-04-m0.u78	Dear colleagues, even the fact that there are almost 3 million people with disabilities in Ukraine, at the same time people with disabilities do not see much in society. Why so? Because the state did not create the right conditions for these people to be properly adapted in society and to have the physical capacity to stay and to be in state institutions, without hindrance. And in medical institutions, in pharmacies, in places of public interest. At the same time, when you look at how a system of access for people with disabilities has been built in other countries, you can see that almost every state institution has a wheelchair, disabled persons can be free and enjoy all their rights. Therefore, to create conditions where citizens of Ukraine who have limited opportunities could not only be confined to houses that are confined to their homes but also to being full members of society is an extremely common task both for Parliament and for the government. But at the same time, I would like to point out that what are the ideal laws that we would not have adopted here with you, if these laws were not properly implemented by the government, and if they were not actually spent on providing the necessary conditions of accessibility to public institutions, to medical institutions, to pharmacies, to all that people with limited capabilities have to use, nothing would happen. So the self-help faction will support the bill. We insist that this bill, like others, should be considered first for people with limited capabilities. The bill has been in Parliament for 1 year and 8 months and is waiting for its vote. And we fully support the fact that all Ukrainian citizens have the same right to defend themselves in court. Therefore, create conditions for unimpeded access to the court. Create conditions according to which handcuffs will be called by the security personnel to ensure unhindered access to the courtrooms should make it easier for persons with disabilities to protect their rights. The bill should also be provided with sanitary facilities for disabled persons, which is extremely important. Install Braille information booths in the courts. Set up parking spaces for persons with disabilities near the entrance of the court and place appropriate signs. So a lot has to be done at the executive level. And we clearly support this important bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-04-m0.u79	Thank you. So, colleagues, let's move on to making a decision. I'm asking everyone to come into the hall, take jobs. Heads of factions, please invite deputies to the Hall. Please, we're taking up jobs. And I am voting on the draft Act amending article 9 of the Ukrainian Law on the Judicial Assembly to create conditions to ensure that persons with disabilities and other low-income population groups have access to courts (No.6211). At the suggestion of the committee, on the basis and in general. Please vote, please support. Let's vote, colleagues. Please support, we vote. [[11:32:43]] For 228 The law is passed. Next. Draft Law on Amendments to the Road Traffic Act of Ukraine on Road Traffic for Persons Moving in Wheelchairs (7486). And I'm asking you to support his consideration of the reduced procedure. Please vote and please support. Please support, we vote. [[11:33:21]] For 155 Decision taken. And I invite you to report to Deputy Minister of Internal Affairs Kowalczuk. Troyan. He'll report it to Troy from the Ministry. Please, three minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-04-m0.u80	Dear Andrew Volodymyrovich, distinguished national deputies! Do. I'm talking about. Yeah, wait, that's not it. Now, I'm sorry, not the paper. Oh! With a view to implementing Presidential Decree No. 553 of 13 December 2016 on measures to ensure the rights of persons with disabilities, the Ministry of Internal Affairs was instructed to deal with the question of how to refer to pedestrians who cross the road, the streets and wheelchairs. Today, those who move in wheelchairs with a motor are not referred to as road users, so they are virtually deprived of the freedom and the right to a safe movement. The bill proposes to amend the Ukrainian Road Traffic Act accordingly, allowing legislation to protect the rights of persons with disabilities moving in wheelchairs for safe movement by bringing such persons into the circle of road users. It also improves and draws closer to European standards of road safety relations. With the adoption of this law, those who move in wheelchairs will have the right to travel along sidewalks and walking and cycling paths at the speed of walking, driving along the roadside, street, or by road. At the same time, those who move in wheelchairs at the speed of walking on sidewalks, pedestrians, and bicycle tracks will be entitled to the vast crossing of the roadway. As they move, they will have to meet the requirements for pedestrians. In addition, those who move in wheelchairs on the edge.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-04-m0.u81	Please, 30 seconds. How much do you need to finish? 30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-04-m0.u82	In the direction of traffic on the right extreme lane and to meet the requirements for cyclists. There are also certain requirements for wheel chairs, and they must then be equipped with light devices. Please support this bill. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-04-m0.u83	Thank you. I invite the head of the Committee on the Transport of People's Deputies, Jaroslav Dubnevic, to report.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-04-m0.u84	Madam Chairman, distinguished national MPs! The draft law (registration number 7486, dated 15.01.2018) amends Ukraine's Road Traffic Act to regulate road traffic rules for people moving in wheelchairs. In particular, it is suggested that the basic rights and responsibilities of those moving in wheelchairs be determined and that the only terminology in this regard be established. The main scientific and expert office supports the bill with some observations and suggestions. The Ministry of Infrastructure of Ukraine, the Ministry of Interior of Ukraine, the National Police of Ukraine and the Ukrainian State Road Agency support the bill. The Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on veterans, participants in hostilities, participants in anti-terrorist operations and people with disabilities and the Committee of the Supreme Council on Budget matters support the bill. The Transport Committee, at its meeting on October 17, 2018, reviewed draft Law No. 7486 of 15.01.2018 and recommended that the Supreme Council of Ukraine be accepted as a basis for consideration in the first reading. Please support the adoption of Bill No. 7486 as a basis. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-04-m0.u85	Thank you. We're going to go to the bill, and I'm going to ask you to hold a short-circuit record: two in, two in, and no. Welcome to the speech of the national deputy Eutuska.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-04-m0.u86	Sergey Eutuszek, "The Fatherland" faction. Indeed, the first afternoon of our plenary session is devoted to such important bills. And I just want to say that the Fatherland faction is going to support them so that you can make a little bit of improvement in the condition, in the movement, in the well-being of our people with disabilities. What is involved in this bill? In line with the 1971 European Treaty in Geneva, it was predicted that pedestrians were likened to those who move in wheelchairs themselves, driven by them at the speed of walking. At the same time, people with disabilities have the right to travel on the road. The bill proposes to make appropriate changes to the Ukrainian Road Traffic Act, which allows legislation to protect the right of persons with disabilities who move in wheelchairs and other members of the small mobile population to move safely. In fact, it is suggested that those who move in wheelchairs should be members of the road traffic. Furthermore, article 19-1 of the Basic Rights and Duties of Persons Moving in Seats clearly provides for their rights and duties. Among the rights, it is possible to drive along the side of the road, on the street, or on the side of the road. People who move in wheelchairs at the speed of walking on sidewalks. There are also obligations: not to carry loads that interfere with driving, loads; not to towing trailers; not to carry passengers. The Fatherland faction will support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-04-m0.u87	Thank you. I'd like to invite you to the floor of National Deputy Irina Sisoyenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-04-m0.u88	Irina Sisoyenko, Self-Help Unit. The bill is one to protect the rights of persons with disabilities moving in wheelchairs as well as other members of small - mobile groups to safe road traffic. Therefore, the self-help faction will definitely support this important bill because Ukraine is in the first place in Europe in terms of the number of injured persons who eventually become persons with disabilities during road traffic. Ukraine, too, is unfortunately the first to be killed among the people of other nations when people are simply killed on Ukraine’s roads. Therefore, the legislative changes aimed at establishing safe conditions for the movement of persons with disabilities are important, and we will vote in favour of this bill. At the same time, I would like to point out that not only do we have to create the right conditions to move on roads for people with disabilities, but first of all, the task of the State is to do everything possible to make people with disabilities in our country extremely smaller. And to do that, we have to do prevention and prevention. So the problem of road accidents, which are the most working people under 40 years of age, is that these people, who would still be able to work for many years and have a chance at a full life, become people with disabilities and are in wheelchairs. That is why we need to work with the government and implement appropriate state programmes to combat trauma, prevent and reduce people with disabilities, including on Ukraine's roads. So by supporting this bill, I once again call on the government.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-04-m0.u89	30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-04-m0.u90	Bills are important, but at the same time it is extremely important for people to ensure that these bills are implemented by the executive branch, government and local government. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-04-m0.u91	Thank you. And I invite you to the words of the people's deputy Gooseka of the faction "The Opposition Block."
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-04-m0.u92	Vladimir Gusak, Opposition Block. Dear colleagues, dear Ukrainians, the honorable presiding officer! It is good that Parliament, at least after the Day of Disability, is considering bills aimed at making the lives of disabled people in Ukraine a little easier. I wanted this support to be real, not declarative, because recently we were looking at a budget at six in the morning, and what's in this budget for the disabled? Nothing. A disability pension and a group from childhood -- a person who can't work -- from January 1st to January 1st, it's going to be one and a half thousand dollars, almost as if the abuse seems to be a stated goal that this pension is going to provide for normal housing and the purchase of the necessary drugs. With regard to this bill, it aims to give pedestrian rights to disabled persons who move in wheelchairs, thus ensuring the right to a safe movement. There's nothing wrong with that. And what's more, it's a real European norm, as the drafters claim, because in Europe, wheelchairs and motor-powered cars. But do you know how much the wheelchair with the engine costs? The price starts with 20,000 dollars. Who can buy it from the Ukrainians for a pension of one and a half thousand dollars? But there's no harm in that, and maybe for those with disabilities who somehow get lucky to get this chair, this bill will simplify life. So the opposition bloc faction will support it, but we hope that the next parliament will deal with real economic development.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-04-m0.u93	Thank you. We haven't been able to sign up all the deputies yet. There's a desire to step out of the People's Front faction. Please, National Deputy Korchik from the premises.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-04-m0.u94	Dear colleagues! Vitaly Korchik, People's Front. The bill, by amending the Road Traffic Act of Ukraine, proposes to regulate social relations with regard to the organization of road traffic for persons moving in wheelchairs and for other representatives of small mobile groups and to protect their right to safe movement. The adoption of the bill, as noted in the explanatory note to it, will allow for the improvement and approximation of European road safety standards. In view of all the speeches of colleagues and the outcome of the decision of the committee of profile, the comments and suggestions of the scientific and expert board, please support the adoption of the bill on the basis. The People's Front faction will support it. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-04-m0.u95	Thank you. Everyone was able to make a statement, right? Then I ask you to prepare for the vote. Please invite the deputies to the hall, please allow the distinguished National Deputies to take their seats, and there will be a vote in a few minutes. A vote is about to take place. I'd like a closing statement from the Deputy Minister of Internal Affairs. You can get out of here, you can get out of here.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-04-m0.u96	So, colleagues, let's move on to making a decision. I'm asking everyone to take up jobs. And I'm voting on a bill amending the Road Traffic Act of Ukraine on the organisation of road traffic for people moving in wheelchairs (No. 7486) on the basis of a committee proposal. All right, everybody, please stand by. Let's vote, colleagues. [[11:50:22]] For 252 Decision taken. The next Act 7370 is on the settlement of changes to the Ukrainian Law on the regulation of urban activities (to strengthen the protection of persons with disabilities and other low-income groups in urban activities). Please support the consideration of the reduced procedure. Please vote, please support. Vote. [[11:51:03]] For a hundred and Decision taken. And I invite you to report to the deputy head of the Committee on Construction, Urban and ZHK Shinkovic Andrija Vasilovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-04-m0.u97	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman. Dear fellow national MPs! The bill that unites the hall because there is no politics here, and there is, in fact, a continuation of the matter that we are doing today, is creating comfortable, unhindered conditions for people who are limited in their ability, but who live a full life, just like all of us. One area of activity where accessibility, mobility of a safe environment for people with disabilities and other low-income groups is extremely relevant and important is urban activity. The main normative act on this issue is DBN V.2.2-17:2006, Buildings and Buildings. The availability of buildings and buildings for small-scale population groups”, which came into force on May 1, 2007, arranged requirements for the construction of new buildings or the reconstruction of existing ones according to the needs of different population categories. However, buildings, public buildings and buildings that were built and put into service by May 2007 do not largely meet the accessibility requirements, and there are substantial unwarranted obstacles to legislative failures for reconstruction. Yes, the construction of pandas, lifts, platforms need to be used to accommodate them. The general procedure for the removal of land for construction does not encourage the purchaser to provide accessibility for persons with disabilities and other low-income groups in the construction of urban areas as a result of its complexity, cost and time of construction, and sometimes even the need to conduct auction procedures for the disposal of a small plot of land. In order to remove obstacles to the adjustment of existing housing and environment to the needs of persons with disabilities and to develop this bill, it is proposed to allow for the installation of ramps or lifting platforms, lifters without a document demonstrating ownership or use of land. And so do I.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-04-m0.u98	30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-04-m0.u99	And a very important norm in the bill: freeing, that is to say, the buyers of these works from paying for the rations for the development of the infrastructure of the inhabited site. The Committee of the Supreme Council on Construction considered it at its meeting and invited the Supreme Council to accept it as a basis. GNEU’s positive conclusion. A positive conclusion from the Anti-Corruption Committee. Please, Your Honor, support the bill as a basis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-04-m0.u100	Thank you. Please: Two in, two in the opposite. Please hold the recording. Yvchenko's word from Fatherland.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-04-m0.u101	Thank you, fellow Yvchenk, for taking the floor. Bill 7370 proposes to build unhindered access to residential and public facilities. There are, however, questions. There is no clear definition of what is “the means of unhindered access to HQ objects. ” And it's also appropriate to go to the second reading, which are the categories of the population that refer to the small mobile groups, because there can be some abuse when anyone can make a land surveyor and build anything, under the form of unhindered access to objects. So this needs to be settled before the second reading. The request to the authors, and this is the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, to prepare more quality drafts again, where there will be clearer formulations, so that we don't spend a lot of time processing them for second reading, spent time on the committee to consider these bills. We have great warnings about this bill. We suggest that we support only the first reading, and that all MPs work hard to ensure that there are no abuses, such as the increase in the number of accessibility facilities for people with disabilities, for small - mobile population categories, as we do, unfortunately, are usually the subject of such drafts. Therefore, we support only the first reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-04-m0.u102	Thank you. From Peter Poshenko's Block, Rudik Sergey Jaroslavovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-04-m0.u103	Dear colleagues, to say that the bill has reached its maturity is not to say that it has been overlooked. These standards for new buildings should be introduced as quickly as possible for all reasons. But it will solve only a fraction of the problems faced by people with disabilities. It will decide only future buildings that will be built. We have a huge problem with the old housing fund. There is a huge problem with administrative buildings. We voted the first bill today by 228 votes in favour of access to the courts. But just so you know, even through the Supreme Council, a person with disabilities can't come in without hindrance, especially one who moves in a wheelchair. Every month, virtually at my invitation, various organizations with disabilities come to the Supreme Council. People come in and I see with my own eyes how hard it is to get between the first and second floors, then climb up to the third floor, then go down again to the second and go to the committee to see how our committees work. The time for a healthy person to take 7 to 10 minutes is up to 40 to 50 minutes. In large numbers, apart from the 6th approach of the building under the dome and on the Garden, the panda that lifts people and the so-called elevator that can lift from the 1st to the 2nd floor, the situation is still not moving. Dear colleagues, taking advantage of the opportunity and the fact that next year our building of the Supreme Council will celebrate the 80th anniversary of the construction, I ask that in the following year we provide the Supreme Council's apparatus for refurbishing all the approaches that are in the Supreme Council building, specialized pandas to approach the disabled. Please support this initiative by all colleagues. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-04-m0.u104	And, colleagues, now is the closing statement, after which we go to the vote. Huh? The Queen volunteered. There seems to have been a speech from you. Colleagues, so in a minute we're going to make a decision, I'm asking everyone to come into the hall, prepare for the vote. From the opposition side, I give the word to Natalia the Queen. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-04-m0.u105	Dear colleagues, this is an important bill and in the first reading it needs to be adopted and resolved on accessibility in new constructions. But in the second reading, our task with you is to take into account the very important thing: so that you can get to any object, whether housing or infrastructure, in our country. And that, I believe, is the task of this Parliament. We also insist that we consider our seven bills, which have been in Parliament for more than a year now, which are supported by professional committees and which will allow today to raise payments and help people with disabilities in war, restore people with disabilities to travel benefits, establish a mechanism for the employment of persons with disabilities, address the issues of children with disabilities, peaceful residents as a result of the East War, raise people with disabilities and social benefits, and pay for the care of people with disabilities, and in.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-04-m0.u106	30 seconds finish
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-04-m0.u107	I would like very much to ask the chairman, the heads of the profiling committees, first of all to consider seven bills on the real protection of people with disabilities, to submit to Parliament by the end of the year. And we're not just going to deal with these important issues with you on the eve of the holiday or after the holiday, and we're actually going to be able to support people today, 2.5 million people who are very difficult.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-04-m0.u108	Thank you. So let's move on to making a decision. I'm asking everyone to come into the hall and take jobs. Heads of factions, invite the deputies to the hall. Come back from your beds, too, colleagues. And I'm voting on a bill amending the Ukrainian Law on Urban Activity Regulation (for strengthening the protection of people with disabilities and other low-income groups in urban activities) (No.7370) as a basis. Please vote. Please be supportive. Vote! [[12:01:00]] For 230 Decision taken, colleagues. So we've passed three bills, we've got another bill left in this chapter, but we're going to go over it after the break. Now, according to the Rules, I'm going to call it a 30-minute break. At 12:30, everyone please come to the hall to continue our work.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-04-m0.u109	So the colleagues, the time taken for the break, are exhausted. I invite everyone into the hall to continue our work. And I remind you that the next is the draft Law amending articles 19 and 20 of the Ukrainian Act on Fundamentals for the Social Protection of Persons with Disabilities in Ukraine (No. 4598). I'll put it on a short cut. But I don't think there will be any votes. So, colleagues, I'm voting on the proposal to consider draft Law 4598 on a reduced procedure. Please vote. Please be supportive. [[12:33:22]] For-53 Shall I put it again? Okay, I'll wait one minute. Colleagues, but now everyone has a chance to invite MPs into the hall. Well, after all, we won't get it anyway. I see all the factions are zero. So, colleagues, I'm going to re-vote the proposal. Who would like the draft of Law 4598 to be considered on a reduced basis, please vote. Vote. [[12:34:41]] Z-71 71. Dynamics are positive, but not enough. Not enough. So, colleagues, I hope that we can be able to speak effectively, quickly, all of us will be concise. And we're moving on to a full-procedural draft of the Law. I invite you to report to Deputy Minister of Social Policy of Popov Larissa Vitaliyevna. Mrs. Larissa, please. And then there's the co-report, Trelyak's Alexander.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-04-m0.u110	Good afternoon, Your Honor Chairman. Good afternoon, distinguished national MPs. On January 1, 2018, the total number of people with disabilities in Ukraine was 2 million, 635,591. Of these, from September 1, 2018, only 666,000 827 people were employed, including a working age of 533 thousand 387. In view of this, it can be concluded that only about 25 percent of the people with disabilities in Ukraine are officially employed, most of whom are on paper alone. The disability employment system needs systemic changes, particularly the need to increase the responsibility of employers to pay administrative and economic sanctions for failure to meet the labour standards for people with disabilities by restoring the lost public function of accounting and paying employers corresponding sanctions. That was the purpose of the bill. In particular, it is proposed to amend articles 19 and 20 of the Ukrainian Act on Fundamentals of Social Protection for Persons with Disabilities in Ukraine, which is proposed: first, to place on the State Service the function of monitoring the calculation and payment of administrative and economic sanctions and pennies in the accounts of the Departments of the Social Protection of Persons with Disabilities for the failure of employers to implement employment standards for persons with disabilities. The other one. Allow the State Department, in the event that it detects violations by employers, to establish the standards of employment for persons with disabilities, to calculate the amounts of administrative and economic sanctions and pennies and to indicate them in its audit acts, and to allow such calculations to be made by separation of the Fund on the basis of a report on employment and employment in the event of non-payment by employers of administrative and economic sanctions on their own. The adoption of an act will allow for an effective mechanism to collect sums of unpaid administrative sanctions in court, which will have a positive impact on the overall state of their budget. Ladies and gentlemen, these funds could be directed towards measures and social, labour, physical, sports and professional rehabilitation, vocational training for people with disabilities to create special jobs. It should also be noted that the text of the draft act needs to be translated in accordance with the official translation of the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities and the Optional Protocol to it, in particular the words “disabled” should be replaced by the words “person with disabilities in all its forms”. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-04-m0.u111	Thank you. Please, three minutes of question to the reporter. Please hold the recording. Ivanovich Savek.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-04-m0.u112	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'm going to say that this law, which at present is, is the law that we're going to be talking about, the draft law that is necessary, first of all, for those people who shouldn't be confined in our environment, in our society. And I wanted to thank the authors of this draft law, who are trying to make and improve in our society, in our country, people with disabilities who are trying to be, we're going to be, we're going to be, we're going to be like all of us, and we're going to help, we're going to talk, we're going to develop our state of Ukraine. They want to, and they want to, talk, live better in society, in our environment. Thank you. I call everyone to a vote. Thank you, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-04-m0.u113	Thank you. This is obviously a performance, not a question. And Semenha Roman, please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-04-m0.u114	Semenha Roman, "The Self-Help Union" faction. I have a question for the Minister of Social Policy in the context of this bill. Today, according to the law, according to article 8 of the Ukrainian Act "On the Collection and Accounting of the Single Contribution to the Universal Compulsory State Social Insurance" the EU's debt size is established for enterprises with disabilities. At the same time, this rule does not extend to individuals who are also subject to the requirement of filling the standard of work for persons with disabilities. Why does this bill, registered by the Cabinet of Ministers, not correct this discrimination? Because today many people, as well as employed workers, are similarly affected by the demand for special - needs percentages, but there is no aid. So why isn't your bill proposing to eliminate this discrimination with respect to FOPs? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-04-m0.u115	Look, the bill we're proposing right now on the Holder, we're going to have to check the company's data. And it's what we want them to do in the acts that they write and put on them that they show. [[B in m in s a l in]] I think it's a very good observation, and we agree that we should review it, and they should also spread to the appropriate FOPs. I completely agree with you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-04-m0.u116	Thank you. I'd like to invite you to the words of the Bondar People's Front. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-04-m0.u117	Thank you. Bondar Mikhailo, 119 constituency. Mrs. Larissa, you have a question. I am approached by the leaders of the coal - mining companies. This is dangerous production. And what about the employment of just this percentage of people with disabilities? They pay fines for not employing people. Is it possible to make changes to these very laws? What should we do? I've already written a letter to you repeatedly to settle this matter, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-04-m0.u118	You mean businesses with harmful working conditions where people with disabilities are not employed? I misheard the question.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-04-m0.u119	Are you answering the questions?
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-04-m0.u120	I didn't hear the question. Excuse me? They're businesses with harmful people. mining, businesses with harmful working conditions, where they are not employed, that they also pay fines. I think we should consider these businesses properly because people with disabilities cannot work properly in all businesses. And this position has to be worked out. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-04-m0.u121	Thank you. All right, we're done, we're running out of time to ask. Please take your seat. I invite the head of the Committee on Veterans and Persons with Disabilities of the People’s Deputy Alexander Tretlyakow to report.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-04-m0.u122	Dear colleagues, December 3, the world celebrates the International Day of Persons with Disabilities, proclaimed by the UN General Assembly Resolution in 1992. Sadly, in recent years the number of people with disabilities in Ukraine has been filled by our advocates who have given away the Russian aggressor. Respect for the needs of persons with disabilities, ensuring and implementing their rights to work and a sufficient level of material security is the least that the State must do today for people who by their example demonstrate the power of will and the integrity of the spirit. Our committee is systematically working on a legislative solution to current issues of the protection of the rights of persons with disabilities, including at work. The main objective of the Government Bill 4598 is to ensure that employers implement the normative employment of persons with disabilities. Despite some comments to the bill, members of the committee are unanimous in the need to resolve the issues quickly. The committee therefore recommends the adoption of Bill 4598 in the first reading. The committee is ready with you, with the deputies, to finalize this bill for second reading in the shortest terms. Please support the committee's decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-04-m0.u123	Thank you. Please stay behind the rostrum. And I'd like you to record the questions to the co-rapporteur. Welcome to the speech of the national deputy Eutuska. People's deputy Shkrum Alona, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-04-m0.u124	Alona's splinter, Fatherland faction. I had a question before the first reporter, but since I haven't been able to ask him here, I'm going to ask you, Mr. Chairman of the Committee. Please tell me, do you think this is really the right way to go, in principle, to impose sanctions and to allow a specific central authority of the executive branch to do checks, determine infringements and then apply administrative and economic sanctions and foams when we are not settled strategically and the question that my fellow MPs have asked to do so? If an enterprise cannot find persons with disabilities who are interested in this work, why should it pay the sanctions? Yes, businesses often turn to the State Service for social employment, and they say that we cannot find the necessary number of people with disabilities in our position, but unfortunately we have to pay the sanctions. Just like we don't have basic needs, in principle, for these people with disabilities to be interested in these jobs. That is, should we not approach this issue more comprehensively than simply by imposing sanctions that, by the way, do not apply to public authorities.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-04-m0.u125	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-04-m0.u126	The first thing I'm going to say is, I don't really believe that out of 2.5 million people with disabilities, they can't find someone who works. So, I think they're looking so hard to find, that's the first. Secondly, the state is a knut and a spice. And if laws are not implemented, the state must punish for that, that's the second. The third bill is raw enough, its truth needs to be worked out before the second reading, and we're going to work on it. I think there can be no discrimination, no state or private enterprise. This will be further developed.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-04-m0.u127	Thank you. Another question from National Deputy Alona Skrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-04-m0.u128	Thank you. In fact, you have already begun to answer that question, but today there is real discrimination. We're actually forcing businesses, small, medium, large, any business, where more than 8 people, to employ people with disabilities, to find them, to work on specific qualifications, which are still sometimes difficult to find. Especially if it is hard production, difficult working conditions, people with disabilities cannot always work there even physically and agree to work there. In doing so, no penalty is applied to government authorities for failure to comply with such conditions. I wonder if the committee, for example, has been considering whether in government bodies such as the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, the central executive bodies, the Supreme Council's apparatus is the necessary number, in accordance with the legislation of the 91st year to which we refer, persons with disabilities? And they're employed at least in the Supreme Council's apparatus, for example? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-04-m0.u129	Unfortunately, they are not employed. Unfortunately, I agree with the fact that there is discrimination. I believe that if we adopt this bill in the first reading, if we have a very broad discussion, we will hold round tables on the committee basis -- I invite everyone -- we must do it. The bill that is currently in operation, 91st year, is now morally outdated, it needs to be changed, and we need to get to that point. I myself, when I'm in business, I don't really agree with the fact that business needs to be shut down, especially today, if we say at times like this, they're difficult for the state. The bill will therefore be considered to balance between the employer and people with disabilities.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-04-m0.u130	Thank you. And one last question. Please, National Deputy Bondar.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-04-m0.u131	Thank you. Bondar Mikhailo. Mr. Alexander, I have registered Law 9315, which is exactly what your committee is. This is about clarifying the standard of employment for people with disabilities in production with harmful and difficult working conditions. Please look at it on the committee and make a positive decision, it's really about coal miners and coal companies, where people with disabilities can't be employed, because that's harmful manufacturing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-04-m0.u132	We won't be able to look into it tomorrow, but at the next committee meeting, I promise we'll look at it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-04-m0.u133	Thank you, you. Thank you, Mr. Chairman of the Committee, for taking your place, please. And we're going to go over the bill. People's deputies, please prepare. Now we're going to have a discussion of the MP factions. Please record. From the Rebirth Party, I invite you to the words of the People's Deputy Pisarenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-04-m0.u134	Thank you, Madam Chairman, thank you, Your Honor. What I'm saying is, really, it's very important that we move on to the thematic days and today is actually a social day. It's a shame, though, that we have a very low level of support both in the process of holding our meeting today and in the actual vote. We once again insist that today we need to move on to more systematic work of Parliament, a work that will mark our desire to change something in particular that is more disturbing today. Sociology shows today that more than 50 percent of people are actually concerned about three questions: this is a question of tariff prices, this is a question of peace, and this is a question of how to get wages, pensions and other social benefits in this country. All these three issues are unfortunately not in order today in the Parliament of the day. We are discussing important issues today, but they must be more extensive. I had already said in the morning that, according to the latest statistics, today we have actually reached the level predicted by the United Nations regarding the decline in the population of Ukraine. The nation will be able to disappear and move abroad. In Poland alone, there are 2 million Ukrainians working today, and in the Russian Federation, there are even more. This will mean that Ukrainians will form other countries' GDP, and here, in Ukraine, there will be no one to work in factories, here in Ukraine, no one to produce gross national product and, accordingly, no one will pay the social benefits that have even been paid in the country today, which will mean that the country will continue to live in debt. So we suggest that next year, together with the U.K. elections, we have an All-U.S. population census, to understand how many Ukrainians are still living in Ukraine. From this we will build a country's development strategy, what will happen to our economy, where we will emphasize. This will allow us to make strategic decisions and to make strategic decisions in Parliament, allowing us not to waste our time in Parliament to discuss decisions that do not change the country's life and the lives of Ukrainians. Let us now see what Parliament must do to ensure that the number of people in the country does not fall to a critical low level. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-04-m0.u135	Thank you. And I'd like to invite you to the floor of the People's Deputy Dmitr Biloczerkovets. Please, Oksana Sold.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-04-m0.u136	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that today, when we talk about people who need additional protection for us, about people with disabilities, this bill has nothing positive for them. First of all, we're nothing to people who really need opportunities and the need to get a job now, if they don't have one, we don't. This bill only provides for additional sanctions for business, for employers and additional opportunities for control bodies. There was a discussion here before the bill was discussed, about how much job security, the opportunities to invite people to work. And when you talk about, please, there are really thousands of people looking for work, no one said that now on this coefficient and the number of people with disabilities include drivers, they include electricians, they include fitters that can't actually be equipped with disabilities. Never will a driver allow a person who is not a driver by medical standards. But these are the drivers in the auto-enterprises, for example, they're accounted for in that minimum coefficient that they have to have at the company. So there is no job provision for disabled people, there are only additional sanctions. What is in this bill? The first is the ability of another control body to check businesses, verify calculations, and this is definitely not for the disabled, it is the only way to complicate checks, on the one hand, and on the other hand, to increase corruption. And there's another thing that was discussed at the faction yesterday. The bill is intended to cancel the statute of limitations for the congregation to the Disabled People’s Fund. We have a lack of longevity for the Pension Fund today, and there, of course, people are in insurance of pension liability. But to cancel the statute of limitations on congregations, contributions to the Disabled People's Fund, I think, well, it's not possible at all. So I think this bill to vote even in the first reading is premature and I ask you not to support it. Thank you very much. It's not about people with disabilities, it's about increasing corruption. [[Applause]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-04-m0.u137	Thank you. I invite you to the words of the People's Deputy Simeonich of the Self-Help Union.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-04-m0.u138	Semenha Roman, "The Self-Help Union" faction. Dear colleagues, 80 percent of the Ukrainians who today have disabilities are in fact people of working age. In Soviet times, such people were automatically out of the labor market because disability was viewed as a loss of employment. Today, this discrimination is an attempt to correct it, but not in a better way – there are quotas for business by number of jobs, employment by people with disabilities 4 percent by number of employees. Now let's really look at the state of things, whether this standard is being fulfilled. For example, what law enforcement might be about if, according to the Court of Auditors, even the vast majority of government budgetary institutions fail to comply with these rules. Everyone who works in the real private sector economy knows that very often today compliance with this standard is essentially declarative. Very often the business, on the other hand, is easier to pay those fines than it is to actually do it. Fifty-five percent of businesses today only adhere to this quota, and the state obviously does not know how or does not want to have a dialogue with business, to interest it in benefits or other preferences in exchange for social responsibility. The bill, in our view, is aimed not at developing forms of cooperation between the state and business, but at improving the effectiveness of the penal function of the state. In fact, let's speak directly, to increase the pressure on business. I'm not going to exaggerately say that even today's quota for people with disabilities to work is entirely Soviet for their very essence. The bill today does not encourage employers to employ people with disabilities. In particular, I stress another discrimination that applies to business. In accordance with the law of 8 articles on the collection and payment of a single contribution to the general government social insurance, the EU's debt size is set for enterprises with disabilities, and this rule does not extend to persons who are entrepreneurs, who also have employed persons, and the bill does not decide. If he is accepted in the first reading, this must be further developed in the second reading. But, colleagues, philosophy itself must be changed and approach. Today, in all the countries of the civilized world, Europe is envisioned, not by quotas and fines, but by subsidies. In the Czech Republic, for example, a 100 percent wage subsidy is paid to any company if they work at least 20 hours a week. I mean, think about it! — all the countries of the European Union, on the contrary, pay subsidies to the business that involves such people today. Note that today, under the conditions of a colossal labor migration, Ukraine is to be contemplated, and where it is taking resources today, human resources are to be filled today as a result of the terrible catastrophe caused by labour migration. And today people with disabilities because of the right mechanisms to stimulate business could just be one of the sources of actual compensation for these losses today. So we don't take this approach explicitly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-04-m0.u139	Thank you. I'd like to invite you to the floor of the People's Deputy Alona Shkrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-04-m0.u140	Alona's splinter, Fatherland faction. Colleagues, very important, have just been discussed in this bill. Look, both in this bill and in the state budget voted by the coalition at night, the philosophy of this power is very well illustrated in 2019. Instead of economic stimulus, instead of social protection, what is actually going on? The regulation is strengthened, sanctions are strengthened, and the budget economy for humans is strengthened. And the same thing here is that I don't see the rights of people with disabilities, and here I don't see the protection of people with disabilities. What I see here and what our faction sees here, and in fact all the colleagues from the different factions who were speaking, for which I thank them. Here we see an increase in sanctions, an increase in pressure on small, medium and large businesses, including, because this bill says that the 91st Bill, which was called "The Fundamentals of Social Protection for Persons with Disabilities", provides that if an enterprise has between 8 and 25 employees, at least 1 person should be employed -- a person with disabilities. How to find this person is not clear how this will happen for businesses with particularly difficult standards of work, where, for example, a person with disabilities and probably not have the right or the ability to work is not clear either. If this order is not implemented and there are no at least 4 percent of the workers are disabled, large fines are provided for large enterprises. The fine may reach from half the average annual salary for this business to even having to match the enterprise’s assets. And this bill provides for a monitoring body – the central authority of the executive body, which will collect these fines, check them, collect foam and collect administrative fees even to the property of a particular enterprise. This certainly is no help to persons with disabilities, small or medium - size business. And look, I've asked that question twice. State authorities and state enterprises are not subject to these fines or to this fine. So for business we make one condition, and business is obliged to look for people with disabilities, to work on a quota principle, and it is not clear which mechanism. And state enterprises don't have to do that, and there won't be any fines, there won't be any penny. So I asked about the Supreme Council's apparatus: even we don't do that quota in the Supreme Council's apparatus, which is set at 4 percent in the 91st year's legislation. We are proposing a socialization strategy, training people with disabilities, and then helping them find a job. Our colleague, Alexander Volodymyrovna Kugel, registered the 1400 Bill in 2014, which describes the overall strategy for socialization and protection of people with disabilities. And we need to go this way, not by sanctioning, increasing corruption and increasing business regulation and increasing checks. And so we have business barely breathing, let's change the philosophy of this law and the state budget to the opposite. Thank you. Fatherland won't vote for it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-04-m0.u141	Thank you. And a performance from the opposition block faction. Shurm's national deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-04-m0.u142	Igor Shurma, Opposition Block. Dear colleagues, today is the day when we support people with disabilities. I'd like to say that if it wasn't for the opposition bloc's position, it would be Bill 7370 today, and Bill 6211, it wouldn't have been accepted, because there are no votes in the ruling coalition. And it is good that our hall is united. But as far as Bill 7370 is concerned, we do not vote explicitly and we urge everyone not to vote. And I'm explaining why. The whole point is that we're trying to counter the consequences again. Let's look for a reason. If we look at the problems of people with disabilities, we will see that the problem is much more complex. See, when we talk about the percentage of people employed, no one told us what the age structure of persons with disabilities is. There are children who can't work, there are people of such age who can't work, and there are people with such disabilities who can't work at all, there are people who can't work full-time to the extent that they can't work full-time. That's also a problem. And in that complex, you have to look at the way out of this situation. Do we continue to pursue a wicked course of punishment or encouragement? I am convinced that as long as we do fines and punitive duties, we will have nothing concrete or good. I'll tell you why. Already. I cannot help but agree with any of my political opponents who spoke to me, and I fully support them. Why? Because this four - percent need for employment is absurd. Tell me, people good, what do businesses do, where are the harmful working conditions, where full-time work is banned? We're not saying anything. What can we do about the structures in which people invest their money in charity? Let me give you an example, actually, I did this in Kharkiv. There's a football team of women. Where do people with disabilities go? Few are the owners who spend their money to support sports, and they still pay their fines on a regular basis! As far as I'm concerned. In general, there is no individual approach. So it seems to me that when we talk about what we want to do in the state, let's go two ways. If it is difficult to move away from the old system of fines, and so probably the government in its reforms. We don't find it, let's put in a incentive and bonus system in parallel. Those who employ these people will receive certain benefits. And the next. We need to take a fundamental approach to the system of disability to reform.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-04-m0.u143	Please finish 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-04-m0.u144	We now have a bad system when the commissions for setting up, the MCECs, work in the health system to establish disability. And it turns out that where people, they're being treated, there's a commission that's being set up and where they're assigning a disability group. So, I think it's time to think, does this system need to be transferred to the Ministry of Social Policy? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-04-m0.u145	Thank you. I'm asking the MPs to prepare to record a discussion from the deputies. Please, hold the recording. I'd like to invite you to the floor of the Shurma People's Deputies. I'm just asking you to follow the rules. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-04-m0.u146	Thank you. Igor Šurma. Dear colleagues, today's topic is that the question of employment for people with disabilities is socially unfair. The previous speakers emphasized that today the entire burden of employment of those people falls virtually to business. State structures have nothing to do with this. So, please tell me where it's easier to employ people in manufacturing, let's say construction, in metallurgical combinations, in factories, or, let's say, in government structures and institutions? Now, today, we can talk about whether there is any possibility of hiring in the Presidential Administration, in the district government administrations, in the Supreme Council's Office. We don't ask people to be held accountable and make suggestions, do we? We say everything: business, business, business and business. What's more, I've been focusing a few minutes ago: let's see that people with disabilities are people with different physical abilities. And people with different physical capabilities can either benefit or benefit from structures where they can be needed, where they can do work. We have something in our mind about the previous three bills, when we talked about people with disabilities, we kept saying that people in wheelchairs were disabled. And we forget that people who don't hear are the same group of people with disabilities. That people who can't see are the same category of people with disabilities. And we should take into account that before making a commitment, putting in place opportunities for those people’s employment, we should consider the specificities of health. I'm stressing again, and I think we should start with that. There is a lot of talk about corruption in the set-up of disability groups. Today, the Ministry of Health is under the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Health and it is necessary to consider including them under the responsibility of the Ministry of Social Protection. When there is a link in one structure between the healer and the fixer, there are always risks and suspicions of abuse. When it comes to interdisciplinary work, there is a risk that such cases will not come to our attention. Once again, we start off by not saying that the bill doesn't even have to be sent for second reading, because in fact, we're not actually solving this problem, we're just trying to find some way out and find other culprits. Thank you. We don't support this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-04-m0.u147	Thank you. I invite you to the floor of the People's Deputy Pisarenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-04-m0.u148	Thank you, Madam Chairman. I wanted to point out the procedural issues first. Well, look, our colleagues came forward, and they said that this bill didn't work, yeah. On Tuesday, he appeared to us at the primary time when we should make decisions. This bill has no support in the session room, and we are now discussing that we don't need to approve. So, even though we're constantly at the boards, at the meetings, at the meetings, at the television shows, we're talking about what needs to be done, and unfortunately in the session hall, we're going out with decisions that don't get approved or taken, yes. I would still like to encourage us to move on to a normal organization of work so that you and I can address the issues that need to be addressed. Now, we've registered a draft decree that this week, which we're now in a state of unemployment, we're looking at exclusive issues related to gas prices, tariff prices, heating prices, housing and utility problems. Our decision is not even supported in the order of the day. And we've been sitting here with you for over an hour, talking about why he doesn't need to be approved. There is a big problem with the work of the Supreme Council. And I understand that the electoral period has already begun and we've entered the electoral process, but is that how we need to humiliate our work in the Supreme Council today? So our proposal is to get to the issues that concern people most today, and to consider not the questions on which there are no votes, but the questions on which we need to find them. If we have to work on these issues in advance, let's get together, let's talk about, we have a lot of laws that deal with gas prices, tariff growth, we have bills that allow people to stop moving outside the country today, to renew industrial production growth. Doing things that will bring us closer to peace in the East today. So there's a lot of questions that we need to find consensus on here in the session room and get out with people's decisions. After all, the work that has now been done in the session hall only shows that the Supreme Council is not in a position to make decisions. So we're going to suggest that we consider our proposals on emerging issues: rising prices for gas, tariffs, migration policy, the issue of ensuring the rights of citizens who have left the country to earn, so that they can find work inside the country -- what we need to do and how we need to move in this direction. And on these issues, you have to listen to professionals, they've just been speaking. And my colleague Schurm said it all. We need to make balanced decisions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-04-m0.u149	Thank you. And I would like to invite you to say that this is the final speech, please, of the Royal People's Chamber.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-04-m0.u150	Dear colleagues, you know, apart from the fact that the government is just bullying Parliament today, there's no one else here. Because at a time when there's a terrible economic crisis in the country, when there's no work, when people are moving out of the country, when businesses are closing down today, and there's no new jobs, and there's an increasing position of controlling state, and there's increasing fines, and there's additional surveillance and police, I think that's unacceptable. Because this will not allow people with disabilities to find a job, it will not create additional conditions for employers to create new businesses today. It's not going to solve this, it's just going to add an additional corruption component to those control bodies that get new opportunities. But these possibilities will be for the government, for the controllers, but these opportunities will not be given to people with disabilities today. And that's why we strongly deny this bill. We think that, first of all, we need to create tools to motivate employers today, to invest money in enterprises where people with special needs can be involved. But first of all, let's be honest, first of all, people with disabilities, especially children with disabilities, families that raise such special children, today need one solution with us -- it's to give them enough social protection, index pensions, care aid. Index opportunities to feel worthy in your country today when you can move freely when you can go to a hospital when you can really get protection and support. And at a time when the medical reform that destroys the hospital continues today, there is a retirement reform that destroys people. The right to a decent pension lasts today, a military budget that for the past four years has prevented people from believing in their state, from feeling needed by their state, and we insist that we first consider bills aimed at social real support for people with special needs, and that we index their pensions.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-04-m0.u151	Please. You're done, aren't you, Mrs. Natalia? Thank you. So, colleagues, the discussion is over. We can move on to making a decision. And I ask everyone to come into the hall and ask the factions to invite the deputies into the hall. Let me ask you, does Treyak Alexander insist on the closing word? No, it's not. Popova Larissa Vitaliyevna? Don't insist. So we can immediately move on to making a decision. And I'm asking everyone to prepare for the vote, and I'm asking you to take the job. Colleagues, heads of factions, look who's gone, and invite us to the hall. So I'm voting on the draft Act amending articles 19 and 20 of the Ukrainian Act on Fundamentals for the Social Protection of Persons with Disabilities in Ukraine on Administrative Economic Sanctions (No. 4598). The committee proposes to accept it as a basis. So, colleagues, please vote, please support as a basis, we vote. [[13:18:13]] For 121 120. And the committee? Then, colleagues, I will make two proposals under the Rules: the committee and the author of the legislative initiative. If it doesn't pass, it'll be rejected. So the next proposal is to draft Law 8464. Oh, 4598 to be sent to the committee to prepare for the re-first reading. Whoever supports this, I ask you to vote. We're voting on the committee. [[13:18:59]] For 121 And the final suggestion is to return the subject to the right of legislative initiative to draft Law 4998. Anyone who supports, I ask you to vote, please support. [[13:19:27]] For-129 129. The decision is not made. Thus, Law 4598 was rejected. Before we move on to the next issue of the agenda, I want to report that there is an application for a break from two factions: the Fatherland faction and the Radical Party. And they're ready to replace the break with the stand. He's watching the subject in your hands, Mr. Yvchenko. And I invite you to Ichchenka's speech. Three minutes. Please, Mr. Wadim.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-04-m0.u152	Dear colleagues, the farmers who stood or stood under the Supreme Council of Ukraine were forced to go to the rostrum. Now, colleagues, this is the chain, this is the future stick, this is the stick, this is the future, this is the colleagues, this is the product of our farmers. Farmers came with one requirement, they asked to continue the moratorium on land sales, to continue the moratorium as a temporary measure so that we could have an appropriate state policy so that farmers could receive state support. Do you want to talk about who receives government support in Ukraine year after year? The same companies, the same companies that are close to the MPs, including. Farmers are asked to continue the moratorium when we have a financial and credit policy. How can a farmer today borrow a small percentage? What happens to the flags? Farmers are asking us to improve legislation in cooperation and really create such a transformational system of cooperation in Ukraine when they can use cooperatives to produce products, to dispose of products, to export products. Do we have such opportunities today? In France, colleagues, they dispose of most of their products through cooperatives. Elevators are being built, and entire ships are being shipped directly for export through cooperatives. Farmers ask us to continue the moratorium on land sales until we regulate land legislation. Farmers ask us not to speculate that this is populism. They're just asking for state support so they can upgrade their products, buy new tractors, buy new equipment. And that, colleagues, was the past. And I understand that they gave it to me and told me to give it to the Head of the Supreme Council -- that's the future. They can't buy diesel, they can't buy mineral fertilizers from small farmers. We're the only country in Europe where we have 4.5 million singles that are not in the status of an agricultural producer, they produce products, but they're out of status. And we're not doing anything with you, but we're just saying, let's shoot the moratorium through appropriate financial credits, let's say organizations that actually finance most of the projects in the media. Comrades, let's move on! But we're doing an agrarian policy that's going to be directed at a person. And "chain" is from the Russian word "chain," from the Ukrainian word "tip," which is what he calls it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-04-m0.u153	So, colleagues, we've completed a cluster of issues relating to the protection of the rights of persons with disabilities. Three laws were passed to me. Sadly, one was rejected. And now we are moving on to the next draft of the Act amending the Ukrainian Act on Sanitary and Epidemic Welfare (8464). Fellows, I'm going to ask you once again to consider a reduced procedure so that we can go to the agrarian cluster by noon. So, colleagues, I ask you to support us to consider draft Law 8464 in a simplified manner. Please vote and please support. Vote, colleagues, please. [[13:24:11]] For 112 Guys, I'll put it back on. Once again, we have a chance to consider this bill, so that after lunch we can move right into the agrarian policy box. We're not going to be able to complete this law by noon. So I ask everyone to support the proposal for a reduced procedure. Please enter the hall, take your seats. So, colleagues, I'm once again proposing that we consider draft Law 8464 as a reduced procedure. And back up, fellows! Especially from the medical committee, health care. Please vote, please support. Vote! Please be supportive. [[13:25:25]] For 118 Colleagues, what is your strategic plan? Show by factions: "Peter Prashenko's Block" - 55, "The People's Front" - 41, then nothing. Colleagues, all right! I'll do it again. If there are no votes, we'll follow the full procedure. This is a deliberate distraction from the consideration of agrarian policy issues. And, Mr. Chairman of the Committee, you'll know who to ask the question on this matter. I'm re-voting the motion for draft Law 8464 to be considered in a simplified procedure. Please vote and please support. Vote. [[13:26:25]] For a-117. So we follow the full procedure. And I invite the head of the Health Committee, Bogopolitan Olga Vadimovna, to report. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-04-m0.u154	The honourable presiding, honourable colleagues, your thoughts are presented with an extremely important bill, which has been drafted by representatives of various political forces in the Ukrainian Parliament, as well as by our colleagues, the non-fractional national MPs, the only 21 national deputies. The current adoption of this bill is that legislation in the field of sanitation has not been systematically reviewed for nearly 30 years and requires comprehensive modernization. During this time, there have been many changes in the world. First, international approaches have changed in this area and the immediate approach of WHO to health and epidemic welfare in the world and in the WHO region through the development of public health legislation, which is based on the principles of the priority of preserving human health and the safety of the environment. Secondly, Ukraine has signed an Association Agreement with the EU and has undertaken a series of international commitments to harmonise the provisions of national legislation in the field of sanitation and public health with the requirements of relevant EU legislation. Thirdly, the Government's 14th optimisation of the system of central executives, in which the State Sanitary Epidemiology Service was eliminated, took place without amendment to the Ukrainian Law on Sanitary and Epidemiological Welfare and other laws governing the relevant legal relations of authorities and economic operators. In fact, the functions of the former EUSR are dispersed between various departments without establishing appropriate powers at the legislative level. Hence, there is neither proper control nor responsibility. This led to an increase in outbreaks of mass infections and non-infectious diseases among the population. You're practically reading every week about the poisoning of children in schools, the poisoning of children in different institutions, even the death of children, when the complete inadequacy of sanitary and epidemiological requirements, i.e. failure to meet these requirements, leads to even fatal consequences. Dear colleagues, the new edition of the Ukrainian Law on Sanitary Epidemic Welfare, which you are offered today, is an integral part of the public health system that is now being formed in Ukraine with a comprehensive approach to health protection in all policies. Bill No. 8464 removes existing gaps in legislation and is based on the principles of priority and preservation of human health and the safety of its environment compared to the economic benefits of any economic activity. In view of the fact that state policy is now aimed at minimizing State intervention in business activities, the bill introduces a declaration principle in the area of sanitary and epidemiological well - being, according to which an economic operator declares its business to meet the requirements of human health without obtaining documents of a permissive nature. There is also a proposal to decentralize government and give more authority to local authorities. The bill creates more efficient and operational mechanisms for providing vaccines and other medical devices with the threat of epidemics and mass poisoning, defines acceptable medical and health parameters in emergency situations that have not previously been regulated. What is important is that the leading role of the Ukrainian Ministry of Health in protecting the health of the population is being restored, which will be required to demonstrate the causal link between the state of public health and its impact on the environment, to develop science-based recommendations to address their negative impact. GNEU commented on the contents of the bill of comments and suggestions that could be further elaborated on the second reading. The committee also received comments and suggestions from other committees, national deputies, ministries, and authorities regarding the need for the optimal formation of powers of the central executive authorities to eliminate duplication of public oversight functions. These comments and suggestions deserve attention and will be taken into account by the committee for the second reading. In particular, they relate to amendments to articles 7, 8, 12, 14 of the bill, as well as to the addition of the Final Provisions to Ukraine's laws on pesticides and agrochemicals, on wastes, on environmental protection, on environmental protection, on basic principles and requirements for the safety and quality of food, on the Water and Earth Codes of Ukraine, on the Nadra Code and on other legislative acts reflected in the letter of the Ministry of Environment and Natural Resources of Ukraine from 1.10.18 (No. 5/1) and on its appendix, under the signature of Mr. Semerak. Now, under the transcript, I'm going to read this proposal on the basis of his request for them to be reflected in the Decree on the Adoption of Bill 8464 on the basis of the first reading, and to become an integral part of the text of the bill, which will be adopted as a basis. In Subparagraph 7, paragraph 3.1. and paragraph 3.5. "The Final and Transitional Provisions" in article 60 of the Water Code of Ukraine and article 21 of the Code of the Ukraine on Nadra, "Dergysaneservice" to replace "Deergsaneservice". Paragraph 3.2. “Final and transitional provisions”, such as Article 167 of the Earth Code on Limitable Concentrations of Contaminants, should be left in good order. In paragraphs 1, 5 of paragraph 3.14 of the Act on the Protection of Air, articles 11, 23 of the Act on the Protection of Atmospheric Air, replace "Dergsaneservice" with "Deergsaneservice". Paragraph 1 of paragraph 3.15 of the Final and Transitional Provisions, including the amendments to article 28 of the Ukrainian Environmental Protection Act, delete. Subparagraphs 1, 2, 4 of paragraph 3.16 of the Amendment to the Act on Resorts of Ukraine shall be brought into conformity with the Ukrainian Environmental Impact Assessment Act. Paragraph 3.26 should be supplemented by amendments to articles 17 and 34 of the Waste Act. In particular, replace "Dergysane Service" with "Ministry of Health." In addition, part of one article 23.2 should be supplemented by new powers of Deerkoinspection, namely compliance. (i) Compliance with the requirements of expert opinion on safety and health requirements, compliance with the requirements of national health standards and regulations, the completeness and reliability of making declarations on the fulfilment of safety requirements for human health, the completeness and reliability of the market analysis for human health, the impact of waste management on human health. In paragraph 3.30, paragraph 1, of the Act on Pesticides and Agrochemicals, delete the amendments to article 7 of the Ukrainian Law on Pesticides and Agrochemicals, since the provisions need to be reconciled with the laws of Ukraine on Administrative Services, the Act on Free Economic Activities and the European Parliament and the Council of 21 October 9th, No.1107 on the placing on the market of plant protection products, which terminates Council Directives 79/117/EEC and 91/414/EEC, with the exception of making changes to part three of this article. And to the end. In Subparagraph 4, paragraph 3.30. "Perfect and transitional" redraft the provisions of article 16. 1 The Ukrainian Law on Pesticides and Agrochemicals in part of the mandate of the Ministry of Nature to authorize institutions, enterprises and organizations to carry out State tests on approved criteria for ecological, ecotoxicological assessment of pesticides and agrochemicals, methods of carrying out them, exclusion of authorizations for the approval of methodological instructions, determination of residual quantities of drugs. In paragraph 3.30 of Subparagraph 5 of the Act on Pesticides and Agrochemicals, delete from Article 16.2 of the Law on Pesticides and Agrochemicals the authorization of the Ministry of Agriculture to authorize enterprises, institutions, organisations from the number of accredited national authorities of Ukraine from the accreditation of research in the field of pesticides and agrochemicals in the determination of the biological effectiveness of pesticides, agrochemicals, their active substances and the lifting of authorisations. In paragraph 3.30, paragraph 6, redraft article 16. 3 Ukraine’s Pesticide Act. I am convinced that the adoption of this bill will provide the basis for the establishment and development of a national public health system. We're ready for cooperation and constructive proposals from all those who want to join in the work on the draft law. But you can't delay it, you have to take the first step. This is a question of preserving the human potential of Ukraine and the national security of the state. The Committee requests the results of the first reading of Bill No. 8464 to be adopted on the basis of the proposals made under the transcript. Please support the committee's proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-04-m0.u155	Thank you. Please remain on the rostrum, Madam Olga. Dear colleagues, I ask you to sign up for a question to Mrs. Mantis. Excuse me, please. Please ask me a question, national deputy Eutuska, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-04-m0.u156	Sergey Eutuszek, Fatherland. Ms. Olga, please tell me that the bill clearly states that if a child is enrolled in preschool education, in education, in health care, some institutions will need help from family doctors. The information on vaccination, the information that a child is not sick in any way. Please tell me, given that in society our treatment of vaccinations is ambiguous, what's more, those vaccinations that are and are given by the MOH are, in larger cases, not very quality, how do we get out of this situation? When will the need for help be needed and the vaccination given to a child’s own parents will not be able to do so? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-04-m0.u157	Please, your answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-04-m0.u158	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the most important priority is to preserve the life and health of adults and children. What you are asking is it possible to question the need for vaccination simply because the Ministry of Health does not perform its functions qualitatively? No, you can't. The Ministry of Health’s team needs to be changed, quality vaccines are purchased, and there is no need to sow distrust of vaccination in society. Because it is she who has allowed the world’s polio epidemic, the epidemics of the diseases that kill people. And as of today, vaccination is very important. So you don't have to change the concept. The vaccination must take place. The Ministry of Health should start working professionally with another team. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-04-m0.u159	Thank you. Please, Alexei Rybchin, your question.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-04-m0.u160	Please pass the word to Mrs. Alexander Kugel.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-04-m0.u161	Please turn on Mrs. Kugel's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-04-m0.u162	Dear Mrs. Olga, I would like to point out that there is a serious lack of accountability of the state to the population that is often affected by vaccination, and the worst is the epidemiological state. We were here to discuss the question of holding parliamentary hearings on tuberculosis. Regrettably, this decision was made on Wednesday to bring about a fall. But today you know that our country is included in five countries where tuberculosis is growing. Ms. Olga, spread information to the population that she took out Mrs. Suprun's fluorography. But the responsibility must be to give a stroke before entering school, into kindergarten, and into work. Because if we're not just talking about vaccines right now, not just restoring a sanepidem station, which is the main purpose of this law, but if we don't write procedural questions.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-04-m0.u163	Please finish, 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-04-m0.u164	And if no one's responsible for that, we'll never get to the bottom of it. The Sanepidadem station did not save anyone from all Soviet times. And Mrs. Suprun has never been punished, even when we brought in documents that confirmed that $24 million is on the purchase of vaccines, and no one orders them on time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-04-m0.u165	Dear Mrs. Alexander, thank you for your questions. I would like to point out that the Health Committee and the Ministry of Education have supported changes to the law, but the rehabilitation of sanepidemstants is not supported. I want to say that unfortunately, a large number of experts who wanted to restore sanepidemstations had to agree to a compromise decision and that's the law that doesn't restore sanepidemic stations. What does this law do? All the functions that are scattered today, I personally, personally disagreed and disagreed with the destruction of the santaries, they performed their function and during the epidemics, they produced results. Another question is that their work was to some extent corrupt, that there were bribes, that they were not working in our country as it should have been. And when the reform was done, the sanstrations were.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-04-m0.u166	Please. Thank you, Mrs. Ola. And one last question, please. Oh, I'm sorry, Mrs. Ollie, to answer for a minute. Please. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-04-m0.u167	When the terminals were destroyed, their function was not fully translated into certain organs. That's why we've lost the whole system. So for the first time in years of independence, people bought fish and cans in supermarkets and died of botulism, and industrial botulism was created in the state only because there was no control, and it was not laid on anyone. Thus, by this law we translate control functions into other organs, usually the Ministry of Health and the Centre for Public Health will be responsible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-04-m0.u168	Thank you. And the final question, please, is the national deputy Eutuszek.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-04-m0.u169	Eutushka, Fatherland. Madam Head of the Committee, we see in the bill the creation of a new body, which will be called the State Extraordinary Anti-Epidemiology Commission. Well, we think that the creation of such an organ will, in principle, entail additional financial costs, but we understand that given the very critical state of control and control services in Ukraine, that is justified. However, the project does not adequately determine the status and mandate of the body, touching only the general tasks. In addition, according to article 48 of the Ukrainian Cabinet of Ministers Act, the creation of governmental, advisory, advisory and other subsidiary bodies is referred to the competence of the government. Tell me, please, how do you comment on the standard provided for in the bill? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-04-m0.u170	Please, Mrs. Ola, your answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-04-m0.u171	Once again, we're not in any form restoring an epidemic service and, unfortunately, I think. But these functions will be placed on other organs. In this case, the Ministry of Health will be the main one. And between the first and the second readings, this law is very important in order to agree on a framework for how the system will work. And between the first and the second readings, all of your comments on the distribution of functions, they will be further developed, and we're going to want to make a goal and ask you now to support yourself frameworkally in the first reading in order to work on the second reading, where all of these observations will be taken into account, including from all the organs, the Chief Legal Authority, and all the observations of the National Deputies. Without agreeing on a framework situation, we could not go into detail. All of this is planned for us at work. And this law is extremely important because the system is not working right now. She was reformed that way.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-04-m0.u172	Please, Mrs. Ola, do you still need time to finish? We are very grateful to the rapporteur, Mrs. Bogholec, for the presentation of a bill to amend the Ukrainian Law on Sanitary and Epidemic Welfare (new edition). And, colleague, we don't have a co-rapporteur here. I'm asking you to sign up from MPs and factions, then from MPs. But first from MPs and factions. We'll be done with you at two o'clock. After the break, we'll continue speaking from groups and factions, and then from deputies. Mrs. Ola, you can go back to work. Thank you. Please, Mrs. Sisoyenko invites you to her word.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-04-m0.u173	Irina Sisoyenko, Self-Help Unit. Sadly, it has become a habit for our nation to have children in various fields at times. For example, I want to remind everyone, like on May 8, this year, in Chercas, during the course of a school study, about 30 children were unconscious as a result of an unknown substance poisoning and were hospitalized by 53 children. As a result, no information on the causes of such poisoning has been heard from the government in nearly six months. Other areas of Ukraine, such as Mikolayev, Lviv, were affected by the same poisoning on school lines. But what does that say? This suggests that the safety issue today, in relation to children, as far as poisoning is concerned, is completely absent in our country. So our first challenge is to adopt legislation that really builds a system that needs to build security on the health and epidemiological well-being of the population. This legislation is directly part of public health legislation that is not available in Ukraine today. It is vital that the corruption and the processes that have been in the state for many years be put to rest by the work of the Santation. I think that all entrepreneurs know how much time it took to spend and how much shadow money these state institutions collected during the inspection of farm subjects. But as a result, no security, no real quality control, everything about health and sanitation was actually not happening in our country. That's why the self-help faction will support and vote in favour of this bill. We need to change the paradigm of government work. We really need to build security and proper control over the prevention of epidemics and infectious diseases in our country. The issue of food safety, especially child - feeding, is of great importance. So there's control on the side of the state, which is the food that comes from across the border, and what our children are feeding at the supermarket counters, and whether it's all safe for the child's life and health. So the issues that are formed by this bill are to make changes to a large number of existing laws in Ukraine, and this is essentially an implementation, including European legislation. So I ask all my colleagues to support and vote on this bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-04-m0.u174	Thank you. Please, Igor Shurma presents the position of the Opposition Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-04-m0.u175	Igor Shurma, Opposition Block. Dear colleagues, do we need to support this bill today on the provision of health and epidemic welfare for the population? There's no question about it. Why should it be supported? It is any attempt today to organize what is happening in the health system of the population. Today, the situation is paradoxical, the laws in force that apply to sanitation, sanitation, and no one has reversed it, and the body that enforces it has been eliminated. You know, today we have to stop talking about that the new authorities reformed the services that were corrupt, it didn't reform them, it just destroyed them. Would there be a chance that there would be a sanity body in the format they were in with their checks, perhaps even with their struggles, perhaps with their obstacles to work and business and government structures? Of course not. But if we were reforming, we needed to reform the sanitation system itself. It is vital that this is done in due time. What can we today say about orderlyness and our desire to ensure public health? Please tell me, the removal of municipal sanitation has led to what? Who, today, is looking for water sources? Who today are watching the industry, under harmful working conditions? This is now going to be all about giving functions to completely other institutions. You think that's just how the committee head read the entire text of changes and additions that would come out of Minecology today? No, it's just a redistribution of those who are going to check today and fine. And if she didn't read this page that nobody would repeat today, then the whole faction, about 90 people, refused to vote in favour of the bill. Now, with regard to the simplified procedure. A brief procedure in our Supreme Council is a great evil. Because we're not discussing the subject, and we, trach-bach, voted, and then we're saying, you know, we cut the ambulance. She stands up for her renewal in the courts today, and she stands up for it in the courts, but that will not reanimate her or bring her back. We're talking about industrial botulism if you go into Wikipedia in Google and look at what the world says about botulism, and there's two cases in France or in America, that's the whole scandal and the whole event. What do we have? More than a hundred people have died, and what? Is the Ministry of Health performing its functions? We have a vaccine today broken down because of the actions of the Ministry of Health. Does someone perform their functions? Of course not. That's why this bill has to be supported, it doesn't change the weather, but at least it settles.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-04-m0.u176	Thank you. Several factions failed to register. Please give the floor to represent the position of "Paternity" to Sergey Eutushka.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-04-m0.u177	Thank you. Sergey Eutuszek, "The Fatherland" faction. Dear colleagues, of course, that State control, however it may be, should be appropriate in the areas of health control in preschool education, in schools. And in general, considering that today is not exactly a good day for us to be able to control the entire environmental situation that is in Ukraine, it is clear that we need to go back to the question of creating or restoring powers for this control to the state authorities, the central authorities. I can also confirm here that our colleagues have already expressed cases where there have been mass poisoning in the preschools, in the preschools. And no one was responsible for that. At the same time, I imagine how difficult it has been for me to adopt any decision in the Health Committee because, on the one hand, we understand that there is a need for control over food, drinking water, and other ways; and on the other hand, we realize that along with such powers, there are powers that can be misused by coming to one institution or another. We have a number of warnings that we have just discussed with the head of the committee, Olga Bogolitz, regarding the preparation of the bill for the second reading. In particular, individual, I've already mentioned in my questions, this is the creation of a new body that can somehow generate financial costs. But at the same time, the head of the committee said that these were the people who would be working at the Cabinet of Ministers because. At the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine or at the Ministry of Public Health. The second question, of course, is vaccination. The vaccinations that are being taken in a mixed way in our society today, and the innovations that we see that appear in the body of the bill, that any parent should take in a family doctor's instructions on vaccination, about a vaccination that is not very good today in Ukraine. The question is, Where do you get quality vaccinations? Where can you get these help? So I'd like to go to all the representatives of the Health Committee right now, prepare for the second reading all the relevant amendments that have been issued both in the form of questions and in the form of speeches, and for the second reading to prepare the bill for the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-04-m0.u178	From the "Peter Prashenko Block" to the word "Ola the Mantis." Please, Mrs. Olu.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-04-m0.u179	Dear colleagues! Now I'm speaking as a representative of the Peter Prashenko Block, and I want to tell you that this law really needs Ukraine as air. Why? Because there is total chaos today, and no one has any real responsibility for the sale of junk products in supermarkets or for the health care of children’s institutions. Today, the state is unregulated and dangerous. By this law, we trust and clearly prescribe the functions previously performed by the EUSR. We do not return, we do not create this body, but responsibilities are transferred to existing other institutions of the state, including the Ministry of Health, the Centre for Public Health. With regard to this newly created body. It's a commission that only calls for epidemics and it works on public grounds. Next. Today we need to talk, and actually this body, this commission is supposed to be screaming "caraul!" It's not just because we're getting worse because we have less than 50 percent of the children vaccinated with polio. Please don't sit down and trust the vaccine. Vaccination is what saves lives and what the Ministry of Health is unable to perform the right function today, to provide the right vaccines, to explain to people how to do it correctly, does not mean that children do not need to be vaccinated. Children should be vaccinated on time. As far as the evidence is concerned, it's from the past life. We need help to forget. Electronic registers are to be created, where information is clearly provided, which children are to have access to the school, children’s institutions, when they are vaccinated. Parents don't need to follow the help, it's from the past life! So for today, the introduction of new technologies, the blockage system, where every person has to have an electronic history of his medical life, will allow him to go completely to a new level of technology. But once again, for this, the State must eventually appoint a minister of health who is not two years old, and these laws that we vote that the Transplant Act has not been implemented, that the health reform, the Autonomization Act has not been implemented, that the National Compulsory Health Insurance Act, without which the reform will not take place, without which only primary aid is available to people and they do not have access to highly specialized, cost-effective assistance.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-04-m0.u180	Please finish 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-04-m0.u181	So there's a lot of problems, so let's solve them gradually. So I ask you to support this bill, all of your comments will be included between the first and the second readings, and we'll come up with a quality product. And I am addressing the presiding officer and all members of Parliament. Please, we do not have a minister of health, how can we reform and develop a branch if no one is responsible for both mistakes and victories?
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-04-m0.u182	Thank you. So, colleagues, the factions are finished. Listen to me, all of you, especially the supporters of this law. After lunch, we'll start by speaking to the national MPs. I'm going to set 15 minutes for speeches by national deputies, then I'm going to make a closing statement to the committee head, and at 4:15, at 4:18, we're going to move on to a decision. So I ask the members of the committee to work with factions and with all the people's deputies so that at 4:15 a.m. there will be enough people in the room to make decisions. Let me remind you once again, 15 minutes -- speeches by the national MPs, the closing statement will be after lunch, and then the decision will be made. I now declare this morning's plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine closed. At 4: 00 p.m., I invite everyone into the conference room to continue our work. And at 4:15 p.m., full mobilization to vote for the law. You got it, right? So at 16 o'clock, we're back to work.
