ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-20-m0.u1	Good morning, dear fellows! I'm asking you to come into the hall and get ready for registration. Colleagues, please come into the hall. So, colleagues, please register and please take part in the registration. [[10:02:58]] 341 national deputies registered. The morning plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Today is the birthday of the National Deputy of Ukraine, Dmitry Yuriovich Špenov. And, colleagues, I would like to point out that today is a very stressful day. But before that, I would like to report that the U.S. Department of External Assets, in response to Russia's constant disregard for international law, introduces new sanctions against the physical and legal persons of the Russian Federation. The published paper refers to a number of individuals involved in intelligence, cyber- and propaganda operations by Russia, including criminals involved in the Newbie chemical in Solsbury. We welcome the consistent and unalterable position of the United States of America to extend and deepen sanctions against the Putinian Russia, an international terrorist country. Also, colleagues, let me ask you a favor. At the United Council on December 15, when the Ukrainian Orthodox Church was declared, I had a conversation with Patriarch Filaret. And he addressed me as the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine with a request to bring the agenda into order and to consider the two laws that are important for the approval of the Ukrainian Church. This is Act 5309, amending the Ukrainian Act on Freedom of Conscience and Religious Organizations concerning the name of religious organizations that are part of the structure of a religious organization, the governing centre (government) of which is located outside Ukraine in a state which is recognized by law as having committed military aggression against Ukraine or temporarily occupied part of the territory of Ukraine. This, colleagues, is the definition of what is one Ukrainian Orthodox Church. And I, colleagues, will ask you today to uphold this law, to include it in the agenda and to consider, to support the Ukrainian Orthodox Church, to support the Patriarch Filaret. So I'm asking everyone to concentrate and support this important bill. The second draft of the Act on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on Freedom of Conscience and Religious Organizations (as regards changes in the religious communities of submission), which facilitates the transition of communities. And I'm very much asking all my fellow national MPs to hear and support the petitions of Patriarch Filaret. Two laws that uphold the Ukrainian Church. Two laws that will help the Ukrainian Church gain greater favor and support in Ukraine. And these laws I'm going to propose immediately after the anti-rerader law that we're going to continue to consider. Also, colleagues, I would like to inform you that during our conversation with our allies, we discussed the importance of the draft Act amending some of the laws of Ukraine regarding the purchase of goods and jobs, and of the defence of import. I will also propose to include it in the agenda of the day session for decision making, and I also count on the support of all factions. And I want to report that at 4:00, we have a block of agrarian politics written down. As long as we don't have time to consider the laws by noon, at four o'clock in any circumstances, we're going to move into the block of agrarian politics. And among the issues will be the continuation of the moratorium on land sales. After lunch, at four o'clock, I would like to stress that under any circumstances, we're going to move into a block of agrarian politics and we're going to look at the question of the continuation of the moratorium. As I promised, all the laws that were put into the agenda. Colleagues, do you understand the logic of today? Does everyone support her? Everyone is supportive, and that is wise. And we're not going to let any of the forces today tear down our historic session. So, colleagues, we begin the morning session of the plenary of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. And I'm reminding you that yesterday we completed a right-hand review of 149. And now I'm going to keep calling the revisions, and we're going to continue the consideration. One more message, colleagues. Attention! The colleagues, one more message, refer to the Constitutional Court. And I'm asking for your attention. The Constitutional Court has requested that we support the bill, which is not about additional funding, but about the redistribution of funding within existing funding, so that the employees of the Office, the Secretariat, can pay their salaries at the end of the year. And I'm also going to ask you to put it in the order of the day session. And now I invite you to the words of the author of the bill 149 Mr. Yvchenk. Mr. Wadim, we're at your end of the 149th. Are you insisting on her? 149th. Please, 149 revisions.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-20-m0.u2	Vadim Yvchenko, "The Fatherland" faction. Dear colleagues, I want us to concentrate, we will have a vote for a fairly important bill. Agrarians, including their agrarian associations, have been waiting for the adoption of the bill for a year. We've taken quite a lot into account there, including we've merged the registers that were in operation before the 13th year with the registers that are in operation after the 13th year. We've made automatic withdrawals. We made an administrative, including a strengthened, notary responsibility. We've given cadastre registrars access to online information to take information contained in the register of rights and to state registrars to inform the FTC. We cancelled the need for mandatory receipt by owners and users of land parcels of paper extracts about land areas, which would actually make notary services cheaper. We've given you the opportunity to file an application for any information.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-20-m0.u3	30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-20-m0.u4	submit applications for any information to the land cadastre and receive such information online through electronic documentation. We have established responsibilities for government registries to check not only information in the State Register of Goods Rights but also in the Land Register. Dear colleagues, let's concentrate. The agrarians are waiting for this bill, but right now I know they want to make the exact right thing out of the voice.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-20-m0.u5	I've given you 30 seconds. I've given you 30 seconds. Vadim, I'm the same. Take the next right. I've already given. It's not gonna be fair. I give everyone the same. You'll take the next one and you'll be able to make a deal. Okay? Please, Oleg Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-20-m0.u6	Thank you, Mr. Wadim. As for this amendment, it was rejected by the committee. The Committee considers that it is not appropriate to consider this amendment, since the landowner will then have no information on who has received information about his land, but this right is already provided by law. I wanted to complement Mr. Wadim Yvchenk, a really, really important bill that awaits agriculture. It's complex, it's worked, I repeat, with Minusto, with the Notary Chamber, and we definitely need to support it today because it's agricultural, it's awaited by all those who are connected to the countryside, to the agricultural business. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-20-m0.u7	You insist on voting, Vadim? Vadim Yvchenko, are you insisting on the vote? No, I'm good. Let's move on to the next one. 151st, Yvchenko. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-20-m0.u8	Dear colleagues, once again, I want to remind you of the importance of the bill and I want to say that there will be an effort to reach out to authorized persons, and this applies enough to everyone to understand that this is going to apply to quite a lot of land, particularly unexploded pies. In particular, they will be relieved, such as the work of state notaries in the formation of an inheritance, through authorized persons they will try to stretch out other things that do not exactly meet the requirements of this law. I'm asking that as he goes today, we vote. If a vote is introduced, those who do not meet the demands of agrarian associations, agrarians and the village in general, so that we do not vote in favour of the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-20-m0.u9	Please, Oleg Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-20-m0.u10	Thank you, Mr. Wadim. I want to calm all my colleagues down. This is an editorial that is clearly handled by all agrarian associations, with the Notary Chamber. There's absolutely no line here that we're talking about. And we're going to vote, Mr. Wadim, just the editorial that was voted on in our committee, it's balanced, and so I'd like to calm everyone down, concentrate, listen. We're going to get to the end and we're really going to support an important bill that everyone's waiting for. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-20-m0.u11	You insist on voting, Vadim? Don't insist. The next one is 154th, Yvchenko. No, it doesn't. 159th, Martovitchki. He insists. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-20-m0.u12	People's MP Martovicki, faction of the Opposition Block. We have strange things like this. When we adopted this bill in the first reading, we said that we were going to correct it, we were going to amend it, and they were going to be taken into account. Fifteen of my amendments, only one of which is partially taken into account. This is the last, 159 amendments, and it aims to reduce the financial burden on participating subjects. So, Your Honor Chairman, I insist that you put to the vote and confirm my 159th amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-20-m0.u13	Thank you. The committee will comment. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-20-m0.u14	Dear Mr. Arthur, the 159th Amendment proposes to exclude from the amendments to article 141 of the Ukrainian Law on State Land cadastre provisions that determine the size of the payments for the provision of cadastral information. However, this information is simply transferred from article 38 of the same law. This is because in 2015 they were improperly introduced into this article, although the subject of regulation is quite different, the size of the bill does not change. It is logical, therefore, that the amendment was rejected by the committee. Thank you. But you have the right to insist.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-20-m0.u15	Thank you. Members are requested to determine how to vote. [[10:15:19]] For-34 The decision is not taken. The next amendment is number 162, the Ptashnik People's Deputy. Don't insist. 163, Ptashnik People's Deputy. Don't insist. 166. Don't insist. 169. 171. 175 revisions. Amendment 180. 179th? 179th. Please, People's Deputy Ptashnik.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-20-m0.u16	Dear colleagues, I'd like to make 179 amendments for confirmation and urge you not to vote for it. I want to point out that this bill proposes automatic cessation of loads on immovable property. More than that. and if the time limit is 5 years from the time of the load. Moreover, even though this is an automatic shutdown, it is also suggested that this rule be made an actual backward number and that this amendment should be made effective on January 1st! In 2015, I don't know what the authors of this amendment were up to, but I'm obviously seeing the mechanisms of the raiding schemes in this amendment. So I'm asking her to put it on confirmation and fail it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-20-m0.u17	I'd like the committee to comment.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-20-m0.u18	Thank you. We held a lot of consultations and meetings yesterday, and we came to the common denominator. With regard to this amendment, I am withdrawing it under the stenogram, although we can place it on confirmation and fail. Come on, it's confirmed.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-20-m0.u19	Thank you. I ask the honourable deputies to vote. [[10:17:36]] For-19 The decision is not taken. We completed our consideration of the amendments. I invite you to speak now. Please, National Deputy Ivanchuk. I thank the committee's representative for working on the amendments. Please, there's still a final presentation, please. How much time do you need, please? Five minutes, please report from the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-20-m0.u20	Dear colleagues, yesterday we held consultations on the text of the bill with the people's deputies, including Mr. Ruslan Sidorovich, Vadim Yvchenko, representatives of the Ministry of Justice. There are some provisions of the bill that are not supported in the session room. We've come up with an agreed draft of the bill, and I'd like to make the necessary changes to the bill under the transcript. Exclusion from the bill of paragraph 2 of the first part of article 26 of the Ukrainian Law on State registration of immovable property rights and their burdens. In fact, the amendment of the 117 People’s Deputies of Ptashnik is taken into account. The point is that we exclude a rule from the bill that says that arrests and other hardships automatically stop in five years. Exclusion of paragraph 3 of the Final and Transitional Provisions of the Bill, i.e. the amendment of the 180 People's Deputies of Ptašnik will be taken into account. The point is that we exclude from the bill a rule that says that all suspended applications for registration are automatically revoked within three months. There were observations about documents to which the notary certificate of rights should be made. There were suggestions to exclude the driver’s license, a seaman’s license, and so on. Therefore, we propose a new draft of article 43, part three, on notary to be made available in such an editorial. I want to read under the transcript: "The establishment of a person is carried out by passport of a citizen of Ukraine or by other documents that make it impossible to raise any doubts about a citizen who has applied for a notary action: passport of a citizen of Ukraine, passport of a citizen of Ukraine to go abroad, diplomatic or official passport of Ukraine, ID card of a seaman, ID card of a member of the crew, temporary ID of a citizen of Ukraine, ID card of a driver, ID of a permanent residence, ID card of a migrant, ID card of a refugee, ID of a person who needs additional protection, ID of a person who lives in Ukraine, national passport of a foreigner, or document that changes it, ID of a person who needs additional protection, ID of a person who needs a physical place of residence in Ukraine. They can't, they can't be used by a Ukrainian citizen to establish his person during the commission: driver's license, driver's license, driver's license, crew member's license, invalidity card or World War II participant's license, issued at the workplace of a natural person." All these positions are an active norm of the Ukrainian law on the Single Demographic Register. But for the sake of abuse, we are in line with the Ukrainian Notary Act. That's a fourth. Endorsing the validity of the amendments to the Ukraine Earth Code for Electronic Land Trade by 1 January 2020. Actually, it was Wadim Ichchenk's offer. To entrust the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on agrarian policy and land relations, together with the Chief Legal Authority of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, to carry out technical and legal drafting of the bill. Thank you, Your Honor. And I would ask you to support this important, complex bill that awaits agriculture that will really protect our agrarians, our peasants from raiding. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-20-m0.u21	Ivanchuk Andry Volodymyrovich is invited to attend. Colleagues, there'll be a vote in a few minutes. Please. Ivanchuk - 3 minutes, right? Five minutes, Ivanchuk. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-20-m0.u22	Your Honor, Mr. Head, honourable national deputies, you have been given amendments to Bill 8121. I would like to say that it is our duty to stop the raid that is taking place today. First question. We're giving discounts of 50 percent for all socially vulnerable groups. The second question. We eliminate the pseudodata one percent of the notary congregation. Question three. We're shutting down all utility companies that do more than 90 percent of the raids. That's what we promised all the Ukrainian business. Under the transcript of Bill 8121, I have to read the following text. Section I, paragraph 6, after the first paragraph, should be completed with the following new paragraphs: "part of the first article 19 to complete "which is mentioned in the bearer's inscription and testimony"; in article 31: Part one is to be completed by "recovering from actual expenses, and noted in the testimony note"; To complement the new part: "At the request of the person who has applied for notarial action, the private notary shall provide such person with written help indicating the size of the salary that is being paid for doing the appropriate notarial action; In paragraph 5 of section I, second paragraph, insert: "in part three: the first paragraph shall read: "The accredited subject may be held by a unitary enterprise, with which there are not less than three State registrators in employment and which, prior to the exercise of powers in the field of State registration, has entered:" in the second paragraph, replace the word “profit minimum for persons employed” with “monthly minimum wage fixed”; In paragraphs 8 and 10 of paragraph 18 of section 12 and the words “fifteen” shall be replaced by “thirty”; Subparagraph 1, paragraph 13, of section I of the bill states: "at the end of the first article 1: Subparagraph 8, after paragraph 11, add a new paragraph: "Participant of a private legal person in the case of the filing of documents for the State registration of changes to the legal person contained in the Single State Register for the establishment of a requirement for notarial certification of the signature of such a party in the course of his decision on the activity of the legal person concerned, the requirement for notarial certification of the offence, the subject of which is part of such a party in the statutory capital of the legal person concerned, or the lifting of such a requirement". Paragraph twenty shall be considered to be paragraph thirteen; Paragraph 6 of paragraph 14 states: “Accredited subject may be a state-owned unit company with no less than three State registrars in employment and which has entered into national registration prior to the beginning”; Chapter I of the bill is to be supplemented by a new paragraph. [[B in m in s a l in]] I gave out, I handed out the text, you got the text. Article 11 states. In article 3, paragraph 3, subparagraphs "a", "b" and "d" after the words "one non-taxed minimum income of citizens" shall be added: "and no more than 10,000 untaxed minimum incomes of citizens"; In sub-paragraph "u": after the words "the methodology approved by the Cabinet of Ministers" add "no more than 10,000 untaxed minimum citizens' incomes"; After the words "one tax-free minimum income of citizens" - "not more than 10,000 tax-free minimums"; Subparagraph "f" after the words "marked in a mortgage contract" shall be supplemented by the words "not more than 10,000 untaxed minimums"; Paragraph 55 of Part One should be supplemented by a new paragraph: “50 per cent of the government's duty for notarial actions made by state notarial.” [[B in m in s a l in]] I've given out all this text! [[B in m in s a l in]] "Citizens whose average monthly income does not exceed two sizes. Socially vulnerable. calculated and approved in accordance with the law for persons belonging to the main social and demographic groups; persons with disabilities who receive pensions or assistance in lieu of retirement, not exceeding two subsistence minimums for disabled persons; children, children, children and displaced, in difficult living conditions; internally displaced persons; War veterans and persons who are covered by the Act on the Status of War Veterans and the Guarantee of Social Protection. The persons mentioned in the second part of this article pay a government fee if they are not referred to the persons foreseen in the first part of this article." Section III, paragraph 1, of the bill states: “The law takes effect 30 days from the date of its publication”; Chapter III, after paragraph 1, add a new paragraph: "In connection with the taking of effect, this Act shall be terminated in accordance with the paragraph. "Transitional positions" of the Constitution of the Presidential Decree of 10 July 1998 762/98; in section III, paragraph 7, fourth subparagraph. Move to sub-paragraph 3. 1; after sub-paragraph 2, add a new sub-paragraph: “ensure the transfer for review of public registration entities that ensure the preservation of registration rights in paper form, documents filed before the Act becomes effective for the conduct of registration activities and are under review by accredited subjects of the state registration-legal persons of public law created by the orderly acts of local self-government”. Dear friends! Everything that's going on in the Ukrainian Parliament right now. I read what we have to do for Ukrainian society, for Ukrainian business, for farmers, and for Ukrainian citizens. And now my deputies are coming into the hall and they're saying, and here the notaries are calling us, and we're going to be protecting our private notaries. Not the notaries.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-20-m0.u23	Thank you. Colleagues! [[B in m in s a l in]] Colleagues, pay attention! I'll give you my word. The committee head! Colleagues, pay attention! Would you please explain to us, Oleg Ivanovich, that we have passed the amendments, how should we vote? Please explain three minutes to the catch. And, colleagues, we'll be voting in a few minutes. I'm asking everyone to come into the hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-20-m0.u24	Dear colleagues, this question was not the subject of committee discussion. In addition, I would like to point out that it is quite controversial, there are a great deal of comments to this position from the National Deputies, from the Notary Chamber. Either way, it doesn't apply to the competence of the agrarian committee. In my opinion, there is a bill 9311 in Parliament, which contains many of these provisions. So in my opinion and in the opinion of most of the members of the agrarian committee, it's better to look at these positions in this particular bill. So I would like to ask you, Andry Volodymyrovich, to put you to the vote a bill in the committee's editorial form with those rights that I read under the transcript. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-20-m0.u25	Andrew Volodymyrovich! Attention!
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-20-m0.u26	Which I read, National Deputy Kulinic, head of the Land Subcommittee, under the transcript.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-20-m0.u27	So, colleagues, let's finish up, let's take a minute of factions and get to the vote. I'll give each faction a minute before the vote so that we can settle this situation. So, colleagues, I would like to stress, just a minute away from the factions. We can do it at any stage and then we can go to the vote. From Peter Dustenk's Block? We haven't figured out who's going to perform yet. From the People's Front? Ivanchuk, one minute. Then from Self-Help, Sidorovich, from Fatherland. Identify among yourselves. Please, Ivanchuk, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-20-m0.u28	Dear Mr. Head, distinguished national MPs! The People's Front faction insists on the liquidation of state utility companies that have carried out more than 90 percent of all raids and raids in Ukraine in the past year. This is official statistics from the Ministry of Justice. Dear friends, let's be honest without the liquidation of the state utility companies that did all this raiding and discredited themselves, the People's Front will not support this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-20-m0.u29	Please, from Self-Help Sidorovich. You'll find out who's gonna be from Fatherland. Sobolev, good.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-20-m0.u30	Ruslan Sidorovich, Self Help Union. Dear colleagues, please, let's not turn the Ukrainian Parliament into a circus. With all due respect to all those present, but there is no such form of reading before the second reading after the committee was working, after I was with the representatives of the Ministry of Justice yesterday, along with the representatives of the legislators who were actually working on a table for the second reading, which is consistent with the committee of profile, which is the conclusion of the General Legal Office, the things that were read by the head of the economic committee from the rostrum have no bearing on the bill that we are proposing to vote on. These are elements of Bill 9311, which still needs to be considered by Parliament before the first reading. Let us not trample on the Rules and vote on those documents that are processed by the entire session hall, which are equally agreed with the Ministry of Justice yesterday, and so we will go out to that editorial.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-20-m0.u31	30 seconds. Sergey Sobolev, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-20-m0.u32	And so we're going to go to that draft of the bill, which corresponds to the appropriate professional community, the agricultural community, the position of the Notary Chamber of Ukraine and all those who have spent so much time in order for this bill to be adopted in the Ukrainian Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-20-m0.u33	Please, everybody's out, right?
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-20-m0.u34	Yes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-20-m0.u35	I'm sorry. Sergey Sobolev.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-20-m0.u36	Dear colleagues! Sergey Sobolev, the Fatherland faction. Our position is as follows. The appropriate agrarian committee has long worked on all key amendments, as read out by the head of the subcommittee. We support these amendments that were made yesterday, as far as we can see, both with the government and with representatives of all factions. All other amendments can be made as a legislative initiative by our colleagues. We'll look at them. But we don't have the right to second reading in the procedure when the discussion is over, to make any other amendments. This is contrary to the Rules, and this is aimed at breaking down a real bill that is struggling with raiding. That's why we're here: we support the position of the committee of profile, we vote, all the other amendments go to other bills. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-20-m0.u37	So, colleagues, he's still asking for a minute, there's been a reference twice to the minister of justice. Please give me a minute, Petrenko. And I'd like everyone to come into the hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-20-m0.u38	Dear colleagues, what's going on in the hall right now? There is now a situation where by supporting the interests of a group of private notaries, we break down three key proposals that affect millions of Ukrainian citizens. First. These are government-paying benefits for the atolls, for the movers and for our low-income citizens, 50 percent. The other one. It's a 1 percent cancellation of the pseudo-tax, which 20 years private notaries from each contract take from the Ukrainians in their pockets and don't pay taxes on it. Third. It's cleaning up the KP's business and real estate registration authority, where it's the most raidable country-wide. And what's interesting is that right now, under such good slogans, colleagues from different factions want to crush their eyes and say that this anti-trade law doesn't need to be amended. But I understand that we need to pass this law. I spoke in consultation with Andrew Ivanchuk. Here's the next offer. We suggest that, out of the suggestions made by Johnchuk under the transcript, okay, we clear all those positions that apply to the benefit of notariat and the cancellation of 1 percent of the pseudo-data. But put at least the cleaning of the registration function in utility companies, which is where the biggest raiders are. That's actually the point that applies to this anti-trade law. It's a business requirement. This is a promise made by the President of the Ukrainian business, Ukrainian citizens, made three weeks ago. Please support the transcripts of what Ivanchuk has just heard as part of the liquidation of municipal business authorizations for the registration of the real estate business. At least support it.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-20-m0.u39	Colleagues, pay attention! We have a representative of the committee. What the committee representative is going to propose, we're going to vote. And there's no other mechanism. Colleagues, I very much ask you to concentrate, and we have come up with a discussion to find a way out of which a hall can unite. So I ask you, Oleg Ivanovich, once again – the minister has made one suggestion – tell me if you support it. Three minutes. Please, Oleg Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-20-m0.u40	Ladies and gentlemen, once again, I would like to repeat: I ask you to put this bill right in the writings of the committee with those rights that I heard under the transcripts that were taken into account during the work of the working group yesterday, and I sounded them. If there is a need for those amendments that the national deputy Ivanchuk has brought out of the vote, you can put them to a separate vote. But this text, which is worked by the committee, is balanced. I want you to set up a committee that is supported by most of the people's deputies.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-20-m0.u41	Mr. Chairman of the Committee, Bakumenko, I invite you to your floor. Please let the chairman of the committee tell us his position. Oleg Ivanovich, give the committee head a chance. Three minutes, head of the Bakumenko Committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-20-m0.u42	I'd like the attention of the National Deputies. The bill, which was drafted for a year and a half, along with all associations, experts, the head of the subcommittee submitted the bill. Yesterday, the working group, along with the National Deputies, was working as a deputy minister of justice who today read the committee's national deputy Kulinic and these amendments under the transcript. Everything else is not the norm of this law. All of it. It's a committee decision. Please vote as adopted by the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-20-m0.u43	Thus, the chairman of the committee expressed his position, colleagues. So we can move on to the decision-making process. So, colleagues, I would like to inform everyone that we have completed the discussion of the draft Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Land Code and some other legislation on counter-reception (8121). And we can move on to making a decision. I'm asking the factions to invite deputies into the hall. I ask the secretariat of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to invite all the deputies to the Hall. And, colleagues, I'm going to go to the majors. We will solve all the problems, but we have historical laws, historical ones that are beyond us, colleagues above us. Then there'll be a break, I promise, we'll get together and talk. I'm going to the majors right now. Colleagues, we won't have another chance. I appeal to everyone to take part in the vote now. Colleagues, please take up jobs. Just your colleagues, pay attention! I'm asking everyone to take up jobs. I'll tell you, we have a certain misunderstanding in the hall, it's true. That's why I'm going to run the first rating vote, the rating vote. If we find the votes difficult, I'll be able to take a little break under the Rules. Colleagues, I'm asking everyone to take up their jobs. I ask everyone to prepare for the vote. The first vote will be a rating, a rating. And once again, as the committee said, colleagues, as reported by the chairman of the committee and Kulinic. The first is the rating vote. I ask everyone to prepare for the vote. I'm asking everyone to take up jobs. And I, my colleagues, am voting on the draft Law on Amendments to the Ukraine Land Code and some other legislation on counter-reception (No. 8121). I would like to stress that this is the committee's rating vote. Please vote, please support the rating vote. Vote. Please be supportive. Vote. [[10:42:24]] For-152. Please show by factions. Block of Peter Poshenko – 38, People's Front – 49, Opposition Block – 3, Self-help – 16, Radical Party – 14, Father's Party – 9, Will of the People – 6, Rebirth Party – 5, non-fractional – 12. Colleagues, I want to make a message. A two - fact break came to my attention. Colleagues, pay attention! Well, are there people here who want to overthrow this law? Why? My task as Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is not to let it fall. Unless there's a desire to take it down, there's no. All right. Colleagues, pay attention! There's an offer -- one minute from the factions. Needs a final discussion. So please, colleagues, I ask again. One minute from the factions, we'll continue our discussion. So, Peter Dustock's Block, right, didn't you? From the People's Front, Ivanchuk, 1 minute. Ivanchuk! One minute from the People's Front. Then? Sidorovich. Okay.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-20-m0.u44	Dear Mr. Head, distinguished national MPs! Ladies and gentlemen, let us consider one proposal. I think it will unite the hall. Let's vote in favour of this bill as proposed by the committee, with one comment: what I read under the transcript. We're shutting down utilities that don't register, they're raiding. And this whole hall, every faction, every MP group, knows very well. So I ask you, let's unite, let's just get one-off of the utility companies that do the raiding, not the registration, and we vote in the committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-20-m0.u45	Thank you. From Self-Help Sidorovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-20-m0.u46	Ruslan Sidorovich, Self Help Union. Dear colleagues, I very much ask you one simple thing. Now I guarantee you, our session at this moment is looking at thousands and tens of thousands, maybe hundreds of thousands of people. The question that we are considering right now is very important for people living in the countryside and for which the issues of the earth are very important. For a year and a half, this chart was being worked on. Day after day, point after point, we discussed these things, talked, including until yesterday. And today we're being asked by voice to vote on some things -- it's totally unacceptable. But when we talk about utilities, we need to be honest and consistent to the end. The biggest problem is in the branches of utilities, they're the most active raiders. The branches of utilities created by the Cabinet of Ministers, not by law, but by decree of the Cabinet of Ministers, are eliminated in 6 seconds. Wednesday.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-20-m0.u47	30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-20-m0.u48	On Wednesday, at the next meeting of the Cabinet of Ministers, the branches of utilities created by the Cabinet of Ministers could be eliminated. And I'm meeting tomorrow, on the hour of questions to the government, to pass on the order number to Kabmin, which needs to be canceled. That's why we're voting on that bill that's worked. According to the chart that has long been distributed, which concludes with the Supreme Legal Authority. And finally, we give people that legal guarantee of protecting their rights to the earth that they have long deserved. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-20-m0.u49	Please, Kulinich of the Rebirth Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-20-m0.u50	Dear colleagues, we've worked for two years. They worked on the committee, they worked with profile associations, with the Notary Chamber, with the Ministry of Justice, with the Ministry of the Interior, there was enough time to make all the adjustments. We had a second reading, it's been long enough, we've been looking at this bill in the second reading, we've endured all the regulations. This bill is expected as the law of all agrarians, because it will really protect them from raids and raids. I ask that those factions who don't vote explain their position so that people know what you don't vote for, why you don't vote. There can be no other moments here. There's something not voted by the majors, I don't understand. Explain it. This is a very important bill. We cannot stop such an important vote for incomprehensible reasons. Therefore, I must ask that the committee that is working, which is working with the Notary Chamber and with the professional associations, and to support and vote, because it is indeed expected by the agrarians. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-20-m0.u51	From the Radical Party of Lazko Oleg Valeriyovich. Oleg Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-20-m0.u52	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. An important anti-rider bill that's been passed by the Presidential faction. Why are they rolling it? Because the authorities support the raiders, all the acquisitions of property, the lands that take place in Ukraine, take place under the cover of power. And the position of the presidential faction, which does not vote in favour of an important anti-rerader bill, confirms that the raiders in Ukraine are "breathing" power. They want to take land, property, future, and future to Ukrainian peasants. The laws that will restore confidence to the peasants make it possible to protect their property at the level of the law. That's why we're asking the Presidential faction not to support the raiders, not "breathing" the riots, not "breathing" the people in Ukraine, but to vote in favour of a law that will protect Ukrainian citizens, their property, and their ability to work in their own country. Not everyone is as lucky to be in power as you are.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-20-m0.u53	30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-20-m0.u54	So use this authority that you have not long left to protect people, not to plunder. The country wants to be taken away, Centrenerego is taken away, the peasants have the opportunity to work, the workers want to be taken away. You want to take everything. We won't let you rob people. Vote for the law, parasites!
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-20-m0.u55	From Fatherland, Sergey Sobolev.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-20-m0.u56	Dear colleagues! Sergey Sobolev, the Fatherland faction. Let's deal with without emotion what's going on now. Over a year and a half, after analyzing all the radar schemes that state, municipal, any other, the committee discovered this scheme and did everything possible to stop it when the property transfer took place in one minute, and then for years the owners tried to defend their rights, including to land. Our offer. Since all the revisions are prepared, they are well prepared in committee editing, we vote in favour of committee editing. If there is a question for utilities, please analyze the work of utilities, and provide an appropriate bill. But what scares us? So that it doesn't happen that they're going to replace utility schemes.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-20-m0.u57	30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-20-m0.u58	The only vertical of the same kind of raiding schemes. That's why to avoid this situation, our proposal. What we need to settle with the Cabinet's ruling, what our self-help colleagues say is an opportunity for us to settle. All the other rules, as draft amendments to the law, we will not vote. Position: To support the position of the profile committee. It's the only option that's possible right now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-20-m0.u59	Colleagues, pay attention! I'm telling you again, and I'm stressing from the rostrum of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. I'm voting on the committee. Just like the chairman of the committee and the reporter suggested. And that's the only way to vote. My colleagues, I'm going to re-vote. Perhaps not everyone got it right. And, colleagues, I would like to inform you that after this vote we will have a recess for half an hour, because this is what the Opposition Block and Rebirth have said. [[B in m in s a l in]] And listen carefully! I said, after the vote, it will. Listen carefully to your head. You'll scream less out of place. And so, colleagues, we can get together, we can talk about these issues, but now let's not "fall" the law that the committee worked on for a year and a half. It's unfair, it's unfair, it won't change anything. Let's take this law right now, I'll call it a break, because it will, and we'll get together, and I promise you, I'll do everything I can to solve this problem, colleagues. That can't be right! We have a question of historical importance today. It can't be that we put them at risk. Colleagues, there is such an understanding, is there support? We're voting for half an hour. So, colleagues, I'm betting on a rating vote. Rating Voting is a draft law amending Ukraine's Land Code and some other legislative acts against raiding (edited by the Committee) (8121). The rating vote. Please vote, please support. The rating vote. Vote! [[10:54:49]] For 178. According to factions: Peter Poshenko's Block – 40, People's Front – 58, Opposition Block – 2, Self-help – 17, Radical Party – 16, Parenthood – 10, Will of the People – 7, Rebirth Party – 7, non-faction – 21. My colleagues, I have no choice but to vote, I have no other option. We can't announce a recess until we've finished the discussion. No such option, only after the consideration has been completed, colleagues. And I have no choice but to consider. Once again, your colleagues may be able to back up the second. Think about it. Another one, okay? Colleagues, colleagues, I tell you, before the vote, you can't take a break, there's no such thing. It may be announced after the vote. There can be no break for the vote, there will be an end to the debate, and then the break, ask Victor Pinzenik, he'll explain it to you in more detail. At least anything, at least for the second time again. I promise we'll take a break right after the vote. And I myself, the Head of the Supreme Council, will take care of the problem, and I just heard about it in the hall, and I didn't know about it. But let's vote, colleagues, well, I'm not a member of the agrarian committee, but the people who worked, they've put their efforts, their energies, well, they can't become hostages to political misunderstandings. I'm asking you, colleagues, to vote, and I'm calling for a break after that. So, colleagues, I'm going to put on a rating vote the proposal that has been made for re-reading. Perhaps she, colleagues, will take your stand -- not to vote for anything. So I'm betting on a rating vote, this is a rating vote, I have the right to conduct it. Who wants us to support the draft Law on Amendments to the Ukraine Code of Land and to support some of the anti-residence legislation for re-reading, i.e. send a second reading to the committee, which supports the position, please vote. Vote. Please be supportive. Vote. [[10:58:02]] For 208 We can pick up, colleagues. Colleagues, look. Attention! I will now act as the Rules provide. First, I will put it in the second reading and in general, and then, if it does not, I will immediately put it on the second reading so that it will be honest for everyone to understand the position. This is what the Rules predict, the sequence of positions. Colleagues, please take your seats. Please prepare for the vote. Let's at least do the second one again, colleagues. At least we'll do it so we don't break the law. And then, I promise: (a) I'm calling it a break; (b) I'm going to deal with this problem on my own, which has ruined the hall. Right after the vote. Let's just vote. So we're moving on to making a decision. Please take up jobs, colleagues. Take up all the jobs. I'll put the vote first. Draft Act amending the Ukrainian Code of Land and some other legislative acts against registration (No. 8121) as proposed by the Committee, in a second reading and as a whole. Please vote. Please be supportive. Let's vote, colleagues. We're backing it up. Vote. Let's support it, colleagues. We're backing up! Vote. [[10:59:39]] For 206 The decision is not taken. Next offer. Colleagues, next. Let us unite so that we do not overthrow the law. So they promised, and so they vote. Next. So we can get Bill 8121 back to the committee for a second reading. Let's all vote. Let's support it, colleagues. Please vote. Please be supportive. Let's unite. It's a compromise position. Let's vote, colleagues. Please be supportive. Vote! Keep it up, fellows. [[11:00:20]] For 209 So, colleagues, now I have two options: one to go back to the vote, the other to declare the law rejected. A recess may not be before the vote. To the others again? So I'm going to put the return now, I'm going to repeat, I'm going to return and I'm going to repeat the second. So I'm going to put the vote back to the vote for the second. Please show by factions. So, colleagues, I think we can. I'm telling you again, the second. I'll put the vote first. Please, one minute, Kulinich. I know. Kulinich, one minute and please take your jobs.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-20-m0.u60	Dear colleagues, Your Honor Andriy Volodymyrovich, we are about to overthrow the bill. I'm asking you to give all the factions one more time, let them speak, let them say their position, why they don't vote, give it to the non-fractional MPs. We can't go to the second one again, we can't, because we're just going to crash this bill. We have another bill that is being considered on another committee. And all of these standards can be considered there. So let us not confuse one another; let us not waste two years of the work of associations, of Minsk, of the Notary Chamber, of the people’s deputies. So please give everyone more of the factions a minute, let them express their position. Let people know why important bills are not voted out, which are important for farmers and the agricultural sector. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-20-m0.u61	Bakumenko committee head, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-20-m0.u62	I want to say that the agrarians have now become hostages to the situation that they have decided there on the budget committee. And now, once again, a number of MPs don't vote on the law, not on it, not on it, not on the other hand. I'm asking everyone to vote, please. If you don't want to vote yes. In general, for the second rereading, though, vote like that. First of all, Andrew, I ask you to come back again. If there are no votes for it, at least for the second reading, because we will lose the law. Please, all of you, I'm turning to all the agrarians, vote. It's for no one, it's for people.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-20-m0.u63	So I'm going to put it back on now, guys. You know, that law, it's not for the government, it's not for the budget committee, it's for Ukrainians and peasants, it's for Ukrainian agrarians. Why he should be a hostage, I don't understand. I don't get it, colleagues. So I'm going to make an offer to come back. I ask everyone to mobilize and take up jobs. Now for the return, we'll figure it out. So, colleagues, I'm voting on the proposal to go back to the review of Anti-Rayder Law 8121. And I'm asking you, colleagues. [[B in m in s a l in]] All right, one minute. Okay, let's do factions. Yvchenko, one minute. No, not the factions, but the Yvchenko Agrarian Committee, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-20-m0.u64	Vadim Yvchenko, "The Fatherland" faction. Dear colleagues, I'm actually saying that we're standing in the room and we're solving a lot of our questions: someone for the budget, someone for the socionomy, but you and I are representatives of the people. We're going back to our regions, we're going back to our districts, haven't we brought back over a year and a half to the press-point of people who are shot, tortured by women, taken property and businesses? It's not just an agrarian complex -- it's a matter of all those who have property today and who will register both movable and immovable property. But for the most part, it's an agrarian committee and agrarian issues, and it's dealing directly with people who have pied land. Colleagues, please, come on, we can't interrupt this law right now, let's vote. And I advise people: please see how the parties and factions vote and who breaks this vote. And make the right choice in the next election. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-20-m0.u65	So, colleagues, the first vote is for the return. I ask everyone to take up their jobs and prepare for the vote. I would like to emphasize once again that after the vote, I will announce a recess, and I will personally address this problem. There can be no question of agrarian politics being held hostage by a completely different, completely different problem in the room. That can't be right. So, colleagues, first vote. I would like to return to the review of Anti-Rerader Law 8121. Please vote and please support. Vote. Please be supportive. Vote. Please vote. [[11:06:00]] For 228 Colleagues, we're back. Now I have a request. There are voices in the hall. Guys, I'm gonna say it again. Listen to me. We cannot announce a recess until the hearing is concluded. Someone wants details and special instructions - Victor Pinzenik, come in, ask him. I have a request from my colleagues: let's take it -- and there'll be a break. Well, colleagues, it's not going to affect the government, it's not going to affect anyone that you're going to overthrow the agrarian law. It's not going to affect those who deal with this problem, it's not going to affect them in any way. I'm begging you. I will once again, as the Rules provide, first and foremost. If it doesn't work, it's the second. If it doesn't work, it's the second. So please prepare for the vote. I am the first to put to the vote the proposal that the draft Anti-Rerader Law 8121 should be voted on in the second reading and as a whole by the committee, as the committee head Bakumenko said. Please vote. Please be supportive. Vote. Please be supportive. We support, colleagues, as a whole. We're backing up! That's the whole thing. First of all. Vote. Please be supportive. [[11:07:26]] For 208 And the second, colleagues, is unifying. For the second reading again, right? That's fair, that's fair, colleagues. So draft Law 8121 for re-reading to the committee for further elaboration. Please vote, please support. Let's vote, colleagues, it's settled. Vote. Please be supportive. Vote. We support you, colleagues, as agreed. We're backing it up. [[11:07:59]] For 235 Decision taken. And now I want to let you know that two factions have filed for a real break, not a performance, and that's why I'm now calling it a break. [[B in m in s a l in]] "The Opposition Block" and "Rebirth" are the ones who are afraid of today's historic day. And, colleagues, I'm calling it 11:27 a 30-minute break. And now I'm going to take care of this issue that we agreed on. At 11:27 everyone please be in the hall, colleagues. Historical day, historic vote. Everyone please be in the hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-20-m0.u66	So the colleagues, the time taken for the break, are exhausted. I'm asking everyone to come into the hall, take jobs. I'm asking the factions to invite deputies into the hall. So, colleagues. So after the announcement of the break, a word is given for Novinsky’s three minutes. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-20-m0.u67	Dear Ukrainian people! Dear Ukrainian Parliament! Today is an unprecedented day in the history of parliamentaryism, when several resonant bills will be put in place for the day around all constitutional procedures and the Rules, with which no social agreement has been reached and which have already caused conflict in society. These are anti-church bills aimed at destroying the Canonical Ukrainian Orthodox Church. Bill 4511 provides for a special procedure for the registration of religious organizations and for the procedure for the approval of Ukrainian priests with the executive authority. It's discrimination and open methods that are Bolshevik in the 1930s. Bill 4128 envisions a change in the statute of the religious community by a small number of the votes of its members, a transition to other denominations that actually legalize the raiding of temples and church property for the benefit of a well - established church. You're preparing to capture the temples of the Ukrainian Orthodox Church. Bill 5309 on the violent renaming of our Ukrainian Orthodox Church, Canonical. The drafters argue that there is a direct threat to the spread of destructive propaganda using the religious factor of the aggressor state. There are no supporting facts. We think President Poroshenko has turned the issue of church formation into an element of his own pre-election technology. He willfully ignites interfaith enmity. The Constitution of Ukraine, the Law on Religious Organizations, guarantees that rights and freedoms of conscience can be limited only to the protection of order, morals and the protection of human rights. [[B in m in s a l in]] Current legislation already regulates the responsibility of citizens for offences. Article 35 of the Constitution guarantees citizens freedom of conscience and religion. The church, religious organizations, is guaranteed to be separate from the State. The Opposition Block will be all legal means to protect every priest, every believer, every temple. Andriy Volodymyrovich, I would like to remind you that, according to the Rules, if the agenda is set for the morning meeting, you can only consider these bills at the evening meeting. Don't break the rules.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-20-m0.u68	Thank you. 30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-20-m0.u69	And the second. We will make changes to these bills. So don't break the Rules, don't accept these anti-church bills in general. Ladies and gentlemen, please stop doing the Peter Poroshenko election campaign. He's got a little bit left.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-20-m0.u70	So, respectable colleagues. Thanks for the show. I really am today. Attention, everyone! Today, I have indeed proposed two bills to the agenda of the day session. 5309 I offered to include in the agenda the decision-making process. And I think, colleagues, I think this is a historical bill that predicts that a church that has a center in an aggressor country should have a name for that country. This is the natural path and the natural development of any church. There can be no speculation that the church that sanctifies the weapons of the murderers of the Ukrainians will bear the name "Ukrainian". And this is the logical and correct move, and I think this bill is historic. And I, at the request of Patriarch Filaret, put him in the order of the day session to make a decision. It's called "Freedom of Conscience and Religious Organizations" about the name of religious organizations that are part of the structure of a religious organization, the cultural center (government) of which is located outside Ukraine in a state that is legally recognized as having committed military aggression against Ukraine or temporarily occupied part of Ukraine's territory. And I believe that this law will support the entire Ukrainian Parliament, all the Ukrainians and the patriots that are in this Parliament. But strangely, before we go to the consideration of this bill, there are other discussions. I'm starting to think, colleagues, that this is some kind of special operation that, in the course of historical decisions, mercantiles take precedence over historical issues. The Ukrainian Parliament started this way. I want to remind you, in June 16th, the Ukrainian Parliament actually accepted a petition to the Most Holy Patriarch of Bartholomew asking for Tomos. We're about to get Tomos -- an event, a colleague who's beyond us, who's above us. And I can't imagine how the technical problems that have arisen in the committee's budget can be put above historical events. I've always, when we started the session, talked about the responsibility, the responsibility of our mission, what we are in a historic period in the Ukrainian Parliament. And, colleagues, I am addressing all the national MPs. I've had conversations with both the President and the Prime Minister so that this matter can be resolved. As far as I know, the budget committee is capable of solving it, that's the question. But I have a big request for you: Do not put the historical questions of the Ukrainian State at risk, do not bring your name into the pages of Ukrainian history. I'm asking you, colleagues, to come into the hall now and take your jobs. I want to emphasize that now we're going to have a chapter on "Inclusion in the Order of the Day Session." The first question is to include in the agenda of the day’s session a question raised by the chairman of the Education and Science Committee at the Conciliation Council. This is a question of providing education with the right conditions for work and education. This is a bill that provides for the financing of food and nutrition institutions for our children. Who may have obstacles to this bill? Next. It is proposed that the draft Law 5309, which states that there is one Ukrainian Orthodox Church, be included in the agenda for the decision. And I, my colleagues, am convinced that everyone should be at the workplace and vote for this proposal. Next draft of the Act amending certain Ukrainian legislation on the procurement of goods, works and defence services for import. And, colleagues, I believe and I hope that we can now include these issues in the agenda. The next one is 9406. Four questions are proposed for inclusion in the agenda. Four votes. Among them is the historic vote. And so I'm asking everyone to take their jobs, go into the hall and get ready to vote. And I'm also going to put in the draft Law (9395) on the Constitutional Court, which I've already talked about. Once again, this is a distribution within the funding of the Constitutional Court, a colleague. I'm talking to those who didn't vote. Draft Act amending Appendix 3 of the Ukrainian State Budget Act on the Constitutional Court. This is the MP's bill, Karpuntsova, which provides for the allocation of funds within that fund, which has been allocated to the court, it foresees not the allocation of new funds, but only the possibility of paying the secretariat and paying the employees of the Constitutional Court's apparatus a salary at the end of the year. Colleagues, now I'm going to put each of them to a vote. And I'm sure, colleagues, I'm deeply convinced that no one will question the historic decision. I'm talking to my colleagues, Mr. Jaroslav, Mr. Jaroslav Dubnevich, Mr. Jaroslav Dubnevich, Mr. Dubnevich Jaroslav, Mr. Jaroslav, I'm addressing you: It's a question beyond us, it's a question above us, it can't be a coin of exchange, it can't. I'm begging you, colleagues! So, colleagues, please prepare for the vote. So the first law. Colleagues, well, then I'll just put the Singer Bill on the table. Just feeding the kids, just feeding the kids, is that how it's gonna be? Colleagues, that's how it's going to be done, just singing, feeding the kids so we can look at it by noon? So let's try it, colleagues. I'm voting on the proposal that the draft Act amending article 80 of the Education Act on ensuring that the educational process is provided with adequate conditions for work and education (9425) should be included in the agenda for decision-making now so that we can move into it. The educational law, let us unite around it. Colleagues, take up jobs. So I'm just putting in an education law right now, just feeding the kids in the schools, except for him, the others aren't going to be putting in right now. I'm not going to bet others right now. I'm just going to be educated. So, who supports the inclusion in the agenda of the day session for the decision of the draft Law 9425 on Education, please vote, please support. Just education. Please vote, please support. Vote. [[11:51:14]] For 217 Colleagues, I emphasize, I said, right now it's just education, and then the break, no more voting, just the feeding of children. Break at 12 o'clock. So I'm once again proposing the inclusion of a day session in order to make a decision now on the draft Education, Child Nutrition Act (9425). Please support me, colleagues, please vote. We are voting for the inclusion in the agenda of the day session for decision-making now. Please vote, please support! Let's vote, colleagues. We'll support the children, we'll support the children! Vote! [[11:52:13]] For 218. Colleagues, I'll explain my logic. It's 11:52. We'll put it in the agenda, we'll start it, we won't finish it, then we'll take a break, and then we'll finish it after the break. Eight minutes to get us started. Colleagues, this is a wise offer. In eight minutes, I'm going to announce the break stipulated by the law in eight minutes. I don't have another option. I'm asking you to support me, colleagues! We'll vote after the break, after 12:30 will be the vote. Over and out! So I'm proposing a day-to-day solution to the draft Children's Nutrition and Nutrition Education Act (9425). Please vote. We'll back you up, fellows! Please be supportive. Attention, colleagues, every voice! Support the children. We vote, colleagues, we vote yes. We're backing up! Vote. We're backing it up. [[11:53:27]] For 241 Decision taken. And we're moving on to draft Law 9425. And I'm asking you to support his consideration of the reduced procedure. But we'll vote after the break. We'll vote after the break! Guys, let's go. I promise! We'll vote after the break. Please support the consideration of the reduced procedure. If you'll excuse me, I'd like to vote for a cut. [[11:54:05]] For-84 So let's go into full procedure, colleagues. And I invite you to report to the First Vice-Chairman of the Committee on Science and Education of Spiowakovsky Alexander Volodymirovich, please. Mr. Spiowakovsky, please report.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-20-m0.u71	Dear colleagues, we're looking. Two days ago, we considered a very important law, the Bulling Act, which we see as a law that protects the education environment in Ukraine. Now we're looking at an equally important law that should provide comfortable learning conditions, the work of our teachers, of college students, of universities. Unfortunately, the Education Act has been adopted so that it can be treated differently, especially paragraph 4, which refers to non-professional activities. In this non-professional activity, the Public Prosecutor's Office is actually eliminating all food contracts, because 99 percent of technikums and colleges don't organize their own food -- it's clear that they're going to register cooks, waiters and so on, well, it just doesn't make sense, so it's outsourcing. Virtually all universities are required to have and provide food under licensing conditions, and this is true of medical services. So, especially yesterday, the Committee on Science and Education, I want to thank all the national MPs who took part in this: Ivan Grigorovich Kirilenko, Alexeiovich Screepnik, Taras Dmitrovich Kremena, Vladimir Mikhailovich Litvina, who Irina Miroslavni Konstanovic – who voted in favour of 9425. Look how it's built. It's built in such a way as to provide, on the one hand, the ability to carry out activities, but only to provide for the activities of educational institutions. On the other hand, in order to ensure that abuse is impossible, a special rule has to do with the fact that the owner of the administration, the Ministry of Education and Science, will grant such permits through appropriate property commissions. So this is saying: "objects and property of public and municipal education institutions are not subject to privatization or use for educational purposes, except for renting services that cannot be provided directly by educational institutions and are linked to the provision of education or service to participants in the educational process, taking into account the defined authority of the administration of the possibility of using state-owned property within the limits of legislation." So all the fuses are displayed. On the other hand, food, medical services, cultural, spiritual, and so forth are written in such a way that we can do so. Dear colleagues, we need to build a structure in which students will not only be safe but also comfortable learning and working. This is our responsibility with you. If we don't do that, in fact, the Public Prosecutor's Office will completely stop these leases, and that will mean that all universities, colleges will run out of food, no medical services. Please take a very close look at this, support the decision taken by the Scientific and Educational Committee and vote. A very short text of the bill, and that is why we propose to vote not only on the basis but on the whole. Thank you all for your attention. I hope so. Students, universities, colleges await the decision of the Supreme Council. This is going to be an imperative norm, and that means that none of the forces will be able to interfere with the activities of our universities. Thank you all for understanding and waiting for support.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-20-m0.u72	So, colleagues. Stay in the rostrum. Colleagues, we have the next chapter, this is a question to the reporter, but I suggest we continue with it after the break. Question to the reporter. It's 12 hours. I'll call it a 30-minute break. At 12:30, please be seated, Mr. Spiowakovsky. And whoever wants to ask a question, 12:30, we'll start without delay at 12:30. Thank you. I'm calling it a 30-minute break. All right, here's the announcement. One minute, the Unguran.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-20-m0.u73	Praise Jesus Christ! Ladies and gentlemen, I request your attention. Ladies and gentlemen, there is now a unique event in the towers of the Supreme Council of Ukraine until the 1030th anniversary of the baptism of the Kyiv Russia-Ukraine. A handwritten Bible is being created, a Bible written with the hands of Ukrainians. Including today, you can leave your scripture. Now we invite everyone, including the Head of Parliament, with the heads of factions to leave their line in the handwritten Ukrainian Bible in the towers. Right now, we're waiting for you in the towers. Enter the history of Ukraine, the Ukrainian Handwritten Bible. God’s Blessing to All! Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-20-m0.u74	So at 12:30, I'm waiting for everyone in the conference room to resume our work.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-20-m0.u75	Time spent for a break is over. I remind you, we are continuing our consideration of the draft law amending article 80 of the Ukrainian Education Act. We included him in the agenda for the decision immediately, and the first deputy chairman of the committee, Alexander Volodymyrovich, took part in the break. Now we have three minutes to ask the reporter, and I'm asking you to record a question to the reporter, please. So the Anointed One.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-20-m0.u76	Andrew Pomazanov, People's Front faction. You know, it's a very strange question when everyone says that this bill is designed to improve something there, to feed the food, something else. But, you know, you just have to read the text of the law here. What's he talking about, actually, changing this addition from part four? The objects and property of public utilities are not privatized — the first thesis, then something else. That is, it has nothing to do with food at all. The other one. What are the facilities and assets of public public educational institutions? It's not educational institutions, it's not educational institutions, it's property that belongs to the vertical of the Ministry of Education. That's why I have a question. Why do you prohibit this law, by this bill, from privatizing those educational assets that are not being and have never been taught: neither schools nor kindergartens, nor are you actually privatizing neglected premises?
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-20-m0.u77	Thank you. Thank you for asking. What I want to say right now is that the text that you presented, and I've presented here, is perfectly consistent, and, more importantly, with the Ministry of Education and Science of Ukraine. This text was conducted in an appropriate way, and this is a budget organization. As you know, budgetary organizations are in the state budget, and only the Supreme Council, the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, grant one or more permits. When we voted with you the Education Act is basic, you voted for not removing property. Because we know how this ends. If we allow something to be taken away, then the technicians, the colleges, the universities will immediately find the masters who will take it away. Therefore, our law forbids nothing. On the other hand, it increases the capacity to use the property of budgetary institutions to provide educational and educational resources.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-20-m0.u78	30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-20-m0.u79	As well as the processes involved. Because the student comes out of the audience -- he should have the right, and more than that, it's listed in the license terms, to go out for a cup of coffee, go to the dining room, go to the medical center, get the right help. Unfortunately, there is no such possibility today. That is why we introduced this paragraph 4 into article 80. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-20-m0.u80	Thank you. Pisarenko Valeriy Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-20-m0.u81	Thank you. Dear colleague, I wanted to ask you a question. I wanted, first of all, to support you in all the pursuits that support our education. I'm going to tell you from all the Harkies and all the Harkowian universities that they've been waiting for support for a long time now, actions that would allow them to be more financially independent of higher education institutions. But I'd like to point out that it's very important that these funds go to these institutions. I wanted to ask you a question about that. Is it really an additional funding, an additional opportunity to increase the capacity of higher education institutions to rent such premises? And can they use them for their own development, for the development of both the education base and the development of the commodity base? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-20-m0.u82	Thank you for asking. That's a very good question. Now I want to say how the formula works right now. The university receives these funds, and 50 percent of the funds go to the State Property Fund, 50 percent at the same time. Of those left behind, he has to pay the VAT, that is, the value added tax. After what's left, he's still got to pay the income tax. As a result, the university will actually get 23 to 24 percent of what's coming. 50 percent of the holding fund. But all the remaining funds are actually managed by the university or college. And in general, these costs are usually aimed at improving the university's material and technical base. But these costs are really very small. The main thing is, I don't think it's the cost, but it's the student service, because the university is the area where people capitalize, and it's not only in the audience, but it needs the dining room, it needs medical services. Sport her.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-20-m0.u83	30 seconds, please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-20-m0.u84	No, no, that's enough.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-20-m0.u85	Thank you very much for presenting the bill, for answering the questions. We're moving on to the discussion. I ask the distinguished national deputies to prepare themselves and to participate in the faction discussion record. Please hold the recording. From the Radical Party, I invite you to the words of the national deputy, Oleg Lášk.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-20-m0.u86	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. I have the great honour to lead the Supervisory Board of the National Teachers' University of Skovorody, the oldest educational university of Eastern Europe, which I have completed in Ukraine and the former Soviet Union. That's why we're supporting a bill by a colleague of Spiowakovsky that will allow students to be fed, treated by students, and the main thing is that law enforcement agencies don't blackmail schools and make it difficult for them to have a professor, a lecturer, a rectorate do student training, not a reflection on the grasping hands of law enforcement agencies. But, Your Honor, I'd like to address you. This important law has become a hostage of the faction you are in. The Marjorie MPs from your faction today are fighting for the bar table crumbs that are called socioeconomic development, and the people are called bribes, bribes to the county. Because they are already setting themselves up for the next election at the expense of taxpayers. And they took the students hostage, they took the higher ones hostage. What is more, there is a need to restore food not only for students but also for the restoration of food in schools. Today, for every mother and daddy, when a child goes to school, the head swells up, where they take 40 or 50 bracelets to have a baby for lunch, because as a result of the policies of your colleague Spiowakovsky, the authorities of millions of Ukrainian families have nothing to feed their children, they have no money, no money, no wages, no work, no family to feed. Whoever has to do this is a state. Today they're funding the feeding of children in schools up to the fourth grade. Don't 5th grade kids want to eat or 8th grade or 12th grade kids don't want to eat? Every child wants to eat, not just the president’s or the deputy’s. And so we require the government to make changes to the budget and to provide government funding for the feeding of Ukrainian children in schools and kindergartens, so that every day a glass of warm milk, a spoon of Ukrainian honey sweet, not palm oil that you feed the people, and then people work their whole lives in a pharmacy and hospital and work for the welfare of their own family. What is the greatest happiness of every Ukrainian family? This is when their children are successful, healthy, trained, and have a life - prospects. Today’s authorities take away the prospect of Ukrainian children and do not even feed them. We will reinvigorate the diet of children in schools, each Ukrainian child will have more meat to eat every day, not once a year on Christmas or Easter. Every Ukrainian child will be healthy, educated, and successful.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-20-m0.u87	Thank you. I invite you to speak from the "Opposition Block" of the People's Deputy Alexander Dobrenkova.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-20-m0.u88	Alexander Doubenkov, opposition block faction. The Opposition Block, of course, will support the stated legislative initiative aimed at prohibiting privatization and the use of non-educational facilities and property in education, institutions and institutions. What caused the problem? There was no such problem in the past, since the law, in principle, of the Education Act of Ukraine, does not allow the use of the property not for the purpose of purpose, but because of the imperfect implementation of the law, the legislative initiative has emerged. So if, of course, a valid coalition, a valid authority allows abuse on the premises of those officials who themselves have appointed the legal standards, and it is necessary to provide for additional guarantees of the integrity of educational institutions, of course, we will support you in this, because, first of all, we support you, not as the authors of the proposed legislative initiative, but as teachers and other education workers, that we do not want to abuse and abuse those officials. With regard to the restoration of the nutrition of children who are very keenly cared for by the speakers, I would like to point out that grants from local budgets, local budgets provided for by the State budget for the financing of public and municipal education institutions, are an integral part of the decentralization budget voted by the coalition and former members of the coalition who also supported the respective coalition agreement. So, I would like to remind you that in the context of budgetary decentralization, so strongly advocated by the former Prime Minister of Ukraine, the current Prime Minister of Ukraine, you voted in favour of legislative initiatives aimed at reducing the expenditure of the state budget on health institutions to educational institutions. As a result, children may have been malnourished. Therefore, there is no need to leave the slogans of populism, and we simply need to examine who voted for it. Me and our opposition block faction are calling for the vote and support of this legislative initiative, and we've been against budgetary centralization at the expense of health and education institutions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-20-m0.u89	Thank you. I'd like to invite you to the floor, from the Peter Prashenko Block, the Oxana People's Deputy Sold.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-20-m0.u90	Dear colleagues, I ask you to unite now around this bill because it corrects perhaps another interpretation of ours with you, those MPs who voted in favour of the Education Act, in the portion of the dining room at schools, at universities. At present, double use of educational facilities is prohibited. And when the Education Act was voted in the room, they thought it was the right thing to do. And that's right. But the ban on double use, the ban on the use of educational facilities does not prohibit the simultaneous feeding of children in these facilities. And so far, many law enforcement officials are reading the Education Act as one that prohibits renting out dining rooms in schools and universities. Without this bill, tomorrow at all schools and universities, and at PTU, the dining rooms are closed, so I'm asking you very much. Two things that are included in this bill are changes to the Education Act. First. We prohibit, in any case, the privatization of educational facilities. And that's right, because we know how to use it for dishonest purposes. At the same time, however, we allow rents to be made so that food workers and children can eat. Tomorrow you can make other bills, tomorrow you can make different decisions, and it will be right for the children. But today, if we don't vote on this bill, the kids from January 1st will run out of dining rooms in schools, universities and PTU. So now I ask everyone to unify and vote in favour of this bill, and I ask the chairman not to allow it to be lost if there are no people in the room. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-20-m0.u91	Thank you. I invite you to speak to the faction of Self-Help of the People's Deputy Alexander Danchenk.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-20-m0.u92	Honorable colleagues certainly need to support this bill by correcting the mistakes of previous decisions. But I want to draw attention to something else that has long been involved in the education programme in Ukraine, the private state partnership, which makes business ready and finance, and helps to generate profits, and by this activity to finance both higher education and secondary education, and vocational education. This is very important. I'd like to address the head of the committee of Mr. Spiowakovsky. We've talked to you so many times about this, and let's work together to create a law that will enable businesses to really work together through private public partnership tools and to fill the development of our education and science. The same is true of physical culture and sports. Sorry, we can eat well, and we need to do so, but if our schoolchildren are unable to engage in sports, exercise, it does not add to their health. So I think that these problems need to be solved in a comprehensive way, in the only development program of our education. I'd also like to draw your attention to the following. In fact, the development of our institutions is based on the fact that there is now no private public partnership that would be used for the state and for the universities, for other institutions, just pulling out these developments, going outside institutions, outside technical institutions, and at so-called startup competitions they are used by others at all, and the developers themselves and the entities themselves are not getting anything. That's why I think we need to make a comprehensive decision about this program, and this is the main task of our Cabinet of Ministers. That's what we have to demand. And the solution to the point problems is, of course, true, but there is no comprehensive approach, as there is no investment and economic development strategy at all, which is why the Cabinet of Ministers should start its programme and its activities, and that is what we have problems with. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-20-m0.u93	Thank you. From the People's Front faction to the word. People's MP, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-20-m0.u94	Good afternoon, dear fellows! Gennady Krivoshia, faction of the People's Front. First of all, I'd like to pay attention to the following. Respectful colleagues, not in the title of the law, nor in the text of the law, say anything about eating. The law says certain things, and let's focus on what: first of all, for today, the costs, objects and property of public and municipal education institutions are not subject to privatization or use for educational purposes. So this definition already exists today, so we have to understand that it already works. The other one. What the authors offer, and what is proposed, is the following: the objects and property of state and municipal institutions (i pay attention: objects and property) are not privatized or used for educational purposes, except for the rental of services that cannot be provided directly by educational institutions and are linked to the provision of educational processes or the service of participants in the educational process, taking into account the identification of the authorities of the administration of the possibility of using state-owned property within the framework of legislation. What does this talk about? This tells us that any property that is now in educational institutions, schools including, and higher and middle-level schools, colleges and colleges, they can be leased to do the right thing, which is not mentioned here. So I'd like to ask the authors to make the second reading clear, if we're talking about the property that we can deposit and what kind of activity we're doing. For what it's for: for food, if we're talking about what it should be for our students or children, for physical education. So what we're talking about is what these schools need, not the object to be rented, that they do business, and there's nothing at the university. So this is a big request for our attention. And the next. I would like to point out, in principle, what they say is that there is a problem in food schools today. People are good, today all utilities, the state, and the local authorities provide food. Yes, there is this process. So today, to intervene in the process of the local authorities -- I wouldn't want them to be able to have a full diet. If we need money, this is what we have to do here, we have to take the money to get Kabin to allocate the necessary funding to provide free food, for example, 1-4 classes. Everything else works. So I'd like to take another look at this, and I'm going to file a second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-20-m0.u95	Thank you. May I have a word with the group "Rebirth" of the People's Deputy Pisarenko?
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-20-m0.u96	Thank you. Dear Madam Chairman! I have the honour to present in Parliament the educational capital of Ukraine, Kharkiv. We've got dozens of big schools, we've got almost work. nearly 300,000 students are studying and living in Kharkiv. And we feel what needs to be changed both in education and in providing additional opportunities to educational institutions so that they can work properly and compete in the world. Because today, if you look at it, young people choose to go to Poland, to the Czech Republic, to other neighbouring countries, in order to maybe live there, in search of a better life, or perhaps in the absence of a normal, sometimes a material base, and sometimes an educational one, in order to build a future for themselves. What are we considering today? It may be small, but it is a step toward helping educational institutions to gain additional material advantages and to close their own needs. If this law allows us to increase the material capacity of higher education institutions, we need to unite and vote here. But this should not be the final step. I know, when I talk to the rectors of Harkows, that the list of issues is big enough, it's also about education, and it's about material state. In education, there is the question that students today hardly go to humanities. We can lose the potential that Ukraine has today to become one of the first in IT business. Students do not have a normal material base in order to feel at ease in the dormitory, today the branches are unable to receive material and additional incomes properly, no. getting a call or a check from the prosecutor's office where they start. To get them all out of them so that they can explain their little costs. We need to make it clear that if this country is concerned about politicians, we have to give opportunities to the next generation, which means that we have to worry about education, about the material state of our higher education today, about secondary education, about education. And only by making decisions like these today can we help.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-20-m0.u97	30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-20-m0.u98	And only by adopting decisions such as these today can we help educators solve their current problems. So I urge my colleagues to vote, to support our colleagues who have submitted such a bill. And don't stop at it, vote on other bills that relate to support for education. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-20-m0.u99	Thank you, colleagues. And the closing statement from the factions is Shahov from the will of the people group, and then the national MPs, six minutes later.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-20-m0.u100	People's Will Group, Sergey Shahov, political force "Our End". Dear colleagues, I simply urge each faction to unite in one way. It's not a political decision, it's a decision for our children, the future of our country. This bill will allow us to feed our children today. At this rostrum, the Attorney-General spoke of the fact that today the law is being enacted, because today the prosecutor's office, all the power organs, are violating criminal conduct against all the schools, the colleges. All technical facilities. So when I was a kid, I came to school, we were fed free of charge for breakfast, lunch, and a second shift, and we had dinner for free. Children today can’t even eat properly for their money. Unless it's our kids. If we don't think about our children, who will think at all then? Foreign, foreign partners? So I demand that literally everyone unite and support the Spiovakovsky bill for what is yet to be taken care of for the future generation. Sergey Shahov, the political power of Our End. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-20-m0.u101	Thank you, colleagues. So now, speak to the national MPs. Oh, they haven't come from factions yet, have they? Please, from Fatherland, Sergey Sobolev. Dombrowski, please come to me, Dombrowski, Dombrowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-20-m0.u102	Dear colleagues! Sobolje, Fatherland. Without a doubt, our faction will support this bill, which allows for the actual strengthening of schools and the provision of quality food under control. Sadly, though, it is not the bills that need to be spoken of today. What happened to the anti-rider law? Where did half the votes of the largest faction of Parliament disappear? Why don't they vote? What's going on with the next bill? I believe, Mr. Head, you must gather the key leaders of the BPT faction and carry out their educational work with them. Tell them what language is, what faith is, what army is, and why cards disappear when voting for key bills. I think that what happened today in the session room, what happened in this session hall about the consideration of the Language Law, when the whole room was to raise the largest faction of Parliament, it was an unprecedented case, they would continue to deal with the issue of the integrity of the earth, and this issue was in order of the day. I think the moral climate has reached the pen in this room. And if today, and unfortunately, we end this session with a result that was waiting for a completely different one, I propose that if there are no votes even for such most important laws, we do not interrupt their consideration. Gather all the necessary factions, and only after that should the meetings continue. There can be no socioconomy, no other question being held hostage, really, to the most important bills that are now on the agenda. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-20-m0.u103	Thank you. Colleagues, and I'll let you know right away, because there's been a call to me, and I'll let you know all the factions. Attention! If you can just listen to me for a moment, colleagues. After consideration of this matter has been completed. Attention! Oleg, listen to me. Listen to the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, this will be wise. After considering this issue, we will include in the order of the day session 5309 and consider it, and there will be voices, because I am sure that no one in the room will dare to vote on a law that has historical weight. So I suggest we not take any breaks, quietly finish this consideration, be everyone in their place. I emphasize to all factions: in six minutes, we'll be all in place, in six minutes, we'll be in the agenda, and we'll look at it. And now the responsibility will be for all factions, in six minutes everyone will be in the workplace and voting. I hope everyone understands the weight and responsibility of this vote. I'm sure everyone will vote in agreement, responsibly. And today we will support the Ukrainian Orthodox Church, Patriarch Filaret. Let's just all just mobilize, and we'll invite everyone who doesn't have one. And God will be with us, and he will help us. So, colleagues, six minutes to speak from the National Deputies. Please hold the recording. And in six minutes, we'll all be in the hall. Sugonako gives the floor to Sergey Kaplin.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-20-m0.u104	Dear compatriots, dear Ukrainians, colleagues! I would like you to appreciate the extent of the cynicism of the House of Parliament not only in the possible non-vote for this very important bill, but in general the attitude towards our children. Friends, these parties that have been tearing their throats today have been standing here, just not eating any more children's diaries in the rostrum of this Supreme Council to show how they love our children and their parents, every month they get from the state from the pockets of these parents, from these children almost seven hundred million dollars for their activities. Then they're not on yours, not even on yours, but on yours, dear Ukrainians, the money hangs the boards, they take off the TVs and tell you how they raised their pensions, how they raised their wages, how much they saved the country from war and so on, and so on and so on. They get a hidden socioconomy from the government, agreeing to run like flies, sitting around the Prime Minister every time a budget is adopted, hugging him, healing him in all places, instead of giving these 700 million dollars to our children. More than 200,000 children are deprived of the right to eat free, to receive free textbooks, and to receive other services from the State free of charge. This mob, a gang of cynic cattle and cattle, destroyed Ukrainian education, dumped it under a knife, it uses it for its pianic, speculative, humiliating purposes. And they go back to the Ukrainian Parliament. What's more, they've forgotten about the Ukrainian teacher, the Ukrainian teacher, who's sacred and most important to our country, because that's a factor in our competitiveness. And Ukraine starts not with goats, not cows, not horses, but with Ukrainian doctors, Ukrainian teachers, Ukrainian workers. Ukraine begins with ordinary people. And ordinary people and their children need to be considered and cared for in order for them to have a decent pension. What's more, all this nonsense, along with these coalitions, the opposition, the governments, 27-year-olds, has raised four-fold the size of tariffs, the price of gas for Ukrainians, putting VAT, rent, targeted allowances, Naftogaz, Crushing and other incomes they put in their pockets. And you have no right to say the word "children" and "teacher," because you are enemies of Ukrainian children, enemies of Ukrainian education, enemies of Ukrainian health care. But everything will change very soon. The new forces will come to Parliament and will present an absolute order both in schools and in hospitals, especially in the Ukrainian Parliament and in the EU.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-20-m0.u105	Danchenko Alexander Ivanovich is invited to attend. He's giving the word to Romanov for the performance.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-20-m0.u106	Good day, dear colleagues, dear people of Ukraine, we are now voting technically.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-20-m0.u107	I'm sorry, colleagues. There's been some kind of malfunction. Attention, attention! Wait. There was Kishkar, I'm sorry. Look, I'll give you one minute. Now, I'm sorry, okay, finish. But please, one minute. And I'll give it to Kishkar.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-20-m0.u108	"The Self-Help Union will always support all the bills aimed at developing an education system in Ukraine. And I want to say two words about the real financial autonomy of our Ukrainian universities, because we're actually talking about this a lot today. And as the committee head confirmed, the money that education institutions actually have for renting their premises, they give up half of them and actually get a penny. What does this lead to? This leads to the fact that there is no real motivation for our education institutions to cooperate with business structures, to make science projects for them, and to make education more applied, and to make science more applied. That's why we're advocating a systematic and comprehensive development of education so that it's self-sustaining and costing our higher education institutions, and generally for educational institutions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-20-m0.u109	Thank you. Colleagues, in two minutes, we're moving on to making a decision. Look who's not in the hall. Everyone should be in their seats. Now the next two speakers per minute, colleagues, per minute. One minute. And Osuhovski gives Lechchenka one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-20-m0.u110	Dear colleagues, the very right legislative initiative, because from many heights I have heard comments and warnings that the previous changes to the law we have substantially limited them in the use of their property, which has already been used by renters and the income from this lease, was a substantial fraction of their income to their budgets. But I don't really like the text that's proposed by the bill. I'd like to take only the basis of this legislative change and ensure that we allow rent and that we prohibit the privatization of the property of the educational institutions so that the rent will appear on transparent terms. So if the contract is over, if the contracts are already in place, then the available extension or lease of the educational community premises was made through the ProZorro electronic system. That is, to rent the property of educational establishments was possible on transparent equal terms of competition, and there was no discretion – educational or educational goals. Who determines that? And it's so complicated.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-20-m0.u111	Thank you, Ostap. Thank you. One minute, Lechchenka. Colleagues, everyone, please take your seats, come into the hall. I know, Osuhovsky handed over Lewchenko. One minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-20-m0.u112	Lewchenko, Freedom, 223 District of Kiev. Now here, for half an hour, there were very nice words about this bill, as it seems to allow food institutions to work in educational institutions. But now we read what it says, in this bill: "Objects and property of public and municipal education institutions are not subject to privatization or use for educational purposes." It's in the current law. And now they're adding, "in addition to renting services that cannot be provided directly by educational institutions and are linked to the education process or the service of participants in the educational process."blah-blah-blah. If you'll excuse me, you can do whatever you want in education institutions: casinos, restaurants, shops, malls, whatever you want. If you are really worried about school students getting food, write down: For food establishments for students, for schoolchildren. Then it'll be fair. It's not what you prescribe and allow you to use state utility property not entirely. It's totally unacceptable.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-20-m0.u113	And, colleagues, we haven't all come in yet. Please, colleagues, come into the hall. Not all are still in place, colleagues. Look who's gone, he'll ask. The next one is Litwin, one minute. And we're going to the vote, colleagues. Look who's not around, why don't you invite them into the hall? Guys, don't joke! In a minute, we're going to vote. Take up jobs.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-20-m0.u114	Dear Head, my dear colleagues, since we're talking about the educational process, I would very much ask the Head of the Supreme Council to make remarks to those people who have a vocabulary like the Eloquits, and they're using an abnormal language. That's the first one. And the second. Dear colleagues, read this law carefully. It was forbidden to use non - educational facilities. So the D.A.'s office says, "Take your classes in the dining room, and it'll be okay." Now it's written: to provide an educational process. So in order to be an educational process, we need to feed our children, among other things. How do they feed? That's another question. But I agree with the remark that sounded. Let's write the word "for the food organization" and take it as a whole, because they can't wait for the kids to make their own manifests here. And the last. Mr. Head, let's probably ban them from being used for free.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-20-m0.u115	30 seconds, please. Okay. Thank you. Colleagues, last minute. If the committee head confirms this amendment, I'll put it to a vote with her. Let's get out of here. Let's get out of here. It won't work, colleagues. Please, one minute, head of the committee. And, colleagues, everyone in place, then we vote 5309. Everyone, please. Siewakovsky. We'll vote in a minute. Look, the heads of factions that aren't there for everyone to be in the workplace. Please, Singerkowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-20-m0.u116	Dear colleagues, I understand all the discussions that went on, including your remarks, but listen, it's clearly written there. Look, here's the situation. We're having a tournament, for example, we're having a competition. The organizers are coming, and the university is also taking part in these competitions. According to the law, we have to rent this period. And we're told, this is not an educational activity, for example, a mini football competition in this room. It's not possible to describe it, my dear colleagues, so it's written that what you can't provide yourself, you're actually engaging as an outsourcing, you're engaging them to do it. Besides doing this, they still pay rent and still pay VAT and so on. I don't know what this is about. But listen to me: this is very important. You won't take it -- you'll go to college, you'll hear about college, and you'll hear when you leave the students without food, you'll leave the buffets, you'll leave.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-20-m0.u117	30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-20-m0.u118	Dear colleagues! Give me 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-20-m0.u119	I've already given it.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-20-m0.u120	Dear colleagues, it's not a political problem or anything else, it's a problem that everything in universities will be banned except in the audience. But let the student get out of this audience and go to the dining room! What are you doing? I'm asking and I'm asking my colleagues: let's forget about everything for 10 minutes and vote, the students will say thank you. There are millions of them, and they will decide who.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-20-m0.u121	Thank you. So let's move on to making a decision. I'm asking everyone to take up jobs. I ask everyone out of bed, out of the towers, to go into the hall and prepare for the vote. I ask you now to stop any political debate and be in the workplace. Guys, don't joke, don't play. Get back from your beds. After this vote, I will be included in the agenda of the day session for decision 5309. So I'm voting on the draft Act amending article 80 of the Education Act on ensuring that the educational process is provided with adequate conditions for work and education (No. 9425) at the invitation of the Committee to accept as a basis and as a whole. Please vote, please support. Vote. We vote who supports it. [[13:16:42]] For 238. Decision taken. Colleagues, pay attention! The following is now in the agenda: the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on Freedom of Conscience and Religious Organizations concerning the name of religious organizations. I would like to point out that during the Council, at which I had the honour of being invited, Patriarch Filaret requested that this law allowing the Ukrainian Orthodox Church to bear the name "Ukrainen" to be voted in the Ukrainian Parliament. The Ukrainian Parliament began the process of granting Tomos. So I'm asking everyone to take up jobs right now. To the Ukrainian Parliament, the historical responsibility is today to make this decision. We've always stood up for freedom of religion, but we have to make it clear that in a church that has its spiritual center in an aggressor country, it has to bear the name of the country where it's centered. This is a question, colleagues, historical importance, and historical responsibility. I'm sure anyone who is Ukrainian and Ukrainian patriot should support this decision now. I'm asking everyone to come into the hall. Mr. Volodymir! Everyone please take up their jobs. We will have a very responsible vote, and I, my colleagues, ask everyone to take part in it. The first vote will be the inclusion in the agenda for making the decision now, so that we can get to it immediately. And every voice will now have weight. And I'm voting on the proposal to include in the agenda a decision now to amend the Law on Freedom of Conscience and Religious Organizations on the name of religious organizations, to include in the agenda for consideration right now. All patriots, all Ukrainians, please vote. I'd like your support, colleagues. With God! Let's vote yes! We vote yes. Vote. [[13:19:05]] For 226 We've put in a day's work to make a decision now. You have 15 minutes to invite everyone into the hall. Colleagues, I now ask you to support his consideration of the reduced procedure. If you'll excuse me, I'd like to vote. We're voting for a cut. [[13:19:34]] For-189 Decision taken. And I invite you to the report of the Ukrainian National Deputy Brigadier Alexander Mikhailovich. First of all, from the Committee of Jelenski Viktor Evgenovich. First, I invite the Briginian to prepare for the Elenskik. Please, Brigadier Alexander Mikhailovich, I invite you to the report. And, colleagues, please see who wasn't there and invite everyone into the hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-20-m0.u122	Dear friends, this is a very simple and very short law. And he, I think everyone has met him. It's a very simple situation. If the state is recognized as an aggressor state, the church, which is the center of the aggressor state, must have in its name the full name of the church to which it is subordinated. In this case it is said that if there is a church that is united or that is subordinated to the Russian Church, it should be called not Ukrainian, but Russian. That's one point. How is this unity defined? Unity is defined in two parallel ways. The first is the statutory documents of the church itself, which is registered in Ukraine. And the second is the documents of the church that is in Russia. If any of these churches have such unity, then this law will work. The church is invited to rename itself and name itself. What are the options? The church can choose any choice. Suppose the Russian Orthodox Church in Ukraine, the Russian Orthodox Church in Kharkiv, the Russian Orthodox Church in Kiev is its right, they can choose when they register. Does this impose any restrictions on the church? Yes, this law imposes a single restriction on the church on this: this church, which is subordinated to the occupying state, has no right to be represented in military units and on the front line in military units. Just one limit, just one. All of them, there are no other limitations; they exercise all rights. Why such a restriction? You have to understand that, first of all, you can't always see a representative of a foreign country. With what Ukraine is fighting, he has seen certain things that are related.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-20-m0.u123	Please, 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-20-m0.u124	And the second part. We understand that an aggressor state may have a psychological impact on our soldiers while in units, and we'd like to avoid that. I hope that we will unanimously uphold this law today and correct the misunderstanding that is taking place today in the name of a particular church. Glory to Ukraine! And I wish everyone.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-20-m0.u125	Heroic glory! The report invites the Vice - Chief of the Committee on Culture and Spirituality, Yelenski Viktor Evgenovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-20-m0.u126	Honorable National Deputies, the Committee on Culture and Spirituality, discussed the bill in the summer of 2016. It was important for us to ask whether this bill was restricting, on the one hand, freedom of conscience and freedom of religious will, on the other hand, whether it was replicated by this bill or whether it would help to create justice and bring the name of a religious organization into the state in which it actually resides. So the committee at its meeting on 12 July 2017 reviewed this project and received the conclusions of the Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration, which made a number of comments and believed that the bill was appropriate to be rejected as a result of the consideration. The Committee on Preventing and Opposing Corruption found no corruptive factors in its conclusion. The Ukrainian Ministry of Culture supported the bill. In view of the foregoing, the Committee on Culture and Spirituality considers it possible to enact this law in general. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-20-m0.u127	Please record: two for, two for, please. Igor Mosiyczuk of the Radical Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-20-m0.u128	Igor Mosiyczuk, Oleg Lachka Radical Party In fact, it's now the day of truth, the moment of truth, when things will be called their names. The voting of everyone present in this room now depends not only on the future of the Ukrainian Church but on the future of the Ukrainian State. Because 27 years of thorny road through the curse, the anaphema, because of the beating in Sofia Square, our church went to the fortification and the restoration of justice. Thanks to the Holy Patriarch of Philaret, thanks, the Kingdom of Heaven, the most holy patriarchs of Volodymira and Mestislav, the Ukrainian Church is and will be. And it will be the only place for the Ukrainian Orthodox Church. Whatever the "Russian peace" is, our faction will vote unanimously for this decision. We thought and believe that there should be one language in Ukraine, one church and one state, one Motherland is Ukraine for every Ukrainian. And everyone in the room right now needs to know that by pressing the green button, he's shooting at the "Russian peace," he's destroying the "Russian peace" in Ukraine. Death to the Russian world. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-20-m0.u129	Heroic glory! From the People's Front to the word, Sergey High, one of the initiators of the call to Patriarch Bartholomew, is invited. Please, Mr. Sergei.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-20-m0.u130	Thank you, Mr. Speaker. About two weeks ago, I had a conversation, and we had tea with a Protestant minister from the United States. And it turns out that this man who serves in Ukraine, for the Ukrainian people, supported our independence and sovereignty, knew, personally knew people who were killed by Russian mercenaries on Donbassa, Protestant pastors as early as the 14th year. He told me the details of their lives, their ministry. Ukraine is not Russia. And even when we face Russian aggression, Russian information and spiritual aggression, we can't use the methods that Russia uses: we don't kill, we don't forbid, we don't arrest. We give all people the opportunity to practice the religion they want and to go to the religion and the church to which they are accustomed. But in this case, every church, even the putin church, even the church, the patriarch of which was present at the Russian PNP on the consideration of the Ukrainian church question, even the church of which the patriarch was at the last College of the Ministry of Defence of Russia as a full member, even to that church, we should have tolerance. But this church must respect Ukrainian sovereignty and Ukrainian independence. If a person wants to go to the Moscow Church, he must understand that he is going to the Russian Orthodox Church in Ukraine. Not to the Moscow Patriarchate, not to the Ukrainian Church, but to the church whose patriarch is acting against our statehood. This person, he needs to understand it, he needs to see it in the papers, the statutes, and he needs to see it on the ledge. Therefore, renaming Russian revenues into Russian revenues, renaming the so-called "Ukrainian Church" to "Russian" is a normal step to protect our independence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-20-m0.u131	Thank you. From Peter Prashenko's Block, the head of the faction. A representative of the Oksana Bilozer faction. Mrs. Oksana, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-20-m0.u132	Dear colleagues, I want us to calm down because everything has already happened. Tomos we got, we have our own independent church, our own Orthodox church in Ukraine. And his Holiness the Patriarch, when he delivered this Tomos, clearly told us to the Ukrainians: The Ukrainian Orthodox Church of the Moscow Patriarchate no longer exists in Ukraine. So what we need to do with you today is just do practical things: call things our names and put the accents right. What we're saying is that the chaplains and priests of the Russian Orthodox Church, who are currently working in the Ukrainian State, do not really have the right to worship because they don't serve the Ukrainian State, and they serve a state that is an aggressor, the Russian Federation. So let us calm down and make a balanced decision. Ukrainians expect this because they clearly want to separate themselves: where the Ukrainian Church, the Ukrainian State, the Ukrainian Land, and where the Russian Church, the Russian Federation, and our aggressor. And our right to enforce it is with you. Thank you. We make the right historical choice.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-20-m0.u133	Thank you. From "The Opposition Block," Scorch Mikola Leonidovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-20-m0.u134	People's MP Skork, Opposition Platform for Life. Dear colleagues, respected citizens of Ukraine! I want to go from this high rostrum to the entire hall, to all, the entire House of Deputies of the Supreme Council of Ukraine with a request not to support the bill, not to support it for two reasons. This bill is solely part of President Dustenk's election campaign: "Faith. Army. Language." - and nothing else. Moreover, this is the beginning of a serious civil conflict within Ukraine, because this bill will lead to the raids of property and the land of the Ukrainian Orthodox Church. There is no Russian Orthodox Church, there is the Ukrainian Orthodox Church according to all the documents. The head of the Ukrainian Orthodox Church is the Blessed Metropolitan Onufry. Everything else. [[B in m in s a l in]] Everything else is provocation, it's speculation around the church question. I want to remind you. [[B in m in s a l in]] I want to remind my honourable colleagues that we have a church divided from the state and everything that's going on. The President brutally violates the Constitution, brutally intervenes in church affairs, and he sees the whole world. To date, no Orthodox church of the world Orthodox churches has welcomed the so - called only Orthodox church that the president has made. I would like to address you, my dear fellows: let's leave the church to live our lives, and we live, laity, we will live our lives, we will live our lives, we will live our lives, we will live our lives, we will not break the current Ukrainian legislation, and we will not push the state to the brink of civil conflict. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-20-m0.u135	From the "Fatherland" faction to the word, John Krulko, two minutes. And from Self-Help, also two minutes. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-20-m0.u136	Ivan Krulko, "The Fatherland" faction. Dear Ukrainians, who are watching us on TV right now, what are we seeing in the session room? We're now seeing "Russian peace" cracking through the seams, and at the same time, we're seeing a renaissance of Ukrainian Orthodoxy, Vladimir's baptism. This is happening right now. And this unique historical moment, when the Ukrainian Orthodox Church is established in Ukraine, will enter the new history of Ukraine for a millennium. What is this bill that we now have to vote on, and the faction of Fatherland supports it? It's very simple. He says that every Ukrainian citizen who goes to church should understand the church he goes to. If it is the Church of Ukraine, it should be called. It's called the Orthodox Church of Ukraine. If this is the Orthodox Church of Russia, it should be called the Russian Orthodox Church in Ukraine. And that will be just, perhaps, when each person consciously makes his choice, where to go, and how to pray. This is freedom of conscience. This is free expression. This is a free religion. And that's why we're going to support it so that we don't turn the eyes of the Ukrainians one more time, but that everyone will finally make their conscious choices. But most of all in today’s conditions, such as on the one hand, are historical, and on the other hand, very dramatic, so that we don’t have violence. And so that every Ukrainian may feel safe, and every coming will know that this church will be where it will decide its own coming. So, of course, these legislative initiatives that are now, we need to support them, put dots on the "and" and, you know, little bits into the home of the "Russian world" to kill the whistle. Thank you. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-20-m0.u137	From the Self-Help faction to the word, the head of the Oleg Beresuk faction is invited. Please, Mr. Oleg.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-20-m0.u138	"And there will be no enemy on the updated earth, a adversary, but there will be a son, and there will be people on the earth." And so it is, and so it will be. The Russian tyrannical state, the colonial state, used the church as a tool for killing and persecuting real believers. Protestants protested against it in the '70s. The Greek-Catholics protested and rebelled against it and the Orthodox revolted, and today there is the Renaissance of the Ukrainian Orthodox Church, all for the sake of their son and mother on earth. Today is the time when you and I should call everything our names. And today we will do this for the sake of loving our own mother, our own father, our own children. Millions have not waited for this day, but today this modest day is going to come, this day and this vote today is going to cost millions of lives that have been paid for this day. It happened. And in our house there will be our truth, our will, for this is the land of Ukraine, on which all those who come to our house with the will, truth, and love of man can dwell, for it is holy.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-20-m0.u139	So, colleagues, from all the factions, they came out. One minute later, we're going to vote. I'm asking all national deputies to take up jobs. I ask the heads of factions to see who's not here to follow. It's a historic vote. We'll vote in a minute. I'm asking everyone to get out of bed and take their jobs. From nonfractional to word, Victor Krivenko, one minute. And in one minute, colleagues, the historic decision, everyone has to be in the room, everyone has to vote. Everyone, please come into the hall. Guilty, one minute, and we vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-20-m0.u140	Victor Krivenko, National Movement of Ukraine. Why is the Russian world so pissed off? Because today is the end of their false concept of Third Rome. Today. In the 1990 ’ s, the motorists got up from their convention and went to protect Sophia Kyivsky from Patriarch Alexi when they wanted to take Sofia and there would be the Moscow Patriarchate. On April 17, we brought people to the Supreme Council. I thank all who went on stage and when we voted in favour of the patriarch. On May 8, 16, the only one who didn't stand up for a minute to honor our fallen soldiers was Onufrey and those who were with him. The children were not singing! Look, their Patriarch Cyril at the Russian Ministry of Defense College is in the front row this week. It's totally part of a state-run Russian car. As the patriarchy was destroyed in 1721, it was not actually restored when Peter I created the Synod, and the church became a part of the State.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-20-m0.u141	30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-20-m0.u142	became the Ministry of the Rescue of the Souls. They were 140 years old in the schism from 1448 to 1589. And today, when we have a canonic church, when they and their Synod broke up their Eucharist association with Constantinople, with us, to this day they are tearing their believers away from the possibility of carrying out mysteries in Ukraine. That's their price, that's why they're freaking out. And we will see by this vote who is Ukrainian and who is not. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-20-m0.u143	So, colleagues, let's move on to making a decision. I'm asking everyone to take up jobs, get out of bed. Colleagues, we've been waiting for our church for over 300 years. For over 300 years, Ukrainians had dreamed of the Ukrainian Church. Now we have a chance to make a decision to support our church. So I ask everyone to prepare for the vote and to be in the workplace. I have reported several times that we are moving on to making a decision. And that's a decision, that's a decision that's broader than religious. This is a question of the security and defense of our countries so that Ukrainian identity and the Ukrainian power of the spirit will be stronger and can defeat the enemy. So, colleagues, I'm voting on a draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on Freedom of Conscience and Religious Organizations" on the name of religious organizations that are part of a religious organization whose governing centre is outside Ukraine in a state that is legally recognized as having committed military aggression against Ukraine or temporarily occupied part of Ukraine as a foundation and as a whole. Vote. Support, all Ukrainian patriots! With God! Vote. We're backing it up. Everyone's voice, please stand by. Please vote. Vote. [[13:40:52]] For 240 The law is passed. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-20-m0.u144	Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-20-m0.u145	Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-20-m0.u146	I welcome the Ukrainian Parliament. I welcome the Ukrainian Church with Ukraine's great victory today in the Ukrainian Parliament. In any case, the Ukrainian Parliament is united, united, united and voted together. Great honor and thanks to all the factions, all the national deputies who supported this decision! Colleagues, I want to announce. Now, two factions -- "Peter Prashenko Block" and "The People's Front" -- announce, ask for breaks. Thus, the decision is made. I'm telling you, the decision is made. Don't be mad! Because I'm gonna have to cross you just to get the hell out of the hall. The law is passed. I made it public. So, colleagues, now according to the decision of the two factions recess. But since the break is going to be a lunch break, I have to. [[B in m in s a l in]] Colleagues! Guys, stop it! Stop! Stop! Guys, stop! I'm begging you now. I'm calling the meeting closed in the morning. I'm calling it a break. And please stop, stop the conflict. Senior officer, stop the conflict. They stopped the conflict. In the Ukrainian Parliament, we cannot fight, we cannot act unlawfully. So, brothers, stop the conflict. Conflict stopped. The morning session is closed. At 16 o'clock, everyone please come into the hall to continue our work. Comrades, welcome! Stop, Igor! Please stop. Thank you, colleagues. Once again, congratulations on an important and big decision. Congratulations, fellows! Do not overshadow his conflict. Hello, fellows! At 16 o'clock, I'm waiting for everyone in the hall. It's all right, colleagues. Let's give it up for us. [[Applause]] We will not let any conflict cloud the great decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine! Colleagues, 16 o'clock, block of agrarian politics, extension of the moratorium to the ground. At 16 o'clock, I'm waiting for everyone in the hall, a block of agrarian issues, just like we agreed. Thank you all again. Once again the glory of Ukraine!
