ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-16-m1.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the time for recess is over. I'm asking everyone to come into the hall and get ready for registration. So I'd like everyone to come into the hall and I'd like to remind you of what happened in the hall before lunch. So we've reached 344 revisions, which is actually just a little bit more than half. In three and a half hours we passed 344 revisions, and I find it wrong and unacceptable to delay consideration of this law. But if someone wants us to go to a decision-making session at an unfavourable time for parliament, he is deeply mistaken, we will be considering all the legal remedies. If we can't look at it today, we'll keep looking at it tomorrow, we won't be able to make it tomorrow, we'll be looking at Thursday and we'll be out on Thursday. But we're not going to let anyone tear down the bill. Colleagues, I want to emphasize and re-apply to the right-wing authors, we've been going through these processes both with the pension, and with medical reform, if there's anyone else's desire to delay, we'll be systematically and conscientiously working on all the rights and voting at a time that's fully mobilized in the hall. So please prepare for registration. Ready? Yes. So please register and participate in the registration, please. [[16:05:39]] 354 national deputies registered. I declare the evening plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine open. And as we agreed to take a break, the next order is 344, National Deputy Lewchenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-16-m1.u2	Lewchenko, Freedom, 223 District, Kiev City. Well, first of all, I'm very sorry to hear from the prejudice that turns out to be a systematic review and discussion of important bills in the context of each amendment, which turns out to be a delay and a breakdown in consideration. Well. These are some new standards of parliamentaryism being introduced, of course, over the last few years in Ukraine. But it's such a lyric retreat. When it comes specifically to this amendment, it is a matter of regret that, aside from the fact that there is no beginning of occupation, i.e. the de jure occupation is not defined in this bill at all, this bill does not also define the specific duties of the occupying person, it does not rely on specific responsibilities to fully meet the socio-economic needs of the occupied territories. There are general references to conventions, but it is in article 6 of this bill that Ukraine relies on to ensure the restoration of damaged material rights, to promote socio-economic, environmental and cultural needs in the respective areas. And it's coming out. This does not mean that Ukraine will provide social and pension security for persons living in a temporarily occupied territory. That's why.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-16-m1.u3	30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-16-m1.u4	And what's more, it's going to be the main way to protect the rights and freedoms of the civilian population. Therefore, Russia does not have any responsibility as to what this would be. Therefore, my amendment is simple: to write article 6 of Section 2, which clearly states that until Ukraine regains control over the temporarily occupied territory, the obligation to protect the civilian population, medical, food, social and pension security relies on the occupying party, the Russian Federation. Then, indeed, there will be recognition of occupation.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-16-m1.u5	Thank you. Please, Mr. Ivan.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-16-m1.u6	Dear colleagues, well, I don't quite understand what's going on. In fact, it's a comment. First, if you all open article 7 of the draft text prepared for the second reading by the Committee on Safety and Defence, you will see the first paragraph, which duplicates the actual convention, the Hague Convention of October 18, 1907, the Geneva Convention of 1949, another Geneva Convention, which was also mentioned many times today in the hall. The essence of which is that on the occupying state, it says here, the Russian Federation is responsible for ensuring the protection of the rights of the civilian population and creating the necessary conditions for its viability. Well, actually, that's what the reporter is talking about. I just don't get it, well, why don't we, before we comment on the whole thing and really, in my opinion, this is a form of delaying the consideration of the project, read a text that is prepared by the committee? By the way, we should thank the chairman of the Supreme Council, the speaker of Paris, for his request to the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-16-m1.u7	30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-16-m1.u8	At the committee's request, in fact, in an exceptional case, in order to make it easier for the deputies to work with the text, not only is the table for the second reading on the bill's website, but it's actually based on the committee's proposals, it's much easier to work with. [[B in m in s a l in]] I understand, but it's only to make it easier for you to work with it, but you still don't see it -- the result of our work. Similarly, unfortunately, how can we not see and give rise to an occupation that is clearly set forth in the preamble and?
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-16-m1.u9	Please give me a minute to finish Mr. John. Please, Mr. Ivan.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-16-m1.u10	You know, to stop all of the discussions about this and the desire of our individual deputies to divide both the status and the territory occupied by the Russian Federation, the aggressor state, just in article 2 in part one and two, the next phrase, which, again, you can all see in the text of the bill, is sentence. The legal status of the temporarily occupied territories in the Donetsk and Lugansk areas (coma), the Autonomous Republic of Crimea and the town of Sevastopol (coma), as well as the legal regime in the areas mentioned, are governed by this Act, the Ukrainian Law on the Protection of the Rights and Freedoms of Citizens and the Legal Regime, the regime in the temporarily occupied territory of Ukraine is a law in force on Crimea, other laws of Ukraine, international treaties, the consent of which is given by the Supreme Council, the principles of international law. We have united status, and Ukraine is one, one, one, one, one, one. The date is one, the status is the same, the social status is the same. Let's stop this discussion, it's not appropriate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-16-m1.u11	Thank you. So 344 were rejected by the committee. A group of national deputies insists on voting. Whoever supports this amendment, please vote. [[16:11:05]] For-32 32. The decision is not made. 346 clearance for confirmation, Oksana Siroid. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-16-m1.u12	Thank you. Amendment No. 346 is an editorial proposed by the committee. Part two, in particular, says that the fact of final withdrawal and the complete absence of all armed forces must be determined by some defence minister and minister of internal affairs, who is to submit, is unknown, which, on the basis of this, the President should adopt a decision, again, which is unknown. The thing is, it's a big threat, and it's a big threat to the President's Institute, because it's completely taking him outside of the Constitution of Ukraine. If there is a fact of aggression and occupation, appropriate decisions must be made, such as the introduction of martial law and decisions on the use of the Ukrainian Armed Forces. And according to the end of the state of war, the end of the state of war is to be determined by the end of the occupation. And we don't have to put the President in an unconstitutional frame of reference. Please place this amendment on confirmation.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-16-m1.u13	Mr. John, will you comment? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-16-m1.u14	Well, actually, it's not just that. And it's worth noting here that within the scope of this bill was taken into account the offer of the Self-Help faction just to place responsibility on the occupying state to maintain the occupied territories. So, strangely enough, you don't talk about it when you're trying to beat something up right now, if you speak a simple language, this amendment, you put it on confirmation in this way. Again, I'm very concerned about the language you're using, because if you read carefully, the Secretary of Defense doesn't determine the fact that the occupation ends. Just like the President. If you read the bill carefully, it is a matter of finalization and complete absence of all the armed formations of the Russian Federation in the order defined by this law, and the establishment of this fact by the well-founded submission of the Minister of Defence and Minister of Interior is carried out by the President of Ukraine. So it's probably important to use the correcting language if you're trying to comment on it. Please do not support the idea of rejecting this amendment by way of.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-16-m1.u15	So the committee's asking for support. That's for confirmation, and the committee's asking to support this amendment and to support the committee's drafting, so I'm putting the vote to 346. The committee asks for support and a vote. Please vote. I'd like to make a statement. [[16:14:02]] For-72 The decision is not made. 348th. Don't insist. 352. Don't insist. 355th. Germany. He insists. Please, Germany.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-16-m1.u16	Dear colleagues, it is a matter of nothing else than the first reading here in article 7 of the position that this bill in its work is aimed at the achievement of peaceful functions, the establishment of peace and the unity of the nation, including through the resolution of the issues envisaged by the Minsk Accords. In the meantime, it all changed, and everything changed. So, I'm sorry, I'd like to check what's in Article 7's support for the new edition already, put it in support. Whether it is supported or not, because the committee agreed. Please put it in. And then I'll talk about my editorial, which was partially counted, but I'm asking it in full measure. I therefore ask for the support of the committee's decision to make an introduction.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-16-m1.u17	Are you done? Please. It's rejected, it's amended, and so I can put it to a vote, but it's rejected, and I can put it to maintenance. 30 seconds, give Mr. German a chance to finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-16-m1.u18	The first thing I asked, Mr. Chairman, was to support the committee's decision in the new edition, where they agreed and submitted. This is Amendment 355, so where they agreed and changed that the Minsk Accords in this law do not work, and that's all. So I ask the first question: to support the committee's decision on the new edition.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-16-m1.u19	I want to remind you that by voting on the first reading, we have decided in no form to mention the Minsk Accords in this bill. This was a general decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, not just a committee. And I will remind you that it was announced and sounded from my initiative, but I ask you to comment further on Mr. John.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-16-m1.u20	You know, I was actually surprised at the time when I saw so many deputies' flags from the Opposition Block. It's not correlated in any way, it goes against the rhetoric that we hear from the TVs from the opposition block representatives, who all say that this bill is harmful, unnecessary, it can't be accepted, it can't be viewed, it can't be viewed, it can't be viewed, it can't be viewed, it can't be viewed. I will not continue to quote your statements. Why, then, do you try to improve it by making adjustments? Where do you lie: when you tell people from TV screens that it's unnecessary, are you now simply trying to delay the recognition of the Russian Federation as an aggressor by giving worthless rights so that they don't vote? I've tried, frankly, to contain all the morning meetings, but let me give you my opinion on this. We rejected this amendment, we rejected it because the Minsk Accords mentioned there, in no way denying the importance of this diplomatic and political pact, it has no bearing on Ukraine's legislation, because there is no obligation to implement this diplomatic pact.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-16-m1.u21	30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-16-m1.u22	which is not even a treaty or a treaty, was in no way considered and never ratified by the Supreme Council. That's why it can't be implemented. I'm asking you not to put any of these changes on comments, confirmations, deviations, etc. because we can't, in any case, implement the Minsk Agreements into the text of this project. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-16-m1.u23	Thank you. So 355 of Germany's rulings were rejected by the committee, but he insists on voting. Yes, Mr. Germanko? And that's why I'm voting on Amendment 355. Please vote. [[16:18:40]] For-51 The decision is not made. 356th, Vitaly Coopery. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-16-m1.u24	Dear colleagues, we propose not only to accept the mention of the Minsk Accords, but also to establish in article 7 a direct ban on any referendums or electoral activity as follows: "The authorities of the Government of Ukraine, the authorities of local self-government, the Central Electoral Commission are forbidden to appoint, organize and hold any election, vote, all-Ukrainian and local referendums in the temporarily occupied territories" – and beyond the text. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-16-m1.u25	Thank you. So the amendment is rejected. Whoever supports this amendment please vote. [[16:19:44]] For-53 The decision is not made. I'll call the license numbers. 360th. [[B in m in s a l in]] Get Debenko, turn on the microphone. You tell me what's going on.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-16-m1.u26	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman. 358th and 359 amendments, which are considered by the committee, please place on confirmation. These amendments also apply to, among other things, a set of measures aimed at implementing the Minsk Accords. A representative of a committee that comments on the actions and expressions of the opposition block faction, I want to remind you. Sir, unlike you, we stand for the interests of Donbass and the people who live all over Donbassy. And now you're trying to get a bill that won't help reintegrate Donbas, as if it didn't sound good. After all, the bill in question promotes the rejection of Donbas, contributes to the removal and reduction of guarantees to protect the interests of citizens living there. And factions' rights are the same in this room. Please don't comment and hold yourself back.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-16-m1.u27	Please, Mr. Ivan.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-16-m1.u28	I can comment, right? Actually, if there's a wish. It's 58th and 59th revisions. Once again, I stress that the principle established by the committee on Minsk agreements and status will not be amended in the context of the consideration of the bill. As for the measures of integration of the occupied Donbas you're proposing, we can't take it in any way. Because we believe on the committee that Ukraine temporarily lost control of Donbas in connection with the external aggression of the Russian Federation. That's a factor of foreign action that we have to rule out first by freeing the territory from the Russian occupation. Then we'll do a variety of integration measures already under Ukrainian legislation, including elections, including infrastructure restoration, a special economic recovery program, socio-economic measures, jobs, and so on. Please support the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-16-m1.u29	Thank you. So the committee wants to support both 358th and 359th amendments. So I'm betting on confirmation of 358th, and the committee's asking for support. So we're voting, colleagues. [[16:22:43]] Z-91 The decision is not taken. 359th. [[B in m in s a l in]] Colleagues, we're now asking for confirmation of these amendments that have already been made: 358th is a Coop and now 359th.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-16-m1.u30	Then there's the 7th. So I'm betting on a vote to confirm 359 revisions. The committee's asking her to support it. Please vote, please support. Vote. [[16:23:27]] For 1052 The decision is not taken. 357 lashes. Igor Lapin. Turn on the microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-16-m1.u31	Dear colleagues, good day to all. My revision was taken into account editorially. But I would ask her to take full account, i.e. to present article 7 in such an editorial way that, in carrying out the government of Ukraine, their official political and diplomatic measures to restore the territorial integrity of Ukraine within the internationally recognized border of Ukraine are ensured: the admission of humanitarian missions, the search for missing missing persons, the enforcement of guarantees for the exchange of prisoners, the release of hostages, the withdrawal of foreign troops, the complete cessation of fire, the control of the border. In order to ensure national security, in particular national, economic, information, humanitarian and environmental, deterrence and dissuasion of Russian armed aggression against Ukraine in the Donetsk and Lugansk areas, security and defence sector bodies, other state bodies of Ukraine, their officials are taking steps to restore Ukraine's territorial integrity, as well as to ensure a comprehensive development of security, economic, information and telecommunications, social and humanitarian infrastructure in areas adjacent to temporarily occupied areas in the Donetsk and Lugansk areas, they are implementing measures to strengthen Ukraine's defence and security capabilities in accordance with strategic defence planning documents. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-16-m1.u32	30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-16-m1.u33	I insist on supporting my work in full volume. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-16-m1.u34	Thank you. Thus, 357 amendments were taken into account in an editorial way, but the national MP, Igor Lapin, insists, strongly insists that we accept it fully. Please vote, please support. Vote. [[16:25:25]] For 106 106 – a.k.a. The decision is not made. 360th, Chubarov. Don't insist. 361. Don't insist. 368. Don't insist. 369th. Don't insist. 373, Vitaly. Don't you insist? 374th. Don't insist. 375th.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-16-m1.u35	374th. Please, Shepherd.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-16-m1.u36	Taras Shepherd, Self Help Union. In this amendment, we insist that today the use of the armed forces in Ukraine is clearly defined by the basic law and the Constitution of Ukraine. And any other formulation, other hybrid versions, they lead to the fact that then the Ukrainian military prosecutor's office in the Ukrainian courts starts dragging our military personnel to criminal responsibility for protecting the country. Sooner or later, this will result in such judgments being handed down by courts of other countries outside Ukraine, leading to Ukraine’s overall responsibility. We therefore insist in this amendment that it is the President, as Commander-in-Chief, who is obliged to comply with the Constitution and to submit an edict to Parliament and, accordingly, that Parliament continue to agree on the use of armed forces to counter Russian aggression. So we ask everyone to support this amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-16-m1.u37	Mr. Ivan.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-16-m1.u38	We discussed a lot about the legality of using the Ukrainian Armed Forces to counter armed aggression. No one, except the Self-Help faction, has ever doubted that we are using armed forces, other measures, military formations, volunteers, volunteers, ordinary citizens, foreigners, non-citizens who, on call of will, are going to defend Ukraine completely in the legislative field. The legal basis for the rejection of armed aggression by the Russian Federation and the restoration of the integrity of Ukraine is the Constitution of Ukraine, the legislation of Ukraine and the Statute of the United Nations, article 51, which gives any nation the right to self-defence, we are implementing this right today. To put an end to this discussion, and indeed, I agree that there will be no cases that Kolmogorov and I have had, unfortunately, we will propose by the Committee, under the transcript, appropriate legal grounds, namely, Article 51 of the UN Statute as the main and international basis for the use of the Armed Forces.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-16-m1.u39	30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-16-m1.u40	Ukraine's legislation to implement in the text of the bill and to put an end to any discussion of the illegal use of the Armed Forces on Donbassa or anywhere where no aggression of any state has been committed against our sovereign independent Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-16-m1.u41	Thank you. You're already going to make a compromise proposal after the discussion has been concluded, and now I'm putting the amendment to the vote, and it's rejected by the committee. Anyone who supports it, please vote. [[16:29:03]] Z-71 71. The decision is not made. 376th. Don't insist. 377th. Don't insist. Germany 376. He insists, doesn't he? Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-16-m1.u42	Dear colleagues, I'd like to draw your attention to you, I don't know it out of amazement or intention, but in this bill and these positions that are being provoked in this room today, we have an illegal, unconstitutional way of applying the Armed Forces. That's what we're talking about in terms of standards. When it comes to the use of the Armed Forces, it takes the initiative of the head of state, article 106, and the decision of the Supreme Council in this regard. As far as you can tell, the view is concerned. Maybe there's something out there that doesn't make friends with what to allow for the possible use of the Armed Forces in the territory of their country? Where will we go after that? We realize that we are the subject of the Hague Tribunal, where the Armed Forces are used.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-16-m1.u43	30 seconds. We're done.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-16-m1.u44	where the Armed Forces are used beyond the powers and decisions of the President, which are required to do so, that's what this is about, it's written directly in 85th Constitution and 106th. So what are we doing, dear fellows, for us the Constitution is gone? So let's say we don't go on the basis of legal nihilism. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-16-m1.u45	Mr. Ivan, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-16-m1.u46	You know, I want to explain this statement. What does the representative of the Party of the Regions say? They suggest that article 8 of the Presidential Bill be completely excluded. By doing so, they are actually proposing to ban the use of the Armed Forces of Ukraine and other military formations to counter the Russian Federation’s armed aggression. All of it. The performance is over. I'd like to say no.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-16-m1.u47	So I'm voting for amendment 376, it's rejected by the committee. Whoever supports it, I ask you to vote. [[16:31:48]] For-34 The decision is not made. 377th. 377th Ephraim, Berez. Yuri Bereza, please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-16-m1.u48	It's very sad to hear from the Council right now, when the Fifth Column continues its beginnings, and they've unleashed the war, they've invited the Russian Federation to the territory of Ukraine where the Russian troops are killing Ukrainians, and now they're trying to play that. The Ukrainian Armed Forces, I emphasize, and I repeat for the Fifth Column, which sits on the right hand side of me, are legally used, according to the Constitution. And if it hadn't been for the Armed Forces, the Russian boot would have trampled both Kiev and Dnipro and other Ukrainian cities. So please close your mouths regarding the Ukrainian Armed Forces. Stop this harassment because the Ukrainian people have already given you their assessment, you have solved this war, and no one else has. Fifth Column under the name, you're simply changing the names, but the Opposition Block, the Party of Regions -- you have full responsibility for this war. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-16-m1.u49	Do you insist on voting, Mr. Yuri?
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-16-m1.u50	Yeah, yeah.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-16-m1.u51	Don't insist, all right? All right, let's move on. He insists, doesn't he? So I'm voting on amendment 377, the committee rejected it. Whoever supports this amendment, please vote. [[16:33:42]] For-78 78. The decision is not made. 380. For confirmation, Oksana Siroid, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-16-m1.u52	Thank you. It is good that we began to care for the protection of the Ukrainian Armed Forces, who are absolutely constitutionally fulfilling their responsibility by going to Ukraine. to defend and take action on defence. But it is unfortunate that the President has not yet fulfilled his constitutional duty to protect the Armed Forces of Ukraine. And I didn't make any decisions about the introduction of martial law or the use of the Ukrainian Armed Forces. And the article, which is edited and proposed by amendment 380, offers another hybrid, with even three hybrids, that is, instead of introducing a state of war, we are offered so-called security zones in which special order will work. In fact, arbitrary powers, which will be called special powers that no one is entitled to. And the limits of the zones will be determined by the military, and again by the beginning and the end. Instead of war, instead of using the Armed Forces, we're offered another hybrid, which will be called, the beginning and completion of national security measures. So don't have any illusions there, there's no concept of protection from Russian aggression. Instead, there are measures to ensure national security. This article should be edited as proposed in article 374, proposed by the Self - Help Unit. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-16-m1.u53	Mr. Ivan, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-16-m1.u54	I'm a little confused again, because if you quote the content of the amendment that you can all see, yes, the first sentence begins with the words "for national security and defence, secession and deterrence of the armed aggression of the Russian Federation." Well, how come the reporter says it's not here? It's a queue, it's specially made. For what purpose do we mislead people who look to the Supreme Council? Dear colleagues, I realize very clearly that the Russian Federation is fighting a hybrid war against Ukraine. And for the part of hybrid war, for the part of the aggression that is being carried out in the form of hybrid war, we are obliged to give hybrid answers, and that is certainly why we do so. You're looking forward to it! Thank you. Thank you for your appreciation for the committee's work.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-16-m1.u55	So this is confirmation of 380 revisions and the committee is asking her to support it. So, I ask you to vote 380 rights, the committee asks for support, we vote for colleagues. [[16:36:42]] Z-77 The decision is not taken. 382th, Yuri Lewchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-16-m1.u56	Lewchenko, Freedom, 223 District of Kiev. Well, first of all, here when we talk about different hybrids, I'd like to draw the attention of our viewers and listeners to the hybrid behavior of today's session. Initially, it is said that they delay and that the first half of the day the reporter does not answer any questions. Then it is thought that there are not enough voices to accept this shameful law today, and the answerer answers everything even when he is not asked anything. So it's not one minute, it's two, three minutes, it's given to him by the Chief of the Supreme Council, it's about hybridity. And when you talk about this bill, in general, you know, the answerer is constantly manipulating. What's this bill about? So the rapist raped a girl, and instead of being called a rapist, the invader, the Russian Federation, he's called in this bill: the one who illegally took possession of an illegal woman, right? But he's a normal guy, so let's help him keep eating, keep taking this woman. Just don't have to put him in jail! That's all you're saying! Solid butaphoric, sublime notions that can't be helped in any way.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-16-m1.u57	Please, Mr. Ivan.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-16-m1.u58	You know, actually, in connection with Russian aggression, about 10,000 dead Ukrainians today, and you're trying to use metaphors here, allegories! It is totally wrong, in my view, to those who have suffered today, those who have died, to their memory, which we have honored for an hour. One minute of silence at the beginning of our session. So I don't know what else to comment on. I'm going to ask you to stay away from these things. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-16-m1.u59	Thank you. Amendment 382 is rejected by the committee, but the authors insist on voting. Who supports Amendment 382, please vote. It's a committee against it. [[16:39:01]] For-51 The decision is not taken. 385th. Don't insist. [[B in m in s a l in]] He insists. Please, Lubinets, 385th.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-16-m1.u60	My amendment relates to the fact that, once again, back to the logic of this law: the law is necessary to protect Ukrainian interests in international courts. Please explain to me why the law specifically mentions article 51 of the UN Statute and the national legislation of Ukraine. If. Following legal logic, international law is part of national law. So either this article 51 of the UN Statute should be removed separately and the national legislation of Ukraine and international legislation clearly noted. In turn, I'd like to propose that we put in who and add the norms of international law. If we come to the courts, on what basis will we defend our interests there? We're going to go to international courts, so let's make clear what we're going to do on the basis.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-16-m1.u61	Please, 30 seconds to complete. Is there a need? It doesn't, does it? Then please, Mr. John. 385 committee rulings are dismissed, but Lubinec's national deputy insists that it be supported by a hall. Anyone who supports this vote, please. [[16:40:53]] For-48 The decision is not taken. 386. He insists. Does it insist? He insists. Please, Lechchenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-16-m1.u62	Lewchenko, Freedom, 223rd District, Kiev. You know, in this second reading bill, there was a very interesting norm in the paws, in fact, a shameful norm. She's saying that the military, which protects Ukraine now in the east, will be, I quote, "have the right to apply, in case of extreme necessity, weapons and special means to persons who have committed or committed offences or other acts that impede the fulfilment of legitimate requirements." "In case of extreme urgency" is a quote from your very good quote on the bill's paws. And what is "extreme necessity," and who will determine whether it was an emergency, was it extreme, or was it extreme? What you're prescribing instead of introducing martial law and allowing a normal army to protect Ukraine and provide adequate resources, according to the military statute, you're prescribing such nonsense. So our amendment refers to anyone who protects Ukraine's territorial integrity in the East and not just in the East.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-16-m1.u63	30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-16-m1.u64	In the frame. In this war, he has the right to use any means that do not conflict with international law, any means, not some extreme necessity that is not known how they will determine and then judge our Heroes, as you do now, and these cases are all over. They happen every day, and any means.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-16-m1.u65	Thank you. Thus, 386 committee rulings are rejected, but the national MP insists on voting. Who's in favour of Amendment 386, please vote. [[16:43:00]] For-42 42-yes. The decision is not made. 389th. Don't insist. 390th, Germany. He insists. Please, 390.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-16-m1.u66	Unfortunately, respected colleagues did not find support in the committee to rule out the creation of a unified headquarters. I would just like to remind you from this point of view that the unified headquarters are nothing more than the echoes of chastity. And will the army, the internal, the police, the Armed Forces be under one union? There will be no uniform governance, and that will be anarchy, and you will be witnesses. That's why I asked you to rule it out at all. There is no room for unified headquarters. He's at our commanding officer's headquarters, that's all.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-16-m1.u67	Please determine the 390th amendment of the German People's Deputy. The committee turned her down. Please make up your mind. [[16:44:30.]] For the 18th. 18 votes. Let's move on. 392 revisions. I'm sorry, they're coming. 391 revisions. The nation’s deputy Musai. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-16-m1.u68	Ladies and gentlemen, I ask you to support this amendment, because it is important, 9th article, about who is involved in the strategic leadership of the occupation of the Donetské and Lugansk region. Clearly, this is General Staff. Are we not going to release the Autonomous Republic of Crimea? When we get to free the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, we don't need General Headquarters, will Russia give us Crimea? Of course, sooner or later this issue will stand, and we will be waiting again for three years for a special law. So I propose that in this law, what is the same strategic leadership for the liberation of occupied territories as Lugansk and Donetsk, and for Crimea, the General Staff is to do so. That's perfectly logical. Because in that law that you're referring to, there's something about Crimea, that's not the norm. Please vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-16-m1.u69	Please identify the session room with amendment 391. The committee turned her down. I'd like to make a statement. [[16:46:00]] For-51 51 people's deputies voted in favour. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. 392 revisions. People's MP Coopery. Don't you insist? Please, the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-16-m1.u70	Ladies and gentlemen, we now propose to ask you a question when the President of Ukraine does not want to take responsibility for military operations, and under the Ukrainian Defence Act, he should be able to create a stake for the Commander-in-Chief. Instead, we are encouraged to create a unified operational headquarters on some ground and for what reason. We propose to replace everywhere in the text of the bill with the position we need, the Commander-in-Chief, in order to make a decision. Why? Because if he doesn't want to run operations, if he doesn't want to guarantee the Constitution, then why should we even want the President's office? Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-16-m1.u71	Please comment to a colleague of honor from the profile committee. Mr. Ivan, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-16-m1.u72	In order to be fair, it must be noted that such an authority of military administration as a unified operational headquarters is not created by this bill. It already exists and is implemented in our legislation. First. The other one. The President of Ukraine is the Supreme Commander, and this is his direct constitutional duty to implement the general military leadership, to appoint a vertical or any member of this vertical. I'd like to answer separately. the previous report on the standards that we set up with this project. In fact, this bill has general rules and special standards. The general norm is that we are in law implementing national security measures, implementing them, under whose direction and coordination they are being coordinated. The special norm applies to that. The Donetsk and Lugansk regions, which will be carried out as follows. And the unifying norm in this project is that the norms introduced by this law are the same in relation to the territories of any region of Ukraine. If there's armed aggression anywhere.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-16-m1.u73	Finish up, please, 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-16-m1.u74	Ukraine, the Armed Forces of Ukraine, citizens of Ukraine will have the right to resist such aggression in independence from geography, territories, whether Crimea or any other area, God, or the enemy's efforts to move further into the Donetskian and Lugansk areas. So read the text carefully, and we introduce new institutions, new relationships. And this is extremely important in today's world when individual countries are allowed to wage undeclared wars against a totally peaceful neighbour. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-16-m1.u75	We vote, please, Amendment 392. She was rejected by the committee. [[16:49:05]] For-16 Not supported. Amendment 394, People's Deputy Kuprey. Are you insisting? No, it's not. Thank you. The next amendment 396 is partially taken into account. Please, Taras Shepherd, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-16-m1.u76	Taras Shepherd, Self Help Union. In fact, the amendment is partially taken into account, but why do we insist on taking the amendment fully into account? Because this law should not conflict with the basic law governing the use of the Armed Forces, these are the laws on defence and the laws on the Armed Forces of Ukraine. The basic powers, namely, the Armed Forces, the Joint Operations Headquarters, the General Staff, their superiors, should be laid down in basic laws. If we're talking about a law now that has to regulate a temporary situation, and we all believe it's temporary, so there's only one reference rule that a unified operational headquarters is an inter-species and inter-species authority in this area, and a dot. And all the rest of the powers should be in the special laws governing the activities of the Ukrainian Armed Forces. Because if we continue to have to extend certain powers to our Armed Forces, it will lead to the need to make such amendments to dozens of laws. So we have to do a more unified formula. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-16-m1.u77	Thank you. So, colleagues, 396 amendments were partially taken into account by the committee, but the author of the Self-Help faction insists on taking full account. I'm asking you to determine for Amendment 396. [[16:50:59]] For-49 Next. 398, partially accounted for, Scrum. I'm sorry. Igor Lucenko, 397 amendments are not included. Please, Igor Luzenka microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-16-m1.u78	Thank you. Dear colleagues, given the law's standard, unfortunately there is a legal chaos that, unfortunately, exists in an area called the anti-terrorist operation, and actually on the front. In particular, they are created as the principal actual authority of the so - called unified operational headquarters of the Ukrainian Armed Forces. This is contrary to another Ukrainian Armed Forces Act, where this united operational headquarters of the Ukrainian Armed Forces is an authority for the management of inter-species and inter-species military groups. And Genstab has to coordinate everything. Why is this being done? To remove the President from political responsibility for what is being done on the front. But to eliminate what is provided for by Ukrainian legislation, that is, the creation of the Supreme Commander's bet and the corresponding subordination of this post of the General Staff of Ukraine, which is in charge of all the troops. Now you're just making up some kind of hybrid, really, legal formula. I'm proposing to support my claim, which corresponds to the existing Ukrainian one.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-16-m1.u79	I understand your position. Please be determined by amendment 397 of the People's Deputy Lucenko. The committee turned her down. I'm asking you to make up your mind. [[16:52:39]] For-46 46 votes, no need. Next up is 398th. It's an amendment to the People's Chamber of Scrum. The committee considered it in part, but the author insists on taking full account. Please, Mrs. Schrum's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-16-m1.u80	Alona's splinter, Fatherland faction. Sadly, the committee did not include it in the most important part. I'll explain my position. You know, you can't justify everything because Russia is leading us into what's called a hybrid war. In fact, war must not be declared to be real. And I'm getting so sick of having a hybrid or a peace or a war or a hybrid or a trade in occupied areas or a hybrid president or a businessman. Let us act on the basis of the Constitution. Just on the basis of the Constitution. And it's done in an elementary way. And if you look at the Constitution, it's written that the President has to create. The President must introduce a decree to the Supreme Council on the use of the Armed Forces when military aggression against the State begins, whether declared or not, international law is aware of many examples of undeclared military aggression. Unfortunately, instead, the President gives himself additional powers that he does not have under the Constitution. So it's not about creating new non-constitutional powers, it's about acting on the basis of the Constitution, and everything will be fine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-16-m1.u81	Committee comment, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-16-m1.u82	You have rightly pointed out that since the end of World War II, there have been numerous military interstate conflicts in the world, but there has never been a declaration of a state of war, or a Bella case in the form of an initiation of war, there, a declaration of a legal regime of martial law, etc. The reasons for this are generally well - known, historically stated, from time to time, in fact, the Westphalia Peace. World international law is built in such a way that when one country declares another war, all force-major embargo warnings in economic, financial, macro-financial, other social relations begin to work. So the economy stops, and the state that has entered the status of war or created the Bella case no longer has the resources to fight. We clearly realized that Putin had been trying to get Ukraine into the right status from day one in order to stop any state and interstate support inside, in order to stop the economy from paying taxes, because the economy is not working, and we would end up having nothing to call our soldier, dress him, feed him or charge him Ukrainian tanks.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-16-m1.u83	The committee's position is clear. Please identify yourself for Amendment 398. I'd like to make up my mind. The committee rejected it, partly counted it. [[16:55:42]] For the 18th. 18 votes. Not supported. The next 400 amendments to the Chumak People's Deputy. Please, the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-16-m1.u84	Dear colleagues, I understand that the 9th article is a hybrid response to hybrid aggression. But what I'd like to say is that, in principle, we have today legislation that very clearly regulates the question of the rejection of any armed aggression that might be in Ukraine. And this legislation is legislation on defence and legislation on the Armed Forces. As Mr. Vinnik rightly pointed out, the concept of "United Operations Headquarters" has been implemented into Ukrainian legislation and the "Commanding Joint Operations Headquarters" has been implemented into Ukrainian legislation, but only in part in peacekeeping operations. And even this law changes the Armed Forces of the Law and the Defense, but this issue is not settled. Moreover, I believe and agree with my colleagues that the creation of such bodies of military administration is the President's wish to simply and simply shift responsibility from himself as Chief of Staff to General Headquarters and to a person who will be appointed as Commander-in-Chief. Therefore, my amendment foresees the creation or full transfer of powers of secession and defence at the bet of the Chief Commander to whom it is due.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-16-m1.u85	Finish up, 15 seconds. 15 seconds, complete.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-16-m1.u86	which the President must create in accordance with the Defence Act. It is the Supreme Commander’s bet that can issue orders and directives that may serve as a basis for activity during the depopulation of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-16-m1.u87	Please comment from the committee. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-16-m1.u88	Everyone here knows, I hope that the Supreme Commander is not a subject of the political process, so any discussion of the political responsibility of the High Commander is absurd in my opinion. As for the United Operations Headquarters, there will, in fact, be the creation of appropriate consolidated contingents such as the Ukrainian military, and peacekeeping contingents may be involved, in fact, as allies of the Ukrainian army. So, of course, this institution needs to be reformed, modernized and implemented today, and to impose on the current security situation that is now unfolding on Donbassa and not only on Donbassa, because armed aggression is defined in other areas, including the ARC Crimea, and it is used in other ways, and there is no need to convince anyone. So I ask you to support the position of the committee and to reject this amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-16-m1.u89	The amendment was made, and the Committee expressed its position. I'm asking you to identify yourself for amendment 400, and the committee rejected it. [[16:58:34]] For-30 30 votes. It doesn't take up the necessary amount. The next 401 amendment of the Chumak People's Deputy. Are you going to insist? Your amendment to the next 401. Don't insist. Next amendment 404, national. Partially counted. Please, National Deputy Lewchenko, 402 amendments, which have been partially taken into account. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-16-m1.u90	Thank you. Well, it doesn't count at all, in fact. So I urge you to consider this amendment. The fact is that this bill is essentially the answer to the President's unwillingness and all this oligarchic kleptocracy to declare martial law and properly finance the army, and to properly build the economy. When the reporter here regularly mentions the state of war and mentions the declaration of war to someone, I still advise, in which I advise, because I have repeatedly on many airs and in this room I advise deputies from the governing coalition to read that law, there is no word in it about declaring war to anyone. The legal regime of the state of war, when this is implemented, is essentially bringing the economy, bringing the work of the country on completely different tracks, and no declaration of war upon the establishment of the legal regime of the state of war, is outright false. So the President would, in fact, have to declare a state of war, the whole state and apparatus, the whole state machine, the whole economy should work properly. Therefore, instead of the combined operational headquarters of the U.S.S.S.A., he should be responsible.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-16-m1.u91	The position is clear. Please be determined by Amendment 402. The committee turned her down. [[17:00:28]] For-43 43 deputies. No correction supported. The next 404 amendment of the Kupriya People's Deputy. Don't insist. Next 406. Igor's doll. Please, the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-16-m1.u92	Dear colleagues, I propose we bring what we are drafting in this bill into constitutional order. The Supreme Commander of all armies in Ukraine is the President of Ukraine, and the attempt to transfer full responsibility to the Chief of Staff is an act that is in fact contrary to the spirit of the Constitution. The President must assume the responsibility and exercise the constitutional powers he has, namely, to be with the armies, to command the armies, not directly, but to be their Supreme Commander. And the attempt to subdue all the troops in the conflict zone with Russia to the Chief of Joint Operations is just a testimony that Peter Alexiyovich Poroshenko does not want to fight but wants to make a deal. We have to force the President to follow the Constitution. Please support my work.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-16-m1.u93	Please be determined by Amendment 406. The committee turned her down. [[17:02:02]] For-45 45 deputies. No correction supported. 407th. Igor Lucenko. Microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-16-m1.u94	Dear colleagues, as in the previous speech, have stressed the need to comply with all the standards laid down in the Ukrainian Constitution regarding the powers of the President. Under Ukrainian law, the President himself is the Supreme Commander of all armies. And according to Ukrainian legislation, particularly the Act on the Armed Forces of Ukraine, which is now in operation, it is now stipulated that the Supreme Commander's and Genstab's bet as the operational organ of this bet is the body that governs all the armies. So why do we now come up with some kind of comprehensive legal structure to just remove the President from the possibility of carrying out his constitutional powers, why is this all happening? It's probably just one goal to secure the President's business assets and his environment in Russia. Let's still get the President to exercise constitutional powers and take full responsibility for what's going on on the front. Please support my work.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-16-m1.u95	Please require a representative of the committee. Please, Mr. Ivan.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-16-m1.u96	It is the President, as enshrined in the Constitution, who is the strategic and general government political leader of the Ukrainian National Security bloc. The Chief of Staff of the General Staff implements direct military leadership, so there is nothing to discuss here.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-16-m1.u97	Please be determined by the correction. 407 amendments, the committee rejected it. [[17:04:00]] For-45 45 votes. No correction supported. 408th. Scum microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-16-m1.u98	Alona's splinter, Fatherland faction. Colleagues, a very important question and whether the President may have additional powers that are not prescribed by the Constitution, are unconstitutional, but do not carry out the Constitution in the part in which he is required to do so? And that's the question we have to go back together once and for all. And no hybrid war, no argument of what was there after World War II, from Mr. Winnick, unfortunately, is not working. And I ask you, Mr. Winnick, not to give us such historical discourses from international humanitarian law, because you are not qualified enough to do so, unfortunately, with all due respect for you. Because even if both countries do not recognize their opposition to war, the international court still recognizes this argument, in which at least one military force of one country is involved in war. And Georgia, for example, submitted to the Russian Federation, did not recognize it as an armed conflict, but said it was not an international dispute at all, nor was it an international conflict. However, the international court has identified this as an international conflict. So it's obvious that Ukraine is not in a hybrid war, but in the real one, and the President has to actually exercise his constitutional powers, not create them.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-16-m1.u99	Let us vote on the amendment 408 that the committee considered in part. [[17:05:37]] For-44 44 votes, non-supported amendment. Next up is 409, Captain. National Deputy Sotnik, don't insist. 410. Don't insist. National MP Sotnik does not insist. Now, the next one is 414. Now, just a minute, I'll find her, and of course I can. 413 amendment, this is the amendment of the People's Deputy of Vinick and Pashinsky. Mr. Winnick, 413, she was counted by the committee, and the national deputy Siroid is asking for confirmation. Please, Mrs. Siroid's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-16-m1.u100	Thank you. First of all, I wanted to say that since we've already had this kind of discussion that was supposed to happen before, what war is and what it is: hybrid or not hybrid. So I also want to make it clear that more than one and a half thousand wars that have been fought since human history, since it's been pursued, there have been only 150 conventional wars. But throughout all the wars, all the same forces and means were used, except for the armed forces, information or misinformation, legal instruments, political, economic, diplomatic. That's why the non-hybrid wars in the world didn't come up with hybrid war just now, the term so that we don't take responsibility for making the decisions that are necessary to win the war. And that's not why you translate from a sick person's head into a healthy person, and those decisions, they're obvious. And I'm going to ask another 30 seconds to answer about the state of war. When a terrorist attack took place in Paris a few years ago, the President of France decided for 10 minutes to introduce martial law in order to protect people and to allow his Armed Forces to use legal measures to protect people. So do not confuse and understand that the introduction of martial law is necessary in order to simplify the decision - making rate and to restrict human rights in a constitutional way. And this article is about another hybrid, and I'm not going to insist on voting and confirming this amendment, but I'm asking you to use the correct comments and give, and tell people the truth about the tools you're proposing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-16-m1.u101	So 413 does not put to the vote, to confirm, so we move on. Let's move on and the next article is 414, Cooperi's national deputy. I can't see you. Don't insist. 415th, Scrum. Part of it was counted. Are you going to perform? Please, microphone to the People's Deputy Shkrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-16-m1.u102	Alona's splinter, Fatherland's Faction. I do not insist on voting, but I must explain to the Ukrainians what is happening. So instead of a constitutional path, the President is now giving himself new non-constitutional powers. For example, the President can determine the boundaries and censuses of the temporarily occupied areas of the Ministry of Defence, although such rights are not provided for in the Constitution. The President will appoint the Commander of the United Forces, approve the Joint Operations Headquarters. Again, he does not have such authority, but the Chief Commander’s bet should be created. Why is this important? First of all, because if the President goes beyond the Constitution and the coalition supports him in this, it will be harder for us to defend our rights in the international arena. And secondly, because just to get out of this hybrid war to a solid land, we need to do all the legal methods. Have the hybrid war or the information war of the Ministry of Information Technology or, there, the Ministry of Information will finally appoint a new minister who wants to work as a minister of information or a lady of course. And we have to work on the Constitution, and we have to follow the rules of the Constitution. I ask Parliament to remember that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-16-m1.u103	Moving on to 416th National Deputy Sotnik. Don't insist. 417 Zásczek, National Deputy. Don't insist. 418th, Semenha. Please, Semenha. This amendment was partially taken into account. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-16-m1.u104	Semenha Roman, "The Self-Help Union" faction. Honorary colleagues, the draft law gives the commander of the United Forces an unwarrantedly broad rights. In fact, the commander will be able to decide on the entry and exit of citizens into the temporarily occupied areas of Lugansk and Donetsk. The self-help edit foresees instead of the proposed introduction of a clear order of entry and exit. We insist that temporary border and customs control be exercised at the checkpoints of entry-exit through which the borders with the temporarily occupied territories are crossed. Ukrainian citizens are required to enter and leave the temporarily occupied territories of Ukraine, provided they are presented for temporary border control of a document confirming Ukrainian citizenship. The process of crossing the borders of the temporarily occupied territories must be clearly regulated by law in order to avoid speculation and violations, first and foremost, of human rights. Please support me to take full account of this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-16-m1.u105	Comment by the committee representative. Please, Mr. Ivan.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-16-m1.u106	In no case were we able to take it fully into account for the reasons that the reporter so pointed out. Indeed, no foreign or customs controls can be introduced in relation to territories that are Ukrainian and that are temporarily occupied. Because the issue of border control is derived from the Ukrainian Act on the State Border of Ukraine, which, in turn, is derived from the Constitution of Ukraine. We never gave up on these territories. It's about customs control. Customs control is certainly one of the controls of commercial activity that you emphasize that you are definitely against. And this is actually a ban on the decision of the National Security and Defence Council, which is being fully implemented today by the Ukrainian government, the Cabinet of Ministers. So the introduction of any element of commercial activity in relation to the occupied territories becomes a complete competition with your public political position, why you don't support the recognition of the fact that the Russian Federation is an aggressor. So let's just say that this right over here left it edited as you want it to be. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-16-m1.u107	Please vote. Dear colleagues, don't argue. And we define 418 amendments. Please do not fight, but vote. [[17:12:30.]] For-41 41 National MPs, not fully supported, remain editorial. in the editorial form in which it was approved by the committee. 419th, Scrum. Don't insist. 420th, Najem. Don't insist. Chumak, 422. Don't insist. 423rd, Illenka. Please, Mr. Illenko, you have a microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-16-m1.u108	Andrew Illenko, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. This amendment concerns two issues: the issue of non-admission, in our view, trade in temporarily occupied areas, and the issue of the normalization and order of the movement of persons through the line of delimitation, through the line of the front from the occupied territories to the area of control and vice versa. We think that, first of all, there should be no possibility in any way to trade occupied areas, in fact, here we're removing those positions, we're proposing to remove them, and, secondly, we're clearly in a very clear and comprehensive list of situations where there is a possible intersection of the line of delimitation, and so that there is no abuse in this plan, and there is no possibility in manual mode of exploiting this right, of determining whether to create any corruption, or of threats to national security. So we suggest that we support our revision.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-16-m1.u109	Please vote in favour of the amendment of 422 People's Deputies Illenko. The committee turned her down. Please make up your mind. [[17:14:23]] For-47 Correction not supported. Let's move on. Next up is 424th National MP Wesselov.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-16-m1.u110	Dear colleagues, please support my order of 424. It refers to the order of entry and exit of persons through the collision line. The process of entering, leaving persons, and moving goods is part of the nation’s policy. Central authorities are responsible for the formation and implementation of policies, in accordance with the Constitution of Ukraine. In view of the armed aggression that is taking place in the eastern part of the country, such policies must be in line with the combined operational headquarters of the SSS and the SSS. Another order of policy formation would be contrary to the Constitution of Ukraine. My point is that the text of the bill states that the order of entry and exit is determined by the operational headquarters.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-16-m1.u111	Dear colleagues, please be determined by amendment number 424 of the People's Deputies of Wesselvova. Please. [[17:15:44]] For-19 19 votes. No correction supported. The next amendment is 426 People's Deputies Heratchenko. I now take the word as the author of this amendment. It was rejected. It also applies to the order of entry and exit through checkpoints. And I actually know that this rule was standardized by a committee of profile in other texts and articles of this law. At the same time, I want to point out that in my amendment, as in my colleagues' amendments, it is a matter of responsibility for violating the crossing of checkpoints. Obviously, the goal of all of us present in this room, whatever factions we represent, is to have the checkpoints removed from the territory of Ukraine at all. And this will be possible at a time when the control of the Ukrainian-Russian border will be restored and the country's unity restored. At the same time, it has to be very clear, not just the order of the intersection of CERs, but also the responsibility for its breach. And I also want to point out to my colleagues that there are Ukrainian national deputies in this session hall who have violated the IDP crossings, and somewhere in secret, the goats have crossed these KPCs several times, and they've miraculously found themselves in occupied areas. Obviously these are both violations and very sad facts for which there should be responsibility: and ordinary citizens, because it is not clear how they get there, and the national deputies of Ukraine. And that's why I'm not going to insist on this amendment, but I wanted to focus on the need to uphold the laws of Ukraine here, on the need for responsibility, and also to stress that within the Minsk Group we are doing everything we can to make sure that in this temporary period, while there are CERs in Ukrainian territory, civilians have not suffered so much through the intersection of these CERs and we've been demanding the opening of the CER of "Golde", which is blocked by the invaders for two years. I do not insist on amendment 426, but I focused on it. 427th Amendment. Scissor. Don't insist. 428th. Germany. Please, the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-16-m1.u112	Dear colleagues, with regard to the 428th amendment, I want to say one thing. Look closely at the latent rules for the establishment of filter camps for citizens from there. Look at the rule of the article. How many forces, how many armed groups, will be set in motion.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-16-m1.u113	I'm sorry. Dear Mr. Germany, I'll give you a minute right now, but the entire session room reminds you that you have a beautiful Ukrainian language. Please, I beg you, one minute, and your amendment to the opposition block is Ukrainian. You're welcome. Thank you. One minute, Mr. German.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-16-m1.u114	Dear colleagues! Germany, the Opposition Block. Ukrainian: Thank you, note accepted. What am I trying to say? Well, first of all, I want to tell the reporter that I don't belong to any party. By your permission, write it down, or you repeat it several times. Since 1985. You probably went to school at the time. So look closely, study the biography. That's the first one. And second. When it comes to viability and viability in this region of our country, the only country, please take a look. A position was proposed and a formula was used to ensure that the line of separation was crossed in accordance with the law. And what's being suggested over time to bring the forces of all -- from the police to the armed, to the air force -- will never be ordered there. In fact, it's the latent standards that will filter.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-16-m1.u115	Thank you. Please, the representative of the committee also wants to give the trailer his own. Please, Mr. Winnick. And then we're going to vote on amendment 428. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-16-m1.u116	You know, Mr. Reporter, with all due respect for your age and all disrespect for your party membership, I would like to inform you that this was rejected by the committee solely because its spirit does not correspond to the spirit of this project submitted by the President of Ukraine. We call the territories temporarily occupied, not temporarily uncontrollable to Ukraine. So I understand where this came from, I understand the purpose of this. And here, you know, as long as we don't hear political statements from your political power condemning the fact of the Russian Federation's armed aggression against our territories, as long as we are so prejudiced that we still treat your people involved in each tape and between the tape-rights. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-16-m1.u117	We vote in favour of the 428th amendment of the German People's Deputy. Please identify yourself. The committee against it voted in favour of this amendment. Please identify yourself. [[17:21:13]] For the 18th. Colleagues, 18 votes in favour. No correction supported. The People’s Deputy Papiew requires words. Please, Mr. Papiev's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-16-m1.u118	Thank you. Honorable Ukrainian national MPs, respected Ukrainian citizens, are a very important bill. I would very much ask the presiding officer to hold this meeting in accordance with the documents that we submitted to the presidency earlier. I want to remind you for my transcript that this morning I handed over my letter to the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, my letter, where I clearly and clearly asked for a list of the four amendments for confirmation. Among them were 418 amendments. My letter by my signature is in the Presidium of the presiding officers. I am still asking to take into account the appeal of the Ukrainian national deputies and ask for an amendment to 418 for confirmation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-16-m1.u119	418 amendments were taken into account editorially under the Rules. We can put it to a vote now or. According to this, I heard you, according to you. It was taken into account editorially. So we can put it now for confirmation, and the vote as voted by the committee, editorially, and then by the authors. We've already voted in the authors' papers, now we're voting for confirmation in the committee. The committee voted in favour. I'm asking you to identify yourself. Please make up your mind. 418th Amendment. [[17:23:04]] For-56 I have something with my computer. I'm gonna ask you to come along. 56 votes. The amendment didn't go through. I'm asking you to take this into account, Mr. Winnick, in your records. And let something with a computer come to the fore. Let's move on. Amendment No. 429, Cooperi People's Deputy. Please. I'm sorry. I just gave it to Cooper, 429. Then we'll come back to you. Okay? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-16-m1.u120	Dear colleagues, in article 10 of the bill there is a rather dangerous norm that allows the Cabinet of Ministers to make their own decisions to trade with the invader. The UCROP party has repeatedly opposed it, engaged in protests to prevent it from happening, and there's no blood trade. So we suggest that we rule out all the standards that apply to this. We also suggest that we organize, on legislative grounds, how to cross the front line of both people and goods. And forbid the officials of categories A, B, judges, lawyers, any authorities they have. In any way, you cross the front line and you get to the occupied territories. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-16-m1.u121	Please vote on the 429th amendment. The committee turned her down. Please make up your mind. [[17:24:43]] For-50 Correction not supported. Please, Debenko's microphone is now. We're at 429. Please, you have a microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-16-m1.u122	Thank you, Madam Chairman! I'd like to place on confirmation 425 revisions because it was before, it wasn't on confirmation. It's edited, but I insist that it be voted on. The issue is that the bill provides for a special, more complicated procedure for citizens to enter and leave the area of an antiterrorist operation, to another territory of the country, and to move in a foreign direction. As far as our position is concerned, once again the representative of Peter Prashenko's Block, I want to say that the faction of the Opposition Block has a unified political position on this issue. The Minsk Accords, Mr. President has delegated a duly authorized representative for the conduct of the Minsk talks. The UN Security Council, if you have an unauthorized designated organization, I don't know what else to talk about in the 15th year, approved these Minsk agreements. As for disrespect for our political party, the Party of the Regions was one of the founders. You don't respect Peter Alexiovich?
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-16-m1.u123	Please, upon the request of the MP, Debt Amendment 425, which has been taken into account in an editorial manner, is based on the support of the committee. I'm asking you to determine now the session room for this amendment. [[17:26:28]] For-19 19 votes, it is not the amendment that was adopted by the committee. I'm asking the reporter to set standards that don't match the committee's decisions. And the next one is 430. Petrenko, Bielecki. National MP, would you like to make a statement on your amendment? No, it's not. 431 revisions. National MP Antonistak. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-16-m1.u124	I would like to ask for confirmation of our amendment, which concerns article 10, the entry of persons and the movement of goods into temporarily occupied territories." We write down this list of goods in detail so that there will be no abuse that may move by persons crossing, temporarily entering or leaving occupied territory. But I would also like to point out that if we recognize Russia as an aggressor, there is a disgraceful norm that remains, a trade with an aggressor that we define in this bill. I also want to make an analogy, when England and Argentina had a conflict in the Falklands in 82nd, the trade between Great Britain and Argentina was halted. And only in 92 did they go back to trading relations. Thank you. Put it on the table, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-16-m1.u125	The 431 amendment, which was rejected by the committee with the motivation that the list of goods that may cross the collision line is determined by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and by the regulations, and this is defined in other articles of this law, so it was rejected. But the authors insist, and I ask the room to decide on 431 amendments. Please, colleagues, please make up your mind. [[17:28:49]] For-50 It's not a confirmation, it's a vote in favour of an amendment by an author who's been rejected by a committee, and 50 votes in favour. I mean, it doesn't work. Next up, 432nd, People's Chamber of Commerce. Don't insist. 433rd, Najem. Don't insist. 439, Drevijanko. Please, it's a wooden microphone. 439 already, Mr. Ivan.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-16-m1.u126	Dear colleagues! Dear Ukrainians! Yuri Derevyanko, "The Movement of New Forces". The 439 amendment refers to the movement of goods and, in fact, trade. And our position is that we suggest that this trade be regulated exclusively by law. That's the first one. And the second. We see that such trade, not trade, is possible only for humanitarian goods. Everything else is the blood trade that this law proposes to restore. And what I want to say is that this could be a very dangerous and bad step towards Russia as an aggressor country initiating, through its satellites in Europe, the mitigation of sanctions, too, that apply to trade and all other bad things. So all sanctions were imposed to drain the aggressor country financially so that it would not finance the fighters, so that it would not fund the war against Ukraine. And any trade in fighters from an area that we don't control just gives. makes them economically stronger. So please support my amendment and do not allow the blood trade to be restored. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-16-m1.u127	Please comment by John Vinnick from the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-16-m1.u128	Well, actually, article 10 in the proposed editorial committee was actually the result of the population accounting for a whole set of lines. We've made a clear distinction between moving goods, stressing, not trading, there's no commercial element here, it's about moving goods. And the content of what can be moved and the order of displacement is solely the mandate of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, which implements all decisions of the Council of National Security and Defence imposed by the President's Decree, which are legally binding for the execution of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. The question of the movement of persons is a mandate that can be implemented in the context of a security situation. You know that we're creating new military authorities to take national security measures in separate areas, in this case in Donetsk, Lugansk. Hence, the question of the displacement of persons and their order is a question.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-16-m1.u129	Finish 15 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-16-m1.u130	So there's no trade here, so there's no trade provided or controlled by the Armed Forces of Ukraine anymore. There is a movement of goods into the Cabinet of Ministers and there is a movement of persons who may be temporarily suspended in connection with security requirements.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-16-m1.u131	Please be determined by amendment 439. The committee turned her down. I'd like to make a statement. [[17:32:21]] For-39 39 votes. Your amendment is not supported. Next 442, People's Deputy Rybchin.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-16-m1.u132	Alexei Rybchin, Fatherland, Doñecina. My bill relates to the order of entry of goods into a temporarily occupied territory. It is now defined in this edition by taking into account the security situation of the head of the combined operational headquarters of the U.S.S.S.A. My suggestion is that it be determined by the central executive authority, which provides for the formation and implementation of state policy on the issues of temporarily occupied territories. The standard in the bill seems to be that the order can be uniformly changed by the Chief of Staff at all times, taking into account the security situation, which can lead to corruptive factors at the level of separation. More specifically, this order is approved by the Ministry of Occupied Areas and VPO as the central authority of the executive branch. In this order, any force majeure associated with a change in the security situation can be foreseen, and this will ensure the uniformity of legal regulation. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-16-m1.u133	I'd like to make a statement. No, the committee wants to comment. Please, Mr. Winnick.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-16-m1.u134	In fact, apart from exceptional cases, there can't be any way that Ukrainian citizens are somehow limited in movement, that's the norm of the Constitution. That's why we on the committee tried to move away from the term "order of movement." Individuals can move freely, and only we have given the commander’s mandate in the event of a real threat to life and health to persons crossing the line of separation has the right to restrict the entry of persons into temporarily occupied territories. And order, accordingly, moving goods is already the mandate of the Cabinet of Ministers. Therefore, we find it inappropriate to give the executive authority responsible for the implementation of State policy to ensure that the issues of the temporarily occupied territories are formed to give no constitutional authority, to prohibit the entry or exit of persons. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-16-m1.u135	Please determine by 442 amendments, colleagues, the committee rejected it with the same motivation as the previous amendments to this block, that the order of cross-section of CERs, including goods, is determined solely by the Cabinet of Ministers, not by the law of Ukraine and other executive authorities. Please define 442 revisions. [[17:34:56]] For-24 24 votes, not supported. Next amendment, Zacchuck, 443rd.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-16-m1.u136	Svetlana Zalitschuk, a respected colleague, says that in the event of an escalation of armed conflict, an increase in hostilities, or an emergency that threatens life, or the health of a person in the occupied territory. It can't be about her. She cannot be held responsible for crossing the temporarily occupied territory outside the entry-exit checkpoints in such circumstances. I'm asking you to support this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-16-m1.u137	I've got the position. Colleagues, please. Aah!? There's a committee comment. Please comment to the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-16-m1.u138	We even have a Code of Administrative Offence, which regulates the illegal crossing of the state border, which is sometimes used by individual, so-called "gastrolers" in Ukraine. It provides for exceptional cases where a fine cannot be applied in case of extreme need. So we thought it was inappropriate to specify this position in any way, obviously it would never, in this case, in case of extreme need, if it wasn't even a state border, and a line of delimitation that had no status whatsoever would never cross any sanctions on such a person can or will not be imposed, it was not provided for by any legislation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-16-m1.u139	Colleagues, please determine for amendment 443. The committee has rejected it as such that it is not appropriate, and we ask that we identify ourselves. [[17:36:51]] For-16 16 votes. Let's move on. 445 repairs, Semenha. Please, the People's Deputy of Semimenah.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-16-m1.u140	Semenha Roman, "The Self-Help Union" faction. Colleagues, in fact, drafting a second-reading bill allows you to create opportunities to re-sell the invaders or, in other words, call things your names: to allow the financing of the occupation regime. The Self-Help Amendment provides a clear system of restrictions on the movement of goods across the temporarily occupied territory line in accordance with the norms and principles of international humanitarian law. We can't let the blood trade be restored in any way. Nothing can demoralize its own Armed Forces by sending goods into occupied territory with one hand and sending people to war with another hand. Therefore, it is necessary to allow the transfer to temporarily occupied areas only humanitarian aid, and this is clearly stated in the body of the law. Please be supportive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-16-m1.u141	Please define 445 amendments. The committee rejected her, please make up your mind. [[17:38:10]] 43 votes. Correction not supported. Next amendment 447. This is an amendment to the committee by the authorship of Vinick, Pashinsky, Levus, Savichenka. Saucenko, I'm sorry, 445 amendments we have a letter of order from the National Deputy Michael Papiev, who demands that we set up. In 447, I'm talking about her, I'm talking about her, we have a letter from the People's Deputy Papiev asking her to be confirmed, and so also, for confirmation, wants to place Oxana Siroid the National MP for this amendment. I propose Michael Papie's date. What? Now we give the word to Michael Papiev as a national deputy, then Mrs. Oksana takes the vice-speaker word, the committee is her argument, and we're going to define ourselves. Please, Mr Papiev.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-16-m1.u142	Thank you. Honorable National Deputies of Ukraine, Your Honor! Well, it's not just this bill that we're looking at today, January 16th, that says the God of the helmet is sweeping. I mean, actually, this law, it's him. He'll be put in addition to the famous "laws of January 16th," and I think it's absolutely his legal place. I would very much ask the Ukrainian people's deputies, when we vote in favour of the bill, to take into account the rules of the Constitution of Ukraine, so that we do not violate either article 3 or an article concerning the rights and freedoms of citizens, to mention that Ukrainian citizens live in uncontrollable Ukrainian authorities. And we have recommendations regarding their pension and social security. And we have to get out of this situation and still admit that there are our citizens there, that these are Ukrainian citizens, and these are people who are equal under the Constitution. Please put it in.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-16-m1.u143	Do you need to finish? Please finish 15 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-16-m1.u144	I would very much like to place this amendment for confirmation because it violates the Constitution of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-16-m1.u145	Thank you. We do not have the capacity, according to the Rules, to give to two. But Mrs. Oksana, we have a vice-speaker. I invite you to speak to me about this amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-16-m1.u146	Thank you. This article refers, in particular, to the restriction of human rights and freedoms. According to article 64 of the Constitution, only under conditions of war and state of emergency can such rights be restricted. In fact, this article introduces certain elements of the state of war, just not calling it that. In fact, the big danger is that we're introducing the anti-constitutional regime as a tool. But I want to speak to you now, especially the representative of the committee. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that, please don't comment on my words or the words of my one-party colleagues, don't judge us after you've ignored our decision for three years. And secondly, people who switch to personalities mean that they don't have either a sense of dignity or a sufficient qualification to have a professional discussion. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-16-m1.u147	Please comment on the amendment made by the 447 national MP Vinnik, who represents the position of the committee. This amendment is the authorship not only of Vinick but also of the members of the committee. Please, Mr. Winnick.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-16-m1.u148	I categorically deny the fact that I am trying to judge someone, I have no authority in this context. As for the comments of the political positions, I think we've gathered at the Supreme Council to do this -- we're commenting. And the main thing is, you know, I was just trying to follow the words and the language that was used, not even the meaning, because even the words that somehow you're not using are the words that we've prepared for the second reading. When it comes to manipulative links, about what we're trying to do with the trade, the more on the blood, I can't understand why this pathetic thing, when it doesn't fit the content of what the committee was preparing. I thank you very much for your consideration of my work as secretary of the committee, and we will certainly take that into account. But let us still respect each other and this is my appeal, including to you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-16-m1.u149	Dear colleagues, I can only call upon all factions, all deputies to respect each other, not to hang labels and not to call each other here to disrespect or insult each other. This all applies in this room. Please vote on the request of the members of Papiev and Mrs Siroid to confirm amendment 447. This is the amendment that the committee supported, which was voted in favour. We're putting it on confirmation. Please make up your mind. [[17:43:26]] For-21 21 votes. Correction not supported. The next amendment is 449. People's deputies don't insist. 450. He insists. Please, People's Deputy Scrum microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-16-m1.u150	Alona's splinter, Fatherland faction. Colleagues, most of those MPs from our faction, Fatherland, Self-Help faction, and non-factional members who are now performing and insisting on specific rights, are the MPs who took part in my task force from the local self-government and decentralization committee more than a year ago when the first parliamentary bill from the occupied territories was being considered. And then we found consensus on a lot of things, including consensus with international experts, with public figures, and, interestingly enough, with representatives of the Ministry of Defense, the Foreign Service, the Ukrainian Armed Forces, how to determine how to move cargo, goods from occupied territory to occupied territory. And it's in my right hand that there's this consensus that we found then, because these things have to be clearly prescribed in the law as to how this is going to happen. And you're now proposing from the Committee on Safety that you actually give this to the Cabinet of Ministers, which will determine this order of movement of goods, goods, services, and citizens, and can also change it sufficiently, well, simply in arbitrary mode by regulation.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-16-m1.u151	15 seconds to complete.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-16-m1.u152	I insist that this order of movement of goods carries potentially enormous corruption risks. So it has to be defined in the law. How Is It Determined? We were ready for the discussion, but unfortunately, the Security Committee went a different way, and so I'm asking you to put up for confirmation of my amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-16-m1.u153	Voting Amendment 450. The committee turned her down. I'd like to make a statement. The committee's motivation has already been communicated by the committee's representative. [[17:45:27]] For-53 She was supported by 53 national deputies. She didn't make it. Next 451. Deputy Najem doesn't insist. Korchinska. 452. Don't insist. He insists. Please. [[B in m in s a l in]] We can hear you. We can hear without a microphone. 452nd Amendment. Please, Mrs. Corchinsky's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-16-m1.u154	I'm sorry. In this case, the committee, restricting the rights of citizens in the area of military action, has reached the point where no medical unit will be able to work. None. Hundreds of people who help us on the front will have to leave. Moreover, the entire volunteer medical transport will be completely paralyzed not only by volunteer medical units but also by the military. Because, unfortunately, it's made on a temporary basis. Let's move on. This law insists, of course, on a total ban on trade in occupied areas. Indeed, we can only support the transportation of personal belongings and humanitarian aid. It's the principle of why patriots don't vote in favour of this law most of the time, if they don't support the committee, and we don't vote in favour of these amendments.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-16-m1.u155	Please be determined by the amendment of 452 People's Deputies of Corchinsky. The committee turned her down. Please identify yourself in the hall. [[17:47:04]] For-56 No correction supported. The next 454th, the people's deputy of Kuprey. Don't insist. Next 455, National Deputy Taras Pasteuch. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-16-m1.u156	Taras Shepherd, Self Help Union. Dear colleagues, in principle, what is proposed in this paper is a certain know-how when the Supreme Council generally replaces two bodies: both the President of Ukraine and the Supreme Council itself. We are taking this precedent for the first time when we begin to approve a presidential decree that does not exist. No one can show today whether when he was accepted by the President, whether he joined the Supreme Council. So there's some kind of problem here, and maybe that's the right thing to do, maybe then we should continue to produce this practice. If the President can't make such an order there for three and a half years, let's assign it to the Chief of the Supreme Council, whether he does it or not. And then we would start to solve a lot of problems in the state. We would assign a new composition to the Central Electoral Commission, we would now fill the National Bank's Supervisory Board, we would appoint the head of the National Bank, we would appoint a holding fund. We'd finally fill out the quota for the Ucrobanprom Observation Board. Normal practice. Or let us get rid of that practice.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-16-m1.u157	Are you done? Please, amendment number 455 from the People's Deputies of the Self-Help faction. The committee has turned her down, and we ask the hall to identify itself. All right, next. [[17:48:50]] For-46
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-16-m1.u158	46, you don't make a decision. 456th. Don't insist. 457th. The Lubinian insists. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-16-m1.u159	Lubinec Dmitry, majority electoral district No. 60, Donetsk district. I would like to draw attention to the very serious problem that I have raised in my amendment, namely the drafting and restoration of lost documents that support Ukrainian citizenship. In this amendment, I directly ask you to simplify this procedure and use the voter register to do so. We have it in the territory of all Ukraine, and when a person comes from occupied territory, enough is enough that the government authority that regulates this activity are passport tables, in fact they just turn to this register and they can issue passports on the basis of it. You realize that Ukrainian passport is what will keep people in contact in occupied territory. Again, I can't understand the logic of the committee why this amendment was rejected. If you want to form.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-16-m1.u160	30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-16-m1.u161	Form a passport, a birth certificate, let's make it simple for them, not make it harder for them. I can say that Russia will distribute there without problems, it will hand out Russian passports to citizens in Ukraine. This is Mayor Dobropil, who is a citizen of the Russian Federation, the Security Service doesn't see the problems. And somehow we see the problem of giving our citizens who are in a controlled territory. Thank you. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-16-m1.u162	Thank you. Please, Mr. Ivan.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-16-m1.u163	A very delicate situation with an honorary Ukrainian passport, Ukrainian citizenship, which is now in 34 places, among other things, higher than the passport of the Russian Federation, for example. We also know that I think it's no secret to anyone that, for example, some Ukrainian citizens have deliberately refused Ukrainian passports to acquire Russian citizenship in the occupied area of ARC Crime, by playing the aggressor, and today they're trying to restore them in some way. Of course, this is a matter to be settled. But taking into account the British Ministry of Foreign Affairs' application for refusal to simplify visa liberalisation to Ukrainians precisely because we have temporarily occupied territories, there is a lack of transparency regarding the application of certain provisions on Ukrainian passports, we believe that such things should be resolved through separate implementation of the Civil Procedure Code. And that's why the committee turned it down.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-16-m1.u164	Thank you. You insist on voting, don't you? I'm voting on amendment 457. The committee turned her down. Whoever supports this, I ask you to vote. [[17:52:17]] For-44 The decision is not taken. 459th. Don't insist. He insists. Sažko, 459, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-16-m1.u165	Sažko, 59 constituency, Donetskina. In part one and second of article 11 of the bill, the word "six months" is replaced by the word "one year." This amendment also refers to the question of the repeal of the Law on Temporary Measures for the Period of Anti-Terrorism Operation and the loss of our citizens' benefits and the guarantees provided for it. If we do not do 6 months, but one year, it will also give us the opportunity this year to do the necessary legislative initiatives that the state will return the benefits to the people in the ATO, a proper state social protection. Thank you. Please confirm.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-16-m1.u166	Thank you. The committee rejected the amendment. Whoever supports it, please vote. Please. [[17:53:30.]] For-47 The decision is not taken. 461. Cooper insists. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-16-m1.u167	Dear colleagues, article 11 of the Act states that the Supreme Council of Ukraine, according to these points, approves the decision of the President of Ukraine to use the Armed Forces of Ukraine and other military formations. I would like to point out that there is no President's decision on this at this time, because the President issues either decrees or orders that are required to execute throughout the territory and to issue an advance now, to vote now for such authorizations is absurd. I believe that the President must introduce the state of war and then come to the Constitution in the Supreme Council and we will approve the use of the Ukrainian Armed Forces. Please support the removal of this rule from the bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-16-m1.u168	Please be determined by the amendment 461, which the committee has rejected. Please make up your mind. [[17:54:45]] For-58 58 votes. Not supported. Next up is the 462nd National Deputy of Germany. Please, Mr. Germanko's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-16-m1.u169	Dear colleagues, I am very grateful to you, I know that everyone is tired, but what I want to say. Look at that article and why I suggested that we rule it out. What we talked about today about the use of the Armed Forces is unconstitutional. For four years now, the President has not made this decision to agree with the Supreme Council on armed incursion and use of the Armed Forces. What are we doing? We're taking and applying force to our judgment, as was April 14th, when Turkinov said about the ATO using the Armed Forces, and we flew missiles. What's that? No one knows how the customs of war, what the law is, and how the humanism of warfare is. That's what this is about. I'd like to point out that this norm, it's not what's worthless, it's unconstitutional. And it essentially opens the gateway for.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-16-m1.u170	Are you done? 15 more seconds, let me finish, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-16-m1.u171	Please. And that is why I would ask, Your Honor, not to allow this, this is an invasion of the President's right. Read it. We dictate the Constitution by law. Is that what it is in the world where it is? I'm sorry, I think.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-16-m1.u172	I've got the position. Please be determined by amendment 462. The committee turned her down. Please identify yourself. [[17:56:42]] For-25
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-16-m1.u173	25, you don't make a decision. The next one is 465. Don't insist. 467th. Don't insist. 468th. Don't insist. 469th. Don't insist. 470. Don't insist. 471. Don't insist. 474. He insists. Head, please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-16-m1.u174	Mikhail Golovko, "The All-Ukrainian Freedom Union." Dear colleagues, you know that under this law, the rules of this law today are proposed to the President to grant the right to use the Armed Forces of Ukraine permanently and to practically declare anywhere and at any time possible, as it were, terrorists and without Parliament's consent, to practically introduce a state of war. Therefore, the amendment of the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union will apply immediately no later than three days to take effect of this law, oblige the President to declare a state of war and introduce troops into the temporarily occupied territories of Ukraine and in view of the aggression of Moscow, which today is fighting against our state. Therefore, our amendment is meaningful and has the essence of demanding power, demanding the President to use, under this law, the state of war, and not exclusively for his judgment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-16-m1.u175	Thank you. So 474 amendments rejected by the committee, but the authors insist on voting. Anyone who supports it, please vote. [[17:58:28]] For-44 44-yes. The decision is not made. Next, 481, Mustafa Najem.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-16-m1.u176	Dear colleagues! This is actually an amendment that complements the amendment of my previous colleague. The point is that the draft law stipulates that the adoption of this law automatically approves the decision of the President of Ukraine to use the Ukrainian Armed Forces and other military formations. But this contradicts article 85, paragraph 33, of the Constitution, which requires that such decisions be reconciled with Parliament. We propose that in this paragraph we state that this law and the adoption of this law are not automatic approval of the permission to use the Armed Forces, as stated in this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-16-m1.u177	Thank you. Amendment 471 is rejected by the committee, but the author insists on voting. Whoever supports it, please vote. [[17:59:34]] For-40 40-yes. The decision is not made. 477. Don't insist. 478. Don't insist. 479. Don't insist. 480. Don't insist. 481. Don't insist. 482. Don't insist. 483. He insists. Then let's start with your correction tomorrow. Mrs. Oleno, so we've fixed this amendment at 6 p.m. that we can start with: 483, Helen Skrum is the author. Is there another 481? Then let's do it this way, we're going to look at 481 now and 483 tomorrow. Is that fair? Please, 481 - Shepherd. Turn on the microphone. And I'm going to continue the session accordingly.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-16-m1.u178	Dear colleagues! Taras Shepherd, Self Help Union. With this amendment, we propose to repeal the Crimea Free Economic Zone Act, as well as the act of a law establishing special status in occupied areas. The argument is quite simple because today, if we are now talking about the need to resell the Donetsk and Lugansk region, it's logic that everyone understands that illegal weapons formations and foreign weapons formations should be removed from this territory, control over this territory must be restored by the armed forces, all state authorities and structures, and renewed control of the border. After that, elections should be held as to how peace in this area will be restored. If the Special Regime Law is in force in this area, this logic is completely broken, and it says that elections, amnesty, should be held there first, only after that will Ukraine be able to restore the border to the territory.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-16-m1.u179	Thank you. Will you comment? Thus, the amendment is partially taken into account, and the authors ask that it be taken into account in full volume. Whoever supports this proposal, please vote. [[18:02:10]] For-42 The decision is not taken. And so we're going to continue tomorrow's review of Amendment 483. Helen Scrum is her author. Accordingly, tomorrow, with its amendment, we will continue our consideration. And I want to emphasize that we have 200 left-handers, almost 200 right-handers left. And so far, the time taken for work is exhausted. I think we had a fruitful discussion, although I had great hopes that we would be able to make a decision today, but unfortunately, a lively and active discussion leads us to have to move forward with the moment of adoption. But in this case, I think it is more important to work more systematically so that we can come up with a qualitatively unified final decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Dear colleagues, I declare the evening meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine closed. Tomorrow at 10 o'clock, I'm waiting for everyone in the session room to resume our work. Thank you. Good-bye.
