ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-06-m0.u1	Good morning, dear fellows! Please enter the hall, prepare for registration. So, colleagues, can we register? Please register for the plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. [[10:04:05]] 356 national deputies registered. The morning plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Today is the birthday of the National Deputy of Ukraine, Dmitry Alexanderovich Stecen. Welcome to your friend's birthday. And colleagues are known to have died on Sunday in the Care Unit of Kiev City Hospital No. 2 a well - known public activist, City Councillor Herson Catherine Gandzük. Catherine’s death should not go unpunished. And I want, on behalf of all of us, and the Supreme Council of Ukraine, and I want to express my personal sympathy to Catherine's family and friends. Everlasting memory. [[A Minute of Silence]] Also, colleagues, I am convinced that this fact, as facts of attacks on public activists, should be under the caution of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. In view of that, yesterday for many hours we held consultations on the establishment of a temporary commission of inquiry that could be unifying to the entire parliament, so that we could offer it for consideration by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. These consultations are still ongoing, but I am convinced that whatever the consultation is, we must make a decision today, immediately call the law enforcement representatives to Parliament so that we can hear from them an assessment of what is going on, and accordingly get information and give a political assessment. We agreed that a proposal would be put to the vote after the faction heads spoke. And if the required number of votes, which is 150 votes, I will immediately call the prosecution's representatives, the police, the Security Service, so that they can explain here from the Supreme Council of Ukraine's rostrum. And I hope and I am confident that we can also find an understanding of the creation of a temporary commission of inquiry. Now, colleagues, according to the Rules 30 minutes for statements by factions and groups. And I'm asking everyone who wants the factions and groups to record the performances. Please. From the Peter Prashenko Block to the word, the head of the Arthur Gerasimov faction is invited.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-06-m0.u2	Dear Andrey Volodymyrovich! Dear colleagues! Dear Ukrainians! The members of the factions of the Party of Peter Prashenko express their sincere sympathy to the family, their loved ones and their relatives, Catherine Gandzük. We demand that the law enforcement agencies activate all the reserves to establish and bring to justice the perpetrators of this terrible crime in the shortest possible terms. At last night's meeting, the faction of the Party of Peter Prashenko unanimously supported the creation of the TSK by investigating the murder of an activist. We have also delegated to this committee the national deputies from our team, who will do their utmost to establish truth and justice. All those involved in this terrible crime must suffer the most severe punishment provided for by law. We believe that it is also necessary to support the initiative of the Head of the Supreme Council and to listen urgently in Parliament to the heads of law enforcement agencies responsible for investigating the case. In addition, I welcome Ukrainian military personnel to the fact that the status of the Ukrainian army as one of the best in Europe has been confirmed. According to the Global Firepower project, the Ukrainian army is one of the ten most powerful armies in the continent. And this is because even in the 14th year, the Ukrainian army did not exist much, because in the previous years, it was deliberately destroyed. Property, technology, military technology, and military spending were being systematically reduced, and in just four years of war, we were able to do the impossible: rebuild the Ukrainian army, make it completely viable, and bring it to European leaders. It's about political speculation about a gas price rise. No politician today has an honest recipe that would allow us to lower prices, for we pay for the totality of the system’s faults of Timoshenko, Yanukovich, and Azarov. Today, despite the war and annexation, Ukraine’s economy would not need external borrowing if it were not for this debt pit, Timoshenko, Yanukovic. For the next two generations, they transferred over 70 billion dollars of debt, the left share of which went to Moscow as payment for Putin-Timoshenko's Cabal Gas Contract. So the government of Groysman had to take this unpopular and painful step. What we can really do to protect vulnerable populations after the increase is to support President Peter Dustenk's initiative to extend the subsidy programme. We demand that in the 2019 budget there be sufficient funds to protect every Ukrainian family under the conditions of natural gas exploration. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-06-m0.u3	Thank you. Only I don't understand why you scream ten times? I can hear you very well, and once again there was no such thing as not giving me a line. Because if we yell at each other and yell at each other, it's not going to work effectively in Parliament. Please, 1 minute, Julia Timoshenko. Turn on the microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-06-m0.u4	Dear friends! He was the head of the Herasimov BPP faction, which is a separatist. One of Bessler's known terrorists, whose name is Bess. And he's still talking about some good things. It is a person who, in fact, represents separatists in Parliament from Dustenka. And secondly, he said that whatever the contract that was signed in 2009 was wrong. I'm addressing all Ukrainians now. Please take your fees for gas in 2009 and compare them with the gas payments that Peter Poroshenko is writing to you today. And another 23 and a half percent are now rising gas prices. And you'll see what kind of contract is bad, which is nice. And draw conclusions.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-06-m0.u5	Thank you. From the Self-Help faction to the word, Sobolev Yegor Viktorovich is invited. He's giving the floor to Oleni Sotnik. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-06-m0.u6	Good morning! We are currently having a very serious internal parliamentary dispute. You all heard yesterday that under the walls of our Conciliation Council, activists and defenders came, they demanded the creation of an independent, I emphasize, independent interim investigation committee. Yes, we know that the commission of inquiry in this Parliament's walls has rarely been effective, we know that they have very little authority, but we still demanded a temporary commission of inquiry for the beating of activists, after the attack and now the death of activist Gandzük. And we continue to demand this, regardless of what the majority of Parliament is doing right now, the coalition is trying to create a fully controlled interim commission of inquiry. They appointed the Head of the Ukrainian Security Service, who is now in charge of the investigation, they appointed the Attorney General, who is responsible for the procedural direction of these investigations, they appointed their Head of the Ministry of Internal Affairs, who is also responsible for the work of the National Police today and directs its activities, and, at the same time, they want to control the interim commission of inquiry, which is to conclude whether there is inaction in the activities of these bodies or not; whether attacks on activists are being investigated whether they are being sabotaged in places of law enforcement. I'm sorry, but this is not how parliamentaryism works. We think that the opposition has full rights at this stage because it's a fundamental question of protecting people, and not just activists, investigating any cases here has to be a question. So we think it's a principle that in this interim commission of inquiry there be an independent head, the first. The second is for everyone to assume responsibility for the commission’s work, that law enforcement authorities will appear there and explain themselves. Parliament is finally to become a parliament, and we must finally mention that we have been chosen here by people, not by law enforcement agencies, not by ministers who now hold their posts. And in the end, the people they attack are doing your job: the work of law enforcement agencies, the work of the courts. They expose corrupters, and you can't even investigate these cases. So our requirement is very simple, but it is clear. The Self-Help faction requires that the TSC be independent, balanced and that the head of the TSC be a person who has nothing to do with a coalition that will not be able to engage and independently carry out the work of this temporary commission of inquiry and finally to say why attacks on activists are not being investigated, why they are sabotaged in places.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-06-m0.u7	30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-06-m0.u8	And who, and why are they afraid of activists? Because it looks like they're probably actually exposing those who are stealing this state, so you're killing them.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-06-m0.u9	Thank you. From the Party and Rebirth faction Bondar Viktor Vasilovich, please, Mr. Victor.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-06-m0.u10	Dear Andriy Volodymyrovich, distinguished colleagues, surely you and I have been watching for the past four years as the tariffs for the population and industry in Ukraine rose rapidly. In fact, four and ten times the tariffs on gas and electricity have increased over the last four years. I had the expectation that there would be enough common sense and intelligence in power not to make a further increase in tariffs or just put the situation in a deadlock and collapse. Regrettably, there was not enough intelligence. What do we see now? We see that the gap between the poor and the authorities is simply becoming hopeless. The government neither hears nor understands the situation in which people in the village, in the cities, in the areas after the next increase in tariffs. Two years ago, we proposed and decreed that we should do an audit of the eurotariffs and introduce a moratorium on raising tariffs. Unfortunately, no one could hear us. Today we see a completely cynical situation: the state-owned companies Naftogaz, Crushing over the year show 60-70 billion profits. The Naftogazu leadership is putting a billion 200 million per 16 people on the prize. And then they're going to ask us to raise the tariffs again. I'm sorry, it's sacrilegious, it's impossible to do such things. So we've registered yet another draft regulation, we've announced that these tariffs need to be cancelled, that we need to carry out energy audits, and then we're going to give people an answer about why there's so much gas in Ukraine. The gas of our own production, we all know it's three times cheaper than the authorities are offering us today to buy imported gas imported from abroad. So why don't we give Ukrainian gas to the population, to government agencies? Why do we not give a normal price? Because they played, they played politics, they played in absolute economic vacchanalism and economic nonsense. So we do propose that we go back to this issue, vote on our draft ruling. You don't want our draft decision -- we're ready to get rid of ambitions and support any draft decision and decision of the Supreme Council to abolish these shameful tariffs and conduct an energy audit. This will be the only just decision that will enable people in Ukraine to get out of this situation. I'm sorry when Naftogazu's manager sends $8 million to his mom in America in the form of a bonus he's won on Naftogaza, which is cynicism. If his mother had come to Ukraine, settled in any village, lived in the house for the state's pension, and paid the tariffs he set for the population. Then he would understand what real life is. Not when Mom has $8 million in the U.S., but the whole of Ukraine is begging for funds to pay off these crazy tariffs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-06-m0.u11	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear colleagues! Please allow me to make an announcement. Now, in Ukraine and in the Ukrainian Parliament, there is a parliamentary delegation of the Polish-Ukrainian Friendship Group headed by Vice-Marshal Seima Ms. Beata Mazurek. Let us welcome, please, our dear Polish friends, our brothers and thank the Ukrainian Parliament for the great support that the Ukrainian Parliament and society feel for the protection of our territorial integrity and sovereignty of Ukraine. [[Congrats]] Thank you. Thank you, dear colleagues. Dear colleagues! We continue our session and invite the head of the Fatherland faction, Julia Timoshenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-06-m0.u12	Dear colleagues, we all know the tragedy with Catherine Gandzük. And I want to fully support Self-Help and our young MEPs in order to immediately vote on the draft decision to create a temporary commission of inquiry on the parity between power and opposition and to direct this interim commission of inquiry to a man believed by civil society. I think that if we don't do that, we're going to be covering the attempt on the lives of 54 activists, public figures, and the murder of Catherine Gandzük. We need to act now, because Poshenko and his environment have actually put a war on public activists just in one of their priorities. Either we protect our young active people, or they will continue to be killed. The other one. We've got miners sitting on the rostrum right now, and I welcome them to the state mines. [[Applause]] I would like to inform you that miners on government mines have not received a salary in five months. And even. I've got pictures of Victor Triphonov in my hands right now who set himself on fire to protect the miners. They're starving, they're dying. A billion 250 million dollars in debt! Dustenko decided to destroy the government mines in order to destroy the energy dependency of our nation and to hand us over to the aggressor country. And the third is about raising tariffs for gas, gas prices, heat and hot water. Now, once again, in violation of their word not to raise the price of gas, they really abused people again, and Dustenko gave the command 23.5 percent raise the price of gas, the tariffs on heat and hot water. Now 130 councils of city, district and district councils throughout the country have called on the President to immediately reverse this decision. More than two hundred communities had large strikes in fact that required immediate cancellation. In Parliament, most factions, apart from the faction of WFP, have almost all signed a draft decree to cancel the price increase for gas, to give the population gas of Ukrainian production and to introduce a moratorium on gas prices immediately. Six months left to rule over Dustenkov. Let's all not give up the Ukrainians and the Ukrainians together, support this decision unanimously, and stop it.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-06-m0.u13	Please, 30 seconds. Come on, let's go.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-06-m0.u14	and stop the genocide of the Ukrainian nation. And now we claim as the "Paternity" faction: we are not voting for any bill until the Katherina Gandzück ruling is passed, as well as a decree to cancel the increase in gas prices and the imposition of a moratorium.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-06-m0.u15	Thank you. BPP requires replication because the faction was mentioned in a negative context. Please, Arthur Gerasimov, one minute. I would very much ask that colleagues in a negative context not mention each other so that we can focus on the performances. Please, Arthur Gerasimov, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-06-m0.u16	Dear Irina Volodymyrna! Dear colleagues! We've just heard a speech by the head of the Fatherland, referring to the gas of Ukrainian mining. But, you know, I'd like to remind the Ukrainians and I'd like to remind the Parliamentary colleagues that the obligation to balance Ukrainian gas prices with the price of imported gas, i.e. to raise the price, took on Julia Timoshenko just 10 years ago, when on October 31, 2008, as Prime Minister, she personally signed a corresponding memorandum with the IMF, which became an international legal obligation for all future governments. And if anyone wants to see it, but everyone knows, this is the memo where the signature of Julius Volodymyrna Timoshenko stands. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-06-m0.u17	Thank you. I want to remind you. [[B in m in s a l in]] I'm asking for your attention and not to interrupt. In her reply, Julia Timoshenko mentioned in the negative context of Gerasimov. He was not given a minute of replication. So now, if you'll excuse me, we're going to have a radical party of Oleg Laska. And I would go to the Ukrainian Parliament, read the Rules, not embarrass myself in front of our Polish colleagues. Please make a statement now to the Radical Party of Oleg Laska. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-06-m0.u18	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Dear fellow MPs, I appeal to you: are you ashamed? Two weeks ago, the government of Dustenka made decisions that effectively robbed Ukrainians, raising gas prices. Our team initiated an extraordinary parliamentary meeting to stop gas prices from rising in order to protect Ukrainians from being robbed of power. You have responded to this initiative of the unit, and everyone else has remained indifferent. So people are being robbed, the authorities are raising tariffs, people are not able to pay for the utility, or for the medicine, or for the food, and you're still indifferent. How can you be so heartless and unconscionable? So what I'm saying is that the Radical Party team, we signed with the leaders of other factions, other than coalition factions, a decision to cancel the government's decision to increase the price of natural gas and implement a moratorium on the price of natural gas for citizens. [[Applause]] Under this project, determine the signatures of six factions and groups. We now demand the head of parliament to consider and adopt this decision immediately and to protect the Ukrainians from the President's plundering policy and his authority. Our team will not vote for any other decision until the moratorium on rising gas prices is adopted. We think that at a time when the authorities are robbing Ukrainians, when people don't have the ability to feed their children, to feed, to dress, to be treated, to be indifferent, and to pretend that nothing is happening is a crime. That's why the Radical Party team has proposed a very clear plan of action to reduce gas prices, raise wages, recalculate pensions, an anti-crisis economic plan that will enable the economy to recover in the country and create new jobs. The authorities of the Ukrainians are looting. My team is proposing how to protect Ukrainians, how to pay them higher wages, higher pensions, lower tariffs, more opportunities to earn and feed their children. Power doesn't matter. We don't care. The government is stealing, we're saying that today's gas price hike -- Ukraine is not paying for gas, Ukraine is paying for power corruption, its non-professionalism, its inability to bring order to the country, restore stability and economic development. This program of economic recovery, stability and development is offered by me and our team. Stopping gas prices is one of the first steps to restoring order in the country.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-06-m0.u19	Please welcome the leader of the Opposition Block, the faction, Yuri Boyko. Welcome, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-06-m0.u20	Madam Chairman, honourable national deputies, first of all, I would like to welcome all the Ukrainians and parliament with the 75th anniversary of Kiev's liberation from the German-Fashistic invaders on November 6, 43rd. This is a remarkable event in the history of the Ukrainian people. On the eve of this date, together with the Dnipro-Ukraine search party, as for many years, we are burying the dead Soviet Army fighters who were protecting the capital of Ukraine. Last Saturday in the West, I had a meeting with veterans, with those who were able to come. There aren't many of them left, 10 or 12 people. They're 90-95 years old. And they surround me and ask me, "Protect us!".. They ask them to protect them from moral harassment of this authority, from material limitations, from poverty, and from begging. By raising tariffs, they were all turned into beggars. Today, however, not only veterans but all Ukrainian citizens need protection. We insist that we stop the price rises for gas and tariff cuts. To do this, we will introduce a gas market bill, which contains an economically sound price that should be maximum for gas for the population. And it's going to be a fair price that allows people to pay for gas instead of sitting on subsidies on a grant needle. If all the national MPs, most of whom we see in the hall today, are opposed to rising gas prices, I propose that we all support this bill. In turn, we will support all the initiatives, without hindrance to individuals, regardless of who brought them, who will allow this tariff genocide to end. And the last. The German Chancellor’s visit as one of the initiators of the mine process once again demonstrated the importance and irreversibility of the diplomatic path to resolving the conflict at Donbas. But this is not possible without a direct dialogue with all the conflicting parties. And we, our faction, are ready for this public dialogue, we begin it for the sake of peace on Donbassa, the return of territory, people and the restoration of stability in the country. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-06-m0.u21	The representative of the political group "The Will of the People" Sergiyshakhov is invited to the floor, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-06-m0.u22	People's Will Group, Sergeyshakhov, Luganskina. Dear colleagues, why is everyone today talking about a gas price increase when Jaroslav Moskalenko registered a draft Order in March, 8810 to ban the price of gas?Oh, my God! When our volunteers collected signatures in the summer, and one and a half million signatures of "Our Land," one and a half million signatures, I said, right there, into the government. Note this. I personally registered Decree 9027 against rising the price of gas. To inspect the entire gas transport system, do an audit of all the wells where the Ukrainian gas is pumped to which it belongs. When I come to my district, when people tell me that near the village they're getting Ukrainian gas and they're counting into the "Düsseldorf Plus" formula by 7 bracelets, and today 8,550 doesn't fit in. This is the genocide of the Ukrainian people when people starve when they think, pay them today for utilities or pay them for gas today. Secondly, today in Lugansk, it's practically an energy disaster. Today, U.S. TES will stand without coal through the blockade, because there is no anthracite there today, it's going to burn with gas today, and the price of electricity is going to cost 5 dollars today. Imagine! Next. Today, miners of the 19th century are sitting in the mine of the Kaputin Shah, starving. 33 miners 19 days ago climbed into a mine, 20 of them already lying in a hospital — a heart attack. Today, families starve, go begging, and ask people to borrow money. The books of the barns today are being asked by people in the store: Please give them bread. You and I are national deputies. People! That is why the people chose us to care for the people, the people. Dear colleagues, we voted with you on the last day, on Friday, in June 13 of the Law 8362 Bondar, in which Oleg Nedda and all our colleagues participated. Please tell me, did they pay a billion and a half dollars of wages? No, it's not. Today, miners are given a tax of 300 million dollars when today they have an estimated one and a half billion dollars. In general, the coal industry is collapsing. We demand that we immediately engage in this process, make a temporary investigation group. Why is the coal sector not modernized today? Why is the minister of coal and energy not paying attention to miners today? Please tell me. Let him go out to Lugansk and see what's going on with the miners today right there, go down to the mine.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-06-m0.u23	30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-06-m0.u24	We demand to immediately put to the vote Order 8810 Jaroslav Moscalenka, to put Order 9027 right from Our Land, Shahov, and to immediately pay attention to miners in Lugansk. Have Minister Nasalik come out, the anti-Ukrainian minister, and see what's going on there today at the Kaputina Checkout. Thank you. Sergeyshakhov. Sergei Shahov.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-06-m0.u25	The last performance in our traditional column on Tuesday is the head of the MaksimBurbak People's Front faction. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-06-m0.u26	Congratulations, colleagues. The People's Front faction supports the invitation to the Henprocuror's Parliament, the Head of the Bureau and the Head of the National Police. Today we need to hear information from the leaders of these law enforcement agencies regarding the investigation into the murder of Catherine Gandzük. Three months have passed since the attack on Catherine. The National Police set up and arrested people who had reason to suspect the murder. The public has long heard their names: Baggins, Gorbunov, Vasinovich, Visniewski, Grabchuk. However, we want to hear the names of the customers. Once again, artists and organizers are installed. It is known that the decision of the Public Prosecutor’s Office makes it possible for the work of the contracting authority to be carried out separately to the Ukrainian Security Service. We demand that the B.B.U.S.A. be installed as soon as possible and placed on the bench of defendants alongside performers and organizers. Yesterday at a faction meeting, we identified three deputies to be assigned to the parliamentary Tsk, which investigates the attack on activists. And hopefully her work will be productive. And I urge all parties to refrain from over-politicizing the work of this commission. Last Friday was four years old from the time of the election of this parliament, which will be history by adopting unprecedented strategically important reforms. We made them in difficult circumstances, despite Russian invasions, despite the country that Januković robbed. Parliament gathered around the reforms of the Yatsenuk government, which stopped the country's defolt in the 14th year. The entire Ukrainian people gathered around the war for independence. We've reduced our external debt by billions of dollars, with at least 5 percent of GDP in the defense. We've implemented an incredibly complex visa-free plan. Never before have Ukrainian politicians and officials published information about their wealth. We started a fight for energy independence and not only refused to buy gas at Gazprom, but we won a lawsuit in a Russian gas monopoly for tens of billions of dollars. The Yatzenuk government protected a simple consumer of gas through a grant program, through a social standard for gas, through "warm loans". We have protected Ukrainian language on television and radio, and we now know and hear many Ukrainian groups and performers that are becoming known worldwide. The production of Ukrainian films has increased tenfold. We started reforming the school, which will further increase the competitiveness of our young people in the world. And this list can be continued. It's all about the coalition and this and the previous governments. The credit of this Supreme Council. It's the People's Front faction. This is our decision in four years' work. We have something to report to the voters. But now the pace of reforms cannot be slowed down. Most importantly, we cannot allow a rematch followed by the collapse of reforms and the rebirth of the "Russian world" on Ukrainian soil. We now have a day-to-day adoption of a balanced and balanced budget. In our second reading, we have a bill on national language. We must continue to pursue energy independence and make these changes irreversible. Can I finish?
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-06-m0.u27	30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-06-m0.u28	Now we have to go through energy independence, and we have to make these changes irreversible. And we have to engage a powerful Western ally with a strategic investor in the Ukrainian GTS. Next. We're going to adopt the laws that are necessary to implement the Safety Act, which is our movement in NATO. The next steps are the adoption and implementation of Ukraine's NATO accession plan. We don't have much time for empty talk. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-06-m0.u29	Thank you, colleagues. So we've finished speaking from factions and groups. At the same time, I would like to report that a statement has been made by two factions -- "Paternal" and "self-help" -- requiring a real break for half an hour, not a performance, but a real break. But we agreed that before we take a break, we would vote in favour of inviting the leaders of the force to prepare, and then I would announce the break. It's accepted, isn't it? Hence, colleagues, in connection with the tragic death of Catherine Gandzück and the need for a thorough investigation of this crime at the proposals of the factions ’ heads, are invited to attend the plenary meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine today and to listen to their information on the state of the investigation of attacks on public activists. The leadership of the National Police, the Office of the Attorney General of Ukraine and the Ukrainian Security Service are proposed. We need 150 votes to invite them. Colleagues, is everyone in? Are we all in, colleagues? So I'm writing: the head of the Ministry of Internal Affairs. Accordingly, in accordance with articles 6 and 34 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules, I am voting on the proposal to have a presence today, at 12:30 a.m. without delay, at 12:30 a.m. a.m. a.m. plenary meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the Office of the Attorney-General of Ukraine, the Ukrainian Security Service, and to listen to their information on the state of the investigation of attacks on public activists. Please vote and please support this proposal. Let's vote, colleagues, please back up, please back up. [[10:41:36]] For 222 So 222 is in. Decision taken. And I invite you today, colleagues, at 12:30, and I ask the apparatus to notify officially. And now I'm announcing from two factions a break, but for this break to be in vain, I invite all the heads of factions to my office to complete the consultations. So I invite all the heads of factions to my office for a break. And, accordingly, we'll continue our work in 30 minutes, it'll be 11:15. And I want to remind you that we have the first cluster of issues of national security and defence: demining, the adjacent zone. And that's why I urge everyone to be able to consult quickly and to consider important issues of security and defence. So I'm waiting for all the factions in my office.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-06-m0.u30	Dear colleagues, allow me to inform you that consultations are continuing with the head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine with the leaders of the parliamentary factions regarding the establishment of a temporary commission of inquiry for the murder of Catherine Gandzük and the attack on other activists, attacks, more loyal. Consultations are taking place in a constructive manner. And we're going to take another 15 minutes, because it's still about today's agenda for the Supreme Council. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-06-m0.u31	Colleagues, there's a break at 12:30. And I would like to remind all the Ukrainian people's deputies that we voted with you to hear about 12:30 a.m. the heads of forces, such as the Ministry of Internal Affairs, the Attorney General's Office and the Ukrainian Security Service, regarding the resonance investigation of the attack on public activists. At 12:30, we're waiting for everyone in the session room. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-06-m0.u32	So, your honors, please come into the hall, break time is over. I'd like to inform you that there's been a consultation on the establishment of a temporary commission of inquiry. And now I'm asking the regulatory committee to consider the creation of a temporary commission of inquiry as quickly as possible and, as we agreed, we're now moving on to listening to the force. I had a prior consultation. Colleagues, pay attention! The proposal is as follows: that Henprocuror should report for up to 20 minutes, the National Police of the Princes - within 5 minutes and the head of the Security Service - within 5 minutes. Together it will be the same for half an hour. The questions are made in general to any of the muscles. Is that the position taken? So half an hour is going to be a report, and then it's given to every faction per minute for a question, and it's going to be another half hour -- answers and questions. Is that the order? Yes, colleagues? I don't see any objections. So we emphasize 20 minutes, the report by Henprocuror, then five minutes later, the representative of the National Police of Knaziev Sergio Mikolaiovich and the Head of the Security Service of Gretzak Vasil Sergiyovich. The minister of the interior of Habakkuk’s affairs is also present. If he has any questions, he will be able to answer these questions. And so for an hour we'll be able to listen to information. And so I invite you to the report of the Attorney General of Ukraine, Lucenka Yuri Vitaliovich. 20 minutes to report. And I'd like everyone's attention and stamina.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-06-m0.u33	Dear Mr. Head! Dear National Deputies! It is well - known that the National Police in the Hersonian region reported criminal conduct following the assassination of Catherine Hansukza as evidence of the crime provided for in article 115 of the Criminal Code of Ukraine. Literally a few days after the case was broken, I personally visited the victim -- now, unfortunately, dead -- Katerina Gandzük in a hospital where she had a constructive conversation and received information from her about the likely buyers of this crime. At her request and her protection, another criminal conduct was violated and the Ukrainian Security Service was entrusted with the mistrust of Mrs. Gandzück in the National Police investigation. Thus, there are in fact two matters: the executioners and the organizers, who were quickly established by the National Police, and the search for the buyers of this serious crime by the Ukrainian Security Service. As a result, I'm not afraid to say that the high-profile actions of the National Police have already been established in a short time that this crime has been planned and implemented by persons who have now been detained, but then precautionary measures through cooperation with the investigation of some of these persons have been changed. This is a citizen of Torbin, born in 1977, who is considered to be a criminal investigator and is in a detention facility, a citizen of Gorbunov, 1991, a citizen of Vishnevsky, 1990, a citizen of Grabchuk, 1995, and a citizen of Vasilovitch, 1994. All suspects are part of an anti-terror operation, one of which is seriously injured, actually missing a lump. Most of the detainees, four of them, confessed to their involvement in the crime and pointed out the role of all those involved in the crime. In this regard, the investigation is based on the opinion of Torbin’s citizen as the organizer of the crime and of others. the hired persons by his performers. In addition, the investigation conducted 367 interrogations of all persons involved in this group and in other versions. Twenty-one expert studies were conducted. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that today we have suspicions of 12 persons who may have been contracting this crime. Gandzük herself spoke of some of them during Skype-related interrogations to investigators. I also point out that she spoke to me personally about three of these people, the investigation -- a little bit more. At this point, the investigation actually consists of two stages. In fact, we consider it almost proven, except for the final expertise, the guilt of the performers and the organizer. After completing the molecular-genetic analysis of acid particles on the body of one of the participants, the computer-technological one that examines the computer and mobile phone, which accurately leads to preparation for the use of acid, and specifically for Gandzück, the forensic one that was assigned yesterday and is scheduled to establish (for the qualification of crime) the cause of Katerina Gandzük's death, this part of the case will be referred to the court. I believe that this will take place depending on the completion of the expertise not later than the end of this year. We're going to think it's going to be a little faster. Of course, society is also concerned about us who are the organizers of this crime. In this regard, the investigation has its version. Customer, excuse me, customer. In this regard, the investigation has its version, and I am confident that it is moving effectively to the completion and completion of this part of the work. As you can understand, to discover, and even more to prove the customer's guilt, is a higher qualification and a sufficiently serious operational success of any kind. In this case, until yesterday, I was sure that we would work effectively in the near future. However, yesterday, in the course of a blood pier, which opened up a portion of those who wanted to corrupt power rather than aid the investigation, one of the versions of the investigation leaked into the media. Once again, 12 of us who are developing to be part of the order have, of course, received the information they needed in connection with yesterday’s outflow. In this regard, I can state the following. I knew Gandzück personally on Maidan and after. I view her death as a personal grief. I feel sorry for all of her loved ones and loved ones, I understand the public's concerns, I totally understand. Because Handzük was one of the few activists who was an activist for the community, not for personal gain, as many of those who today anoint her name. But I am outraged at the blood that has spread around this matter. Ladies and gentlemen, I have served many times as a deputy, and I understand that the interim commission of inquiry is an instrument of Parliament. But I can't imagine what the TSC can do in an unfinished investigation. Obviously, she doesn't even have a subject, because any information on the investigation is the secret of the investigation. And the D.A. won't allow, especially after yesterday's leak, any member of the D.C.C.'s access to any warrant of investigation! This is what I'm telling you right now. And I also don't understand the indictment that this bloody campaign has launched on all sorts of broadcasts. Yesterday’s information leak in one of the 12 versions of the client has undermined the success of the investigation. What the TSC will do, as an experienced parliamentarian in the past, is also understandable. Because this TSC does not need a result, more faithfully, the organizers of the TSC do not need a result, they need a pyar to fight for power. I say things I've never said before, and I think it's possible to say them today. We live in a completely distorted information atmosphere. Today, it is not Putin, who attacked the country and killed thousands of soldiers and civilians, who are responsible for the war. Today, it is not Janukovic who robbed Ukraine and fled to Moscow, but those who took one and a half billion and brought it into the budget. Today, it is not those who killed Gandzück and detained by the National Police who are accused but those who, according to the investigator, do not point to the necessary contracting authority. It's all about the power struggle on these airs. So there's no doubt that no one's in charge, I'm filing an application today for the resignation of the President of Ukraine. And you in Parliament have to consider this issue. Please do this this week. I've done my job and I'll do it. [[Applause]] Everything I promised Catherine Gandzück in the hospital was done and done. But in a country where the law enforcement system is destroyed without proof, even for crimes that have been committed, I cannot afford it. As head of the law enforcement system today, I'm going to file a statement, and you can decide whether Mustafa Najam is going to lead the investigation and install the guilty TV screens or the law enforcement authorities responsible for this criminal responsibility. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-06-m0.u34	Thank you. The report invites the head of the National Police of Ukraine, Sergey Mikolayovich. Five minutes to report.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-06-m0.u35	Good afternoon, Honourable Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, distinguished national deputies. With a view to avoiding any speculation about the actual state of murder of Catherine Gandzück, remaining within the limits of the procedural limitations placed upon me, I would like to inform you of some of the circumstances of the commission and the course of the investigation of this insolent crime. I'll have slides and some videos to help you understand. Yes, on July 31st of the house - to - house attack was carried out on Catherine Gandzük, who suffered chemical burns over 30 percent of her body as a result of the use of sulfuric acid. The victim’s clothes, a pair of rubber gloves, a glass bank, were removed from the scene of the crime and from the direction of the criminal’s departure. You can see it on the slide. During the work of the surrounding territory, an external surveillance camera was found that found one of the possible criminals. The compressed video you're going to see on the screens right now, it's not very good: what we have is what we have. That's all we did at the time, that's the first stage of our investigation. In addition, as a result of the operational arrangements, a seller is installed where criminals in the city of Kahoka purchased tools for crime — sulfuric acid. You can see it on the slides. Following my orders, a photo of the customer on the Internet was distributed to the investigating and procedural director of the Department of Communications of the National Police for the purpose of identifying his person. This is the time when there was a noise peak with a slogan, "Who ordered the Gandzük?" and held mass rallies under the authority of the police in Herson and Kiev, demanding information, and shouting "A shame!".. By the way, no information from the media has been received, unfortunately, from citizens and any of us in society, from any of us. That is, the promotion of the investigation was limited to declarations and rallying. During the operation of the city’s video surveillance cameras, we have a buyer of the specified substance installed. By the way, as the Attorney General said, this is really a member of the ATO. And you also see a video of confession in the context of the crime. [[Video recording broadcast]] After his arrest and interrogation, the organizer of the crime, his two manuals, and his direct executioner were installed and detained. Unfortunately, all participants in the ATO. I might add that the detention of the organizer was conducted by a private deputy of the police chief and deputy of the Head of State, which shows the level of attention given to the leadership of the State's law enforcement authorities to this crime. As a result of interrogations by detained persons and 367 witnesses conducted 9 searches conducted by more than 20 experts, more than 100 unspoken investigations set out all the conditions for preparing and committing this crime. Yes, it was found that in July of this year, the organizer offered to beat up the secretary of the Herson City Council, Hansuk, for which he promised a reward. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-06-m0.u36	Please complete one minute. [[B in m in s a l in]] Please, Your Honor, I've heard everything. Please, five minutes. Finish, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-06-m0.u37	For which I promised a reward of $5,000. In the future, criminals changed, and they decided to use relatively Gandzük’s sulfuric acid. On the eve of the crime committed on July 26, the organizer, his accomplice, and the immediate perpetrator purchased the item. In the following, the organizer assigned roles to his associates. He's also one of the co-conspirators.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-06-m0.u38	Please, five minutes. Add five minutes to the reverend's report.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-06-m0.u39	Thank you. One of the participants was also used as a driver and had to wait in the car; the other was to observe the territory around the house of Hanszük, and the performer directly applied the sulphuric acid in relation to the victim. It's been a while since the interrogation. After a crime. Here comes the information, you can see it on the website. After committing a crime, the driver took the performer to the city of Oleška, on the way to the city, the performer's shoes and the bottle of sulfuric acid the driver threw off on the banks of the Konka River. In the course of our investigation, we removed our items. Without evidence of suspects, the police would never have been able to find these things. This indicates cooperation and the quality of the investigation that it was. Now you're going to see a fragment of the crime scene. [[Video recording broadcast]] In addition, another glass bottle of sulfuric acid was removed during the search of the house in Olesh, in Hersonian, where the perpetrators were preparing the crime. My circumstances have been thoroughly documented in the investigation process, which has established and obtained undisputed evidence of suspects ’ guilt. All five were informed of the suspected murder and were selected as a precaution. The investigation by the police has in fact been completed, and all the evidence to be taken into account by the court has been obtained. In view of the fact that, according to the decision of the Attorney General's Office, criminal conduct in relation to the perpetrators of the murder is being investigated by the Ukrainian Security Service, we have adopted a decision agreed with the Ukrainian Attorney-General's Office to transfer the said conduct to the Ukrainian General Investigation Service for further investigation and prosecution. All the details of the investigation mentioned above in my report are permitted by the order of the investigator, consistent with the procedural manager and the partial disclosure to the deputies and the society. The National Police of Ukraine and I personally express the sympathy of the family, relatives, friends of the deceased. I hope that the discovery of the crime against Catherine Gandzück and the punishment of the guilty will put an end to the attacks on activists, and we will do our utmost to do so. I also hope that this will stop the violent speculation of politicians and individual citizens around this tragedy. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-06-m0.u40	Thank you. [[Applause]] The report is invited by the head of the Ukrainian Security Service, Gritzak Vasil Sergiyovich. Then the questions will be unified among all. In five minutes, too, Mr. Basil, if necessary, I'll add time and then we'll move on to questions. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-06-m0.u41	Good afternoon, everyone! Thank you, Andry Volodymyrovich, for the opportunity. I still want to start by expressing my sympathy to the family of Caterina Gandzük, who, like many others, I also knew personally, had the honour. You all know that 31.07 after the commission of this crime, criminal conduct was reported in the city of Hersson, which was investigated by the National Police Department. But from the very first day of the investigation of this criminal activity, the Security Service was directly involved in the work and follow-up of the commission of, of course, the trial manager and the investigator. And I am grateful for the honesty of the head of the National Police, Sergey Knyazev, that, indeed, when it came to the question of arresting one of the organizers or organizers of this crime, my deputy went to the scene directly to Herson. Later, a week later, on August 6, this year, another criminal conduct was registered by the Prosecutor’s Office of the Hersonian Region, which was provided for investigation into the Ukrainian Security Service. It was registered under article 258, article 15, and article 115 of the Ukrainian Criminal Code, right in the client’s section. I would like to point out that work has been coordinated since the beginning, as with investigators and operational officers of the National Police, the procedural directors of the Attorney General's Office of Ukraine. A decision has been taken by the Attorney General’s Office regarding the transfer of materials and the integration of these two tours into one, as I understand it was on November 4, this year. In fact, the materials are already in Kiev, and I hope that today we will receive them directly for continued operation. I am convinced that we will act and continue to be aligned with both the National Police and the Attorney General's Office, with the trial leaders. But in my support of solidarity with the people before me, I want to say that the honourable national MPs, the publication of the pretrial investigation data, do not contribute to the quality and speed of the full clarity of the matter. I'm telling you this as an operative with a huge, in principle, experience of work, and I'm very sincere about that. We make a minimum effort to provide information that can harm us. Any information that is provided to anyone, regardless of whether they are in the process, not in the process, can be used by those who did it for protection. I look you in the eye and I speak with full responsibility. Today, we are ready for this investigation. We've already talked to the Attorney General about what we should do next, and we've discussed this with the Head of the National Police, so we'll let you know about the progress of further investigation within the framework of allowing us a trial director and an investigator in accordance with article 222 of the Criminal Procedure Code. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-06-m0.u42	Thank you, colleagues. So now you start by speaking from factions, and then I'm going to give nine minutes of questions from the national MPs. So now I'm asking the factions to record the performance. And I remind you that at the beginning of the session, I gave the task to the regulatory committee, to consider a regulation that is already registered, and I'm giving the commission to consider it. And besides, colleagues, it seems to me that through their interventions, all the representatives of the law enforcement agencies have demonstrated both a high level of professionalism and an understanding of the depth of the problem facing us. And that's why I'm also calling for less political emotion and less electoral campaign and more understanding of our shared and shared responsibility and of the matter that we're considering, and so that things like this never happen again. I personally thank all law enforcement officials for their quality and professional work. So please sign up for the factions. From the Radical Party of Lazko Oleg Valeriyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-06-m0.u43	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Our team and party express their heartfelt sympathy to their loved ones and close to the death of Catherine Gandzük. Our team sincerely thanks the operatives of the National Police, the Security Service, and the procedural leaders who have done their utmost to detain five perpetrators and organizers of this crime. Our team requires law enforcement agencies to investigate the crime, to establish the buyers, and to bring them to justice. And we firmly deny that in this case, we are going to make a pierre, a pierre on a dead man, a pierre on blood. All those who today tell you how they care about the investigation, I'll tell you. For three hours there was no Parliament, there was a session in the head of Parliament where the TSK issues were discussed. For three hours we talked about one thing: being on this investigation committee by MustafaNayem or not being. That was a key question to discuss! Let the Ukrainians know what was going on in Parliament. Because our colleague says, if he's on this committee, this commission is legal, if he's not there, then this commission is illegal. But the problem is that commissions of investigators are formed by factions, and the faction was not served. And they tell us, you compromise, you vote, because, you see, it has to be there, because it's the smartest, the most beautiful, the most true, the most just and all. And when I ask, what about the law, with the requirements when the factions should be? Well, let's compromise. I have a question: what is this compromise on the road to breaking the law? What's the compromise when they say, "You're breaking the law because someone needs to please you?" We're not doing this. And we think it's a great sin to pry into the death of a man who died as a result of a crime. And it is a great sin to commit this policy. And a great sin prevents the purchasers of this bloody crime from being caught in front of Catherine’s family, Hanszük, and in front of all society. Because, as the Attorney General said, one of the most likely versions of the information was lost. Perhaps the customer will escape responsibility because someone wanted to fight and make it a policy. This is not the case, but it is the need to restore law enforcement because, unfortunately, not one Catherine suffers, but millions of Ukrainians suffer from abuse, banditry, terrorism, and looting. Grandparents go to the house, and the last money comes out. Because they had been reformed before the professionals were launched, the fuses were drawn open, and all those who could expose these crimes were dispersed. Because I wanted to be a pianist and walk with self-inflicted bats, show them how modern they are. People need protection from the state they spend billions of their money on. I will restore respect and trust in law enforcement. We will make them strong to protect Ukrainians from banditry, from politicians, and from pianists.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-06-m0.u44	Thank you. Please, from the People's Front faction, the leader of the Maxim Burbak faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-06-m0.u45	Dear colleagues! It is quite evident that on the first plenary day we heard information from law enforcement authorities about this resonance killing. We heard from the National Police today, from the National Police leadership, all the facts showed us that, who, where, and how. Please recall how many more cases there are when the National Police are rapidly detaining both executives and organizers. So all we have to do here is thank you for doing it quickly. Secondly, you would like to thank the Attorney General, the B.S.A., who has now decided to bring these cases together in order to finally find a buyer for this murder. And we have to give them every opportunity to do it professionally, quickly, without sharing all the information. Yes, today we're going to vote on the establishment of a commission that will discuss the issue of attacks on public figures, and I called in my speech that the faction of the People's Front also sends its deputies to work on this committee, but not to be politicized so that it doesn't turn into another show that we saw in both the 14th and the 15th, and the 16th. I support Yuri Vitaliyovich Lucenka in the idea that when it took half a billion dollars to be arrested by the Yatzenyuk government in the 14th year, to be sent to the budget and sent to the military, to our Armed Forces of Ukraine and to national security and defence, there were none. They shouted that someone would steal that money. Stolen or not? Are they now telling how the budget is going to grow? Don't plough on blood, don't plough on what you didn't do, don't tear this state apart! We saved it in the 14th year, thanks to Arsenia Yatsenyuk and Petra Prašenek, and to all of us in this Supreme Council. And we have to do that in the following year -- not allow the rematch of the pro-Russian forces in the state. And that's why I'm addressing the law enforcement agencies. Catherine Gandzück said that a branched Russian agency was operating in Herson. So now you have to investigate these cases and expose this agency not only in Herson but throughout eastern Ukraine. Because they've already activated and they're just waiting for a rematch. We won't let go. We won't let go. Glory to Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-06-m0.u46	Please, from the Opposition Block, People's MP Skorik. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-06-m0.u47	Dear colleagues, Madam Chairman, distinguished leaders of law enforcement agencies, respected citizens of Ukraine! On behalf of the political power, the political party "The Opposition Block" I express my sincere sympathy to the family and the close to the death of Catherine Gandzük. I have to join the positive words to the address of our law enforcement agencies that are working on this case. Again, on behalf of the faction, I have the task of informing colleagues and Ukrainian citizens that our political power will support the decision to create this TSC. We believe that if we live in the rightful parliamentary-presidential state, Parliament should have control functions. And I think that you can combine the mystery of the investigation with the ability to work effectively with the temporary commission of inquiry under the current Ukrainian legislation. I'd like to pay attention to the following. I think that in all the tragedy of this particular situation, we don't have to be selective about these issues. I must remind you that on more than one occasion from this rostrum, I have called for support for the offer of our political power to create a temporary commission of inquiry for the May 2 massacres in Odessa on 2 May. I think that a similar interim investigation commission deserves both the case of the murdered Paul Sheremet, the case of the murdered Busina, and the case of the killed National Guards in the square outside the Supreme Council building, and many, many other things. I think that in all the differences in our political views, colleagues, in all this difficult always situation in the sessional room, I want to say that for such issues to really make the law one for all, so that we can really demonstrate to our own citizens and to the whole world that we live in the rule of law, we have to unite in order to really make the guilty of such terrible crimes punishable by Ukrainian legislation. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-06-m0.u48	Please, Sergey Sobolev is invited to represent the position of the Fatherland faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-06-m0.u49	Sobolje, Fatherland. Our faction immediately expressed its sympathy to the family of Caterina Gandzück, but I think today's debate in Parliament is not just a discussion of a particular death. Yuri Vitaliyovich, this isn't a pear on blood, because when this Parliament discussed Gongadze's death 15 years ago and you were standing on this stand, it wasn't a pierre either, because if politicians hadn't raised these questions immediately, such deaths, such tragedies, I think many people, including the authorities, would have been interested in never knowing about it. Now it's about why the commission is being set up. But in order to prevent Catherine Gandzück from being shot in broad daylight in Oleshka, Sarmata, who criticized the governor, the prosecutor of Zaporez County and many other authorities. Killed right in the middle of the day, at 12 o’clock in the city of Berdjansk in August months in front of his wife, in front of his brothers. In order not to repeat these tragedies with journalists. So that these tragedies will not be repeated with public activists. In order for the Ukrainian Security Service, I am addressing you, Mr. Greesak, when you are summoned by your co-workers to the district office for meetings. What was in Zaporozhye yesterday. By the way, they're prosecutors. And I'm addressing you, Mr. Arsené, when police officers are called upon by governors to counter the opposition visits in the area. Think about it! The head of the district administration is not doing anything to set up any provocations but is setting up provocations against an opposition visit in the area! Let them report to you immediately. And such a governor was removed from office on the same day. Otherwise, it turns out that's what Dusty does. So that you can at least analyze a little bit of what's going on in the information space when the Kill July game is being advertised on the radio and everywhere! Think about it! What's the reaction of the Security Service, what's the reaction of the D.A.?Oh, my God! And you think that's a norm? This is to ensure that this is never repeated and that such a temporary commission of inquiry is created. Yes, unfortunately, she has no authority over those who are attributed to her in the Constitution. But even in this context, it is very important. To ensure that self - control is not self - centered. In order for the change of power to take place in a legal way, it is crucial. And that's exactly why a commission like this is being created. And to set up motives and customers.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-06-m0.u50	Please give the next speech from Self-Help, National MP Sobolev. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-06-m0.u51	In fact, the Attorney General and the Minister of Internal Affairs say that a public activist, a journalist, a concerned person in Ukraine needs to die, and then your death will be investigated to some extent. If from the very beginning, from the first attacks that began as soon as the Euromaidan won, and did not stop, but increased to this day, they found the performers and the main customers, many people would survive, many people would not be mutilated, many people would not be afraid. Indeed, the Minister of Internal Affairs, the head of the National Police, the Attorney General, does not understand that it is impunity that pushes forward attacks, the impunity of customers, and the coverage of them by police officers, prosecutors on the spot. Does anyone in this room think that without agreement, silently or by agreement, the leadership of the local power structures will be sought, paid for, and asked to attack a person? How long is this going to take: 5 minutes, 5 days? And then people will be behind bars, and the next one will know that if you're planning something against another citizen, you'll be sitting for murder for murder. But that's not happening. Attacks on activists have been measured by dozens throughout the country. They're meeting under the President's Administration, they're coming to the National Deputies. They're all over the world saying, please protect us, we're scared, our police, our Attorney General's Office isn't investigating crimes. I have an activist from Odessa Sergey Sternenko who survived three armed attacks on himself in order to kill him. He writes, "Please ask, why, when I point to the organizer of the last attack, when I point to the perpetrators of the attacks on me, don't they even stop? Why do I have to go to court to ask the investigator to carry out the investigation?".. That's what we're talking about. That's why you were summoned to Parliament. Without a doubt, self-help is for the investigation to be conducted professionally. All sources that impede the investigation must be investigated and punished, and the withdrawal from the investigation is impossible without an investigator or without a prosecutor. No doubt we join the thought.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-06-m0.u52	30 seconds to complete, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-06-m0.u53	And these attacks can't be used for political purposes, and self-help won't do that. We have only one request to ensure that the investigation is genuine and independent, Yuri Lucenko, ArsenAwakov, retire together.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-06-m0.u54	From Peter Prashenko's Block, please, Arthur Gerasimov is invited to the floor.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-06-m0.u55	Dear Madam Chairman! Dear colleagues! Dear Ukrainians! I'd like to speak again on behalf of our faction of the Peter Dustock Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-06-m0.u56	I'm asking the room to calm down, and I'm asking the room to calm down and allow the head of the BPF to speak for three minutes. Dear Self-Help faction, please, I beg of you! Please be quiet. [[B in m in s a l in]] I ask you to remember that we are discussing an extremely tragic event, and do not allow yourself to have similar behavior in the hall. Mr. Arthur, may I have your word? [[B in m in s a l in]] Please take 3 minutes, Arthur Gerasimov. And all the other colleagues, I'm asking for a little bit of emotion to be contained. Control your emotions. We are now discussing the death of a man who requires the delicacy of at least all those present. Emotions, please, calm down!
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-06-m0.u57	Dear colleagues! I would like to reiterate that from our faction of the Party of Peter Prashenko, we express our sincere sympathy for the family and the closeness of Catherine Hanszük. The other one. Once again, we want to emphasize and appeal to the law enforcement agencies to double, triple, to complete the investigation as soon as possible, and to bring matters to trial. Besides, we heard the Attorney General here today, we heard the head of the National Police here, we heard the head of the Ukrainian Security Service. We fully support all the actions that have been taken in the investigation and we see the professional position of our force organs that have proved to us today the specific facts of the person being detained, the manner in which the investigation is being delayed, the way in which the investigation is being carried out. Moreover, I wanted to support once again, on behalf of our faction, the Attorney General's position, who made it clear that professionalism is the key cornerstone of any investigation, if we are really focused, not on political pyar, but on the outcome. And we also want to say that the profession of the Attorney General, whoever isn't trying to speak in this room and on the air, has a large number of cases that, unlike other fighters, I would say to the lawyers with corruption, not only does the Attorney General's Office complete the investigation, it not only leads these cases to the courts, but it also gets sentences. And please, let's face it here. So I am grateful for the direction of the law enforcement agencies that we have received a professional report from them today. We understand that the investigation is progressing. But we would like to emphasize once again the position of our faction. Please, this investigation must be completed as soon as possible and the materials must be brought to justice. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-06-m0.u58	Please, from Rebirth Group, National Deputy Bondar. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-06-m0.u59	Thank you. Dear Andrew Volodymyrovich, distinguished colleagues! Of course, first of all, we would like to express our sympathy to the family of Catherine Gandzük. We understand that the situation is very unusual, and we should correct this situation in Parliament and allow law enforcement officials to investigate properly. The other one. We're certainly worried about the situation that today was that we spent two hours in the speaker's office agreeing to a draft decree on the creation of a temporary commission of inquiry. It is very strange when the initiator of the investigation MustafaNayem turned to his faction to support the decision and the faction did not support his participation in the commission. This is very strange, for if we want an objective investigation, the faction first would have to support its deputy, who initiated the investigation. Instead, I even offered from our faction, from our rebirth group to include Mustafa Nayem on this committee, so that he could investigate this issue, he was right to refuse because he expected the hall to support it. Thank God, I think the hall will support it. Most importantly, why is this happening? And it's from the total mistrust of society, of people to the entire law enforcement system. It's because the hundreds of resonance cases we've seen in four years, they're just not shown how they ended up, and we don't have the results to show people in the courts and how the courts ended up, most of the crimes don't open up like that. The question in society is, Can the authorities control the situation, or can the authorities ensure order? I'm going to say that today I see that I'm not, because your pervasive quarrels have led to this -- they've chewed up all the law enforcement organs, they've created new ones, and they've been able to overwhelm themselves. Their main task today is who gets more power. That's not a good idea. Given the possibility of creating a new police force, the struggles that prevailed led to the failure to finance the reform. The road police were created, the police we're seeing created, and the criminal block, and the drug-fighting block, and the block that's struggling to sell people, and all these things who are going to reform how they're going to be funded? Why did your quarrels lead to today’s situation? And people ask, who rules the situation — law enforcement or the people in the balaclavas, with the bits today, decide more than the law enforcement authorities? Why do Lynch's courts begin, why do we see that thieves are already attached to trees with scotch, people hang a tablet that he's a thief, a thief, and the law enforcement system isn't responding? Because strife leads to this situation. Stop, we're talking to you! We will support the draft decision because this is an opportunity to get out of the situation, although there is no parliament in the interim commission of inquiry. And that is the decision to make, to vote on the TSC Law, but we understand that you do not agree and will not go, even if you stop fighting and start working. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-06-m0.u60	And a closing statement from the factions. Shahov Sergei Volodymyrovich of the "Will of the People" Group. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-06-m0.u61	People's Will Group, Sergiyshakhov. The decision to take a temporary commission of inquiry is certainly ripe. Of course, the tragedy with Catherine Hansuk did not happen yesterday, but it was a year, two, three years ago. When many, many public figures were persecuted by a gang, they still continue to be persecuted. Let us see, then, when there was an attack on the helper, the attack, Stepana Ivanova, on Dennis the Fifth. The man remained disabled. A year ago, a journalist, a public figure, a member of the Sevjerodonetsky Party, was killed by the BP, the head of the faction. A year ago, no one was investigating. So you don't have to view law enforcement today as an act against law enforcement agencies by national MPs, we're going to help. I would also like to say thank you for investigating the crime of Starobil, the murder of young mayor of Volodymira Zhivaga. For eight years now, fifteen years and a lifetime, the customer is still wanted, wanted to find Arsen Borisovich, the traitors and bandits who killed Sergey Samarsky and attacked Five - year - old Dennis. And, Yuri Vitaliovich, you don't have to take it personally. What's going on in the personal world today is political bullying. Look, once again, I want to say, Luhansk, the investigation into the crimes of public officials, the crimes. After the murder of Sergei Samarski, the year has passed, not just the customers, but not the ones who killed him. Please. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-06-m0.u62	Thank you. Welcome to the floor of the First Deputy Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Irina Heratchenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-06-m0.u63	Dear colleagues! First of all, I want to emphasize that this is my personal speech as Irina Heratchenko's policy. And it was written in neither Bank, nor in Gruszewski, nor in BPP, and this is my speech and my position. I would also like to extend my warmest sympathy to the family of Catherine. And to apologize for this enormous tragedy and torment of a young woman turning into some disgraceful act, including in the walls of Parliament. The other one. I want to pay attention to the following. Obviously, we all thank those law enforcement agencies that were able to find the killers. But at the same time, we won't be honest with you if we don't acknowledge that the security issue at all, the security of the Ukrainian is one of the key challenges today. And we would really like to get more attention from the law enforcement agencies, from all the power structures to the prevention of crimes, whichever of them is involved, from all the Ukrainians. But obviously, the truth is that journalists, activists are in a special risk zone. And, at the same time, we have with you, as legislators, to go to our colleagues from the power structures and ask that, if it's up to us to reinforce either the investigation functions or other legislation that will give more tools to today's strong structures to ensure this normal work, we have to do it. Not to fight here, but to do our homework. The other one. I want to speak publicly to those bastards and bastards who, even when Catherine was already in a terrible state in the hospital, allowed herself to be publicly abused. We have one such candidate for the Presidents -- a walking cube of testosterone who allowed himself to do this. So I ask him to apologize publicly before Catherine’s memory. Third. You know, really, the worst thing that politicians try to do is to make a pyar (and especially a pre-election pyar) on a person's death. Here was an example of one of the most powerful TSCs in Georgia Gongadze. The only result then, except that, in fact, we gave very great attention to the name George, was that the head of this TSK from the democratic camp went to his own camp and became the minister of justice. That was the result of this commission. Therefore, it is important to remember that, in fact, no TSC has the right, no mechanism, no instrument to assume the functions of law enforcement agencies. We, the ruling coalition, will not support Yuri Lucenka's resignation. And here, I think, I'm talking not only about my position, but also about my colleagues' position on the coalition. Yuri Vitaliyovich asked that question. I am now addressing the head of Parliament: put to the vote, and we will see that the coalition does not vote on this. At the same time, we expect both Yuri Vitaliovich and our other colleagues from the law enforcement agencies to finish the resonance cases, including the case that is being investigated in Yanukovic today. And last of all, about the composition of the TSC. The same is true.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-06-m0.u64	30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-06-m0.u65	So the truth is that Peter Prashenko's Block, the Peter Prashenko faction, was discussing its representatives to this TSK, and it was using, including the position of one of the national MPs who didn't associate itself with this faction, it didn't delegate it to this TSK. That's true, too. And it seems to me that if today's "Rebirth" position is spoken that they're willing to put this MP away, please, because he's associated with "Rebirth" just as much as he is with BP. It's perfectly normal.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-06-m0.u66	Thank you. So, colleagues, we have a limited time, so I'm giving a final stage -- that's nine minutes from the national MPs. Nine minutes. Presentations from the National Deputies. I'm asking you to hold the record, colleagues, otherwise we won't be able to keep the agenda. Nine minutes is a performance by the national MPs. Please, BabakAlona Valerievna.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-06-m0.u67	Once again, the Attorney General has demonstrated his popularity. He openly humiliated national deputy Jehora Sobolev, as he once humiliated Oleg Barezuk — me. But the Attorney General doesn't know article 131. 1 The Constitution of Ukraine, which states that according to the insistence of the President of Ukraine, the Office of the Attorney-General organizes an investigative investigation. It's in the Constitution that you voted for. And today he's hiding from not doing it? Freeness of speech, illiteracy of the Attorney General’s Office, leads to people who defend the Ukrainian Constitution today, or who are in danger, or who die. That is why what happened today is a weakness. Immediately resigning so that professional people who at least know the Constitution will manage those bodies that are the highest procedural bodies in the country.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-06-m0.u68	Thank you. We're treating it like a performance, right? The next one is Captain Helena. Out of place, please turn on the microphone. One minute question, colleagues, one minute to ask.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-06-m0.u69	Mr. Andrey, that's impossible.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-06-m0.u70	Olena Sotnik. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-06-m0.u71	Thank you for the opportunity. We have the opportunity to ask the Attorney General. Tell me, please, you are now in Parliament's walls, before you people's deputies, including those who, according to the Constitution, elect you and delegate you to the Attorney General's office. Please tell me, for what reason do you allow yourself to violate these minimum ethical standards and offend members of the national parliament?
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-06-m0.u72	Please respond for 2 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-06-m0.u73	Ladies and gentlemen, it's all been done. There was a time last year when a bunch of bastards tried to lure themselves to the murder of a lawyer named Nostrovsky and shed a sea of lying tears here about what the investigation was doing nothing. When the accused of murder went to court, none of these bastards -- both of them -- went to court. Nobody cares. [[Applause]] And today, Gandzück is doing the People's Front funerals, not those actors who are collecting their bloody dividends. And if the head, the former head of the committee that was supposed to run all anti-corruption policy, still doesn't understand the difference between a procedural leadership and an investigation that's been missing for a year, it's not the head of the committee, it's just a "adult" in which the brain diarrhea is poured out right here in the room. [[B in m in s a l in]] I am ready for the following questions.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-06-m0.u74	Medunica gives the word for the question to Sergiy Pashin. Turn on the Pashinski microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-06-m0.u75	Colleagues, I urge everyone to have a culture of discussion and a culture of expression. I'm asking everyone to calm down emotionally, colleagues. Please, Sergei Pashinsky, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-06-m0.u76	Dear Mr. Attorney General, attention, I, by the way, think that it is a shame for those who are cooperating in the death of Catherine, who did not finger-to-finger to help her family, the investigation, and now you find reason to remind yourself of your patriotic position. Mr. Attorney General, please tell me how much do you appreciate today's depth of the Ministry of Internal Affairs and the National Police investigation, and what do you expect from the S.B.I.?
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-06-m0.u77	Dear national deputies, there is much information about this crime and its like. I'd like to give you the following information. Last week in Umani, a man with an eight-month pregnancy regularly beat her at night. She ran away and rented an apartment. The villains poured acid on her. After that she fled to Winnitsk County to a shelter for her. Family violence, in which two men entered masks at night and a woman was stabbed by a knife for nine months. And we are also investigating this matter! And that's where the police arrested the performers, and now they're following the customer's lead! What am I talking about here? We have about 3 million different weapons in the country, 1,241 murders with obvious circumstances! And when national MPs here, in the hall, or in television, they only do what they tell me, you killed them -- I react like a human. Because I'm actually sitting in that damn chair day and night, and I'm doing everything for everyone -- for activists, for passersby, for MPs, for opposition, for power, for a pensioner and a millionaire -- there's law and justice! At least the one who can't help, don't bother! You can't turn an unfinished investigation into an analysis, a review from the Supreme Council's rostrum, that's crazy! What took place yesterday is that we have already reduced our chances of finding a customer by 30 percent! Today this pianist continues! Again today, we are told completely without proof that the U.S.S. is not investigating, but covering. Who, whom, and where did you cover it?Oh, my God! Nobody cares. Today, speakers say that the TSC needs to stop the Gongadze case. Maybe someone forgot the Gongadze case.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-06-m0.u78	Give me a minute, please. Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-06-m0.u79	The Gongadze case began with the fact that the crime itself had not been reported! Here, from the rostrum, was the deputy Attorney General, who said that the body was wintering, that it was not the size at all, registered, rejected, buried, buried. What do you compare?? Today, in the Gandzük case from the first second, there was a register of conduct, following its insistence on two conducts that divided the functions of the IMF and the BSS. The appointed executives, the organizer, stand behind the customer’s step, but there are benefactors who, knowing this, unfortunately from the source, want to choose and say that they are the only ones who have discovered something. Listen, we need to stop this whole deception. It is impossible to live in a country where people are accused of doing anything. You can do better. Get in my seat. But stop watering the dirt, not Lucenka, but the entire law enforcement system, which in these circumstances: 3 million weapons, are fully bound by your laws. There were laws that made it impossible even to establish acid without a court decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-06-m0.u80	Thank you. One more minute. But I'll give you the next performance.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-06-m0.u81	I was criticized, as it were, for 24 hours in Catherine Gandzück did not even know what acid was. Do you know why? And because by law we now have to go and ask permission in court. And you're in line. And to record the video recorder, so is the court. And you're back in line. You tie them up in the legs and hands of law enforcement officers, pour them all over the TV every day, and now you tell us that blood is on our hands. No! No! We all need to sit down together and calmly arrange for law enforcement to work better. And stop this witch hunt where there's a result. We can't continue to succeed in a country where everyone who does anything mixes with shit that no damn thing does and knows how to do it on television.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-06-m0.u82	Tymoshenko Yuri gives the floor to the question of Volodymyr Parasyuk. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-06-m0.u83	Mr. Andrew, it's not a question, it's a speech, you've spoken. You will determine how we proceed with the procedure, first.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-06-m0.u84	Question now.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-06-m0.u85	Do you know who killed Catherine Gandzück? She killed a system led by Peter Alexiovich Poroshenko. And so you know it. [[B in m in s a l in]] All of you were running on buttons, like reforming the M.E.A., the D.A.'s office. You all killed her. You know, there's no police, there's no D.A., there's no D.A., there's no D.A. There are two companies: one owned by Habakkuk, the other owned by Dustenkov. And they use these companies to enrich themselves. This is reality, and people are just suffering. And you're all to blame for the fact that people don't feel safe on the street. Yuri Vitaliyovich, when you say, "Let's sit quietly, let's talk," in response, we hear that it's just "stupid" and "gross." Is that your answer to a professional dialogue? Because you don't want to have a dialogue, you've usurped power. And remember, all these deaths are on your hands. That is how you will live to the end of your life. It's been a while since you've been here.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-06-m0.u86	Colleagues, time for questioning is up. I want to remind you, we agreed that we should vote for the TSC by noon, it's 13:43. We had a very emotional discussion, an excessively emotional discussion. But what I'm saying is, colleagues, the work of law enforcement has to be outside the political process. Today and the whole of Ukraine, and we saw what work was done both by the prosecution and by the National Police and by the Security Service. We must help to ensure that our law enforcement agencies are able to carry out quality and professional work. The leak of information, I think, is a completely unacceptable thing in the course of an investigation. I, my colleagues, believe that we must support our law enforcement officers in some of the great challenges so that politics does not move on to their activities. There were requirements for me to vote on. I can take advantage of my right, I can only put up a political rating vote, not a real vote. But if there is such a requirement, I will. So the rating vote. Whoever is in favour of Attorney General Yuri Lucenka's statement, please vote on who is in favour. Please vote on who supports it. It's a rating vote. [[13:45:04]] For-38 Thank you. So, colleagues, we completed the information. We have 15 minutes to deal with the TSC issue, 15 minutes. That's why I'm asking everyone. Please give the order to the TSC. I'm asking the camera to issue a ruling on the TSC in the hall. Please give me the order. I thank Attorney General Lucenka Yuri Vitaliyovich, Head of the National Police of the Prince Sergey Mikolaiovich, also Arsenu Avakov, also Gritzak Vasil Sergiyovich, Head of the Ukrainian Security Service, for the information provided to the Supreme Council of Ukraine. And, colleagues, we have 15 minutes left. We agreed that the TSC issue would be discussed by noon. So I want to say that we're moving on to a review, it doesn't need to be included in the agenda, I stress, it doesn't need to be included in the agenda of the day session. We are moving on to the draft Ordinance establishing a temporary commission of inquiry by the Supreme Council of Ukraine to investigate reports of attacks against Catherine Gandzük and other public activists (No. 9262). It's being considered. I'm asking you to support the review of the reduced procedure, otherwise we won't be able to make it, colleagues. Please support the consideration of the reduced procedure. Please be supportive. Vote. Please be supportive. [[13:46:40]] For 155 My colleagues, I want to inform you that this decree is the result of two-day negotiations, signed by all the heads, all the heads of all the factions. This is agreed. Except for the Radical Party. This is an agreed position that has been produced in very difficult, very difficult negotiations for two days. And I invite you to the report of the Ukrainian National Deputy Najem Mustafa Massi. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-06-m0.u87	Dear colleagues! I would like, first of all, to address you on behalf of many activists, journalists and public figures who are now in the country awaiting the creation of this TSK. I want to say that we initiated the creation of this TSC two weeks ago. At the time, Catherine Gandzük was still alive. And then we demanded the creation of the TSK not only after it, but for 150 other activists and journalists who have been beaten up in recent years. No faction at that time responded. The factions that control the power organs, the law enforcement agencies, the BP and the People's Front didn't respond. And only when Catherine died did these hystericals begin. The Attorney General, who is currently on the run, isn't running because he doesn't want to work because he's going to the election because he doesn't want to take this responsibility. And so when he says that either he, or we, better we, we better investigate these cases and prove, show who is to blame and who ordered whom. This is the Attorney General, this Minister of Internal Affairs, this is the National Police who allows the small pocket armies of Kernes and Truhanov to exist in our country, and they are the ones who are the ones who are beating people. Don't you know that? You don't know that the people in Odessa are being beaten by Truhanov's people, that this is his pocket army, the Municipal Guard, who gave the Ministry's license for law enforcement under number one in 2015, when we were in power. This is the Truhanov who wanted to make the Odessa People’s Republic, and his people three times attacked, cut, watered with acid, beaten people and activists in the regions. What do we say in response? And we say to them, "She's a bully." And this bully is happening all over the country. When our colleague's greenwashed under the prosecutor's office building, the National Police tell us, you know.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-06-m0.u88	30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-06-m0.u89	If you're talking about "dancing on the bones" and who's covering it. It's not me, but the attorney general's deputies are going to Minister Viktor Yanukovich and agree with him that they're going to file his case. It's not like we give billions of grants to one person and we don't give money to the National Police, the Public Prosecutor's Office. That's what this authority does. I am deeply grateful to many of the ranks of the National Police, the Public Prosecutor’s Office.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-06-m0.u90	30 seconds to complete.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-06-m0.u91	But it is their work that these leaders establish. If this committee is created, and Mr. Lucenko is really going to resign, because this is a false statement, it's not a statement, you know what retirement procedure, you have to file a document and the president has to file it, and that was the pear. If we create this commission and it goes, then we're on the right track. And this committee has to cooperate and show real, whether they're really investigating the killings and beatings of activists, or whether it's imitation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-06-m0.u92	The report invites the first deputy head of the Committee on Rules and Organization of Work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Pinzenik Pavlovic.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-06-m0.u93	Dear Head! Dear National Deputies! The committee reviewed the draft Decree (Registration No. 9262) on the establishment of a TSC to investigate information about the attack on Catherine Gandzük by other civil activists, introduced by the Ukrainian National Deputies, Yulia Volodymyrý Timoshenko and others. It is proposed that the draft decree should establish a TSC for the purpose of, as indicated in the explanatory note, carrying out a background check and investigating the attacks on Catherine Gandzük and other public activists. In accordance with paragraph 3 of the draft decree, the number of members of the commission formed is 18 national deputies, which are part of the Supreme Council's MPs and a group of also one non-fractional national MPs, non-fractional national deputies, sorry. The committee noted that the election of Ukraine’s non-fractional national deputy to a temporary special and investigative commission was not legally provided, but considering that Ukraine’s national deputy could not be limited in its powers, as defined in article 26 of the Law on the Status of People’s Deputies, the Supreme Council could decide on the matter. The Committee made a few remarks to the draft decision, adopted the conclusion on the draft Decree No. 9262 and adopted the decision: The Supreme Council of Ukraine, in accordance with part one of article 87 of the Rules, to include in the agenda of the plenary without voting on the draft decision and to determine how to vote on the formation of the TSC. We pay particular attention to this special commission when, let's say, once it's created, to the legal position expressed in paragraph 4 of the motivating part of the decision of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine No.4-p of 11.04. In 2000, which states in article 19 of the Constitution of Ukraine and current legislation: State authorities, local governments, their officials, the media, public and political organizations, movements, their representatives should not interfere with the activities of the Public Prosecutor's Office, which, in accordance with article 121 of the Constitution, is covered by questions of State support.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-06-m0.u94	30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-06-m0.u95	the maintenance of a public charge before a court, the representation of citizens' or state's interests before a court in cases determined by law, the supervision of the enforcement of laws by bodies carrying out operational investigations, knowledge, judicial investigations, the supervision of the enforcement of laws in criminal matters, the application of other measures of a compulsory nature relating to the restriction of the personal freedom of citizens, as well as the conduct of matters. Conducting criminal investigations by prosecutors in specific criminal cases. That's true.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-06-m0.u96	30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-06-m0.u97	This applies equally to the Supreme Council of Ukraine as an organ, and to the temporary special commission of the Supreme Council as an organ created by it. In this part, the representatives of the law enforcement agencies we heard today were absolutely right. Please consider this fact in the work of the commission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-06-m0.u98	Thank you. Colleagues, I immediately inform you that I am continuing the meeting for 15 minutes. And I'm asking you to do the recording: two in, two in, two in. From Peter Prashenko's Block, John Winnick is invited to the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-06-m0.u99	Dear colleagues, I was also personally acquainted with Catherine Gandzück, and first of all, I would like to express my sympathy to the victim's family, in the criminal conduct of a man killed. As to what is going on in the creation of a temporary commission of inquiry. This is the function of Parliament, the political function of Parliament as an authority of state that forms the principles of internal and external politics. In no way can the commission refer to an individual case, the more criminal conduct. I would probably talk about the need to explore the state of public security in a state that is inappropriate to divide people by position or by the direction that they are engaged in. I would like to speak as a citizen of this state about improving security and improving security in this state, and perhaps it is appropriate to do so, but irrespective of the tragic situation that has taken place in Herson. As for the interim commission of inquiry. I've already said that the decision must be nonpolitical. Unpoliticized, uninvolved and without any conflict of interest. In this context, Mr. Mustafa Nayem, I would like to tell you that you have an obvious conflict of interest, because the faction did not put you on the board. Likewise, I am convinced that the fact that your brother, a lawyer, is in active position, in criminal conduct, at least in public, speaks of an obvious conflict of interest, I ask that you speak of him. With regard to the situation of the Attorney General and his statement, it is absolutely appropriate, since Parliament, as a legislative body, cannot interfere with the legal activities of the Public Prosecutor's Office, the organs of pretrial investigation or try to influence them politically. Besides, your honors, I'm in Parliament for the first time, I'm in Ukrainian politics, and I want to tell you that I've decided that I want to identify with some markers that I'm going to use to date. And Lucenka's position after the seizure was and will be the main marker of his evaluation of his activities as to me. One-and-a-half billion dollars of Janukovic, drawn into the budget, is what it is.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-06-m0.u100	30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-06-m0.u101	an obvious marker of the Attorney General's positive work in office. That's why I pressed the "against", the red button. And I believe, I demand, I hope that the investigation will be completed, and not only the organizers and those who committed the crime of Yekaterina and any other public activists or citizens of Ukraine will be held accountable. And if a crime of particular gravity is committed as a contract murder, the purchaser will be fully punished. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-06-m0.u102	Thank you. One minute, a line. Mustafa Najim.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-06-m0.u103	Dear colleagues, my brother is indeed a lawyer and a defender, and he will protect the interests of many activists in the country. If Mr. Winnick thinks he has other interests, and this is some kind of conflict, it's his problem with his head, and we have to leave the Supreme Council. First. The other one. I don't have any conflicts of interest, so I'm going to protect any activists, journalists and public figures. And it's my job, Mr. Winnick, not to sit on the committee and tear up the money. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-06-m0.u104	My colleagues, I'm asking you very much. Please! Colleagues, there are no replicas on the line. There's no replica on the line, Mr. John. I'm asking you very much, colleagues, I'm asking you right now, we've been doing a satisfactory job for two days. These are unacceptable statements that now appear in the hall, unacceptable statements. And, colleagues, I am. There's no replication, but it was really an insult, and a committee. I'm giving you 30 seconds to tell Mr. Ivan. 30 seconds, short. And no conflict, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-06-m0.u105	Dear colleagues, note the level of manipulation of this citizen that we hear. I didn't insult his dignity in any way. I didn't accuse him of anything. I have stated in the order of the Law against Corruption and Prevention of Corruption the request that a colleague declare his or her conflict of interest in this matter. What did we hear? We heard the images. Why? Traditionally, people jump to the image when there's nothing to say. We hear that in this Parliament. This actually disgraces Ukraine when it's not really there.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-06-m0.u106	Ten seconds, complete.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-06-m0.u107	It's based on political populism, and in order to get any political pianist, people are ready for anything. Please tell your colleague that you are actively criticizing the position of Dusty.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-06-m0.u108	Mr. Ivan, 10 seconds. Colleagues, attention, we're just not going to be able to look at it. From the Radical Party Lazko Oleg.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-06-m0.u109	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Dear Ukrainians, our faction will not vote in favour of this ruling on the creation of the TSK for one reason: it is illegal, accepted, prepared and introduced into the Hall in violation of the Ukrainian Law on the Rules of the Supreme Council. And the second key reason is that all TSCs that were created in Parliament have no power and no possibility of impact without the Law on Temporary Investigations Commissions of the Supreme Council. That's why our team immediately after millions of people in 2014 supported us in the elections, one of our first drafts, which was registered in November 2014, Bill No. 1098 is the Law on Temporary Investigations Commissions of the Supreme Council in order to be able to investigate corruption of power, corruption of the President, any matter of social interest. Without the operation of the Law on Temporary Investigations Commissions of the Supreme Council, any creation of a commission, they're a wasteland. Remember how many of these committees were there, where was the result? No commission produced results, but everyone was pianist and earning points. I suggest that we move from the pianist to the specific decisions. Just now, the Parliamentary Secretariat has registered my and my faction colleagues with the Order on Moratorium for Stopping Gas Prices and Tariffs. I welcome this decision, and I insist that immediately after the break, Parliament immediately consider the Order we have initiated on a moratorium on gas prices, tariffs and the protection of real people. So that the authorities who are distracting Ukrainians with secondary issues today, so that we can stop it, so that we don't have the power to rob Ukrainians, so that Ukrainians don't pay the last money for tariffs and utilities. The decision to adopt a moratorium on gas prices is a real struggle for people, not a lie that we see today.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-06-m0.u110	Shepherd Taras Timothyovich of Self - Help conveys the word of Oleni Sotnik.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-06-m0.u111	I would very much like to say from this rostrum right now optimistically that this temporary commission of inquiry is really going to help us avoid future attacks and deaths on not only activists, any of the citizens of Ukraine. I would very much like to say that after the work of this temporary commission of inquiry, the principle of the irreversibility of punishment in this state will finally come into play. I'd very much like to say that we're going to help find the guilty. But unfortunately, I don't have such an optimistic attitude, despite being and being the initiator of this idea and this idea, because 20 minutes ago this Parliament proved once again that it was not a parliament. You're from this rostrum and the Attorney General insulted us all, he humiliated us all, and some of you applauded. If you think it will end well for each of us, you are mistaken. Under the Constitution, we live in the parliamentary-presidential Republic, and, in fact, most of us are dependent. And you applaud when the Attorney General calls you an abomination. I think it's critical. The critical point is zero, bottom of this House, so I have no expectations for this temporary commission of inquiry. What's more, I'm going to tell you that all these government agencies are under your control. And the Attorney General can't say that I won't give you any papers, I won't give you any explanations, no information, don't go into your business. Because we answer people here, you and I are chosen here to control them, and we applaud when they call us disgusting.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-06-m0.u112	From the Fatherland faction, Igor Lucenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-06-m0.u113	Dear Society, the Fatherland faction supports all forms of parliamentary control over what is currently taking place in the law enforcement system. And when someone comes out of this rostrum and says that the TSC (temporary commissions) are such a weak tool, look at your reflection in the mirror, which is the reason why this tool is weak. When the Attorney General in this rostrum says that we will not give anything to this commission of inquiry. So the rhetorical question is, why can this investigating committee do so little when the prosecutor says we won't give you anything from the investigation materials? Similarly, the majority of the parliamentary committee who will delegate and have the same majority on this committee should be asked why they say in advance that this commission of inquiry will be so ineffective. Instead, I believe that the TSC is the only one today and, unfortunately, the only way to achieve any kind of justice in hundreds, not dozens, hundreds of criminal conducts on attacks against public activists, on uninvestigated resonance crimes, on issues of major theft, for example, on the roads and so on. This is the only way for Parliament to do this mission of protecting its citizens' rights. That is why we clearly believe that Parliament is talking about who attacked Catherine Gandzück, who ordered her, and so are dozens and dozens of others. We're here to talk about the attacks on a colleague of Lewchenk, a national MP, a colleague of Petrenko, a national MP, there's no talk about it, even though there are cases that aren't being investigated either. Now we're trying our best to protect the Ukrainian people from these riots in pursuit! Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-06-m0.u114	From the Opposition Block of Igorshurm. And, colleagues, we have very limited time. I call on everyone to be flexible.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-06-m0.u115	IgorShurma, the Opposition Block. I'm going to say that the opposition block faction will support the creation of the TSC. But we are well aware that there will be no results from this work. But we have to stop what's going on in the state. I want to ask you all, colleagues, what you're sitting here in the hall. What have you turned the death of a young man and the tragedy of the Gandhijuk family? What did you turn into? A smiley face all over Ukraine! Is it random? It's not an accident at all. The responsibility for what's happening today in Ukraine is with you, all of you sitting here, in the hall, and those who joined the coalition. You've been reforming the police these days. You voted for the prosecutor today. You're in charge of the Security Service personnel issues today. Do you know why this is happening? And because you're not interested in the point, you have a pyar. Please tell me, isn't that a pierre? The baby's body hasn't cooled yet, and all the footballs are in "Who ordered Katya Gandzük?" Think about it, everybody's in T-shirts! That's what we had to do all night: buy T-shirts, print it all. And that's a lot of times. Because all the time, any action is Nadya's free T-shirt, Nadya's hero. Where's Nadia now? You have a responsibility! You are responsible for the attack on members of the family, on members of the national MPs. Please tell me. We have Oleg Musei, he's not my thinker. But in a live studio, a person who was three times in prison for stealing a apartment makes an attack. He's in the hospital today. Do you have a word for it?Oh, my God! And this man, along with Suprun, represents the World Health Organization, today the interests of Ukraine. Today this hall, this hall should apologize to the family of Gandzük. Stop this pianist. And let's stop and create questions about the security of MPs, their families and their assistants, because nothing is going to happen in that state.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-06-m0.u116	Thank you. Guys, look, we've got it. We have three more factions, right? I propose Borislav Bereza, the closing statement. Now, Billowol is handing over Sergey Melniczuk, then Burbak, then Borislav Bereza, and then we're done. It's only six minutes before we can vote. So now Sergey Melniczuk. Sergey Melniczuk, I am addressing you! [[B in m in s a l in]] Ouch! Ivan! Ivan Melniczuk, excuse me! Then Maximburbak, then Borislav Bereza. And I urge you to be concise. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-06-m0.u117	Dear colleagues, listen to me, now what's going on, what we're talking about. On the one hand, we're discussing the right things to be assigned to: create a TSC or not. On the other hand, the decision on who should be on this interim commission of inquiry. Well, what's the point. What's Mr. Mustafa Najam doing there? What's he doing there? He's not a member of the faction, first of all, the faction didn't put him there. I urge Mr. Mustafa to do something as honest as he would if the Attorney General did, which he said you don't like, vote whether I have the right to be the Attorney General or not. Mr. Mustafa, write a final statement about the exit of that faction you don't like so much! [[Applause]] From! And let's vote with all the factions whether we need you there or not. And then you can write your family down from anyone but the President's faction. Please be honest to the end: sit down, write down, pass. We'll collect the faction and vote. And you have nothing to do with the TSC.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-06-m0.u118	From the People's Front, Maxim Burbak.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-06-m0.u119	Dear colleagues, I would like a degree of tension to be reduced significantly in the hall. The People's Front has also delegated three of its representatives to the interim commission of inquiry and will therefore maintain its composition. And we want to make sure that it's effective so that it's not another campaign. And I'm surprised that the authors of this decision themselves are so skeptical of its consequences. Then why did you start this? Secondly, I want this interim commission of inquiry not to turn into the same commission of the 2015 model, when the political charges against the government of Arsenius Yatsenyuk, tons of dirt that were then poured into the coalition, into the government of Arsenius Yatsenyuk, and then it turns out that Destroyer said it was worth 30 million dollars. That must have been when they made $30 million in this session hall. Customers are the same, organizers are the same. Nothing's changed. The rhetoric has only changed because they have nothing to report, and they have to go to the polls. Don't pear on your blood and don't dance on your bones. Have a conscience, at least the rest of it. So let's put it to a vote, let's vote, and let's let this commission start work and then do it in public, in public and the main thing -- without any political coloring. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-06-m0.u120	Thank you. And the closing statement from the non-fractional -- Borislav Bereza, the person who's recommended and agreed to propose to the head of the interim commission of inquiry. Please, Mr. Borislav.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-06-m0.u121	When Andrew Parubius called me and suggested that I be the chairman of the commission, I refused. He said there was only Anya Hopko and me. But Anya Hopko is the head of the committee and cannot be the head of this temporary commission of inquiry. So in order to solve this issue, you need a person who is just as far away from all the political forces as possible who will not be pious and will not go to the presidents. I heard him say, "Okay, to solve this, okay." But I heard today that the Henprocurator doesn't want to give anything, no information. I'm sorry, I don't want to take part in the campaign. If the Henprocuror or representatives of the Ministry of Internal Affairs or the Board of Auditors do not provide information and cooperate with the interim commission of inquiry, this commission of inquiry will do nothing about it. If most representatives don't come to the meeting twice and we can't get together, I don't want to be a quitter. I'm going to come out here and I'm going to be in charge, and I'm going to talk about it. I'm sorry, but it's not a question. about who the customer is, read the question of how the investigation is being conducted in this case, and we should not replace ourselves with investigators and law enforcement agencies. No, we need to recognize whether there have been proper follow-up actions, or whether everything has really been done to find out. If this does not happen, unfortunately we cannot do ours. We cannot exercise our authority. And one more thing. I want to address Mr. Burbak and Mr. Gerasimov right now. As representatives of the majority, you must guarantee that the law enforcement authorities will cooperate with the commission, otherwise this commission will not be able to do anything.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-06-m0.u122	Thank you. So, colleagues, let's move on to the decision-making process, one minute left, let's move on to the decision-making process. And I'm putting to the vote a draft decree establishing a temporary commission of inquiry by the Supreme Council of Ukraine to investigate reports of attacks against Catherine Gandzük and other public activists (No. 9262), including Igor Mosiyczuk, who was filed by the Radical Party, on the basis and in general. Please vote. [[14:14:37]] For 259. It's been decided. A temporary commission of inquiry has been created. Colleagues, I wish you objectivity, especially so that such important public action is not in any way contaminated by political populism and electoral fever. I'm asking Irina Heratchenko for a statement right now.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-06-m0.u123	Dear colleagues, a statement came to the fore from National Deputy Sergei Leschchenk that, during the weighting vote for the resignation of the Attorney General of Ukraine, who is of a purely political nature, his card did not work and he voted in favour.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-06-m0.u124	Thank you. Dear colleagues, 14:15. The morning plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is closed. And I want to point out, we were supposed to be looking at security and defense this morning. I am very sorry that it moved until after lunch. But we're going to start our work at 4:00 on the issue of anti-optimal activity from the security and defense unit. And I hope that everyone in the room will be as active as they are when they consider political issues. So at 4:00, it's a security and defense block. At 16 o'clock, I invite everyone to the conference room to continue our work.
