ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-14-m0.u1	Good morning! I'm asking everyone to come into the hall and get ready for registration. Please. I'm asking everyone to come into the hall again, get ready for registration. So please take part in the registration. Please register. [[10:05:50]] 354 national deputies registered. The morning plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Today is the birthday of our fellow national deputies. Vladislav Buhareva. Let's welcome our colleague. [[Applause]] Sergey Fairmarck. Let's say hello to Sergei. Welcome to your birthday. And Yuri Shapowalova. Welcome to your birthday. [[Applause]] And, colleagues, today is Ukraine's Day of Volunteering. And I mentioned this day yesterday and today, this morning, when Putin began an aggression against Ukraine four years ago. It seemed to him that he had taken everything into account: both a decommissioned army, and a destroyed economy. He did not count one that tens of thousands of Ukrainian volunteers would rise up to defend the Ukrainian state. And four years ago at 10 a.m., I remember this morning, this day, right from Midan, 500 self-defense fighters left for Petrovac, went to two weeks of high school and went to the front. The heroes who went through the fights in Midan and did not go to their families did not go to their children, to their wives, but decided to go to the front. Heroes from various battalions of volunteer movement. Heroes who often had no military experience but had great love for Ukraine. Today, I am pleased to welcome in this room all the volunteers who have gone to the front, no matter where they are today, no matter what their political views, for at that time nothing has divided us, we have been united by great love for Ukraine. And of course, I would like to welcome the fighters of the Kulchitsky Battalion, the 1st Volunteer. Today the boys came in uniforms, today the battalion flag in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Welcome to all the volunteers, all the heroes of the war! We're gonna win! Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-14-m0.u2	And more often in this room, we need to mention the spirit that brought us together at the time, not the intrigues that separate us very often today. Remembering that spirit and remembering the heroes, we will more often make responsible and right decisions here in the hall. Hello! So let's move on to the agenda. Today we have 30 minutes of performances by national deputies. I want to remind and emphasize once again, not from factions, but from national MPs. Therefore, I ask all who wish to take part in the presentation to prepare for the recording – half an hour, 30 minutes to speak from the national MPs. Please participate in the recording and please register. Please. Paul Constantine, conveys the word to Vilukulu from the rostrum. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-14-m0.u3	Dear Ukrainian people! The first day of this plenary week showed that an electoral campaign had begun. Started with manipulations, started not with claims of overpowered factions about industrial development, about pensions, about wages, but they're distracting us again. So BPP proudly reported that Ukraine was allegedly granted a status, either as an aboriginal or as a NATO graduate. First of all, that's not true. Ukraine did not receive any special status from NATO, but there is no such status as "aspirant" in NATO. We're dealing with another empty piazza of power that's already started the electoral campaign. But since he cannot present any real achievements, he tries to feed the Ukrainian people with fairy tales. The People's Front, trying to get a little bit of attention from radical voters, insists on the adoption of a language-based, so-called language law on total Ukrainianization. A law in which they want to introduce even a language inspection. Here's an example. If a nanny in a children's home says something to a parent in another language - Russian, Hungarian, Romanian - then a language inspector, such as a knocker, should listen, and she will receive a fine, or perhaps a more serious punishment, until she goes to jail. We live in Ukraine. Ukraine is a multi-ethnic, multi-religious, multilingual state. For me, and for all of us, for the Opposition Block, the Ukrainian is everyone who connects his future and the future of his family to our nation, who are willing to comply with its laws, who are willing to do so. Who's willing to work for her normal future. And the building of a state, such a nationalist state, with the nationalism of the first half of the 20th century, is not the Europe you're talking about in each of your speeches. Today, as usual, the agenda is empty. We demand that more important laws be put in order during the day. First. This is to approximate, in order for the vote to take place, our Ordinance on Protection and Strengthening Social Protection of Internally Moved Persons. This question is related to the payment of pensions to people who suffer and live in areas we have not controlled. That's the first one. The other one. We tabled a bill that would remove the problem of burying people that had arisen since March 15 because of the inadequacy of laws, without a court decision. Today's the 14th.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-14-m0.u4	Dear colleagues, the performance is over. We have a lot today. [[B in m in s a l in]] No, it's not. We have a lot in the list of speakers. Please, National Deputy Bereza, Yuri Bereza of the People's Front. Please, Mr. Yuri.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-14-m0.u5	Respectable Ukrainians, respected brothers, respected volunteers, respected colleagues! We have just heard a presentation by a prominent representative of the fifth column, who works for the Kremlin’s money and still, unfortunately, is in the Supreme Council Hall. Yeah, it's Yaroslavna's crying. Yeah, if there were no volunteers, this junior reformer would probably have been governor of Putin "Malorussia," "negrosis", "nematosis" and all. He failed and will never succeed! I know for a fact that your time is up. No matter how much you bark at the Ukrainian state, no matter how much you scream, no matter what you say, the Ukrainian state will live without you, because you are yesterday. You're the consequences, you're Russia's cutout, you're working for Russia, you're not working for the Ukrainian state. Today I would like to address two categories of citizens first: the first is volunteers, the second is volunteers. These two categories in the 14th year protected and preserved my country. She's expensive to them, she's essential to them, she's everything to them. I know, you know, commenting on scumbags is the last thing, but not allowing pro-Russians, pro-promoscs in this room is our duty. And that's why I'm addressing the Supreme Council. When words speak against Ukraine, they should be stopped. Enough, they're already driving around European grounds and they're staining my country. We have to stop this. Mr. Wilkul, I'm addressing you personally. Do not take risks because you will lead to sin. Even though we're diplomats here, you'll soon get the marbles right in this room. End of story. Ukrainian volunteers, remember, we remember you, we thank you for saving the Ukrainian state. We are grateful that you have sewn up my state, our state, in spite of any threats, from the Kremlin, or from under the Kremlin, and not from under Wilcule, and from all other wickedness. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-14-m0.u6	Heroic glory! Next performance. I take it the people's deputy Dubinin gives his colleague his word. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-14-m0.u7	Taras Batenko, Crimean Union of Patriots of UCROP. First of all, respectable colleagues, respected fellow countrymen! I want to welcome all of you, all of you soldiers with the Day of the Ukrainian Volunteers, volunteers who, in the beginning of the Russian-Ukrainian war, actually saved our country. I want to draw your attention to the problem of our migrants, those 6 to 8 million of our fellow countrymen, who are sometimes unfairly and offensively called Gasterbytes. Which are essentially victims of the failure of the Ukrainian authorities to provide decent and competitive living conditions: education, treatment and employment in Ukraine. We continue to lose our fellow citizens at a threatening pace. One hundred thousand Ukrainians are forced to seek a better life elsewhere each month. Stopping young, talented, professional people is a price to pay for our country. The UN estimates that our fellow countrymen invest up to $9 billion in the economy each year. And if, for a billion dollars of credit from the European Union or IMF, the Ukrainian authorities are willing to do dozens of conditions, instructions, recommendations and requirements, then a much larger investor, their own citizens, the Ukrainian state simply ignores. We are obliged to return face - to - face to workers and fellow countrymen who have chosen a place to live outside Ukraine. The Government of Ukraine has the highest priority to consider negotiations on social, pension, legal, and other issues with countries where the highest number of Ukrainian employees are employed. And this is one of the most important directions of our European integration and that we're going there. This will allow us to measure human beings. A good example of how to do this can be found in the United Kingdom, which, through very difficult negotiations with the European Union on its exit, makes every effort not to adversely affect the citizens of its country who live and work in the EU, so that their situation does not deteriorate and their rights are not violated. In reforming electoral legislation, honourable colleagues, to which we inevitably go and inevitably go, should pay particular attention to the development of e-democracy so that every citizen of Ukraine, regardless of legal status or place of residence abroad, can participate in the will. We must insist that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the government in the presidential and parliamentary elections open additional polling stations for our fellow citizens. The Ukrainian Parliament should take these issues under control by committing the government to prepare annually, to publish a report on the rights of citizens in the world for the Ukrainian public. Millions of Ukrainian migrants should participate actively in the preservation and development of the new Ukraine, and we must make every effort to do so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-14-m0.u8	Thank you. People's MP Dolzhenkov.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-14-m0.u9	Ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I would like to address you: don't disassociate yourself with these passionate speeches by Ukrainian citizens, because by defiance of the same faction of the Opposition Block, according to some coalition representatives, you despise the citizens who voted for us. We're a faction that's supported by a fairly large part of the population that doesn't share your ur-patriotic vision. You don't have to say you're bigger patriots than we are. We all care about Ukrainian statehood, and by criticizing certain actions of effective authority, that doesn't mean that we're some kind of "Fifth Column of the Kremlin." When you raise tariffs and we criticize, does that mean someone behind Putina works for that money? It's stupidity and stupidity, it's circulatoryness, it's a lack of arguments that you can prove as your right. What did you do? Apart from the screams other than the threats to our faction, besides the disregard for the interests of the entire population, what reforms have you carried out? Now I'm going to talk about protecting the interests of pensioners. You've just reformed your pension. How did this pension reform affect the welfare of Ukrainian citizens? Here, Groissman spoke and said it was a victory. We have 12 million pensioners, over 5 million pensioners, you've raised your pension by 300 bucks. And you think that's a pension reform? Is that what you think you're doing? It's probably your only achievement, because no action to increase the competitiveness of a domestic producer, to raise the well-being of the population, you didn't do that. What have you done for the pensioners? Taxation of pensions, for example, was introduced. No faction has appealed to the Constitutional Court in order to subvert this disgraceful phenomenon? No one's turned. The Opposition Block faction didn't sit down by folding our hands, and we went to the Constitutional Court, and we made sure that the Constitutional Court had taken a decision on February 28, this year, and we canceled this pension tax -- a disgraceful phenomenon that no country in the world has ever dreamed of. And now you're talking about some kind of achievement. Not to tell you who the patriot is, who is not, because it was your authority that introduced the verification procedure in 2016, one and a half million pensioners who received the help of internally displaced persons, after the introduction of Decree 365 in 16th year, that 500 thousand pensioners do not receive pensions that can move to a controlled territory, get a pension, but they cannot live permanently in a controlled territory, because their homes remain in an uncontrollable territory, 13 billion dollars a year is your economy.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-14-m0.u10	I'm sorry, we didn't give anyone time today. Thank you. Please, Oleg Lazko would like to take the floor. Thank you. Today, for all of us, the equal opportunity, and it's absolutely fair that all the factions here are equal, all the deputies are equal, this composition of Parliament reflects the choice of the Ukrainian people. But we do remember that Parliament's rating today is zero. And at the time, the rating of the Ukrainian army and the confidence in the Ukrainian army is the highest. So let us not disrespect or oppose the Ukrainian army. Thank you all. Please, Oleg Lazko.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-14-m0.u11	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. The Radical Party faction demands the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Vladimir Groysman, to submit an application to Parliament without delay for the appointment of a Ukrainian Minister of Health. For almost two years, Uljana Suprun, a person with two nationals, who had received Ukrainian citizenship two years ago, has been in the state of Ulysses. In accordance with the Constitution of Ukraine, this is illegal and is the basis for disenfranchisement of Ukrainian citizenship. In addition, according to the Law on the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, the appointment of the Deputy Minister of Health is made by the Minister. Since there was no minister, the government had no right to appoint Uljana Suprun as deputy minister and then as acting minister of health. The authorities tell us that medical reform is under way in Ukraine. At the same time, for two years there is no minister responsible for the political consequences of this reform. As a result of political irresponsibility, as a result of the so-called medical reform that would actually pursue the goal of accessibility of services, quality of services, we have the opposite today: closure of the hospital network, reduction of health workers, restrictions on the constitutional right of Ukrainians to receive medical care. And the key is no one to ask. And to keep quiet, to pretend that nothing happens when Ukraine takes the first place in the world in death from cardiovascular diseases, from cancers, it's wrong to keep quiet. The government has not yet nominated a minister because they cannot agree. As far as I know, the office of Minister of Health is the quota for the Peter Prashenko bloc. We ask both President Prashenko and his faction to identify and assume political responsibility for the health reform so that the Ukrainians know who to ask. We demand that Prime Minister Groysman cancel the illegal decision of the government to appoint Ulysses Suprun as head of the Ministry of Health. The people of the people of Ulyana Suprun called themselves "Doctor of Death." And this "Doctor of Death" with a number of passports, without any responsibility, without any root in Ukraine, without any political responsibility, is carrying out a so-called reform, which has resulted in millions of Ukrainians being deprived of medical care. Enough of this genocide, enough bullying. Take responsibility, and if you fail to take responsibility, we will. We will carry out a reform that will enable every Ukrainian to be treated in his country, not like the authorities do today: their children are treated abroad, and Ukrainians are left without help.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-14-m0.u12	Please give the next speech to the Kota People's Deputy. I'm a colleague. I'm still asking you to avoid insulting epithets to each other, and more to the absence of members of the Cabinet of Ministers. Please, Mr. Keith.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-14-m0.u13	Andrew Keith, Strysk constituency, Stryshtyn, Jewish. I'd like to draw my attention once again to the issues that we have that are not solved in the area of the agro-industrial complex that we talk about so much, we're so proud of, and we're not really doing anything. I would like to say first of all to the honourable Mr. Parubia and the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Vladimir Groissman, that it is time to give good news and consider in the session room the bills that we have worked on: 4355 or 7118 -- in order to resolve the issue, not in words, but in the case of handing over land to the rural councils and to the united territorial communities. And not in words, but in fact, to make real decentralization in land relations in Ukraine. Next. I want to pay attention to what's going on again, and I've talked about this before, and I've done it in Ukraine in the market. Who doesn't know or aren't a specialist in that field, I want to say that, right now in Ukraine, mineral fertilizer is more expensive than in any other country in the world by 30 percent. This means that 40 percent of the value of agrarian products that are produced by mineral fertilizers is, is affecting the cost to our farmers and farmers. And that means that our production is becoming uncompetitive in the external market. I bring it to your attention that Ukraine has ceased to be a winner and price picker for the world sale of the wheat market. Do you know who got ahead of us? Russia. Congratulations very much. As a result, there is more than simply a lack of executive policy in the field. And the total inactivity of the Antimonopoly Committee, which actually makes it possible, does not completely regulate the market for mineral goods. I'd like to welcome you to another one. Belarus, I repeat, announced that the City of Nitrogen will build another factory in Belarus to provide the Ukrainian market, which is the most interesting one in the world for the sale of nitrogen fertilizers. And a few years ago, Ukraine was one of the largest mineral fertilizer exporters in Ukraine. So I want to go back to the old one of our "trapped record" of getting a government grant in one hand. For two years in a row, the distribution of the public grant mechanism allows one or more enterprises to receive almost half of the amount of government grant allocated in the APC area. This year, all restrictions, without hindering our efforts and the efforts of our committee, were effectively lifted again, and there is no link to that, and the affiliates can again receive billions of bracelets in one hand. Welcome to the same. End of story. On the shelf is the initiative of our committee to reduce internal VAT for the food group, which is a practical initiative in countries such as Poland, the Czech Republic, Germany and so on and so forth. We got a negative response from the Ministry of Finance, which thinks it's our initiative.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-14-m0.u14	Thank you. We're not adding today, because it's a big list of performances. I'm sorry. Please, National DeputyKulinich. People's deputy Kulinich, to your word.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-14-m0.u15	OlegKulinic, 147th constituency, Poltavščina. Dear colleagues! I would like to raise the issue of land decentralization once again, which has not been resolved in Parliament for years. I want to support my colleague Andrew Kota here, who, by the way, has sharpened our attention to this. Lately, we've forgotten about this issue again, put it back in a long box, and we don't systematically solve it. A comprehensive presidential bill on this subject has recently been broken. We haven't even been able to send him back to the committee for the first time. For two years there is a bill of 4355 in Parliament that supports all factions and groups, it is ready to vote in the second reading, but it does not go into the session room again. There are other bills on this subject, but there is no solution. The government has now begun transferring land outside the populated areas to the united territorial communities. In principle, it's a good thing, but once again they're in a complex they don't solve the problems that local communities now have. For example, the issue of collective property should be resolved only at the level of the law. So without law, we can't decide to transfer these lands. And we have 1.5 million hectares, and that's a huge amount of money in the local budgets. Once again, it's not resolved. Only by law can the transfer of functions be decided upon by the approval of the legal and monetary valuation to the local communities. Again, this is a huge amount of money in local budgets, and we're not doing it again. In fact, communities are now transferring land that has already been leased for tens of years. Well, what effect will the community have on the size of the rent if this land is transferred only after the lease is concluded? So what is decentralization? I've got village heads in my county all the time saying that you've been there for several years? You don't decide anything, you don't do anything anymore, because it's all been handed out for 10, for 20 years, broken even the haystacks and pastures. What decentralization are we talking about? You can't close your eyes on these questions. Once again, we have bills in Parliament on this subject and supported in the second reading and in the first reading, not because there is no agreed position on just two things: first, land control and second, who will manage those countries that. the lands of those communities that did not unite. That's why I'm addressing the head of the Supreme Council. Andriy Volodymyrovich, please consult with all the MP factions, groups, let's work on an active mechanism, and even though one bill will move either in the other or in the first reading. It's a matter of great importance, it's up to local communities, it needs to be addressed immediately. Please, let's move in this direction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-14-m0.u16	Thank you for your performance. Please, National Deputy MaximBurbak. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-14-m0.u17	Greetings, colleagues, people of Ukraine! The People's Front faction highlights the speedy adoption of the Order on the Appeal of the Parliament of Ukraine to International Co-operation on the Inadmissibility of the Nord Stream-2 and the Monopolies of the Russian Federation as an aggressor country in the world's gas markets. We welcome the positions of Poland, Lithuania, Latvia, Moldova, which have signed a statement with Ukraine regarding the North Stream 2 pipeline. But today, more than ever, Ukraine must make its position known to all countries of Europe. Building another branch will further undermine Europe’s stability and security. Russian gas is not a commercial, it's a political weapon of blackmailing the Kremlin. We have to do our best not to allow Gazprom to control the volume and price of the entire gas market in continental Europe. As well as the physical capacity of this Russian company to refuse to supply gas to Central European countries that are now conscientiously buying gas into a monopoly under internationally recognized commercial contracts. The People's Front warns that the impact of the North Stream-2 project will go far beyond commercial or domestic affairs in the EU and will cause economic and political destabilisation throughout Europe. On March 1st, Ukraine and the international community witnessed the insolent, cynical pressure on European consumers by Gazprom, who suddenly refused to supply gas to Ukraine's internal market without warning, ignoring their contractual obligations. This illegal decision has caused significant economic damage to Ukrainian company Naftogaz. It created real risk and destabilization of Ukraine's energy and the threat of halting transit to the European Union during a period of severe frost. Europe must draw the right conclusions from this situation. And the Ukrainian Parliament must send a clear message to Europe. A complete and irreversible ban on the Nord Stream-2 gas station is required. This is a gas storm for Europe, a warning to our European partners. Ukraine has been rid of this gas storm since the 14th year, when it was decided by the government of Arsenius Yatzenuk to appeal to Gazprom, to the aggressor country, because of unfair contracts. We won these lawsuits and saved Ukraine $60 billion. Dear Europeans, don't go into the gas loop alone. The Order, registered by the People's Front, No. 8111, states that in accordance with article 274 of the Association Agreement between Ukraine and the EU and paragraph 6 of the Agreement establishing the Energy Community, we need to hold consultations between Ukraine and the European Commission on the non-acceptance of the construction of the Northern Stream 2 pipeline. We call on the President of Ukraine, to the Ukrainian government immediately to begin consultations with our European partners. We also appeal to you, Mr. Head, to give a task to the committee of profile immediately to consider this decision so that we can put it to the voting room tomorrow. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-14-m0.u18	Thank you, Your Honor. And, indeed, a very topical subject with regard to our immediate intensification of the fight against the election in Crimea. Please, Igorshurma, give me your word. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-14-m0.u19	IgorShurma, the Opposition Block. You know, no one can deny the fact that today in Ukraine 2018 will be a boiling point, a boiling point primarily political. And the minds of politicians will depend on whether this Ukraine will be spared. What do we have today? You see, first this room that went to Europe, to the coalition, collapsed the Opposition Act, which the European community insists on. What does this lead to? That all the legislative initiatives of the people who represent one and a half million voters of Ukrainian citizens, for whom you all stand, do not go to the Hall. And do you know what unification and compromise is? I address the Governing Council, the presiding officers. It's not a union when the law, which is the author of the Opposition Block, puts it in the middle of the day on Wednesday. On Wednesday, you will set up the Anti-Corruption Court Act. We had to put a pension reform in place on Wednesday. We had to put on medical reform on Wednesday. As for the medical reform, I'll tell you, my friends, the Cossacks whistled. You first pressed the buttons, you initially supported the position of a non-national of Ukraine, who didn't get rid of citizenship, which is without higher education, which creates that there's a disorder, because there's not a full government. And then you're under-cooperation, because you two years from the Ukrainians you can't give us the right to be a minister of health. Now it's about love for Ukraine. If you love Ukraine, please explain to someone your position, how do people who are currently suffering from the war in eastern Ukraine stop paying pensions, redistribute money to go to medicine, to education, how do they survive? You want them to turn their faces to Ukraine and support this government? The Supreme Court decided that the transferees could not stop paying pensions because of the absence of a place of registration. So it's half-baked. You live under the Constitution of Ukraine, and how did you deprive the constitutional right to choose Ukrainian citizens -- migrants, 1.5 million and four million who live there? You want to choose power by depriving people of their right to vote, so don't point your finger at the Opposition Block, which, you say, the Kremlin manuals. You raise this question when you lack the votes to rename cities, to ratify international agreements, when you needed support when you took off the Jaciny, and you went and prayed, just don't vote for unsatisfactory work. Be consistent, don't live by double standards, because people don't live by double standards, and you get the same grade as we do, and the result is what we're going to see. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-14-m0.u20	The last performance today is in the National Deputies' House. Please give your word to the head, commander of the battalion of the volunteer, our colleague of honor, sir. Antonistak. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-14-m0.u21	Good afternoon, Ukrainian people! I'd like to welcome you to the big day of volunteering. It says, "What if it's not us?" What if we did not protect Ukraine and Europe from the Russian plague in 2014?Oh, my God! Who, if not, did we sew up Ukraine and restore the Ukrainians with dignity?Oh, my God! On March 14, 2014, more than 500 people from the Maydan Self-Defense in Novopetrovts started training, and then the first reserve battalion of the Ukrainian National Guard was created, now known as the Hero of Ukraine, General Kulčicko. Today's the fourth anniversary of the battalion. Brothers, I thank you - alive and dead - for knowing you that I knew you. I thank fate for having had the happiness and the honour to protect, and I think to protect and crush the enemy, and to drive him out of Ukraine! Dear Ukrainian people, volunteers! They're engineers, doctors, teachers, businessmen, pensioners. Someone was fighting for Carpathian, someone for Dynamo, someone for the Shaktar, someone didn't like football at all, someone was a Christian, someone was a Jew. They were united by one thing — their great love for Ukraine. Remember the volunteers, take care of them. Glory to Ukraine! Thank you to the volunteers!
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-14-m0.u22	Heroic glory! Congratulations, brothers. And I want to point out that the time for the performances is over, and now we have two statements in the foreclosure that the factions have put on a break, but we're ready to replace them with performances. The first is from the Self-Help and Fatherland factions, the second is from the People's Front and the Peter Prashenko Block. And that's why I'm going to give three minutes for the show. First from the two factions of Yegor Sobolev – 3 minutes and then Irina Lucenko. Please, three minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-14-m0.u23	Like millions of Ukrainians, we join in greetings, honoring all the volunteers who then saved us all the independence of our nation, saving us all our freedom. Thank you so much for that! I think it would be unfair in Parliament on this day to talk about another part of the truth, about how many of these volunteers have already been released from the National Guard, from the Ukrainian Armed Forces, tired of the idea of "Russian peace," the attitude of "Russian peace" in command. I think it would be unfair not to mention in Parliament how many volunteers are now in detention centres or in prisons, where battalions can be formed. And most of the charges against them are fabricated accusations, including on the initiative of the people who formed this "Russian peace". And even more sin will not be mentioned, more than ten days ago, under the walls of the Supreme Council, including the volunteers, were put to their knees. The Berkuts were built, which we have remembered since Midan’s day. I first saw them inspired, and I saw them satisfied for the first time. I was talking to them, by the way, about people who protected all of us in 2014, and the answer was "the war you came up with to make a fortune, and all the volunteers are sailors who went to war to rob ATMs." This was said by the National Police officers, who then, on March 3, at six o’clock in the morning, attacked people under the Supreme Council. The people who were led by the volunteers, the people in front of whom the volunteers were themselves, and who did nothing but do what was required, helped us to make decisions in the interests of the State, including the creation of the same anticorruption court. I want to tell all the volunteers that this war, in which you have forever celebrated your name, has not ended. Top-corruption is "Russian peace" and it is "Russian peace" and repression against its citizens that is "Russian peace". Let's continue this war and let's win it.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-14-m0.u24	Irina Lucenko is invited to the floor by the faction of Peter Prashenko and the People's Front. Please, three minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-14-m0.u25	Honorable National Deputies, distinguished Ukrainians! Today, a special event will take place in the United States Congress, a demonstration of the Ukrainian movie "Cyborga". The film will also be shown in other European capitals. He was already shown in Vienna. We want to show the world the truth about the war fought by Russia, the war that takes the lives of the peaceful inhabitants and the military -- the best people of our cocaine. Everyone who is killed is not only a premature life, they are also families who have lost their son, daughter, husband, wife, father, mother. In my hands is a calendar called "The Future's View." On this calendar, pictures of the children of the cyborgs who protected the Donetsk airport, the cyborgs, who became a symbol of courage, integrity, firmness, and stubbornness in defending their Fatherland, are pictures of the children of the fallen boys who loved their families so much that they sacrificed their lives to protect the ruins. Their bodies and their feat will remain in the memory of Ukrainian citizens. As you look in the face and in the eyes of those children in the future, remember that those children have now remained children of the entire Ukrainian family. I have on my desk props of the calendar that cyborg boys have made by meeting with the public organization and bringing together the families of these cyborgs. Each calendar costs 400 dollars. 200 dollars will go to support the families of those children whom you see (and such families 170) whose parents died protecting the Donetsk airport, that Donetsk land. A photo exhibition and an exhibition of this calendar opened yesterday. Please don't be indifferent. I'm asking you very much to give these children the parents that allow us here today to sit, work, reform and build Ukraine. Please don't be indifferent. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-14-m0.u26	Heroic glory! And the last closing statement we have is from the Radical Party and the will of the people. And they also agree to replace the break for the performance. And I'd like to invite you to the presentation of Kostya Mathichenko. From the rostrum, right? Please, guys.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-14-m0.u27	Good afternoon! Today we celebrate the Day of the Ukrainian Volunteer – a celebration of the courage and heroism of the defenders of independence, sovereignty and territorial integrity of Ukraine, increased social attention and concern for participants in volunteer formations. From this rostrum, I want to thank everyone for putting such a holiday on a state level. But it's good on paper. Yes, in the city of Bahmut, after communicating with the ATO and the battalion's fighters, Artemusk came up with the idea of establishing a memorable sign of a battle in downtown Bahmut, where we destroyed DNR headquarters. A fight that allowed the city to be liberated without casualties and then the next day, due to the threat of an environment, the Gorkin gang left the city of Slavyansk. Sadly, though, after asking the city council to agree on a sketch project, we received a six - year rejection of the Bahmut City Council, led by Mayor Reva Aleksandrovich, who is motivated by the fact that the setting of a memorial sign is a barrier to green planting, some flowers will not be visible. I would like to remind you that this is the same mayor of the city council, whose separatist essence was manifested and when we refused to rename the street in the city of Bahmut in honor of the Hero of Ukraine, Dmitry Czernavsky, whose memory we observed yesterday was a moment of silence. This street was named after Donbass's liberators. The city’s measure was closer, but each one understands the essence of the liberators. Some of them refer to other liberators from that point of view. This is the same mayor and the city council that held sessions and performances under the flags of the DNR in 2014. One question: the city of Bahmut in DNR or Ukraine? We're all here in Kiev, sharing something, measuring something, observing ratings. Believe me, people who've been through fighting have heard the sound of bullets and the canon of hail, and it's just boring. We're talking about the return of territories that are temporarily occupied by the enemy, but I'm all over the country saying that it's going to rematch the separatist forces in the freed territories. And it's dangerous that these same booths are sitting in tie and high cabinets, not just in my native Bahmut. Take, for example, the same Stepa, the ex - mayor of the city of Slovenia, who called for Putina to come, is sitting at home, not at the station, and claims that she will again soon be the mayor of Slovenia. Of course, there is a great deal of softness, patience, and understanding in our society, freedom of speech and imagination, but perhaps that is what we Ukrainians can be proud of, and for this we have fought. And I also want to say with full confidence from this high rostrum to all the non-humans who are waiting for the Revans, that this will not pass, and will be well-being as one of the guarantors of this. And by turning to.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-14-m0.u28	Please, 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-14-m0.u29	I appeal to the local authority of Bahmut, once again to stress that you will no longer be able to ignore the needs of society. If the community needs to honor heroic actions to free the city from the invaders, you better listen. People are wise and see everything. Glory to Ukraine! Thank you to the volunteers who stood up for the Fatherland!
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-14-m0.u30	Thank you. So, colleagues, let's move on to the agenda. I'm asking everyone to come to the hall. We have the first two questions regarding the protection of children from sexual abuse. And the first law, that's the second reading. There aren't many rights here, so I'm asking you to get all mobile. The vote will take place in 5-10 minutes, because there's a small number of rights. And I ask everyone to come to the hall and prepare for fruitful work. So we move on to the first question of order of the day. This is a draft law amending the Criminal Code for the Protection of Children from Sexual Abuse and Exploitation (No. 2016). And I invite you from the committee to the report, head of the committee. Yes, Palamarczuk will report. Please, Mr. Mikolo. A representative of the Committee on Legal Protection, Mikola Palamarczuk, please. And please invite everyone to the hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-14-m0.u31	Dear Mr. Head, dear colleagues! Your point is to consider a comparative table prepared by the Committee on Legal Protection for the second reading of the draft Ukrainian Law on Amendments to the Criminal Code on the Protection of Children from Sexual Abuse and Sexual Exploitation at Registration Number 2016. The bill proposes to amend a number of articles of the Criminal Code in order to improve legislation to protect children from sexual abuse and sexual exploitation. The amendments to articles 155, 156 and 302 of the Criminal Code propose to expand the circle of subjects who will be criminally responsible for sexual relations with a person who has not reached sexual maturity. Criminalize an article entitled "A relationship with a person who has not reached the age of sixteen made by an adult." Thus, set a clear minimum age for puberty. Strengthen responsibility for crimes involving the creation or maintenance of places of fornication and reprisal. The proposed amendments to article 155 of the Criminal Code of Ukraine establish a clear and minimum age for sexual maturity of 16 years. However, the implementation of this standard will require amendments to article 242 of the Ukrainian Criminal Procedure Code: the establishment of the victim’s sexual maturity in criminal conduct regarding crimes provided for in article 155 of the Ukrainian Criminal Code. Which are not proposed in this project, but are proposed in the next bill, registration number 6070. This bill and the following, under number 6070, are interconnected and complementary. When preparing the project, registration number 2016, 30 proposals from national deputies were made to the committee in the second reading, which were processed and placed in a comparative table with appropriate justification for their consideration or rejection. Three proposals by the national deputies are included: number 2, 4, 6. The other ones are number one, three, five, seven, thirty. On the basis of the above, the Committee adopted a decision to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine the adoption of a bill amending the Criminal Procedural Code on the Protection of Children from Sexual Abuse and Exploitation (Registration No. 2016) on second reading and generally as a law of Ukraine. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-14-m0.u32	Thank you. We're moving on to the right-hand side. And I'm asking you to stay on. because the right-wing authors are going to point out their rights so that you can explain. I'll call the right-wing authors. Anyone who wants to sign for confirmation will give me a sign. So 1 line. Don't insist. Third. Don't insist. 5th. Don't insist. 9th. Don't insist. 11th. Don't insist. 13th. Don't insist. 15th. Don't insist. 18th. Don't insist. 16th. Wait a minute, I'll be back by 16. Yeah, 16th, Victoria's Bird. Turn on the microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-14-m0.u33	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I will insist on taking into account two of my amendments that have been prepared with the professors of the Faculty of Criminal Law at the University of Shevchenka, and without which, firstly, we will not be able to fully implement the convention for which this project was actually prepared. And secondly, we may still be exposed to the dangerous consequences that we have experienced with the adoption of the so-called Savchenko law. Therefore, this amendment specifically refers to the need to attach, in the first part of article 155 of the Criminal Code, the age of the victim to his or her ability to express consent to engage in sexual activities. This is one moment. And secondly, I propose to replace those words that are used as "natural or unnatural sexual intercourse" with the term used in the "sexual activity" convention. After all, it is a term that covers much more the course of action that may fall out if we accept it in the editorial and the article in which it is proposed.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-14-m0.u34	Thank you. Will you comment, Mr. Mikolo?
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-14-m0.u35	I can only say that the proposed concept is controversial and will lead to a breach of the principle of legal certainty. But because he's the author of the bill. the amendment is made, asked to be put on confirmation, please place it on confirmation.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-14-m0.u36	Thank you. It's not a confirmation. Yeah, it's an copyright. You insist on voting, Mrs. Victoria. And I'm putting to the vote 16 of the People's Chamber of Birds. The committee turned her down. Whoever supports this amendment, please vote. [[10:59:55]] For-88 The decision is not taken. I understand that you insist on the next, 21 to the next. Turn on the bird's microphone. Twenty-one.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-14-m0.u37	I'm asking all the MPs to pay attention to the fact that last December we adopted a project with you under number 4952, which also applies to this category of crimes. So far, the project that we are discussing is not in line with the law that has been passed. And it turns out that the contradictions that we have that actually lead to practice, first of all, to weaken the protection of minors from sexual crimes. And what happens is that children of a certain age will fall out of regulation at all, and in other cases, crimes against children of the same age can actually be punished in different ways. In practice, we will have the same situation as we had with the law of Savchenko, when the weakening of punishment will have a reverse effect at the time that will allow the release of criminals who are already convicted of crimes against children. So I'm very much asking you to put this amendment to confirm and consider it, without it you can't accept it as without the previous law at all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-14-m0.u38	Thank you. So 21 revisions are rejected by the committee. I'm putting her to the vote. Anyone who supports the 21st People's Deputies, please vote. The committee turned her down. Please. And I'd like everyone to come into the hall. [[11:01:38]] For 115 The decision is not taken. 23rd. Don't insist. 24th. The author does not insist. 29th. The author does not insist. And the 30th. Don't insist. Colleagues, we've finished the discussion. And we can move on to making a decision. And I'm asking the factions to invite MPs into the hall. Please inform the secretariat that we are moving on to the decision-making process and ask all members of the national parliament to take up jobs and prepare for the vote. So, colleague, I'm asking you to take up jobs, leave your beds. Colleagues! I'll ask you to return to your seats. And please come into the hall. Colleagues, don't come out of the hall, there's a vote going on. Go back to the hall. So let's move on to making a decision. I am voting on the draft Act amending the Criminal Code for the Protection of Children from Sexual Abuse and Exploitation (No. 2016) on second reading and in general, second reading and as a whole. Please vote, please support, vote, please support. [[11:03:51]] For 203 We didn't make it. I'm asking everyone now. I ask you to invite the deputies to the hall and to vote. I'll be back in a minute. I ask once again the heads of factions to maximize the mobilization of MPs. Invite them into the hall, ask them to sit in the workplace. So, please prepare, I'll be back in a minute. So, colleagues, please prepare. I'm betting on the vote to come back. Allow Mr. Yuri to vote. Sit anywhere, give me a card. So I propose to go back to voting for the draft Act amending the Criminal Code for the Protection of Children from Sexual Abuse and Exploitation (No. 2016). Everyone, please take part in the vote. Please support the proposal to return to the law and please vote, please support. Colleagues, we vote, every vote, we vote carefully. Please be supportive. Vote. [[11:05:36]] For 213 I'll do it again. According to factions: "Block of Petra Poshenko" – 77, "National Front" – 55, "Block of Opposition" – 15, "Help" – 16, Radical Party – 15, "Fathership" – 7, "Will of the People" – 3, "Party of Rebirth" – 6. All the factions of Parliament support this bill, and it would be strange if they didn't support it. We just need to mobilize. And I urge everyone to take part in the vote. Don't leave the hall, please, go back to the hall. So please all return to the hall and take part in the vote. So I'm going to make another offer to go back. Colleagues, if they come out of the voting room, I'm going to call the names of the people leaving the hall throughout the country. It must be everyone’s personal responsibility. So please prepare for the vote. I'm asking you to return to the hall. And I am voting on the proposal to go back to voting for the draft Act amending the Criminal Code for the Protection of Children from Sexual Abuse and Exploitation (No. 2016). Everyone, please don't leave the hall. Vote and support. Colleagues, carefully, every voice, please support, please vote – return. Vote. Please be supportive. [[11:07:50]] For 230 We're back. Thank you to all factions. Please take up your jobs. We make decisions. And I am voting on the draft Act amending the Criminal Code for the Protection of Children from Sexual Abuse and Exploitation (No. 2016) on second reading and in general. Please support, please vote, colleagues, assemblage, every vote. Please support, please vote, vote. [[11:08:32]] For 241 The law is passed. Here we go to the next draft Act amending article 242 of the Criminal Procedure Code of Ukraine (No. 6070). It's from the same cluster of questions. And I'm asking you to support his consideration of the reduced procedure. Please vote and support the reduced procedure, please. [[11:09:07]] For 133 Colleagues, there's no problem, we can go full-time, but we won't be able to look at the ratifications. And so I'm very much asking everyone to take a more responsible, responsible approach to the vote. So please support the consideration of this issue by a reduced procedure. Please vote and please support, we vote. [[11:09:47]] For-167 Thank you. And we're moving on to draft Law 6070. And I invite you to the report of the Ukrainian National Deputy Lucenko Irina Stepanovna. Please, Mrs. Irina.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-14-m0.u39	Dear colleagues, I am very grateful that you have supported my Law 2016 in the second reading and in general. In fact, this bill, 6070, is closely related to the previous bill. The essence of this bill. We are amending the Criminal Procedure Code to reverse the procedure for forensic expertise when it comes to the age of a child who has been raped. Because the previous bill. It is said that a child is not allowed to be sexually exploited, raped, and otherwise committed, according to this bill, if we have voted before, there is no need for forensic expertise when it comes to the age of sexual maturity of the child. I ask you very much to support this bill, literally one tiny norm, they are mirrored by each other. Thank you. Since this is a tiny norm, I ask you not to delay the work of the Supreme Council, to vote on the basis as a whole.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-14-m0.u40	Thank you. To the committee's co-report, I invite you to the speech by Palamarczuk Mikola Petrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-14-m0.u41	Dear Head, dear colleagues! Your point is to consider the draft Ukrainian Law on Amendments to Article 242 of the Criminal Procedural Code of Ukraine (Registration No. 6070). This bill is complementary to the bill under registration number 2016, which we have just adopted as a law. The bill introduces article 242 of the Ukrainian Criminal Procedural Code in accordance with one Ukrainian Criminal Code to exclude the need for forensic and medical expertise to establish the sexual maturity of the victim, since the age of social maturity is now 16 years. Thus, the committee decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine a draft Ukrainian law amending article 242 of the Ukrainian Criminal Procedure Code (registration number 6070) as a basis and as a whole as a law. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-14-m0.u42	Thank you. Colleagues, are we talking? [[B in m in s a l in]] Do we vote? We're talking, aren't we? All right, if there's a need for discussion, please record: two in, two in, against. Please. From Peter Poshenko's Block, Klan Sergey Volodymyrovich. Ira Lucenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-14-m0.u43	Pass the word to Irina Lucenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-14-m0.u44	Please, Mrs. Iro.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-14-m0.u45	Dear colleagues, please support this bill. It aims to implement the 2012 Lancarrot Convention, which aims to prevent, combat sexual exploitation and depravement of children in Ukraine. This bill is a part that complements the previous bill that we have just voted on in the second reading. It will allow us not to conduct forensic expertise, which is often transformed into corruption, where, at the expense of money, rapists can be redeemed from justice, and this crime is punishable by the Criminal Code of Ukraine from five to eight years. Please support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-14-m0.u46	Thank you. From the Opposition Block. Yuri Miroshnichenko. Mr. Yuri! He's handing it over to Pavlovek. Please. Please, Mr. Yuri.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-14-m0.u47	Dear Head, distinguished national MPs! The Opposition Block supports this bill and will vote on the basis as a whole. At the same time, with the opportunity, I would like to highlight one extremely challenging problem: the protection of children who have been victims of armed conflict, the child who has suffered from military action. Such children include children who have been sexually abused. Or the main problem that has arisen today is the Cabinet of Ministers Regulation, which determines how this status is to be granted. Yes, the Cabinet of Ministers' decree says that in order to grant the status of a child who has suffered from armed forces, it is necessary to bring this crime to the ERDR. However, when it comes to children in a conflict zone, it is not always possible to find and locate a rapist. On this basis, children are often denied judicial investigation and are therefore denied the status of a child who has suffered. That's why we demand that the Cabinet of Ministers change immediately 268 of April 5 and determine psychological violence, and in particular a description of the rapist's actions. In a year, only six children were able to gain the status of a child who had suffered from armed conflict. In general, the United Nations, UNICEF, identifies 580,000 children who are unfortunately deprived of any assistance and protection from the Ukrainian State today.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-14-m0.u48	And a closing statement from the Radical Party. Igor Moisiychuk. And I'm asking everyone to come into the hall, and in three minutes, there's going to be a vote. Invite everyone into the hall. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-14-m0.u49	Igor Musiyczuk, Oleg Lachka Radical Party. Our faction will support the bill in the first reading. He's technically important in principle, but in our opinion, he needs to be studied, and then in the second reading, we'll support him. But with the opportunity that we're discussing the amendment to the Criminal Procedure Code, I want to talk about the lie. About the cynical lie that the media are spreading, flooding our faction of the Radical Party and my colleague, Andrija Lozov. And unfortunately, some colleagues, unfortunately, have also been led into this lie. People are good, calm down, and no change in the burial of citizens will take place on March 15. All they tell about Lozov's amendment is a cynical lie, a lie, and another lie! In fact, Lozov’s case relates exclusively to criminal cases and refers to a charge of suspicion, a citizen’s right to be accused of suspicion. And setting up deadlines for the investigation. To keep a million Ukrainians off the hook and not tell them how many, who and which office to put them in. And let all who lie grow feathers in their mouths! Let them hide themselves. They're hiding that cynical lie they're spreading. People are good. Calm down. There will be no changes in the funeral rules since March 15. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-14-m0.u50	So we finished the discussion. Let's move on to making a decision. And I'm asking everyone to come to the hall. Fellows, call who's out of the hall so they can come back. Take up jobs, please. The bill is simple. The committee suggests that we accept it immediately and in general. And I'm sure no one will deny it. This is the technical regulation of the bill. And so I ask everyone to support and vote. I am voting on the draft Act amending article 242 of the Criminal Procedure Code of Ukraine (No. 6070) as a whole. Please vote. Please be supportive. Colleagues, we're voting carefully. Please be supportive. [[11:19:41]] For-191 We didn't make it. Invite the deputies to the Chamber. Show by factions. Colleagues, I'm asking you to support everyone. Colleagues, there is a position of a number of deputies to be solely based. Let me put, first, on the basis of at least progress, and then let's see how we go from there. And I very much ask you to invite me, colleagues, to the hall. Ten, call them, they're in the towers, let them come into the hall. Invite a colleague into the hall. I'm going to put it on the ground first, and then I'm going to offer it all over again. So, colleagues, I'm asking everyone to come into the hall. Yeah, it's already in the hall, yeah. Don't leave the hall. And I put the vote first on the ground. [[B in m in s a l in]] Return. The first is the return. But I promise those who want me to lay the groundwork. So vote for your return. So, colleagues, the first proposal is to go back to voting for Law 6070. And I would like to support the return to the debate and vote for this bill. And very carefully, every voice. Please vote, please support. Vote. Please support and participate in the vote. Vote. [[11:21:28]] For 228 We're back. And I'm putting my first proposal on the ground. Draft Law 6070 as a basis. I'm asking you to support everyone, colleagues. First, on the ground. [[B in m in s a l in]] I know, but we don't have one of the factions in general. 228. We're going to get minus 20 and that's it. First I'm going to lay the groundwork, then I'm going to put it all together. So the first proposal is based on. Please support everyone as a basis. Please vote everyone on the basis, then I'll put it all together. Please support me as a base. Please vote. Vote. [[11:22:17]] For 230 Considered the basis. And now I'm putting it all together. 6070 as a whole. Let's support it. Think about it, guys. Let's support it in general. I'd like you to support me as a whole. Please vote. Vote. [[11:22:44]] For 215 So, colleagues, we have a situation in the hall where there's no support. If you change your position now, I'll put it again. But if you don't change it, then it doesn't make sense. You're not changing positions, are you? I'll wait 30 seconds. There are voices in the room. The important thing is whether there is a political position. Let's wait 30 seconds, and I'll offer it all over again. Are you sure? Can we or can't we? So, colleagues, I'm going to make an offer: who would we go back to voting in general for the draft Law 6070. So who wants us to go back to voting in general? We've already adopted the base, we already have the base. Now I'm putting to the vote the proposal to try again in general to support this law. You got it, right? So who would like us to go back to voting in general, please vote and please support. Ira, we vote. Vote. Who's for us to come back for the vote as a whole, please support. Let's vote in agreement, in common. Vote. [[11:24:45.]] For 212 No, colleagues, Law 6070 has been adopted as a basis. Let's have an accelerated consideration of the second reading. Will you support that? So please support the consideration of the short term for consideration of amendments to the second reading, please vote, please support. Vote. Please be supportive. [[11:25:18]] For 209 Let's move on to the next block, the question block. The first is the draft Law on Ratification of the Agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria on Co-operation in the Event of Disasters (No. 0174). And I ask you to support the consideration of the reduced procedure. Please vote and please support. [[11:25:57]] For a hundred and Decision taken. And I invite you to report to the Deputy Minister of Internal Affairs, Trojan Vadim Anatoliyovich. And, Vadim, on behalf of Parliament, I also welcome you to Volunteer Day. With a holiday! [[Applause]] Please, Mr. Vadim.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-14-m0.u51	Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-14-m0.u52	Heroic glory!
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-14-m0.u53	At the beginning of my talk, I would like to welcome all the volunteers of Ukraine to their festival. And separately, I would like to thank the volunteers, all the volunteers and friends who have supported and trusted us. You know, in war, everyone prays in their own way and everyone lives in their own way. Each one has his own prayer — one who turns to God, one who is personal, one who is family. But I would like to read the words of Lena Kostenko, and I read them personally, for example. "I want to live every day. It's not long before the dream date. Living by fire today. 'Cause tomorrow, maybe it won't come." I wish you all good health! And God give to all! [[Applause]] Thank you. Now let's go to the law. Dear Andrew Volodymyrovich! Dear National Deputies! The project provides for ratification by the Supreme Council of Ukraine of a draft agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of Bulgaria on cooperation in the field of protection against natural and other disasters. The project is based on the Constitution of Ukraine and the Ukrainian International Contracts Act. The agreement establishes a general framework for cooperation between the governments of Ukraine and Bulgaria in the field of prevention and preparedness and response to emergency situations. The source of funding for possible assistance to the Government of Bulgaria in the event of disasters may be the State Budget Reserve Fund of Ukraine or other sources. In doing so, the corresponding expenditure will be regulated by a separate decision of the Cabinet of Ministers. Please be supportive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-14-m0.u54	Thank you. The committee's co-report is invited to the Biosort of Oxana Volodymyrn, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-14-m0.u55	Honorable Presidium, distinguished national MPs! I would like to inform you that the Committee on European Integration, at its meeting on 7 February 2018, reviewed the draft Law on Ratification of the Agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria on Cooperation in the Event of Disasters and approved the decision to recommend it to the Supreme Council of Ukraine as a basis and as a whole. This decision of the committee is in line with the conclusion of the Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration, which supported the ratification of the agreement. The treaty proposed for ratification was made in Sofia on June 30, 2016, and its ratification will allow for the internal procedures necessary to take effect. The agreement establishes a general framework for cooperation between Ukraine and Bulgaria in preventing preparedness and responding to disasters, conditions and procedures for providing voluntary assistance in the event of disasters occurring in both countries. Ladies and gentlemen, please support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-14-m0.u56	Thank you, Mrs. Oksana. Do we vote without discussion? Great. I ask my colleagues to return to the session room because there will be a vote in a minute. Please return to the session room. Dear colleagues, we await a return to our colleagues' hall. As long as I give my word, I know that Alexi Poroshenko wanted to speak on this issue. Please, Mr. Alexia. Colleagues, I ask you to come back. In a minute, there will be a vote, please, Mr. Alexia.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-14-m0.u57	Thank you, Madam Chairman. This is an important deal. The Peter Dustenka bloc will support the ratification of this agreement with Bulgaria. It is very important that this cooperation relates to the transfer of experience, practical skills for disaster management. Ukraine and Bulgaria will be able to organize expert meetings, conferences, seminars, studies, and so forth. It is very important to add that the Agreement with Bulgaria has an undeniable advantage over the maritime neighborhood. That is, we and our partners will be able to respond adequately and effectively to disasters not only on land but also on the sea, which is certainly necessary to strengthen the protection of our citizens. I'd like the entire room to support this deal. The Peter Dusty Block will support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-14-m0.u58	Thank you. Colleagues, please don't leave the hall if we vote. I did. I made a proposal in the hall that we were voting without discussion. Mr. Sergei, don't be nervous, do you want to speak? He wants justice, Fatherland wants justice. Please, sir. Don't leave the hall then, sign up for the discussion. "Paternality" requires justice, sign up for discussion, please. Why don't you sign up for the discussion? I've already given you my word. Dear colleague, I would like to say that the hall asked for a vote without discussion. We asked to return to the session room. Alexi raised his hand that he wanted to speak. Please, Krulko. We don't have any scandals and problems talking about it. Please discuss. Mr. Krulko, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-14-m0.u59	Ivan Krulko, "The Fatherland" faction. Of course, the Fatherland faction will vote for this ratification. But what happened in the session room now? I'd like the chairman to point this out. The problem is that there is a Supreme Council regulation. And this Rules stipulates that if a reduced procedure is taking place, it is recorded: two in favour, two in opposition. And only those who signed up "two-for-two-against" have the opportunity to speak. And certainly some members of Parliament, including myself, have asked why they gave the floor, in particular, to the national MP Alexia Dustenk without a queue and without a record of "two-for-two-against"? That's actually the problem. If we're in discussion mode, then all factions have the right to speak, including opposition factions, such as the Fatherland faction. Now we've signed up, and our position on this bill is that we support it. But I would also ask the Presidency to abide by the Supreme Council's Rules of Procedure and to provide for the same rights regardless of whether it is a coalition MP or an opposition MP. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-14-m0.u60	Thank you. I heard a remark to the chairman. I would also like to refer to the Fatherland faction to comply with the Rules and to draw the attention of journalists and the session hall, which is now only six deputies from the Fatherland Chamber. [[B in m in s a l in]] Today is a work day, and I'm asking Fatherland and all the other factions to go to work. I apologize to the Fatherland faction for not signing up. [[B in m in s a l in]] I'm asking you not to shout! We're not at the market, we're at the parliament! Please make the next statement. Deputy Lensky. I'm begging you. Passes the word.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-14-m0.u61	Please pass the word to Moses Igor.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-14-m0.u62	Now I want to say there's no word for today. [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear colleagues, I beg you now, I ask you to stop the mess. And sound what we have today. We're here today. [[B in m in s a l in]] No, it's not.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-14-m0.u63	Ira! Colleagues, I ask you all to calm down! Colleagues, I'm asking you to take up your jobs. A word was given for Igor Moisiychuk. Please, Mr. Igor, come in.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-14-m0.u64	Igor Musiyczuk, Oleg Lachka Radical Party. Dear colleagues, well, we're not at the market, we're at the Ukrainian Parliament. Or let's work, or, I don't know, turn parliament into a market just because they don't go to work, they just don't go. Of course, the faction of the Radical Party of Oleg Laska will support this ratification. But I would like to take this opportunity to highlight what my associate at the Azov Battalion, Vadim Troyan, said on Volunteer Day. And I would like to thank all my brothers, all my comrades, all those who have been around in those turbulent days of the 14th year who, without sacrificing their lives, have protected and protected the country that stopped the enemy, want the Ukrainian Parliament to remember everyone and everyone, including those who are currently in prison, including those who are now in captivity, including those on the front. And I would like the Ukrainian Parliament now to honour for a moment the memory of those volunteers who have remained forever in the fields under Ilowisk, Mariupol, and other cities, protecting the country. Glory to Ukraine! And Glory to Hero!
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-14-m0.u65	A moment of silence. [[A Minute of Silence]] Thank you. And, colleagues, a few people are demanding replicas. I'm asking you to put down the political opposition now, and we're moving on to the vote. And please support everyone, colleagues. I am voting on the draft Law on the Ratification of the Agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria on Cooperation in the Event of Disasters (0174). Colleagues, I'm asking everyone to take a seat and support, vote. Please take all the jobs, come back. So, if you'll excuse me, please vote. Vote. Please be supportive. [[11:38:12]] For 202 We didn't make it. Invite the deputies to the Chamber. Please invite all the deputies to the hall, please. And I ask you to support as many as possible who's in factions. Now I'm going to put the vote back, and I'm very much asking everyone to come into the hall now, get ready to vote and support. So I'm going to put the first vote back, and I'm asking everyone unanimously to support the proposal to go back to draft Law 0174. I'll wait for you to take up your jobs. Andrew, let's vote! Hence, the return to draft Law 0174. Please vote. Please be supportive. Colleagues, we count each voice, take part in the vote. [[11:39:47]] For 213 We'll do it again. Please, please, during the vote, stop the political discussions, get back to work. Guys, I'm gonna put you back on the line. Give me more votes, we're missing literally a few. Colleagues, please prepare for the vote. So, colleagues, please prepare and support the proposal to return to ratification. Colleagues, I would like everyone to take a very careful part in this vote, and I would like everyone to support me, colleagues. Andrew, please vote, please support. Vote, please. [[11:41:27]] For 231 We're back. And now I'm putting the draft Law on the ratification of the Agreement between the Cabin and the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria (0174) as a basis and as a whole. Please vote, please support. Vote, please stand by, carefully. Vote. [[11:41:55]] For 228 Copy that. The decision is taken, the law is passed. Colleagues, I'm going to continue to put the ratings in pre-ratifications so we don't put them at risk. Please remain seated. I ask you, Sergey and Tanya, Sergey, rating, take part in the vote, I ask you very much. 228, we walk by voice, by every voice. I'm putting up a rating vote right now. Next. Next draft of the Law on Ratification of the General Agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of the Republic of Poland on Co-operation in Defence (0145). The rating vote. Please vote. Please be supportive. So we can see the factions' position. [[11:42:56]] For a hundred and Next rating vote. Draft Act of Ratification of the Agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of Romania on cooperation in military transport. The rating vote. Please vote. Please support, rating. [[11:43:25]] For 199 The next rating vote on the draft Ratification Act on the amendment of the Financial Agreement between Ukraine and the European Investment Bank (0177). Please vote. Please be supportive. The rating vote. Please be supportive. [[11:43:56]] For 197 And the final rating vote on the draft Ratification Act is a letter amending the Financial Agreement between Ukraine and the European Investment Bank. Ratings 0178. Please vote. Please be supportive. [[11:44:31]] For 197 Colleagues, ratification laws that are, they don't have enough support. And obviously, the whole room will agree with me that we can't put acceptances at risk. The next one in the daytime is the large-scale Law in the second reading of the National Police’s Disciplinary Statute. He has several hundred rights, and we have the opportunity today to begin his consideration of tomorrow’s vote. So we move on to the next question of the order of the day. This is a draft law on the National Police’s Disciplinary Statute (No. 4670). Let me remind you, in our own time, we reviewed this bill and sent it back for a second reading. The bill has several hundred rights and needs a detailed, serious discussion in the hall. And I invite the representative of the Committee on Legislative Security and Law Protection, Mikola Palamarczuk, to report on the draft Law on the National Police’s Disciplinary Statute (No. 4670). Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-14-m0.u66	Dear Head, your peers, the comparative table for the draft Ukrainian Law on the National Police Disciplinary Statute (Registration No. 4670), prepared by the Committee for a second reading, is proposed for your consideration. The project proposes the approval of the National Police Disciplinary Statute, which establishes the basis and order for drawing police officers to disciplinary responsibility, as well as the application of police incentives. The bill provided for a second reading on December 21st, 17th. During the second reading, 12 amendments were made to the committee. Of these, two are offered to be taken into account, including in part (this is Amendments 39 and 102). Decline ten (this is amendments 70, 77, 87, 94, 100, 114, 123, 132, 137 and 198). The proposals for re-reading came from the People’s Deputy Levchenk and are similar to those made earlier to the second reading, except for the proposal number 39, which makes a meaningful duplicate of the proposal made by National MP Stotnik number 38, which was taken into account by the committee in preparing the bill for the second reading. The reasons and reasons for the rejection of the proposals of the national deputies are found in the comparative table given to you. Taking into account that all the amendments made to the second reading have already been considered, the Committee and Parliament are proposing to approve a comparative table and recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine that the Committee adopt a draft of the Ukrainian National Police Disciplinary Statute Act (Registration No. 4670) as a second reading and as a whole as a law. Please make up your mind. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-14-m0.u67	Dear colleagues, we are moving on to the amendments. I'm asking you to fix one of the Palamarczuks. He doesn't insist. Yeah, we're going to look at the revisions, there's a lot of them. And I'm very much asking you not to disagree with the authors of the amendments. 3 repairs, Welcome. Don't insist. Five repairs, Welcome. Don't insist. 6th, Captain Olena. There's Captain and Costenko. Kostenko. Don't insist. 8th AmendmentCupry. Don't insist.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-14-m0.u68	Thank you very much, Mr. Anton. Cooper's on all the amendments. Please turn on the microphone, Kuprienka, of course. And please, your amendment is now number 8.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-14-m0.u69	Thank you, Madam Chairman. And please note that the national MP who made the amendment claims it himself, not someone there. And I raised my hand and said that I insisted on correcting it. So thank you for your consideration. I insist on my amendment because, in this case, my amendment specifies the material standard according to the principle of the rules of the Ukrainian language. And when this amendment is adopted, legislation will be more harmonious and balanced. So please put my amendment to the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-14-m0.u70	Dear colleagues, we vote in favour of the 8th amendment of Mrs. Kuprienka. The only thing that matters is that there is a comment on the honourable committee. Mr. Palamarczuk, please comment.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-14-m0.u71	No, there's no committee. Please make an amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-14-m0.u72	Vote for the 8th amendment, Your Honor, please. [[11:50:14]] For-83 83 votes, no vote for your amendment. And we're counting on it. 11th Amendment, Welcome home and Lucenko. Don't insist. Monsieur, this is also your amendment. Don't insist. Captain and Costenko, 12th Amendment. Don't insist. Romanowski, 23rd Amendment Don't insist. Welcome home, 24 repairs. Don't insist. Captain, 25 repairs. Don't insist. Welcome home, 28, 30. Don't insist. Captain, 35th. Don't insist. Romanowski, 40th. Don't insist. Yuri Timoshenko, your 62nd amendment. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-14-m0.u73	I don't insist.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-14-m0.u74	Don't insist. Okay. Corrections to our colleague, Mr. Levchenk, 69th and 70th. We all want him back as soon as possible. He is missing for good reason today. Please, Cooper, 73 revisions. 73 Amendment, National MP Cooper.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-14-m0.u75	Oleg Kuprienko, faction of the Radical Party of Oleg Lášk. I insist on my amendment, because the amendment does specify the law again, and it will remove the corruption component that may not be targeted at the use of public funds, for the acquisition of weapons of non-domestic production. This amendment will have a positive impact on the increase in the budget and development of the domestic producer itself. And once again I point out that in a normal country, government funds buy their products, and Ukraine has to buy Ukrainians, including for the needs of the National Police. So I'm asking you to put an amendment to the vote and I'm asking you to support our military and police officers to go with our Ukrainian weapons, not buy American or any other foreign. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-14-m0.u76	Thank you. Please comment, please, head of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-14-m0.u77	Dear colleagues, this amendment has been rejected by the committee in view of the fact that arms have already been purchased, which foreign production. And given this position, the committee considered this to be an appropriate amendment to reject it.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-14-m0.u78	Thank you. Please vote. [[11:54:15]] Z-70. Thank you. Next amendment number 74, National MP Cooper. Please turn it on.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-14-m0.u79	Oleg Kuprienko, faction of the Radical Party of Oleg Lášk. The honourable citizens who now see us and listen to us, notice, have already purchased weapons from a foreign producer, are already setting up a task in answer and say, "We have already done it, and you have to adopt the law." This amendment, once again, adds to the law the word "domestic manufacturer." Let's buy what the people produce for the economy of Ukraine, for the greater well-being of our people, and for our economy, not the economy of other nations. So I would like to ask members of the committee to reject the amendment to the domestic manufacturer and to save themselves for purchasing foreign goods, not their own, Ukrainian goods.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-14-m0.u80	Thank you. I'd like the committee to comment.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-14-m0.u81	A similar amendment only applies to cold weapons, so please put this amendment to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-14-m0.u82	Thank you. Please vote. [[11:55:53]] Z-62 The decision is not taken.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-14-m0.u83	62, no decision taken. Colleagues, a number of amendments have been made. I want to let you know that after the break, we will continue to consider the amendments. I know that some of the corrections we've missed, we'll go back to them, so there's no problem. We will be able to discuss and allow all the authors of the amendments to participate in the discussion. And now, according to the Rules, I'm going to recess until 12:30. At 12:30, everyone please arrive in the hall, especially the right-holders, to continue the review of the law. So I'm asking everyone to come to the hall at 12:30. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-14-m0.u84	Dear colleagues, we are continuing our sessional session. I want to remind you now that we are looking at Bill 4670 in the second reading, this is the draft of the Law on the National Police Disciplinary Statute. We have plenty of amendments to it. Now we're going back to the amendments, we're going to work. And I'm going to allow just one minute to draw your attention to the fact that before we consider this issue, we have an emotional exchange of thoughts about the Rules and compliance with the rules. The regulations of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Indeed, during the discussion, the ratification of ours. project with Bulgaria about. Conventions on cooperation in the event of a disaster from the hall made proposals for the consideration and voting of this ratification without discussion. And that's why the chairman, in this case the first vice-speaker, urged the deputies to return to the session room in order to get us to the vote. In anticipation of our colleagues, one of the MPs, a representative of the BPT, asked to speak in the discussion, and he was given the floor. Colleagues from Fatherland pointed out that they would also like to discuss this issue, and they were given a word as well. And actually, as chairman next time, just in any case, I'm going to put the question on record. But I refer to all colleagues, from all factions -- both coalitions and opposition -- to the implementation of the Rules of Presence in the sessional sessions in the discussion room. We're moving on to the amendments, Your Honor, and at the request of our colleague of the Romanovsky's, thank you, Mrs. Oksano. I'm looking for it right now. Amendment No. 23 of the Romanovski People's Deputy. We give you our word. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-14-m0.u85	Amendment 23 refers to obligations. Police duties regarding the storage of property I suggest you write down the entry in this line: "Keep it on constant alert. to provide adequate support for weapons and special equipment transferred to him. " On the one hand, the committee has edited this paragraph, but this paragraph simply states: “Keeping the service property. ” I am told to keep in good condition what has been given to him. Please put to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-14-m0.u86	Please comment to the profile committee. I would like to remind you that amendment No. 23 of the Romanovski People's Deputies, which requires amendments to paragraph 8 of part three of article 1, was rejected by the Committee. We would like to hear an explanation of the profile committee, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-14-m0.u87	The committee has considered this amendment very carefully and has adopted a decision at its meeting, based on the fact that property is property that may be in police custody as a criminal case or transferred in administrative matters, and property that is the property of the department is the property for which it is responsible. And for that he is also responsible, but the property that is the property of the office is recorded in the disciplinary code, and the property that is not the property of the office is the responsibility of the actual administrative or criminal responsibility, depending on the duties he carries out.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-14-m0.u88	Thank you for your clarification. Colleagues, I'm asking you to identify 23 amendments to Colleague Romanowski. He insists on voting. The profile committee turned it down. I'm asking you to be sure. [[12:39:43]] For-51 51 votes for your amendment. It's not supported by a session hall. And we're moving on. If I don't accidentally notice someone, raise your hands and don't be offended, there will be no evil intention here, just inconsiderateness. Yuri Timoshenko, your 62nd amendment. Don't insist. Okay, don't insist. 78th Amendment of the Romanovski People's Deputy. I'd like you to introduce her.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-14-m0.u89	This amendment refers to cold weapons as rewards. We offer to exclude this reward because it is not in the list of State rewards. And it also touches the 88th and 103rd, bound.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-14-m0.u90	Your explanation is understandable. I emphasize that we are now discussing amendment 78 of the Romanovski People's Deputies, and he insists on voting. It refers to the inclusion in part two, paragraph 10, of the corresponding entries. I ask that you explain to the committee that objected to this amendment. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-14-m0.u91	The committee considered the amendment carefully. And counting. and determined by voting. So it was partly, this amendment, taken into account in the amendment of the centurion, which was counted, so it was rejected.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-14-m0.u92	Thank you for your clarification. Colleagues, I request that the session room be decided now on amendment 78 of the Romanovsky People's Deputy regarding the inclusion in article 6, paragraph 10, of the second part, namely the exclusion of appropriate grounds for State awards. I'm asking you to make up your mind because the MP insists and the committee opposes. [[12:42:24]] For-50 Let's move on, dear fellows. 50 votes. She did not get the right amount of support from the deputies, so she refuses. Next amendment to 79 of the Romanovski People’s Deputies. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-14-m0.u93	My amendment refers to the encouragement of students who are in higher education with specific learning conditions. As in the fourth, part four of article 13 defines additional charges, the principle of balance of the concessions and the encouragement is appropriate for the individuals involved to take a separate note of the encouragement. Such encouragement is suggested: This is an additional exemption from the location of the school and the establishment of named scholarships.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-14-m0.u94	Thank you for your clarification. I ask the profile committee to clarify your position. You rejected the encouragement amendment. Please clarify your position.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-14-m0.u95	As with the students (hearers) who are being trained in higher education institutions with specific learning conditions, in part four of article 13, additional trainings are defined, and the principle of balance and encouragement is appropriate for the individuals involved to take a separate note of encouragement. It is also important to consider that not all the incentives listed in Part Two can be applied. So the committee carefully considered the amendment and rejected it.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-14-m0.u96	Dear colleagues, so there is now a debate about the amendment of the 79 people's deputies, and it concerns encouragement. It's a committee against that standard. I request that the room be determined by a vote on this rule. [[12:44:41]] For-47 Unfortunately, your amendment is not supported, dear colleague. We're moving on. 80 amendments to the People's Deputy of Palamarczuk. I beg your pardon, Your Honor. Your 73rd, we've passed before. We've been through your revisions, 73rd and 74th until the break, we've passed them. We are now on the amendment of the 80th People's Deputy of Palamarczuk. At the 80th Amendment of the People's Deputy of Palamarczuk. Please, Mr. Palamarczuk, give me your word.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-14-m0.u97	Dear colleagues, an amendment was made. According to article 6 of the National Police Disciplinary Statute, the following content is added: “To the students (hearers) of higher education institutions with specific training conditions that prepare the police, in addition to the encouragement provided for in part two of this article, can also be applied”, and it is listed: “the award of a personal photo card of a student (a listener) photographed at an open school flag; the sending to the parents of a student (a listener) a letter of thanks; the granting of permission to redefinition from the placement of a teaching institution; the granting of short-term leave up to 5 days.” Of course, this amendment would just encourage students to learn better and would be an incentive for learning. And of course, parents would be happy for this child, and they would be happy to have a thank - you or a photograph with the flag of this school.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-14-m0.u98	Let me finish 30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-14-m0.u99	What a child learns well. But it was rejected. I insist that this amendment be voted on.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-14-m0.u100	Colleagues, I'd like to request the session room to now identify yourself as amended by the number 80 of the national deputy of Palamarczuk, which also applies to the badge in essence. And I'm asking you to identify yourself. The committee turned her down. [[12:47:27]] For-47 Unfortunately, your amendment is not supported. Here's our next amendment. We were looking at the amendment of 80 people's deputies to Palamarczuk. The next 84 is an amendment by the people's deputy Kuprienka. Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-14-m0.u101	Oleg Kuprienko, faction of the Radical Party of Oleg Lášk. Again, my amendment refers to the fact that, at the expense of the budget, national funds are bought for the needs of the National Police for the goods of the national manufacturer, namely, that it is the right of managers to apply incentives in the form of a prize weapon. I suggest you complete after the words "arms of fire" by the "domestic manufacturer." We've got some great guns for the Ukrainian manufacturer. Let's say they're not a little like Glock, but this is our Ukrainian, this is the kind of weapon that's produced in our Ukrainian businesses by our Ukrainians who get paid here, pay taxes here, and for the same taxes this weapon buys and develops the economy. And again, we buy a foreign economy, we support a foreign economy, and we forget that our people have to give jobs, pay, pay taxes here, not in offshores and support their country. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-14-m0.u102	Let me finish, please, 15 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-14-m0.u103	Ladies and gentlemen, once again, let's support the domestic merchant, support our own, not our own. Please support my amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-14-m0.u104	I understand the logic of the amendment. Please explain to the profile committee why this amendment was rejected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-14-m0.u105	The committee carefully considered the amendment and rejected it. Why? Because we're talking about the name of the badge, not its origin. As a result, the committee rejected the amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-14-m0.u106	We don't have a line on the Rules. And then again, I'm going to be accused of violating the Rules. So I ask you to vote for this amendment now, but you will be able to respond when the following amendments are announced. Dear colleagues, I'm putting to the vote the amendment of the people's MP, this is Amendment 84. And it refers to firearms, where the amendment suggests that this is a weapon, if it's a sign that the reward should be just domestic production. In this case, the committee decided that it was not for the manufacturer’s country but for the prize. Please identify the session room for this amendment. [[12:50:50]] For-47 47 votes only supported your amendment, it doesn't count. We're moving on now. Colleagues, we're moving on. And the next amendment, the people's deputy Kuprienka, is the 85th amendment. Please turn on Mr. Cooper's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-14-m0.u107	Oleg Kuprienko, faction of the Radical Party of Oleg Lášk. It's the same thing. It's only about cold weapons. It turns out, well, firearms, as the committee and the drafters of the bill have said, are probably doing worse than aliens. Well, excuse me, before we do, what, did the hands also grow out of that place? I propose to complement with the words of the native producer and to be proud that even state marks, markings, are our countrymen, not from abroad. So I'm asking you to put an amendment to the vote and support not only this amendment, but the idea itself. Dear friends, let's buy Ukrainian, let's support our manufacturers, our workers, our people who live here, work here, pay taxes for which, by the way, you and I get a salary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-14-m0.u108	Thank you for your clarification. Similarly, I now give the floor to a representative of the profile committee asking to clarify the position of the profile committee regarding amendment No. 85 of the people’s MP Kuprienka, which refers to cold weapons as marks of only a domestic producer.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-14-m0.u109	Of course, I am pleased that National MP Kuprienko is concerned about the natives, and that is the right thing to do. But the committee also took into account what might be like a national-winning cold weapon, and this weapon could be another weapon, another state. So it's the name again, not the badge and its origin. So the committee carefully considered and rejected the amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-14-m0.u110	Thank you. Dear colleagues, please vote in favour of Amendment 85, we have both heard the committee's position and the position of the author of the amendment. I ask you to vote. [[12:53:32]] For-61 Correction not supported. At the request of the original amendment team, we're going back to a few that have been missed. Among these are representatives of the Radical Party faction. 5 revisions. Please, Mr. Cupcake.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-14-m0.u111	This amendment refers to the preamble to the bill, and it is actually about replacing a word that, in our view, conveys more correctly the essence of the norm of material law. And I said the word "presence," and there's the word "presence." We suggest we change the word "presence" to the word "content." It's a little bit of an amendment, but, in our view, it fits more harmoniously into the text of the preamble than in the word "presence." Please bet on confirmation.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-14-m0.u112	So it's a technical correction. I don't think we're going to ask for an explanation of the profile committee. The amendment is understood. Colleagues, I'm asking you to identify yourself as to the vocabulary of the introductory part of the bill that we're discussing. I'd like you to define for amendment number five: instead of "presence" change to "content," which word is closer. [[12:54:57]] For-58 It's "presence," not "content," but it doesn't change the meaning of it, Bill. The next 11 amendments. Please, Mr. Cupcake, give me your word.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-14-m0.u113	This amendment also applies to the English language, but not only to the meaning of the concept itself. The bill proposes such a concept as "honor and dignity of the police." We suggest replacing these words, not "police," but "people, their rights and freedoms." It's a broader concept, it's more solid, it's more important, it's more extensive. And I think it's going to be more right in the text of the bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-14-m0.u114	Thank you. Please explain to the committee the amendment number 11 and the terminology.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-14-m0.u115	First of all, what's going on, why you're being rejected. In this case, it is about creating proper working conditions for the provision and performance of police duties. Police, executives, and subordinates should respect each other’s honor and dignity, taking into account the conscientious attitude toward duties by applying not only the methods of conviction but also the encouragement and coercion of discipline. So the replacement of the word "police" or the addition of the words "people, their rights and freedoms" in this case is invalid. So he counted the committee, so he turned it down. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-14-m0.u116	The explanation is clear. Dear colleagues, I ask you to determine with regard to Amendment 11 and the terminology that will be used in the bill that we are discussing, please. [[12:56:55]] For-52 52 votes, no vote. The next 24 amendments. Please, National Deputy Kuprienka.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-14-m0.u117	Oleg Kuprienko, faction of the Radical Party of Oleg Lášk. The amendment refers to an article and rules regarding police duties that he must do in order to be a real police officer. There is a whole list of requirements for him to do one, two, three, five. We suggest that this article be supplemented by a simple point: Maintaining yourself in the physical form necessary for the ministry. This should be a police duty. Not to carry a stomach that's dragging on the ground, not to have 200 kilograms of weight, and not to be able to climb on the second floor, not to have such a complexion that you can't pull yourself up on a tournament at any time, but to be in a physical form that will allow and catch up to the criminal, and, accordingly, if you have to, save a man from the fire, carry him on your shoulders. The committee rejected the amendment, arguing that the law required a level of preparation, but determining the level of preparation did not mean the duty of the police to maintain physical form.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-14-m0.u118	Let me finish 30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-14-m0.u119	I ask you to support this amendment because it has a fundamental impact not only on the performance of police duties and duties but also on appearance. As a result, the authority of society and respect for the police, as a result, is maintained at the right level. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-14-m0.u120	Please comment to the profile committee on this comment and this amendment. The committee turned it down.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-14-m0.u121	I also supported this amendment personally on the committee, but the committee as a whole did not support it, because the committee was guided by the National Police Act, which provides for a level of physical preparation. The committee therefore rejected the amendment by voting.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-14-m0.u122	Dear colleagues, I ask you to determine for Amendment 24. Please. [[12:59:24]] For-67 67 votes in favour of this amendment are not enough to account for it. And we move on, this amendment is rejected. 28 amendments. Likewise, I give the floor to the National Deputy of Kuprien.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-14-m0.u123	Oleg Kuprienko, faction of the Radical Party of Oleg Lášk. This amendment is designed to enhance the authority of our police officers. Whether we want to see police officers who are unsettled, in which the drives or buttons are ripped off, or the cell is not sewn there. So it's a very simple amendment that says that a police officer should have a clean appearance in both uniform and civilian clothing. That is, it defines the duty of a police officer to be an example not only in carrying out official duties, not only in terms of security and law enforcement but also in his appearance to be seen by the police. This is an example of imitation: he's clean, he's neat, he's sorry, he doesn't bother, he doesn't beat anyone in the head, and he can go to him, at least so he doesn't just defend rights, he just wants to talk. This is going to be a police officer, not, excuse me, a carousel that stands with a stick on the road and knocks money out of those who pass. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-14-m0.u124	I'm asking you to comment to the profile committee. Please, Mr. Palamarchuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-14-m0.u125	We have considered this amendment very carefully on the committee, and I have also voted in favour of this amendment. But what was the committee’s direction? The committee was guided by what was provided, once again, by the Police Act, the rules of ethical conduct, such as section III, paragraph 1, and are not subject to regulation of the law. So the committee rejected the amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-14-m0.u126	We heard explanations from both the authors of the amendment, the creative team of the authors of the amendment and the profile committee. And I'm asking the room to decide on 28 amendments. Please, colleagues. [[13:01:50]] For-67 The correction is being rejected. Next Amendment 30th. 30 revisions. Are we discussing ridiculous amendments? Oh, no? Please, 30th Amendment. Mr. Cooper, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-14-m0.u127	Oleg Kuprienko, faction of the Radical Party of Oleg Lášk. Dear friends, this amendment refers, in principle, to the fact that, no matter how much we write down a list of actions that cannot be done by a police officer, a list of those actions that can discredit the police, we cannot cover everything. But according to article 19 of the Constitution of Ukraine, an official and State authority acts exclusively within the limits of the authority given, that is, this list should be excluded. This is an amendment, and it sounds like refraining from actions that can discredit the police. Yes, it may be consonant with other laws, but let's think about the simple principle that repetition is to have learning. How many of these material rights do we have that are repeated from the Constitution and to specific laws, and they are not enforced because perhaps someone has not read or forgotten? Let's put this rule into this law and let the police read that they shouldn't do anything that discredits the police. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-14-m0.u128	I would like to ask you to explain to the profile committee about this amendment number 30.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-14-m0.u129	In fact, we have discussed this amendment for a very long time because a police officer has to carry out his duties, and the main thing is that he should not undermine the authority of the National Police and the State. But what was the committee’s direction? That paragraph 5 of part three of the statute requires a police officer to refrain from doing anything that prevents other police from carrying out their duties, as well as undermining the authority of the National Police of Ukraine, that is, in fact, not in that form, but in fact, this is already recorded in paragraph 5 of part three of article 1. So the committee rejected the amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-14-m0.u130	Thank you, Your Honor. And please, I'm asking you to identify the 30th Amendment Hall. We heard an explanation from the authors ’ team. We heard an explanation of the profile committee. I ask, Your Honor, to determine by voting on this amendment. [[13:04:38]] For-73 73 votes. Thank you, Your Honor, for defining your position, but this amendment is being rejected because it did not get the required number of votes. Please, Amendment 47, we also give the floor to the national MP, Cooper, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-14-m0.u131	This amendment, in our view, will slightly reshape the behavior of managers in relation to subordinates and enhance their authority. It reads as follows: "to encourage zero tolerance among subjects to violate human rights and freedoms, in particular any form of torture, cruel inhuman or degrading treatment or punishment, violation of the right to peaceful meetings, corruption and other violations of discipline and law." This amendment provides an important tool in the hands of managers to explain to their subordinates that they should be servants of the law and advocates of social rights rather than emotional people. And this is once again a positive moment to raise the image of the police and to carry out the educational work among the supervisors' subordinates. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-14-m0.u132	Thank you, Your Honor. I ask you to clarify the identity committee. It's a professional committee, your position on the rejected amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-14-m0.u133	The committee was chaired by the investigator at its meeting. It is already up to the manager to monitor the compliance of staff members with service discipline, analyse its status, and report directly to the supervisor objectively; and carry out practical work to prevent the commission of wrongdoing among the subordinates. The proposal is already covered by the concept of service discipline and prevention of wrongdoing. The committee, after careful examination, rejected the proposal.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-14-m0.u134	Thank you for your clarification. Dear colleagues, I ask you to vote for the 47th amendment. Identify yourself. We heard the authors’ position, and we heard the committee’s explanation. I'm asking you to make 47 adjustments. [[13:07:10]] For-64 64 votes. Thank you, colleagues. You have identified yourself and have not supported this amendment. The next 49 amendments. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-14-m0.u135	Oleg Kuprienko, faction of the Radical Party of Oleg Lášk. An amendment has been made to clarify the law in part of the legality of the order. The amendment sounds like this: the order should be legal – this is the word "legal" we propose to leave – clearly formulated and cannot allow double interpretation. In such a case, greater responsibility rests on the one who issues the command because it is the legality of the order that is subject to, in principle, unable to discuss, determine. And then the responsibility for the legality of the order lies with the official, the director who issues the order. And so we're clarifying the norm of material law, which is, in principle, reasonable, sufficient and reasonable, and will enable the subordinates to trust their leadership more and less in the legality of their orders. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-14-m0.u136	Thank you. Please explain up to 47 revisions.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-14-m0.u137	What is an order? That's the order. That's the order. The order is a form of the service authority of the manager, according to which the purpose and object of the task are defined, the time frame of the task, and the responsible person. The order must be clearly formulated and cannot be interpreted twice. This is already regulated by article 8 of the Ukrainian National Police Act. So the committee, given that this is already defined in the National Police Act, rejected the amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-14-m0.u138	Thank you for your clarification. Dear colleagues, please vote on Amendment 47, please. Please vote for 47 amendments, colleagues. [[13:09:31]] Z-62 62 votes is not enough. The correction is being rejected. The next 49 amendments. Please, National Deputy Kuprienka, give me your word.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-14-m0.u139	49 amendments, in principle, are similar to the contents of the previous amendment on the issue of legal orders and on the execution of those orders by the subordinates, so I ask for the vote and support.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-14-m0.u140	Thank you. Let's vote for this amendment. But first, let's listen to the explanation of the profile committee. Please explain your rejection of amendment 49 on the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-14-m0.u141	Well, the committee was just guided by article 8 of the Ukrainian National Police Act. I mean, since this is already regulated by law, the committee rejected it.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-14-m0.u142	Thank you. Dear colleagues, come on, 49 amendments are now put to the vote. And I'm asking you to identify yourself. [[13:10:47]] For-66 66 votes in favour, she declines. 64 amendment, please, National MP.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-14-m0.u143	Kuprienko, the faction of the Radical Party of Oleg Lašek. This amendment suggests that after the word "implementation," we complete it with the word "or faith." This clarifies the norm of material law and gives a clearer understanding of it in the bill. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-14-m0.u144	Thank you. I ask for an explanation of the position of the committee that rejected this amendment number 64.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-14-m0.u145	The committee was headed by the investigator. That the law already provides for the appointment of a service investigation in all cases of violation of service discipline. It is also stated that a police officer is prohibited from carrying out a criminal or manifestly illegal order. In the event of receiving an order that is contrary to the law, the subject must not carry out what he is obliged to do immediately in writing to report to the commander who has given the order and to his direct supervisor, and if he insists on doing so, to inform the direct supervisor in writing. Thus, the committee was guided by this position and rejected the amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-14-m0.u146	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I'd like you to be identified for Amendment 64. We heard an explanation of the amendment, an explanation of the committee. Please make up your mind. [[13:12:42]] For-69 69 votes for. Thank you, colleagues. The correction is being rejected. The next 66 is an amendment. National MP Kuprienko is also ready to present it. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-14-m0.u147	Oleg Kuprienko, faction of the Radical Party of Oleg Lášk. Dear colleagues, this amendment refers to a rule of mental law that determines that the execution of a police order, whether criminal or manifestly illegal, is the responsibility of the police. The question is, Is there the responsibility of the one who gave the command? So we suggest that we complete the standard with the word "relationship." That is to say, execution or reporting to the police of a criminal order. And thus we emphasize that not only will the execution of criminal orders be responsible but it will also be the responsibility of those officials who have given such criminal orders. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-14-m0.u148	Thank you, Your Honor. I'm asking the profile committee to give you a position on why this amendment was rejected.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-14-m0.u149	The amendment was rejected because the proposed positions were already foreseen in part six of article 4 of the statute’s decree. This amendment was therefore rejected by the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-14-m0.u150	The position is clear. Colleagues, I ask you to decide on the 66th amendment and vote for this amendment now. Please. [[13:14:34]] Z-70. 70 votes for. The amendment is not accepted. Next amendment 75. I give the floor to the people's representative of Kuprienka.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-14-m0.u151	Oleg Kuprienko, a faction of the Radical Party of Oleg Láška, who still does not remember. The amendment refers to the provision of the mental right to encourage students (hearers) who are trained in higher education institutions. In principle, taking into account the specificities of the students, additional incentives should be provided for them in legislation. And that's why this amendment applies to the students and students of the educational institutions themselves in order to promote both authority and to make sure that there is a rule at the legislative level that allows them to encourage the better. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-14-m0.u152	Thank you, Your Honor. And please take the position of the committee regarding Amendment 75.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-14-m0.u153	The committee considered this amendment carefully, and there were many disputes, but the committee was guided by what it rejected. With regard to clothing, this is a kind of disciplined seduction that can be removed. There are no valid legal provisions for students in higher education institutions with specific conditions for learning at the barracks. That is, the provision of additional paid leave within 5 days is already provided for in article 6, paragraph 5, of the second article of the Statute. The committee therefore rejected the amendment by voting.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-14-m0.u154	Thank you. Dear colleagues, please identify yourself for Amendment 75. Please. [[13:16:36]] For-74. 74 votes in favour, not supported by this amendment, it's rejected. The next amendment is 88. Dear colleagues, this is the amendment of the Romanovski People's Deputies. I'm asking you to turn the mic on for him. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-14-m0.u155	Alexander Romanowski, People's Front faction. I want to say that this amendment refers to the reward of a cold weapon. And I'm asking you to support me to take this award off as one that doesn't match the state rewards.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-14-m0.u156	Please explain the identity committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-14-m0.u157	It is rejected because a similar amendment is already partially included in article 86, the preceding one. Hence, it is also rejected in connection with what is contrary to the article. Article 6, part two, paragraph 10. So she was rejected by the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-14-m0.u158	Dear colleagues, I ask that you decide on the amendment of the Romanovski People's Deputies. It's an 88 amendment, the author just released it to us, the committee objected. I ask the hall to decide on this amendment. [[13:18:24]] For-66 Thank you. This amendment is rejected; it does not take up the necessary amount. Next 90th Amendment. Please, National Deputy Kuprienka. I'm sorry, 89th. I'm sorry, my dear colleague, she's on my page, I didn't notice. 80th National Deputy Kuprienko. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-14-m0.u159	Oleg Kuprienko, faction of the Radical Party of Oleg Lášk. Dear friends! The amendment, it just aligns the bill with the Constitution of Ukraine. If we don't do this, I think the President, as a guarantor of the Constitution, has to make a comment on this standard. Article 19 of the Constitution clearly defines, and I have already said that officials of public authorities act solely within the limits of their powers. There is no authority for the head of the National Police to delegate authority to encourage his subjects – that is, solely his authority. So this amendment, it removes this contradiction between the constitutional norm of article 19 of the Constitution and what is proposed in the bill. Therefore, I ask that the amendment be supported and that legislation and legislation should not allow texts that conflict with the provisions of the Constitution of Ukraine. Although it is known to all that such practices are common, even among the highest officials, ignoring the 106th article of the Constitution, they have acquired the right to appoint the leaders of the NCREKP and so on and so forth.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-14-m0.u160	Let me finish 30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-14-m0.u161	And this practice is widespread enough in our country, and we know, like the leaders of the NCREKP, that the President has appointed, contrary to 106 articles of the Constitution and so on. Well, at a lower level, let's not make this, the inconsistencies and contradictions of the Constitution, and let the laws spell out the right thing.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-14-m0.u162	I'm asking you to comment on the profile committee amendment number 89 of the people's MP Cooper.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-14-m0.u163	The committee considered the amendment, but rejected the amendment, it contradicts the concept of the adoption of the bill in the first reading, it cannot be introduced. And that's why the committee rejected it, because once again, it contradicts the concept adopted in the first reading of the law, so the committee rejected it.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-14-m0.u164	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I'd like to make my mark on Amendment 89. Please vote. We were presented with the position of the author of Kuprienka, the national deputy, and the position of the committee that he rejected. I'm asking you to make up your mind. [[13:21:20]] For-75 75 votes for. Dear colleagues, this amendment is rejected; it does not receive the necessary number of votes. Next 90th Amendment. And we also have today's main report on the amendment is the People's Deputy of the Radical Party, Mr. Kuprienko. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-14-m0.u165	Oleg Kuprienko, faction of the Radical Party of Oleg Lášk. In principle, this amendment also seeks to eliminate the contradiction in the law that contradicts article 19 of the Constitution. As it turns out, we don't have the rule of law anymore in the legal field, we don't have the Constitution, we don't have the codes, we don't have the laws, and we have the concept. What is the concept from where it came from? I don't know how I've ever seen a lawyer like this when a high court says we have a concept of law, and according to this concept, we write a rule in violation of the Constitution. People good, what are we doing? We have the Basic Law, the Constitution, the norm of direct action, we can't violate it. Let us support this amendment, at least, although we will partially eliminate the mismatch in the bill, the Constitution of Ukraine, in particular article 19. Please be supportive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-14-m0.u166	Thank you. I'm asking for an explanation of the representative of the profile committee regarding the amendment of the 1990s regarding the rights granted to the head of the Ukrainian National Police.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-14-m0.u167	I didn't say it was so critical that it was contrary to the Constitution, but the committee was once again guided by the fact that it was contrary to the concept. The bill was adopted in the first reading, so the committee was in charge of it and, after careful consideration, after voting, came to the conclusion: reject the amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-14-m0.u168	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I ask you to vote for the 90th amendment now presented by the National MP Cooperian. At the same time, the committee rejected it, and motivated its position by the fact that the rules of the Constitution should be commented on and analysed by the Constitutional Court. Please identify your colleagues. [[13:23:55]] For-74. 74 votes for, the amendment's off. The following 92 amendments to the People's Deputy of Palamarczuk. Please, my dear colleague.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-14-m0.u169	This amendment is proposed in part three of article 8 to replace the words "in the limits of the rights granted to them by the heads of the National Police of Ukraine" with the words "in the order defined by this Charter of Discipline." The amendment was not accepted by the majority committee, and it was rejected. Please put the amendment to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-14-m0.u170	Thank you. Our colleague, who is a member of the profile committee, has not been able to prove his need for this amendment on the committee, has rejected the committee, but let's support the colleague in the session room, and now let's determine how to vote on the 92th amendment. Please. [[13:25:09]] For-82 Your amendment, Your Honor, is not supported. But we're moving on. We have enough amendments to this bill from the national deputy YuriLevchenka, who is not available for objective reasons today. We all want him to recover as soon as possible and investigate a case involving aggression against a national MP. And we're also moving on without changing it. And then there's the 95th Romanowski People's Deputy. Please, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-14-m0.u171	Alexander Romanowski, People's Front faction. The amendment refers to the encouragement that the heads of the local authorities apply to the subordinates. And these are the encouragements: permanent withdrawal of discipline, honor, encouragement with money, encouragement with a valuable gift, and encouragement with an incentive to mark the local police. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-14-m0.u172	Thank you. Please explain the identity committee on this amendment, number 95, of the Romanovski People’s Deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-14-m0.u173	They've only been rejected for one reason, which is, once again, contrary to the concept of the law that was adopted in the first reading. And it's partly included in another amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-14-m0.u174	Which means you'll give us an explanation later. So, colleagues, folk. [[B in m in s a l in]] Now? Would you like to clarify now? So, respectable colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-14-m0.u175	You're going to move on, because.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-14-m0.u176	Okay. So, honourable colleagues, so we're now discussing 95 amendments to the Romanovski People's Deputies. It was rejected by the committee, motivated by the fact that the rule proposed by the Romanovsky People's Chamber is contained in other novels of the bill that we are discussing. I'm asking the session room to determine the 95th amendment now. Please. [[13:27:22]] For-66 66 votes. Unfortunately, your amendment doesn't get the required number of votes, but our honourable committee believes that this rule is included in other articles of the bill. Next amendment 97. Please give the floor to the National Deputy of Kuprien.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-14-m0.u177	Reading as the rule of law says, the permanent withdrawal of discipline is applied when it is applied. She has performed her educational function. Question: Who's going to determine which expert or expert, what expert, what is it, who's going to perform their function? It's probably going to take a psychological analysis of someone who's been attracted and said, "Yeah, he's changed his worldview now and he's become a normal and right person." So we suggest that we rule out the word, "it has fulfilled its educational function." Let's not make people laugh, because this norm, I'm sure, will be used to protect the same violators in the courts with regard to the removal of the harness and will be used, well, not to the advantage of the authority of the National Police. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-14-m0.u178	Please explain the identity committee. What's "it"? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-14-m0.u179	Well, it's rejected because in itself the imposition of disciplinary seduction carries, first of all, a parental function. Therefore, if a person does not violate the following, the article now states: The permanent withdrawal of discipline is applied if he has performed his upbringing, and the police have proved their correction to the ministry and conduct. Once again, only one disciplined seduction can be removed. So the committee rejected the amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-14-m0.u180	I've got the position. Dear colleagues, I'm asking you to identify yourself. In fact, this is a matter of textual changes to this article, certain formulations, and the polishing of formulations. I'm asking you to identify a room with regard to the 97th amendment. [[13:29:53]] For-72 72 votes for, no change. Next amendment to the 103rd Romanovski People's Deputies. Please, colleague, let me ask you a word.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-14-m0.u181	This amendment refers to this point: To exclude cold weapons from the Ministry of Internal Affairs awards. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-14-m0.u182	Please explain the identity committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-14-m0.u183	The committee considered the amendment and rejected it, as in other amendments. Cold weapons are also an object of reward, and the committee unanimously voted in favour of rejecting the amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-14-m0.u184	Thank you for your clarification. Dear colleagues! Hence, the honourable colleague Romanowski, in 103, proposes to make some changes to the part of article 10. The committee turned it down. I'm asking the session room to decide on this amendment. [[13:31:07]] For-61 61 National MPs supported the amendment, respected colleagues. So it's considered just as rejected, this amendment of the Romanovsky People's Chamber, and now we're going to move on to the amendments. The next amendment is also made by the Romanovski people’s deputy. Please, 104 revisions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-14-m0.u185	Alexander Romanowski, People's Front faction. This amendment refers to the standardization of the issue of firearms as a mark, namely (repeated): "The sign of "named firearms" is a gun of domestic production." And that's what I'm supporting my colleagues for. The weapon, which is the sign of Name Firearms, is subject to state registration in an order established by Ukrainian law. Those rewarded with the sign "The Name Firearms" after its state registration should keep it, wear it, apply it in an order established by Ukrainian legislation. The handover of a weapon that is a mark is forbidden to other persons and its alienation. The removal of the name-arms mark may be carried out by the Ministry of Internal Powers of Ukraine in the event of a conviction awarded for a serious crime for bringing a trial. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-14-m0.u186	Thank you for your clarification. Dear colleagues, I'm asking the committee to comment now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-14-m0.u187	The committee was directed by the investigators, not by the State Award, but by the IMF. This is in conflict with article 6, paragraph 9, of the second article of the statute. The committee therefore rejected the amendment and recommended that it be rejected.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-14-m0.u188	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I ask you to determine now regarding amendment number 104, please. [[13:33:27]] Z-71 71 National MPs supported the amendment. It's considered rejected. 105 The amendment of the National MP Kuprienka, who prepared the most amendments to this law. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-14-m0.u189	Oleg Kuprienko, the Radical Party of Oleg Laska. This amendment refers to a bit of expansion, which is a disciplinary offense, namely. Let's do as much as we see in Facebook videos on YouTube, when some, a small number of police officers are not doing very well, they even use noncensorial language. So we suggest that we add these to the list of actions that are determined by the administration. Disciplinary misconduct, an expression that degrades the dignity and dignity of a person, allows hurtful or superior treatment. It's a normal norm. I say so, it will make it impossible for the police to use neither uncensored language nor the humiliation of human beings, honor and dignity, and increase the authority of our National Police. Therefore, please support this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-14-m0.u190	Thank you. Please, the profile committee, your position with respect to the 105 revisions you have rejected.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-14-m0.u191	Rejected in accordance with article 18 of the National Police Act, the basic duties of a police officer are defined. The duties of the police are also determined by this statute. The proposed editorial could narrow down the concept of "police duty". I wanted to quote it like it's written right now. Disciplinary misconduct is recognized as unlawful, guilty, or inaction of a police officer, who violates or violates the police’s duties, violates the limitations and prohibitions imposed by law on police officers, and commits acts that undermine the authority of the police. So we had a long debate on this issue. But after all, we rejected this amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-14-m0.u192	Thank you for your clarification. Colleagues, so I'm asking the Hall to determine 105 of the National MP's amendment. Please. [[13:36:02]] For-66 No correction supported. But enough amendments were made by the National MP. The committee adopted and considered the second reading of the law. Please, 106 revisions. National MP Cooper, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-14-m0.u193	Oleg Kuprienko, the Radical Party of Oleg Laska. I certainly thank the members of the committee for listening to many of my amendments and taking them into account. But I believe that some of the amendments they rejected were unfounded. In particular, 106 amendments, it also applies to clarifying the definition of disciplinary misconduct with the specificization of such actions. Because unspecific wording in the law provides a basis for manipulation. I point out that these rules of law will serve when the police are called to account for the improperly fulfilling duties of the police. Accordingly, they will have the right to charge this in court. And if it is not specifically prescribed in the law, there will be a very high probability that all of these obligations, which will be imposed, will be annulled by courts and violators will not be held accountable. Therefore, please support this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-14-m0.u194	Thank you. Please, the profile committee, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-14-m0.u195	I've mentioned this before that the committee was guided by the fact that this unnecessary duplication of articles of the statute and the statute should be applied in a comprehensive manner. Thus, the committee rejected the amendment. Although she had the right to live, to be honest with her, she had the right to live. Now I'm going to support this amendment, for example.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-14-m0.u196	Thank you for your explanation, dear colleagues. And now I'm asking you to vote for the 106th amendment. [[13:38:06]] For-68 68 votes for. Borislav Bereza claims that we have potential. We have the potential, we're going to adopt this law 100 percent in second reading. But now we're moving on to the repairs. And this amendment, Your Honor Mr. Bereza, was rejected by the Hall in the same way as the Committee in 106. But this has nothing to do with what will be the legislative vote. And we're moving on. In fact, the amendments are discussed by those deputies who are in this expert, in this case in this topic. 108 amendment, National MP Kuprienko, who prepared the most amendments. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-14-m0.u197	Oleg Kuprienko, faction of the Radical Party of Oleg Lášk. This amendment is once again intended to specify the concept of "disciplined misconduct" and what it is and what it is used for. Therefore, the fact that the committee rejected the amendment is of such a surprise to me because it is a specification of the norm of material law that will help, including the leaders, by bringing reproaches or by drawing responsibility, by being more careful about their decisions, and by not being able to help the same perpetrators or those who have violated their responsibilities, to avoid responsibility by accusing such reproaches or by drawing them to justice through the judicial authorities. Therefore, please support this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-14-m0.u198	Thank you. And I'm asking you to explain now to my colleague Palamarchuk about this amendment of 108th.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-14-m0.u199	Just as we adopted the law in the first reading, it is contrary to the concept adopted in the second reading. The committee therefore carefully considered the amendment and decided to reject the amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-14-m0.u200	Thank you, Your Honor. And I ask you to vote now for 108 amendments. [[13:40:33]] For-63 63 votes, this amendment is out of the question. Thank you, colleagues, but the correction's declined. The next amendment is with us. We have to make the most of the amendments today to vote tomorrow on the first question of the order of the day of this law. 110 amendment is the same as the people's MP Cooper. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-14-m0.u201	Oleg Kuprienko, the Radical Party of Oleg Laska. This amendment complements and adds legislation that we are likely to adopt in accordance with other laws, such as the Prevention of Corruption Act. In particular, it refers to the fact that a police officer who has reported violations of the Ukrainian Law on Prevention of Corruption to other police officers cannot be released from service. And so on and so forth. That's why we're giving the police the opportunity to know that their colleagues are committing corruption, to report it, and to make it impossible for them to be persecuted if these police officers are his superiors. So I think that this amendment is appropriate and that it has the right to life. Please support her. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-14-m0.u202	Thank you. Please explain the identity committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-14-m0.u203	The committee was governed by the Ukrainian Anti-Corruption Act. Thus, the committee unanimously voted in favour of rejecting the amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-14-m0.u204	Dear colleagues, I ask you to make up your mind. Now we're talking. 108 amendments are now being discussed by the National MP, Cooper, he's one of the co-authors of this amendment. Please, 108 revisions. [[13:42:39]] For-60 We move according to the Rules without violating the Rules so that we do not have any observations. And then there's 110 amendments to the people's MP, Cooper.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-14-m0.u205	101 amendment, in principle, is similar to the idea of that amendment that I just announced. This is to ensure the security of a police officer who exposes other police officers in violation of the law. In order to prevent his release, he is forced to write an application for release and other police actions that will harm the offender. So I ask you to support this amendment, it will only have a positive impact on the National Police in general, and on specific police personnel. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-14-m0.u206	Thank you. Please, the profile committee, please comment.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-14-m0.u207	This is a similar position. The committee was governed by the Ukrainian Anti-Corruption Act and carefully considered and rejected the amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-14-m0.u208	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I'd like to make 110 adjustments, please. [[13:44:16]] For-66 Correction not supported. The next 111 is an amendment. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-14-m0.u209	Oleg Kuprienko, the Radical Party of Oleg Laska. 111 The amendment applies to the same thing: police officers who can detect and report, not corruption or wrongdoing, but torture, cruel, inhumane behavior, and so forth. I'm paying attention to my colleague and the reporter and the public that's listening to us right now. If you go to any police officer and ask him, he read the Anti-Corruption Act, whether he knows the Criminal Code perfectly with all its articles and the responsibility it contains. Probably not. And he needs to know his own professional law on his teeth. So if we're in a professional law, in a specific law that regulates the National Police, let's write down the norm, and let it even repeat itself, as in other laws, so maybe it'll just be a plus to make it clear to the police and remember for life what they can't do, or if I do, that's it.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-14-m0.u210	Finish up, please, 15 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-14-m0.u211	Or, if I do that, I'll show you signs of criminal acts or acts that have signs of criminal offences or other administrative offences and report it to the appropriate services, so he'll be fine, just thank you. Please support this amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-14-m0.u212	I ask you to clarify the position of the committee that rejected this amendment so emotionally presented to us by the copyright team. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-14-m0.u213	I separate the opinion of the author of the amendment. But the committee, after considering the amendment, rejected it, guaranteed this by regulating the Disciplinary Statute solely with regard to service discipline. So the committee decided to reject the amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-14-m0.u214	Thank you for your clarification. Colleagues, I'm asking you to decide on the 111th amendment presented by the National MP, the committee rejected it. [[13:46:40]] For-59 59 votes for. Thank you very much, colleagues, for setting up the hall, but it did not support this amendment, and it is rejected. Next up is 122 revisions. A word, please, to the people's representative of Kuprien.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-14-m0.u215	Oleg Kuprienko, faction of the Radical Party of Oleg Lášk. 122. The amendment refers to, we suggest, add, the following paragraph: "A natural or legal person, on application (a complaint) by which a service investigation is conducted, has the right to receive information about the course of investigation and to be familiar with its materials, taking into account the limitations imposed by the State Secret Act." So that it would not turn out that someone had written a complaint that a police officer had broken the law. That complaint is being considered somewhere, and the complainant has no information at all, and what is being done is being put under a dress and held because there is some kind of relationship. So I think that this amendment has the right to life, it will contribute to the fact that violations by police officers will be investigated as they are by law. Please support the amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-14-m0.u216	Thank you, Your Honor. And I ask, please, the honourable representative of the committee now to give a version of the committee why you rejected 122 amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-14-m0.u217	The committee carefully considered the amendment by studying all pros and cons and rejects it. I did, because, as the committee can see, the materials of the service investigation in any case contain official information. In the case of an investigation there (the secret of the investigation), there may be manipulation of the claim regarding the investigating officer, the authorized employee, and others for the purpose of getting to know the service information, as well as the materials of criminal conduct. The introduction of a new term is an additional service investigation, not an appropriate one, because a new service investigation is starting, which is not an additional one. The cooperation provided for in part five of article 15 of this Statute and the determination of the obligation to undergo medical examination may violate the Constitution’s standard of voluntary medical research. So this amendment, similar to the centurion, was rejected.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-14-m0.u218	Thank you. Dear colleagues, please determine about 122 amendments, please. [[13:49:33]] For-52 52 votes for this amendment alone, not supported. The next amendment is 124. In the same way, the people’s representative of Kuprean is given the word.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-14-m0.u219	Oleg Kuprienko, faction of the Radical Party of Oleg Lášk. This amendment will, in principle, allow more rational investigation into disciplinary violations. What's she saying? It points out that if a police officer has committed 2-3 violations, so it's not necessary to conduct each of them separately, you can conduct one where you consider one violation, and the other where you don't do it, sorry, paperwork. So this amendment is just more rational, it gives a more rational approach to investigating police misconduct, and I think it will improve the law and improve the investigation that will take place with regard to police personnel. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-14-m0.u220	Thank you. Please explain to the profile committee about this amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-14-m0.u221	The committee was guided by the fact that the service investigation could be delayed in time, and one could be missed by others. So the proposal for a new term "additional service investigation" is not appropriate, the flaws are starting a new service investigation, which is not an additional one. Therefore, the committee considered the bill carefully. I'm sorry, I didn't. The amendment to the bill was rejected.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-14-m0.u222	Understood the position of the committee, understood the position of the authors of the amendment. I'm asking you to determine the session room for amendment 124. Thank you. [[13:51:35]] For-54 54 votes for, the amendment is not supported. The next amendment is 125. Please, the People's Deputy Cooper's word.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-14-m0.u223	Oleg Kuprienko, faction of the Radical Party of Oleg Lášk. Correction specified. The amendment proposes to complement the rule of law with the following: "Every police officer shall ensure cooperation with the Disciplinary Commission, answer the questions accurately and provide the necessary documents." Indeed, such a standard is provided for in the statute. But again, once again, if we duplicate the rule of law in a high-level legislative act, there's nothing wrong with that. I remind you, we have the principle of the rule of law: the Constitution, the codes, the laws, and then the statutes, the regulations, and so on, and the regulations. So there's this rule in the statute, but the law has a higher legal power, and it's only a benefit that we're going to write this rule in the law. Please be supportive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-14-m0.u224	Please explain the profile committee on amendment 125.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-14-m0.u225	The committee was guided by the fact that cooperation is already provided for in part five of article 15 of this statute. So the committee carefully considered and rejected the amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-14-m0.u226	Thank you. So, colleagues, this is about 125 amendments. The authors made it clear. At the same time, the committee rejected it by motivating its position that the relevant rule was included in other articles of the relevant bill. I'm asking the hall to determine about 125 revisions. [[13:53:26]] For-53 And we're almost done with our plenary session today. I'd like to propose two more amendments to the People's Deputy as a matter of fact: 129th and 130th, in order. Please, Mr. Kuprienka, 129 revisions. [[B in m in s a l in]] And yours and yours.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-14-m0.u227	129 Amendments, What Is She Talking About? Note that the law proposed in the bill states that "the conduct of official investigations into a violation of police discipline is carried out by disciplinary commissions." Period. What a commission, how many people there are when it's chosen, which best man-svat-brothers will be written there -- we don't prescribe. On the one hand, we're talking about what's prescribed there, so we don't have to rule in the law, on the other hand, about the disciplinary commission -- what? - is there a statute, is there a position that regulates activity? There's nothing! So I say, let's write what's in it. The commission is made up of 5 persons who are approved by a senior officer for one year from the police and police officers. Why did the committee reject it? He says there aren't so many experts. People are good! The National Police don't know national legislation? Why do you recruit uneducated people there without legal education who don't know the law? So this amendment will make the commissions work, and it will not be necessary. Let me finish, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-14-m0.u228	30 seconds, let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-14-m0.u229	And it won't have to be like yesterday.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-14-m0.u230	30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-14-m0.u231	And it won't have to be like yesterday. An excellent example. Three laws were passed on the rules of recruitment at the State Bureau of Investigation, that is, when they passed the D.B.I. Act, so they didn't know that there was going to be a procedure for recruiting investigators? We had to have a separate law, and we spent yesterday afternoon on it. Let's put this amendment into law, and the commissions will work. And there won't be a circus like yesterday's amendment to the State Bureau of Investigation Act. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-14-m0.u232	Please vote for this amendment, Your Honor. The Honourable MP Kuprienko, the amendment's author, expressed his position. Please vote. 129 revisions. [[13:55:54]] For-50 50 votes just for it. This amendment of yours is not supported. Dear Deputy Timoshenko, I did not understand what your amendment was about. Timishenko, please. Now, now.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-14-m0.u233	138th.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-14-m0.u234	We haven't gotten to her yet. We're now at the 130th Amendment, and it's now that these amendments, which are not counted, we're going to continue the discussion tomorrow morning. The last amendment we're going to hear today is the 130th People's Deputies of Kuprienka. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-14-m0.u235	Oleg Kuprienko, faction of the Radical Party of Oleg Lášk. Once again, money is said to buy fish. Again, I remind you that yesterday we spent the south so that the three bills that could start the work of the State Bureau of Investigation would be put back on the committee for the first time again. And it's going to be with this law, if we don't regulate the activities of disciplinary commissions, we're going to come up with a good law, it's like everything was normal, it's like we prescribed everything, but, oh, we forgot to write what a disciplinary commission is and how it works. And we're going to look again in this room in the south, and we're going to be running voices because it doesn't work. And there will be no order among the disorderly police, which unfortunately we have. So I ask you to support this amendment, and I insist that this amendment is necessary. With this amendment, we will start the process of examining disciplinary violations and drawing the guilty to disciplinary responsibility. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-14-m0.u236	The profile committee's comment on this 130 amendment, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-14-m0.u237	I'd like to see what's written in the bill right now. Disciplinary committees are formed from police and police personnel who have the appropriate knowledge and experience needed to conduct an effective service investigation. And in the law, the number of commissions and the number of commissions has been misapplied by the committee. Therefore, there is something else in this amendment that cannot be investigated by a police officer in the service of investigation. So the committee carefully studied the amendment and rejected it. But now I also want to thank my colleague Cooper for working very, very hard on the bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-14-m0.u238	Thank you very much. I also want to thank my colleague Cooper for her active work. And you insist on voting, and I'm voting on Amendment 130. The committee turned her down. Whoever supports the 130 amendment, please vote. You have all agreed to support your amendment. [[13:59:01]] For-58 The decision is not taken. So we're going to have to figure out which amendments we're going to start tomorrow. 131st. Don't insist. 132nd. Don't insist. And 133, if I'm not mistaken, we'll start tomorrow. I'm asking you very much, tomorrow we start at 10 o'clock, there will be no factions, there will be 10 o'clock in the hall so that we can continue our consideration of the amendments. I also want to thank Mikola Palamarchuku for his active, productive work. And, colleagues, tomorrow we'll have a chance to adopt the law in general at last. For the last time, I think there's been a misunderstanding that we haven't passed this law. And at 10 a.m., we'll continue our examination of the rights. I would also like to point out, colleagues, that we have a high chance of solving tomorrow's whole block of personnel issues that we've been dealing with for a long time. This is also the House of Accounts, this is the Human Rights Commissioner, this is the National Bank. Knowing that today will be fruitful and active committee work, I ask you to have the most fruitful discussions. So we can get to the only positions on personnel issues. So we can look at them tomorrow. And if we can have a successful human resources day tomorrow, it will be a great victory for the Supreme Council of Ukraine and it will be a great advance for the development of reforms in Ukraine. Thank you, colleagues. I wish you a fruitful committee job. 2:00. And I declare the morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine closed. See you tomorrow. I'm waiting for everyone in the hall at 10 in the morning. Happy birthday. Good-bye.
