ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-16-m0.u1	Good morning, dear fellows! Please enter the hall, prepare for registration. So, colleagues, I'd like you to prepare for your registration and request your registration. Please register. [[10:02:36]] There are 345 national deputies registered. The morning plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Dear colleagues, today is a very important day. As I promised you in the previous session, this week we'll start by considering the Act on Deposition No. 7163. A large but very important law, and so I ask all national deputies to participate as actively as possible in the discussion and in the voting for the law. I am convinced that today we must accept it as a whole, and as of today, according to the decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the Russian Federation must be recognized as an aggressor country. Today, too, it will be proposed to include in the agenda of Bill 7428's day session a decision on the admission of other States' military forces to Ukraine in the 18th year for joint training. The security and defence bloc has important sign questions, and I hope for a coordinated and effective work today in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. But I want to remind you that today's workday starts with 30 minutes of performances by authorized representatives of the MPs and groups. And I'm asking the factions and groups to record a statement from the rostrum. All factions, please take part in the record, and please sign up for the performance. Please. From the People's Front. The People's Front faction and the leader of the Maksim Burbak faction are invited to the floor. People's Front, please, Maxim Burbak.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-16-m0.u2	Dear colleagues, back in the last year we were addressing all of you, we were addressing our Ukrainian citizens that the first working week of the new year will begin with a second reading of the bill, which for the first time and finally recognizes Russia as an aggressor country. This is a very important bill, and today in this room we're all going to put the dots over the "and" and show all of our citizens who are really patriots who are hurting for our country, which is struggling with an aggressor, with the Russian Federation, and who is just a collaborator. This bill is very important because Russia is first defined as an aggressor. Second, this determines the status of occupied territories both in Crimea and in Donbas. And that will allow us to increase our presence in international courts by creating a consolidated position and calling on Russia, which will now be responsible as a occupying country for all crimes, will be politically responsible, criminally and materially responsible for what it has created in temporarily occupied territories. Some of you were skeptical when Arsenius Yatzenuk’s government decided in 2014 to sue. Naftegazu Ukraine to Gazprom. Everyone said it couldn't be won. But this year everyone was celebrating because we won the Stockholm Arbitration and gave back to our country the $55 billion illegally paid and accounted for by our aggressor country. So this decision will allow us to significantly improve our positions in international courts. And now the Justice Department should sue the aggressor country. Finally, this bill will allow a more effective fight against an aggressor in eastern Ukraine. So I'm addressing all the MPs, the responsible MPs, not the politicians, but the MPs who are hurting for our country, is there any one of you who is not recognizing Russia as an aggressor country and that it's been creating crime since 2014 in our east of Ukraine? I'll admit it. Would any of you not like to support Ukraine in appeals to the aggressor country to protect our citizens from the saviour that is now taking place in Crimea and on Donbassa? I agree with that. So I am addressing everyone, despite the factions' positions, despite the political parties' positions, you must today be the politically responsible citizens of Ukraine, and you must give all your votes in order for the Return of Occupied Territories Act to finally be passed in this sessionary room. This is a test for Parliament today, and I am confident that the Ukrainian Parliament will face this challenge with dignity. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-16-m0.u3	Thank you. And here's a statement from the representative of Peter Prashenko, the head of the Arthur Gerasimov faction. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-16-m0.u4	Dear Mr. Head! Dear colleagues! Dear voters! First of all, let me welcome the Ukrainians with the New Year and the Christmas Party. I wish all citizens health, wealth, and peace. The New Year of the Supreme Council begins with a series of bills aimed at strengthening Ukraine's sovereignty and restoring Ukraine's sovereignty, and among them is a bill on the characteristics of state policy and ensuring Ukraine's state sovereignty over temporarily purchased areas in the Donetsk and Lugansk areas, which is a follow-up to the Ukrainian President's strategy on this issue. This document embodies the clear and consistent position of the President of Ukraine, which is fully shared by the faction of the Party of Peter Prashenko. Ukraine will not give one foot to the enemy or turn its citizens away from the terrorists and the invaders. Next. The faction of the Party of Peter Prashenko expresses its support for the Bill 7440, initiated by the President of Ukraine, on the creation of the Supreme Anti-Corruption Court. The project was edited by a team of international experts who were cosponsors of the NABU Law. In their work, they followed closely all the recommendations of the Venice Commission. However, effective and quality drafting of the bill requires the full participation of Parliament. So we invite colleagues from other factions and groups to also meet with a team of experts involved in drafting the bill. I think they'll be ready to answer all the questions. Next. Events in the information field in recent days have highlighted the urgent need to increase the effectiveness of our opposition to the spread of false information in the media. The whole progressive world is now giving special attention to this issue. France, Germany, and other countries around the world are creating a legislative framework to combat the spread of lies through the media. The faction of the Party of Peter Prashenko calls on the Committee on Freedom of Speech, the Information Policy to create a working group for the development of a document. For one thing, journalists themselves should submit their vision of overcoming the problem of spreading lies. The experience of the last days shows that not only ordinary citizens are victims of fairies but also employees of important publications. So we call on media, the public, and the expertise to join in this work. The faction of the Party of Peter Poroshenko highlights once again the need for solutions and human resources to Parliament. This refers to the selection of the NABA auditor, the election of judges, the Constitutional Court, and so on. Our faction also draws your attention to the need to consider the bills initiated by the President of Ukraine to abolish the electronic declaration for public organizations. This is about Bills 6675 and 6674. We also ask that today’s land - deconcentration bill (7363) be included in the order of today’s day. This is a presidential bill aimed at strengthening decentralization reform, strengthening the fight against corruption in land relations, and strengthening protection against raid. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-16-m0.u5	Thank you. We're going to have a block today that's going to be in the agenda of the day session, and I'm going to suggest that 7673 be included in the agenda this week. Thank you very much. From "the will of the people" to "the word" comes Labazuk Sergey Petrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-16-m0.u6	Dear colleagues, Mr. Head, dear Ukrainian people! The session hall of the Supreme Council has always been a place for the adoption of fundamental decisions: it was here that the Declaration of State Sovereignty was adopted, from this rostrum that the Act of Independence was issued, and this is where we decided to end the massacre in Maidan in 2004. People’s deputies took full responsibility in the most responsible moments of history. And today is exactly one of those days, from this point on. There have been many speculations about the law on the reintegration of Donbas: total treachery, from some and total victory, from others. It is not worth expecting miracles from the adoption of Bill 7163 as a whole. The Russians and their fighters will not leave the area at any moment, we all understand that very well. Ukraine will have to take a long and difficult road back to its territory. But for this to happen, we today have to take full responsibility and lay legal groundwork for it. In my memory, no initiative was as carefully and thoroughly discussed or processed for second reading as the law on the reintegration of Donbas. Parliament actually copied the bill from scratch. That's why the "will of the people" MPs are urging all factions and groups without politics to address this issue. Today, Ukraine is at a crossroads. If we do not want a new Transnistria to be established in the east, we need to act. Colleagues, security issues are inseparably linked to economic stability and development. One of the factors that slows down the economy is the total failure of privatization. The country can't go away from the horrors of the '90s. We have a holding fund that is proud to have brought 118 billion dollars into the budget in 26 years, but today we have a deficit of 140 billion dollars in just one year. Today, more than 3.5 thousand state - owned enterprises are owned by the state, two thirds of them being damaged. The state continues to run ineffectively, and taxpayers continue to finance these businesses with their money. Our MP group is convinced that, under such conditions, the only option is to adopt Bill 7066 on privatization in the second reading and in general. The state finally has to get out of this vicious circle. Ukraine has the potential to become economically developed and prosperous, but this requires transparent, effective and predictable work at all levels. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-16-m0.u7	Thank you. From the Self-Help faction to the word is invited. Roman Semenach gives the floor to Oleg Berezuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-16-m0.u8	Ladies and gentlemen! The poor, the dependent, the deluded, can be managed and manipulated. The reality is that in the highlands of the Carpathians and other regions of the hundreds, thousands of people live without pay for several months. The poor, the addicts, and the deluded. Small businesses are closing down the country. Why? Immoderate tariffs on electricity, heat, fuel prices do not allow to function, and the purchasing power of people in Ukraine is practically zero. The poor, the addicts, and the deluded. At last, Parliament spoke out loud about Russia being an aggressor, occupied territories, and we must give a worthy reprisal. Why did Parliament suddenly say so — boldly and openly? Because in the third year of war he created a hybrid law that corrupts people. A law that does not contain the word "war": the war of Russia against Ukraine. And the measures that have been taken, not by the Ukrainian State, but by just one person. In a law that did not give rise to a date of war that would protect those Ukrainians who remained in occupied territory and a soldier who protects Ukrainian land in war. There are no occupied areas in this bill, and there's an area that they're going to determine where they're going to go -- who? - Occupyant's army. This bill, which will be considered in Parliament today, is a fraud of the Ukrainian people. Under the beautiful words of the preamble, there is no responsibility in the body of the law of an enemy, an age - old enemy of Ukraine. This bill is not for Ukrainian statehood and independence, this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-16-m0.u9	Give me another 30 seconds, please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-16-m0.u10	This bill is above the Treaty of Minsk and Russia, which will hybridly destroy Ukrainian sovereignty and Ukrainian independence. You can't make a deal with a tiger when your head's in his trap. This bill is to be further elaborated today, and only when there is a date of war, occupation and responsibility of the enemy can it be accepted in this Parliament because it is necessary for Ukrainian independence and sovereignty.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-16-m0.u11	Thank you. From the Radical Party to the word, the Radical Party and the leader of the Radical Party, Oleg Valeriovich Ljasko, are invited. Please, Oleg Valeriyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-16-m0.u12	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Dear Ukrainians, dear colleagues, have come to terms with the Treaty of Association with the European Union, which prohibits buying milk from farmers from private farms since the new year. 14 million people live in a Ukrainian village. Mostly their earnings are from selling milk, from vegetables. As a result of the authorities ’ accepting such a commitment, the price of milk has fallen significantly today: they have bought five dollars per liter, now two bracelets per liter, and now they ban people from buying milk, selling it, and the marketers refuse to accept milk in peasants. A month from now, another rule will take effect that prohibits the sale of vegetables that farmers have grown in their farms. I have a question to the government, to the President, to the parliamentary majority: why live with Ukrainian peasants? So we have to stop this policy. Instead, we are told that the agreement with the European Union provides an opportunity to implement its products. Let's see how many products have been implemented: in 10 days of this year, the annual quota for duty-free sales in the European Union of maize, wheat, honey, juice, other commodity positions, and 355 days of our production is to be sold for the European Union, we have to pay the tax. As a result, it becomes more expensive and less competitive. Why doesn't the authorities "cut the window" into other markets besides Europe? China Market, Iran, Saudi Arabia, Other Markets! To sell their finished products instead of trade in raw materials. One of the vice-premiers boasts, on her Facebook show, five European countries bake bread from our grain. There's nothing to brag about, because last year they sold 40 million tons of grain instead of selling flour, croissants, pasta from Ukrainian grain to make the processing in the Ukrainian village. And we don't export the grain, and then we bring French rolls, macaroni, spaghetti, and we hang our people's ears a little bit better, and they tell us about the benefits of imports. Never anywhere in the world like beggars and beggars. For us to be strong, we have to trade our products, we have to protect the national manufacturer. Therefore, we demand that the government initiate a review of the EU Treaty, an increase in the quota for our duty-free supply, a search for new markets, a refusal to ban the sale of Ukrainian milk. It's said that bad Ukrainian milk, bad quality -- they just want to cut cows, and then we'll drink quality Polish, Belarusian, Dutch and all the other daggers, and our people will go out to get cleaned. We are against this policy, we are against Ukraine, so that Ukraine is strong so that Ukrainian people can make money so that Ukrainians can be rich and have a decent life.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-16-m0.u13	Thank you. To the word from the "Fatherland" faction, Rybchin is invited. Please, Mr. Alexei.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-16-m0.u14	Alexy Rybchin, "Fatherland" faction, Donetsk.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-16-m0.u15	Mustafa.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-16-m0.u16	Today, the Supreme Council will be considering a bill on the characteristics of state policy to ensure Ukraine's state sovereignty over temporarily occupied areas in the Donetsk and Lugansk areas. For a long time, the authorities have been creating wrong expectations, manipulating the title of the bill. It's not reintegration, it's not a de-occupation. The miracle will not happen if the Supreme Council votes for this bill today, and the territories occupied will not return to us, and Russia will not go away. What is involved in this law? Finally, for the fourth year of war, occupation is called occupation, called an aggressor state, and it strengthens the protection of our military. Regrettably, there are still consultations to strengthen the protection of the law, namely, the protection of the rights-based link and the requirements of our lawyers from Ukraine and the international, to strengthen the protection of the civilian population in the case of this bill. Consultations are coming up, and I hope that compromise will be found. And this is the principle of the Fatherland position to protect people so that in a peaceful Mariupol, in a peaceful Slovenian, in a peaceful Severodonian people feel Ukrainians worthy of this nation. I'm talking to diplomats. If we finally call it war for the fourth year, aggression -- aggression, occupation -- occupation, you'll have more work to do. If in some nations we don't know that we have war, and there are occupied territories, you're going to have to report it. I'm talking to our military, who remember how the President promised them to end the war, not the ATO, in a week. We're strengthening your defense, we're strengthening your security, but we're not increasing the level of smuggling that your pilots are hiding, and that's not going to happen. I'm talking to people who are now living on occupied Donbassy and on controlled Donbassy. We're strengthening your defense. An amendment that counts for "The Fatherland," which helps you to appeal to an aggressor state, takes away a judicial assembly and doesn't have to pay 7, 8, 10 grand just to sue you if you've lost your property or you've been harmed by your health. And that's for the fourth year. And that's for the fourth year! I hope that after the battalions we will go to the compromise of this bill, and the authorities will finally start building Ukrainian Donbas for the fourth year, to start creating a contrast zone in the territory of Donetsk and Lugansk, which we control to draw to Mariupol, not to go to Lysicansk for 18-20 hours, so that the roads that are the worst in Ukraine are the worst in Ukraine! – they finally started building schools to build a network of hospitals to make people feel dignified, so that people can feel Ukrainian power. I hope it's just after the adoption of this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-16-m0.u17	30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-16-m0.u18	And there are red lines of Fatherland: no mention of Minsk; no mention of international agreements that legitimize the de facto Minsk; there must be a mention of Crimea, because Crimea and Donbas is Ukraine, and for us that is the principle of the matter; no distortion of smuggling; protection of our military and protection of the civilian population. These are red lines for the Fatherland faction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-16-m0.u19	Thank you. From the "Rebirth Party" faction, Andrew Shipko. Please, Mr. Andrew.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-16-m0.u20	Andrew Shipko, Rebirth, Dnipropetrovština, the city of Nicopol, the city of Pochrov, the region of Nicopol. Dear Ukrainian national deputies, I would like to welcome everyone with the New Year and the Christmas Christ. Christ was born – we praise him! I want the new year to bring our country peace, harmony in society, prosperity in the home, so that politicians can make wise decisions to make reforms with the human face. Sadly, today most Ukrainians have become discouraged from the positive movement in our country. And how can people believe that when GDP has dropped twice in the last few years, the flow of investment has amounted to 14 billion, the decline in industry, business is barely surviving, and there are loans to return. The only thing people see is how tariffs go up. And this year, it's planned to raise electricity tariffs to 16 percent, water supply to an average of 10 percent. It can't be, it shouldn't be. People can't spend more than half their income on a utility. Either wages and pensions should be made European, or Ukrainian tariffs. So the Renewal Party requires: first, to create a temporary commission of inquiry by the Supreme Council, to involve international experts, and to conduct an independent analysis of economics, gas prices and electricity. And to the conclusion of the commission, introduce a moratorium on tariff increases. The other one. The government should make a clear plan for economic reform, not under the IMF's dictatorship, but its own plan and its own path, coming out of our realities and from our national interests. Third. One of the priorities of the year should be the responsibility of the authorities for their actions or for their inactivity. Today, the Ministry of Health's irresponsibility detector is the outbreak of crust in Ukraine, the disruption of vaccine supply, the absence of work with the population, the breakdown of the sanitary epidemiology service. All of this leads to an epidemic. And instead of explaining the need for vaccination, IOM gives a press conference and a pear show about the so-called medical reform, instead of information about the vaccine, people are told about the cost savings on vaccines, and journalists on vaccination are advising Google to look for information. It has been Googled that in the 21st century, we have died of diseases that have been forgotten by the entire civilized world. Our MP's team of the Rebirth Party wants to hear this week's report from the U.S. Health Minister on the outbreak of bark and provide complete and reliable information on vaccination in Ukraine. And on that word, be healthy! Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-16-m0.u21	Thank you. And a closing statement from the Wilcule Opposition Block faction. Please. From the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-16-m0.u22	Dear people of Ukraine! I want to start my speech from a constructive proposal to a deputy corps. I call upon the people's deputies to finally mention that the Supreme Council is an independent body, not a political addition to the Office of the President, the Cabinet of Ministers and shareholders of some large parliamentary factions. Unfortunately, this Supreme Council will enter Ukraine's history as one that has led the country to economic disruption, a record migration of citizens that has proved unable to bring peace to the country. I am responsible for claiming that the Ukrainian ruling elite lives in a parallel reality. Last year I had hundreds of meetings with people in different regions of the country, and I can tell you that people are in the deepest depression in years of independence. The majority of Ukrainians met the New Year in despair, the horror of municipal tariffs and prices, the fear of tomorrow, realizing that the State had removed its social obligations and left them alone with their problems. Dear colleagues of the predominant factions, I urge you to get out of the parallel reality. While you're arguing about the NAB audiences, you're thinking about what law on war to adopt, seriously talking about what's going on in Ukraine, fighting corruption, we lose our citizens every day, we lose our independence, we lose our sovereignty. The government has completely removed itself from the protection of society during failed reforms, which have proved to be, in essence, not economic reforms, but economic and social experiments on human beings. I stress that the economic situation needs urgent action. I think that the management of the Cabinet of Ministers in the near future should explain how it plans to maintain the economic situation in the country in the next six months. I'm not even talking about a development that no one expects from this government. We've got a year of record foreign loan payments coming up, our economy's practically exhausted all domestic resources, the industry's going through last resort, the work that's been broken after foreign investment. And this list can continue for a very long time. We all see what's going on with the bracelets and prices for goods and products. Please consider this a formal request to the Prime Minister of Ukraine not only to report for his work but also to present a plan of action for the next six months to stabilize the country's economic situation. I have a huge number of factual, I stress, actual, not political issues that have accumulated to the Prime Minister and the entire government team. I don't think I'm the only one. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-16-m0.u23	Thank you. So statements from factions and groups are completed. Dear colleagues, before we go to the agenda, I would like to inform you that today the supporters of the Donetsk Airport celebrate the day of the Ukrainian cyborg, the Day of Defenders of the Ukrainian Airport, the Ukrainian heroes who have demonstrated their integrity in the fight against the Russian aggressor. And I ask everyone to pay tribute to the moment of silence to the memory of our soldiers who died in defense of the Donetsk airport. [[A Minute of Silence]] Thank you. Praise the heroes! So we move on to the first issue of the depravity law (No7163): the draft Law on the Specialities of State Policy, which provides for the State Sovereignty of Ukraine over temporarily occupied territories in the Donetsk and Lugansk areas. I invite the Secretary of the National Security and Defence Committee, Ivan Yuliyovich, to report. Given that there was a very long system discussion on the committee, if necessary, I'll add extra time to the presentation so that you can report the logic of the committee. And I hope that in the course of our discussion we will be able to go to that editorial that will be supported in this room. And we will be able to make a decision today to recognize Russia as an aggressor. Mr. John, please have a word with me.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-16-m0.u24	Good morning, dear colleagues. It may be symbolically and symbolically that today, in our second reading of the Law on Deposition, we are considering the day when we honor the feat of the Ukrainian soldier, the defender of the Donetsk Airport. I very much hope that today will be an effective day in the Supreme Council, that we will vote on the necessary definitions proposed by the President of Ukraine, the necessary norms, the necessary legal regulations that we need today to free the territories, to protect the rights and freedoms of Ukrainian citizens who are temporarily in occupied territories, and to restore the full extent of the constitutional system in the territories that are now occupied by the Russian Federation. The Bill of Order 7,163 was introduced to the Supreme Council and adopted as an urgent initiative by the President on the first reading of October 6. Then he was sent to the Committee on Safety and Defence. A working group was set up on the committee for the purpose of reprocessing it for second reading, as the committee received about 700 rights to the project, received comments from the authorities, received comments from our international partners. We've got six factions of Parliament who've commented on this project as MPs. Individual deputies also joined in the work. The committee involved scientists, and special assistance from Professor Vasilek in this matter, the Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary Ambassador of Ukraine. We cannot fail to note and thank the work of all the factions of Parliament who have applied. Indeed, thanks to these amendments, it must be noted that the bill has become more perfect, more serious, more powerful and more dangerous for the Russian Federation and, of course, even more necessary for Ukraine. What's this bill about? First, it legislatively defines the Russian Federation as an aggressor country, a occupying country; it legislatively defines which territories are occupied; it gives appropriate powers to force forces to implement all the measures necessary for these territories to be repossessed, liberated from the Russian Federation. This bill sets out the parameters for the protection of the civilian population, defines the legal status, defines the status of the documents, the rights that take place in those areas, de facto declaring them worthless, thus condemning any attempt by the Russian Federation to legalize its presence. Clearly, this bill is without prejudice to the inalienable sovereign right to ensure the liberation of its territories regardless of whether it is in the Donetsk region, the Luhansk region, or in the occupied Crimea of the Russian aggressor. The President of Ukraine as the Supreme Commander for a special period during the implementation of national security and defence measures implemented.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-16-m0.u25	Two minutes to report. I think there's no objection. I'll add two minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-16-m0.u26	The President of Ukraine will be given all the necessary and sufficient authority to carry out his duties as Commander-in-Chief. In addition, we've settled a lot of conflicting issues, such as the abolition of the finally free economic zone of Crimea, and we have this law in force. We give the citizens of Ukraine the very right to be freed from the payment of court fees on property claims that they file in relation to the aggressor country. It is clearly established that all responsibility for causing any material or intangible damage rests with the aggressor country. I suggest you, your honor, build a job as follows. We'll get right on it. Everyone who wants to talk about them, I'm going to make the most of the comments from the committee. Then there will probably be some fundamental positions from the factions that we will listen to, and perhaps we will share with you the decision to take into account the stenogram. And the committee has been looking separately at the observations of the legal administration, some of which we will also recommend implementation into the final text of the bill under the transcript. Of course, all of this will have to be voted on with the necessary technical legal development at the committee level. Because it's an extremely complex project and every comma, every dot, every word that's used, can have a significant legal meaning. So I encourage everyone to work constructively and thank you in advance for their support.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-16-m0.u27	Thank you. So let's move on to the right-hand side. Please be prepared by the right-wing authors. I'm going to read those changes that were rejected. If anyone wants to bet on confirmation, he can do it by raising his hand. So 1-a. Don't insist. 2nd. Don't insist. 3rd. He insists. Please, Drevijanka. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-16-m0.u28	Good afternoon, dear colleagues, dear Ukrainians. My right was to make it clear in such an important law concerning the restoration of the state sovereignty of Ukraine over the temporarily occupied territories of the Russian aggressor country, that we are not just talking about the Donetsk and Lugansk region, but in fact we are talking about the entire occupied territory, and annexed, including. And we're talking about that we should not forget that we have today occupied by the aggressor country of Crimea. So my amendment was to put out the title in this paper: on the characteristics of state policy and the security of Ukraine's state sovereignty over the temporarily occupied Russian Federation territories of Ukraine. It means, including Crimea, not including Donetska but the Lugansk region. Thank you for your attention and for your support, and please vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-16-m0.u29	Please, Mr. Ivan.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-16-m0.u30	The committee actually got 37 rights to the title of the bill. We considered some of them editorially. But we firmly deny that this project somehow differentiates between Ukraine's mandate to liberate occupied areas, whether it's Crimea or the Donetsk region or the Lugansk region. And what I want to point out is that at the suggestion of one of the factions of Parliament in this project, the principle was implemented, the Latin is mutatis mutandis, which means that the norms that are being voted today, if they are to the Donetsk region, the Lugansk region, they are acting to the fullest extent with appropriate changes in relation to the Crimea, as well as the Crimea Act with appropriate changes in names and administrative units, are acting in the same way as the Donetsk region, the Lugansk region. That's why we reject this right, as most of them have actually rejected, because 116 articles of the Rules forbid us to change the title of the bill substantially after the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-16-m0.u31	Thank you. So I'm voting for the 3rd People's Deputy Deputy, and she's rejected by the committee. Whoever supports this amendment, please vote, committee against. [[10:41:51]] For-58 The decision is not made. Four. Don't insist. 6th. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-16-m0.u32	Dear colleagues, last night in all media, Irina Lucenko, a representative of the President of Ukraine, was shown, pointing out that we should vote this law in accordance with the President's strategic vision, as he sees developments. I think we need to take into account, above all, the parliamentary strategy. And since the parliamentary hearings recently took place, the theme was "The Strategy for Reintegration to Ukraine, the temporarily occupied territory of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea and the city of Sevastopol, issues, ways and methods and solutions." So these were the decisions that were made. I ask you to link these parliamentary hearings to the preamble and that was the point of our amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-16-m0.u33	Thank you. I'm betting on an amendment number six by a group of national MPs and, among them, by Cooper, the committee rejected it. Whoever supports this amendment, please vote. [[10:43:13]] For-45 45. The decision is not made. 7th. He insists. Chubarov, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-16-m0.u34	Dear colleagues! We're witnesses of speculation going on, let's say, around the Minsk Accords, because they didn't have any evidence of Crimea. Almost some of our partners are trying to tell us what he was saying, give priority to Donbas, and then there in the long run, Crimea. For that to happen, I still want us to be very clear on the title of this law. And that's why I insist that his name should be called, the law, so that it applies to all occupied and uncontrolled territories, i.e. to exclude Donetsk and Lugansk. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-16-m0.u35	Please, Mr. Ivan.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-16-m0.u36	First, we have to stop comparing a very important but still diplomatic and political pact of the Minsk Accords with the Ukrainian Law that we are considering today. These are important things, but you don't have to compare them and try to implement them into each other. With regard to Crimea, I would like to point out that the preamble to the draft prepared for second reading mentions one single resolution of the General Assembly of the United Nations, which was adopted on March 27, 2014. And it refers essentially to the Crimea, about the legitimacy of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea referendum. But they call on international societies not to acknowledge any change in the status of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea. So the committee stresses that we have tried our best to make this project unified into occupied territories and to my deep conviction we have made it. And this does not apply in any way to a name that we cannot change in relation to the limitations of the Rules, 116 articles of the Supreme Council. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-16-m0.u37	Thank you. I put to the vote Amendment No. 7, who supports it, please vote, committee against. [[10:45:41]] For-67 67-yes. The decision is not made. 8th. Don't insist. 10th. Don't insist. 9th. 9th, please, Musius. Turn on the microphone. He's handing over Andrew Antonishka. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-16-m0.u38	We insist on considering our ninth amendment. The text of the amendment reads as follows: to present a bill of the Ukraine in such an edition. "The Ukrainian Act on the Specialities of State Policy on the State Sovereignty of Ukraine in Temporaryly Occupied Areas in the Donetsk and Lugansk Areas, as well as on the Determination of the Status of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea and the City of Sevastopol as Interimly Occupied Areas."
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-16-m0.u39	The committee’s explanations regarding these 37 amendments regarding names have already been made, so only if the authors are required to vote. Please, Amendment 9, I ask you to determine the committee against. [[10:46:57]] For-64 Not supported. 10th. Don't insist. 12th. Don't insist. 13th. Don't insist. 13th. They insist. Cool. Please, Mr. Krulke's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-16-m0.u40	Ivan Krulko, "The Fatherland" faction. My amendment is taken into account editorially. This corrected the grammatical errors perfectly correctly, not "over" temporarily occupied, but "on" temporarily occupied territories. But what is out of the question, and what is important? This law should be universal and should not only apply to the Donetsk and Lugansk regions, it should necessarily apply to Crimea and the city of Sevastopol — those areas that, from a legal point of view, are also occupied by the Russian aggressor. So there's a request to the session room that we don't write in the title of the law that it applies only to two areas, and it should apply to all those areas that the Russian Federation illegally occupied by starting armed aggression against Ukraine. Please vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-16-m0.u41	I'd like you to decide on the 13th amendment. [[10:48:13]] For-75 Your amendment has been rejected. 16th. Don't insist. 17th, Dovbenko. Don't insist. 18th. Please, Wooden microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-16-m0.u42	Dear colleagues, Yuri Derevyanko, the Movement of New Forces. I'm very sorry that we didn't support the title of the law in the title of the Crimea and the city of Sevastopol, but I suggest in the 18th Amendment, in the entire text of the bill, the word "temporarily occupied territories in the Donetsk and Lugansk areas" in all the exceptions to replace the words "temporarily occupied by the Russian Federation of Ukraine" with the corresponding differences. So it's not just about the name, it's about the essence, it's about the whole text of the law in all the differences where we're talking about Donetsk and Lugansk, and it's about Crimea and Sevastopol. So please support this amendment. This is not a purely editorial matter related to the name, but it is a matter that permeates the entire bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-16-m0.u43	Let's vote on the 18th amendment, please. The 16th I announced, you didn't hear. I've announced, so we're moving on. Please, 18th. We're voting on the 18th amendment. [[B in m in s a l in]] But listen carefully – okay? [[B in m in s a l in]] I'm saying good-bye. [[10:49:40]] For-68 Not supported. Please, Mr. Krulk's 16th amendment. 18 is not supported.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-16-m0.u44	Ivan Krultko, "Fatherland" faction. Ladies and gentlemen, notice that at 16th Amendment, we propose that the term "inseparable sovereign right" should be replaced by the words "integrated sovereign law." Why? Therefore, the Constitution of Ukraine uses the term “integrated sovereign law. ” So in order for this law to fit the Constitution in terminology, there is a request for this amendment to be supported. Please, Mr. John, comment, why did the committee still reject her?
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-16-m0.u45	Please, Mr. Ivan's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-16-m0.u46	Actually, I want to point out that the biggest discussion over the 10 working groups was about the individual synonymal definitions of verbs, nouns, and so on. Indeed, there is the position of the Constitution, there is the position of international law, and the working group has consistently decided to use the verb "inseparably" in this case because it is more identical and corresponds to the spirit of international relations, which will actually be implemented on the basis of, including this law. At the same time, the session room can be defined alternatively on this side.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-16-m0.u47	Please vote for the 16th amendment. [[10:51:11]] For-72 Not supported. Next: 21st. Don't insist on it. Oxana’s Siroid, 22 Semenha. Please, the microphone. 22 repairs, Semenha. Please, the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-16-m0.u48	Semenha Roman, "The Self-Help Union" faction. Dear colleagues, on the fourth river of war, we finally have to acknowledge the reality that today the Crimea, as well as the separate territories of Lugansk and Donetsk regions, are occupied and occupied by the Russian Federation itself, and their sovereignty is violated, and Ukraine, attention, should restore it, not secure it. Our amendment, in particular, refers to a change in the title of the bill itself. It is impossible to guarantee sovereignty over what you do not control, but it is necessary to restore it. Another proposal is to replace the words "over temporarily occupied areas in the Donetsk and Lugansk areas" with the words "over the temporarily occupied territory of Ukraine". Dear colleagues, today it is the Kremlin’s logic that provides for a separate solution to the Crimea issue — the question of Donbass. We have to practice from the point of view of the national interests of Ukraine: Crime, Sevastopol, Donetsk, Lugansk Region – through which, because one territory is one law, one problem is one solution, one status of territory is one law. I insist on our right. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-16-m0.u49	We're voting for the 22nd amendment, this is an amendment to the Self-Help faction. The MPs all filed it and the committee opposed it. Please make up your mind. [[10:52:46]] For-81 No correction supported. Next, 23rd, Igor Lucenko. Please, the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-16-m0.u50	Honorable colleagues, a historic day, a fourth year of war, and finally at the level of law, the Ukrainian Parliament discusses the status of occupied territories. You know, it wasn't us, Ukraine, who invented the separation of Donbas and Crimea. Donbas and Crimea came up with the idea of dividing the Kremlin, even though it was occupied there and there by the same people, the same state. So when we, once every four years in Parliament's legislative settlement of the status of occupied territories, we have to clearly verify any word, including the name of those documents that we accept. Therefore, forgetting Crimea in its name is in a certain way. Well, maybe even betray those who are now patriots in Crimea and who expect us to do what we need. I'm asking you to change your name. "Donetsk and Lugansk Region" is replaced by "Ukraine territory." Please support.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-16-m0.u51	We're set for the 23rd amendment. The "against" committee voted. [[10:54:16]] Z-77 77 votes, not supported by your amendment. 24th. Please, Schrum. Schrome microphone, turn on the MP.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-16-m0.u52	Alona's splinter, Fatherland faction. Colleagues, indeed, are absolutely abnormal when we are in the fourth year just war determining the important legal status of these territories and finally – finally! – we change the legal status of the so-called ATO to war, against the armed aggression that was applied to Ukraine by the Russian Federation. As far as I'm concerned. I had the privilege of being present both at the committee meeting and at the working group meetings, and I am no longer the first MP to propose in his amendments in the title of the law to join the Crimea and the city of Sevastopol as those territories that were occupied and annexed completely illegally by the Russian Federation. The only argument that sounded at the committee meeting, why this should not be done, and why these amendments were not accepted (both mine and Mr. Lucenka, and Mr. Ryabkin, and esteemed colleagues from Self-Help and other factions) is that the Rules do not seem to amend and amend the name of the law. Then there was the decision of the regulatory committee, where they said it was absolutely possible to do so, and it was the right of the national MP to change it on the second reading, including the name. So I'm asking my colleagues to support this amendment and make some changes, that's all.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-16-m0.u53	Please vote now for this amendment of 24 People's Deputies of Skrum. The committee's against it. [[10:56:00]] For-72 This amendment is not supported. Next up is 25th. Riddle microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-16-m0.u54	Alexei Rybchin, Fatherland, Doñecina. Dear colleagues, distinguished Ukrainians, the same offer that was made by me, my colleague Shkrum, my colleague Lucenk, other colleagues of the National Deputies. I don't understand why the President's Administration thinks they're smarter than the 450 deputies who propose the same. If we've mentioned Crimea in the bill, if Crimea and Donbas are part and parcels of Ukraine that are now in occupation, why don't we mention Crimea in the title of the bill? That's exactly what my bill refers to as "The peculiarities of state policy and the provision of state sovereignty to Ukraine in a temporarily occupied territory in the Donetsk and Lugansk regions and the Autonomous Republic of Crimea." Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-16-m0.u55	We're assigned to this amendment, dear colleagues. The committee's against it. [[10:57:09]] Z-71 Not supported. Next amendment 26, National Deputy Sotnik.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-16-m0.u56	Thank you. We've probably seen a lot of whiteboards in Ukraine in the last two or three years. "The one country," and we were all convinced, and that we would fight for Donbas until the end, we would fight for Crimea. I'll explain to the people, now we're not arguing over words in the name, now we're arguing about world-viewed things, state-owned things. We are going to restore sovereignty only in the territory occupied by Donetsk, Lugansk region, will we, as a state, build our own national policy to restore sovereignty in all areas of Ukraine, including Crimea? That's what the fight is about. 37 amendments from different deputies, from different factions, say that there is a worldwide vision in this room that Crimea is Ukrainian. So this amendment, this name should say that there is a state policy to restore sovereignty both in Crimea and in Donbas.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-16-m0.u57	We're going to define, please, after this amendment. The committee opposed, and explained its position. [[10:58:43]] For-75 Let's move on. 29th, 30th. Don't you insist? He insists. Gopka, please, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-16-m0.u58	Good afternoon, dear fellows! I join the 37 people's deputies who insist on fundamental things to make it clear in the title of the law that it is about the specifics of state policy, the provision of the state sovereignty of Ukraine in the temporarily occupied Russian Federation territories of Ukraine. We need to answer the question as to who are occupied by these territories. And don't avoid that answer for the fourth year. Because we are adopting this law to qualify for Russian aggression and occupation of our territories in terms of international law and to act in accordance with international law. Therefore, by adopting this law, we should not resort to misunderstanding euphemisms and double standards. So I ask that we make it clear that these areas are occupied by the Russian Federation, not by some Martians who stole weapons from the military, and Russia is clear. So I ask you to vote and support and, finally, to change not just the point, but the principle of position. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-16-m0.u59	Let's put Amendment 29 to the vote. Please make up your mind. It's a committee against it. [[11:00:13]] Z-87 No correction supported. Next 30, Mrs. Hopko. Vote, please. She made the point clear. Aah!? You want to talk. Please turn Mr. Hopko's microphone back on, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-16-m0.u60	Dear colleagues, Amendment 30: replace the words "temporaryly occupied territories in the Donetsk and Lugansk areas" with "temporarily occupied territories in Ukraine" with the same differences. All areas of Ukraine, each square meter, are untouchable and sacred. And we have to be equal to the occupation of each territory. The occupation of Donetskina and Luganskina, Crimea and Sevastopol is part of Russia's only armed aggression against Ukraine. These are not two separate conflicts. And even the preamble to this law clearly defines that. Why do we not want to apply the only international legal approach to occupied territories throughout the law? These are not areas of any area, they're part of the sovereign territory of Ukraine. And that's why it's very important for us not to resort to misunderstood euphemisms, which is exactly how we make it difficult to resist the aggressor and return our territories. Please support and take a firm stand.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-16-m0.u61	We're going to define 30 amendments. [[11:01:41]] For-94 94 votes, not supported. Next, two amendments to the Chumak People's Deputy. Please, Mr. Chumak's microphone. Guys, please sit down so you can see the rapporteur for the amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-16-m0.u62	Good afternoon, dear friends! Deputy Chumak, 214 district, city of Kyiv. Dear colleagues, I am joining the position of 37 people's deputies, who determine the only status of occupied territories, which is in Crimea, Donetsk and Lugansk. Moreover, I would like to say that the bill that is being proposed should, in principle, correspond to the title of the bill and the content of the bill to those positions or to those legal norms that are already enshrined in it in other articles. I would like to say that in the preamble, the articles of the bill itself are often enough to mention the Crimea and the city of Sevastopol. So I think it's perfectly logical to just call this bill or use it in its name, it's a bill on the specifics of state policy and the provision of state sovereignty over temporary-occupied territories. The 32 amendments that go next are largely defined by the changes.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-16-m0.u63	Give me 30 seconds, please. Chumaku. Not Gopko. Chumaku. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-16-m0.u64	The 32th Amendment, which follows, defines editorial changes in the name of the law and the entire text of the law to foresee the words "on the characteristics of public policy to ensure state sovereignty over the temporarily occupied territories of Ukraine", including Crimea and the city of Sevastopol.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-16-m0.u65	We are determined by this amendment. The first is 31 revisions. The committee was against it. Please make up your mind. [[11:03:49]] Z-85 85 votes. The next is 32 revisions. Its essence was told by the author. I'm asking you to make up your mind. The committee against it was. [[11:04:09]] For-75 75 votes. Not supported. The next is 33 amendments. Yuri Timoshenko. I'm asking you to turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-16-m0.u66	My friends, I would also like to exclude all references to the Donetsk and Lugansk region, making the law acceptable to the Crimea. It seems that some traitors behind our back have arranged directly with Putin to return Donetsk and Luhansk in exchange for Crimea. Crime is Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-16-m0.u67	Please be determined by Amendment 33. The committee clarified its position regarding the title of the bill. I'm asking you to make up your mind. [[11:05:07]] For-84 84 votes. No correction supported. Next up is 34th, 35th, National Deputy Illenko. Please, Andrew Illenko, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-16-m0.u68	Andrew Illenko, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. I join the words that my colleagues have already said. And I think it's not just an important question, it's a fundamental question on which the future of our nation depends. In no way can we limit the notion of occupied areas to Donetsk and Lugansk regions, because then we are taking Crimea to an absolute other plane. This is Putin's own methodology, which is, unfortunately, it was written in the Minsk Treaties where Crimea doesn't exist. And it's this completely unhealthy logic that it's obviously still working. We just have to talk about all of the occupied territories: both Crimea and Donbas are occupied by Russia, and that's exactly the problem we have to deal with, and we don't make any separate exceptions to this issue. That's the only way we can really make a strategy that will restore our territorial integrity. Everything else is simply roadside, Kremlin manipulations aimed at further destroying Ukraine. So I suggest you support the amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-16-m0.u69	Please vote for Amendment 34. It's a committee against it. [[11:06:35]] For-84 84 votes. The next 35 amendments. People's Deputy Levchenko. Please, the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-16-m0.u70	Lewchenko, Freedom, 223 District, Kiev City. The text of the bill and its title in particular, and when it comes to defining what are occupied areas, which are occupied areas, very clearly indicates and shows all Ukrainian citizens that this bill is, in fact, such a smoke screen. It's nothing, it's just a bit of a bit of a pushover. In order to enforce Bill 7164 on the continuation of the so-called special status bill for the year, and in fact a federal law that created separate conditions for government in occupied areas for Kremlin puppets. If we are really talking about the liberation of occupied territories from the occupation of Moscow, there is only one approach to all occupied territories, because they are either occupied or not occupied -- there is no middle which is one for Crimea and the other for Donetsk and Lugansk separate regions. So we insist on what.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-16-m0.u71	15 seconds, complete.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-16-m0.u72	So we insist that throughout the text of the bill, as well as in the title, and throughout the text of the bill, we have to speak only in the occupied territory, that's one idea. There are occupied territories occupied by Moscow, and the Supreme Council of Ukraine has something to do with it, not just to endorse butaphoria.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-16-m0.u73	Let's vote on 35 amendments, please. It's a committee against it. [[11:08:35]] For-79 79 votes. Not supported. The next 35 amendments, so they don't say they didn't hear. 35 revisions. Musi, Antonishtak, please. Microphone to who? Musia. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-16-m0.u74	The recognition of Crimea by the occupied territory is certainly vital. And so I'm very surprised at the position of the Committee on Defence and Security of the Ukrainian Parliament. It seems that this committee belongs to the State Duma of the Russian Federation. You don't want to admit Crimea occupied territory or what, in this bill? So we insist that, systematically in the bill, as proposed by more than 37 national MPs, it is clearly prescribed according to our regulation, including that Crimea is also occupied territory and the city of Sevastopol. In other words, I don't think we can vote on this bill. What are you sharing with Ukraine again? Donetsk, Lugansk is occupied, and Crimea is forgotten by referring to other laws. We insist on that. Please place it for confirmation.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-16-m0.u75	It's not confirmed. This correction is rejected. The committee explained that the bill had references to Crimea and Sevastopol and referred to the UN Security Council Resolution concerning Crimea. We vote in favour of Amendment 40, this is the amendment that the committee rejected. Please identify the session room. During the discussion, let us not divide Ukraine, please, dear colleagues, [[11:10:17]] For-78 78 votes. Edit is not supported. Next 41st. Svetlana Zlatchuk. Svetlana Zalitschuk does not insist on 41 amendments. Next. Next 43rd. This is the Self-Help faction. Which one of you will go after her? 43 revisions. Don't you insist? 43 revisions. 44th, Ephraim's Irina. Don't insist. 46th, Baby. Don't insist. Sorry, she's listed, 46th, I'm sorry. 49th, Igor Lucenko. Don't insist. 50th, partially Scrum counted. Don't insist. 53rd, Germany. Don't insist. 56th. 55th? Now. 55 is an amendment to the committee. 55 amendment is an amendment to the committee: Vinnik, Pashinsky, Levus, Savchenko It's required for confirmation, I'm asking the reporter to start now. [[B in m in s a l in]] I hear I've just been looking into these amendments, and I'm announcing it. So now the Vojtsick People's Deputy demands that the number 55 of the authors Winnik, Pashinsky, Levus and Savichenko be confirmed. Please, Vojcitsky microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-16-m0.u76	Victoria Vojticka, Self-Help Unit. Ladies and gentlemen of Ukraine, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that this bill contains a lot of manipulations and really straightforward ideas. This is also true of the fact that war is not defined by war, that the Armed Forces of Ukraine do not apply in accordance with the Constitution, more when it comes to defining a clear date of occupation of the Luhansk region itself, the Donetsk region, we are proposing a responsible standard for a bill concerning Crimea, which is totally unacceptable. In our direction 136 we have clearly defined two dates of occupation for the Lugansk and Donetsk regions. Why is this essential and important for Ukraine? In order for both Ukrainians and the state of Ukrainians, who have suffered the corresponding losses and suffered the occupation, to have the opportunity to appeal to international courts for compensation, otherwise this whole bill without a date is an absolute proponent for the Lugansk and Donetsk regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-16-m0.u77	Let's put it on the 55th committee to confirm the amendment. The committee is asking for support for this amendment. The committee voted in favour. Please identify yourself in the hall. [[11:13:19]] For-66 66 votes, non-supported amendment. Next. There are two editorially listed, if they don't insist, the next 58th, Lucenko Igor. Are you insisting? There, now. 57th is an editorial, this is the National Deputy Krulka, but he insists, please, on the microphone of the People's Deputy Krulk.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-16-m0.u78	Ivan Krulko, "The Fatherland" faction. Of course, it is good that this law took into account the amendment that I and Boris Tarasyuk made regarding the UN General Assembly Resolution. But at the same time, an unaccounted 55 amendment requires the adoption of this 57th, where we very clearly define the date of the beginning of the occupation. It notes that on February 20, 2014, a crime of armed aggression and a grave violation of the 1994 Nuclear Non - Proliferation Treaty by Ukraine. I mean, the point is that in this law, in the preamble, we should clearly state all those international legal instruments that have been signed by Ukraine. And what will matter if Ukraine submits a consolidated claim to the Russian Federation for damages for occupation. Please consider this amendment, thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-16-m0.u79	Please vote in favour of amendment 57, the committee has taken it into account, but the author insists on a full vote. Please vote, determine. [[11:15:05]] Z-87 87 votes, not supported. Lucenko Igor. Don't insist. 59th, Yuri Timoshenko. Don't insist. Scram, 60 repairs. Please, Mr. Skrum's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-16-m0.u80	Alona's splinter, Fatherland faction. My colleagues, I have to say that the committee is not bad enough, I think, to work on this bill, for which I am grateful to all members of the committee. But I don't understand why this whole thing is off the charts. Because what does this readout mean? This amendment states that all treaties that are in breach of international agreements that are broken by the Russian Federation should be listed. For example, there is no agreement today between Ukraine and the Russian Federation on the Ukrainian-Russian state border. Apparently, it was broken. The agreement between Ukraine and the Russian Federation on cooperation in the use of the Azov Sea and the Kerchny Strait and other multilateral agreements where Ukraine and Russia are members of these treaties. And of course, why is that important? Because we will be able to appear before international courts on the basis of these very agreements. And we have to point that out again, once again to make it into this law, God forbid, it's going to be adopted. And I'm asking the hall to support this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-16-m0.u81	The committee has taken this amendment into account, and the author insists on a full vote. Please be determined. [[11:16:33]] Eighty-seven votes. Your amendment is not supported. The next editorial is yours, Mustafa, listed in editorial terms, you don't insist. Svetlana's baton, 69th, you don't insist. You insist. Please, the microphone. 69th, it's just for the reporter.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-16-m0.u82	Dear colleagues! In this direction, I propose that the fifth preambular paragraph should be completed with the words that are not alone. "we refer to the Fourth Geneva Convention, and we refer to the first, second, fourth Geneva Convention." As we know, these conventions, including the treatment of prisoners of war, injuries, and so forth. Thus, these issues are related to armed conflict and are noted in all four Geneva Conventions. I don't understand why the committee didn't support this amendment. Why not?
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-16-m0.u83	Please turn on the microphone for the committee representative.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-16-m0.u84	In fact, the biggest discussion was about the content of the preamble. Indeed, we have quite a number of interstate agreements of agreement and obligation to carry out which the Supreme Council has given through ratification. In fact, there are a lot of discussions today about what we call our soldiers, which the Russian army illegally keeps in de facto captivity. We call them hostages, they're actually prisoners of war. Of course, if this law is passed, they will be prisoners of war, and appropriate conventions for the protection of the rights of prisoners will be extended to them, and their repatriation in our territories will be arranged accordingly. As far as the preamble is concerned, the legal case law refers to the fact that, in the preamble part, the legislator usually finds and lists legislation that motivates him to adopt the law. If this law is passed, accordingly, all conventions will act in the same way as we do.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-16-m0.u85	Please determine by voting on this amendment number 69. The committee turned her down. [[11:18:57]] For-79 Not supported. Next 70, Germany. I am. Yes, please, to the German people's representative. And I ask you to sit before the deputy of the people, so that you may see the confessor. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-16-m0.u86	Germany, the Opposition Block. I'd like to remind you of that. To remind us that, on the basis of the Minsk Treaties, the 2015 protocols and the strategy that was developed with the participation of members of the Security Council, our children have literally recently returned home. And so it is very sad to see that this law, more faithfully, is not written for the people and not for the people. You read it! Why are they refusing to implement the Minsk Treaties? And so the proposal is that, including the position of the Minsk negotiations, the Minsk Treaties, and the decision of the Security Council Resolution, this law should be decided by adopting this law, based on the decision to restore sovereignty!
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-16-m0.u87	Let me finish, please, 30 seconds. Have you finished? Please make up your mind about this amendment. The committee voted against this amendment. I'm asking you to identify yourself. [[11:20:47]] For-45 Forty - five national deputies supported it. There's been no change. Next, 71st, Cooperi People's Deputy. There's no insistence on the people's MP Coopery. Let's move on. Next amendment number 74, Semenha. Please, the People's Deputy of Semimenah.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-16-m0.u88	Semenha Roman, "The Self-Help Union" faction. Dear colleagues, the individual political forces, unfortunately, speculate, claiming, after the Supreme Council has recognized the territories occupied by the Russian Federation, that these territories are being given to the enemy. I emphasize that Ukraine was, is and will be the rightful owner of occupied territories, although because of armed aggression the State is virtually deprived of the right to exercise its sovereign rights. Our right to self-help suggests that it is clear that Ukraine, as a territorial sovereign, fully retains the title in all the temporarily occupied territories, i.e. the right to distinguish that the actual but improper possession of individual territories of Ukraine as a result of occupation is carried out by Russia and that is a fact. This amendment is particularly necessary in order to declare that the occupation of part of Ukraine does not go to Russia. It's just a temporary loss. Please be supportive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-16-m0.u89	We're going to define 74 amendments. She's been rejected by the committee. I'd like to make a statement. [[11:22:20]] For-73 Seventy-three votes not supported. Next up, Zalitzak, 75th Amendment. Are you insisting? Don't insist. Next amendment. Now, I'm in charge, I know you're all reporting your amendments. Wait a minute, I'll announce the next one, and I'll talk to you. Levus, 86th. Don't insist. Cooper, 89th. Don't insist. Easy. 90. Easy doesn't insist. Editorial, 92nd. Please, Semenha.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-16-m0.u90	Semenha Roman, "The Self-Help Union" faction. Dear colleagues, our rights have a simple purpose: all violations and crimes committed by Russia in occupied areas must be recorded. Self-help proposes to identify in the project a broader and broader list of crimes committed by the Russian Federation in occupied areas, namely: attacks and bombings of unprotected populations, resulting in numerous civilian casualties; mass non-compliance with the requirements of the Geneva and The Hague Conventions on the Treatment of Prisoners of War, particularly the abuse of human dignity, physical and psychological torture, killings. Thus, by detailing the list of crimes committed by Russia in the occupied territories of both Donbas and Crimea, we will be able to demand that the invader be held accountable for all these crimes. And I'm sure all these crimes won't last long. Please be supportive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-16-m0.u91	This amendment has been taken into account editorially, but the Self-Help faction insists on a full vote. Please make up your mind. Amendment No. 92. [[11:24:19]] For-69 Your amendment is not supported. Next 93rd Lutzenka. Don't insist. 94th. Scram. Don't insist. 99th. It's a valve. [[B in m in s a l in]] I declared 99th, and then I give you my word. 8th count, Svetlana. I'm looking now. It's edited. Please, Schrum. Oh, I'm sorry, Zalitzak. 98th counted editorially, but Mrs. Zalitschuk insists. And then it's easy. I've announced you. You must be. I'm sorry you didn't hear.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-16-m0.u92	I don't insist.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-16-m0.u93	Don't insist. And the 99th? You insist. And then Oleg Lazko. Please, 99th.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-16-m0.u94	Dear colleagues, I propose to complete the preamble with the definition of the date of occupation. My colleagues have already mentioned in their speeches that the definition of occupation in this law will allow more effective people who have suffered from armed aggression and occupation to defend their interests in international courts. Like the claims of Ukraine, the consolidated claim of Ukraine. So we define the rights. So I suggest you support this 99. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-16-m0.u95	Please define 99 amendments. The committee rejected her, colleagues. [[11:25:57]] Z-71 Please, 71 votes. Your amendment is not supported. Please turn on the microphone to the People's Deputy. Please, Oleg, Mr. Oleg, what correction are you going to make to find it in the text?
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-16-m0.u96	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. We have amended much of this bill. And a lot of them are counted. And that's why I'm going to say in general the position of our team: our team to vote in favour of this law. We will vote in favour of any laws that will enable peace to be restored in Ukraine and territorial integrity, but peace is just and peace is honest. Because any war ends in peace, there are only two ways to peace: one road to defeat, another road to victory, as Winston Churchill said. The Lachka team proposes to go to peace and restore peace, and to unite the country on the path of victory without giving up national interests, respecting human rights, respecting Ukrainians, defending Ukraine’s national interests both inside and outside. Because no one will give peace to Ukraine unless we protect ourselves.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-16-m0.u97	You've got the position of your faction. And as I understand it, the Radical Party faction agrees that the committee has done the perfect job and taken these amendments into account, which are fundamental. Please, we're going back to 71 revisions, maybe I missed it by accident. People's MP Coopery, and then we voted, I emphasize, 99th. Please, Cooper.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-16-m0.u98	Dear colleagues, I think we've all agreed in our own time that we will clear all mentions of the Minsk Accords in the text of this bill. But unfortunately, there's still a small gap that I'm going to offer to eliminate right now. This is a reference in the preamble to paragraph ten, that the actions of the Russian Federation are in grave breach of internationally agreed agreements. So these are the arrangements, what? Our Supreme Council has not entered into any international arrangement, we only know Minsk. So I now propose to vote 71 amendments and to exclude these paragraphs from the text of the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-16-m0.u99	A committee against 71 revisions just received. I'm asking the session room to be identified. [[11:28:36]] For-68 She's not supported. Next amendment 100, Gopko People's Deputy. He insists. Please, Gopko microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-16-m0.u100	Colleagues, I'm just going to read this amendment to the preamble so you can hear it and ask yourself why the committee rejects this definition of international law, Russia's crimes. "Condemning the refusal of the Russian Federation to stop the ongoing armed aggression against Ukraine, which is accompanied by systematic attacks on civilian objects, destruction of life-support infrastructure, casualties among the civilian population of Ukraine, verification of hundreds of thousands of internally displaced persons and systematic illegal activities of the Russian Federation occupation administration in the temporarily occupied Ukrainian territories." I would like to hear an answer from the committee about why this amendment was rejected. And I don't understand why we can't set the date of the outbreak of armed aggression as February 20 in the text of the law, rather than giving a reference to another law. And with every new law, strengthen our legal position in international courts, like the United Nations International Court, to win cases and condemn a Russian aggressor. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-16-m0.u101	Please, Mr. Winnick's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-16-m0.u102	In fact, this law has been called primarily against the Russian Federation's armed aggression and will be condemned by the relevant criminal courts. At the same time, in the preamble, we use both the findings and judgements regarding the implementation of armed aggression, which is carried out by means of armed formations, the same definition is found in the preamble, the creation of occupational administrations, the issuance of illegal acts, and so on. As to the date of occupation, as well as the beginning of occupation, as well as the status of the occupied Crimea, some have commented on why we do not recognize Crimea as occupied. Crime seized back in May 2014 is a valid law. There is the beginning of the occupation date – February 20, 2014, there is a territory occupied, all of which is contained in the law. And in the committee's opinion, in order not to undermine the principles of legal certainty in those conducts that have already been discovered on the basis of Ukraine's legislation to give occupation, we decided to make a reference. We do.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-16-m0.u103	Please finish 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-16-m0.u104	We consulted on this issue, both with the Ministry of Justice and with the Ministry of Internal Affairs. Mr. Petuhov, Deputy Minister of Justice, was involved in the work of the working group on the committee. And we came out that it would probably be right to make a responsible rule on February 20, 2014, for the Crime Occupational Act, which is a valid law on the basis of which Ukraine's legal position today is being implemented in international institutions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-16-m0.u105	A hundred repairs. Please vote on this amendment. The committee rejected it, and we only heard the committee's argument that the standard proposed in this amendment was already in place in the relevant Ukrainian legislation, so there is no need to repeat every new law. Please identify yourself. [[11:32:01]] For-73
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-16-m0.u106	Thank you, colleagues. We voted on 100 amendments. The following is Amendment 107. 105. It's taken into account editorially. Don't insist. 107. Don't insist. 111. He insists. Please, Schrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-16-m0.u107	Alona's splinter, Fatherland faction. Colleagues, this is another amendment that is very important and that has been discussed and worked with international experts, with law enforcement organizations. There's a notion of a positive commitment by any state to the protection of human rights. International lawyers know all about it. And Ukraine is, of course, saying that we cannot guarantee the protection of human rights in occupied areas, so Russia should. Of course, we're talking about that we don't have access to these areas. But there are our positive commitments as states that we have to do, for example, we have to miss humanitarian cargo there, we have to give and pass through the border for humanitarian needs, there for other needs to help these citizens. And we do. But it's important to make this clear, and that's exactly what I'm asking you to do in this amendment, because for our international affairs, it's important that we keep our positive obligations to protect human rights, and we demand that the Russian Federation do the same. This is important in the context of our reputation as a state that is doing absolutely everything right now and is in compliance with international agreements. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-16-m0.u108	Vote for amendment 111. The committee rejected it and we have an appropriate explanation. I'd like to make a statement. [[11:33:54]] For-68 68. Not supported. 113th Mustafa Nayem. Don't insist. Next amendment 115, Coopery, National MP. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-16-m0.u109	Dear colleagues, I have to support those MPs who believe that it is impossible to distinguish between the occupation of Crimea and the occupation of the Donetsk and Lugansk region and make a statement from the deputies of the UCROP party that we also insist on including everyone without exception, in all the articles, in the name of a reference to Crimea, a reference to the city of Sevastopol. And this amendment has to fix it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-16-m0.u110	We're voting for the 115th amendment. The committee rejected her and provided an explanation of her position. [[11:34:50]] For-66 66 votes. This amendment is not counted. And then there's 119. Don't insist on self-help. Next up, Scrum, 122nd. Don't insist. We're going, we're going, colleagues. [[B in m in s a l in]] I'm sorry, your colleague said. That's why I said so. So this is Amendment 119, National Deputy Sotnik. I was deceived. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-16-m0.u111	Thank you very much. Olena Sotnik, Self-Help faction. It's really simple and very clear. And Self-Help will insist in principle that this law should spread to all areas occupied by the Russian Federation. So throughout the law, we will propose to change only Donetsk and Lugansk region to the word "Ukraine," because it's not just the empty slogan "Crime is ours!".. Crime really is ours. And this law should show that there is a state policy to restore sovereignty in all areas of Ukraine, including Crimea. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-16-m0.u112	Mr. John, will you comment? No, it's not. I'll bet you a vote. So it's 119. Whoever supports this, I ask you to vote. The committee turned it down. Please. And the committee argued its position. Vote. [[11:36:30.]] For-66 66. The decision is not made. 121st. Don't insist. 122nd. Don't insist. 129th. Don't insist. 134th. 136, we're not there yet. Yeah, 132. Please, 132nd. We're going to be in sequence, first 130, and then I'm going to give you 1320. 130 is going to be.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-16-m0.u113	Germany.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-16-m0.u114	Germany 130th, then 132nd, Moses. Please turn on the German.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-16-m0.u115	My suggestion was that, in the proposed bill, the content of the article, the latter part, essentially gave the President the right to make decisions that were outside his competence under a certain article of the Ukrainian Constitution. Therefore, I would like to ask the representative of the committee why provision 106 of the Constitution is disregarded, defining the exclusive powers of the President. On what grounds do you grant the right to the President, rather than to the Supreme Council, to decide on some of the temporarily occupied territories under the conditions of the ATO to date? Please give me an answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-16-m0.u116	Dear colleagues, I remind you that speaking in the Supreme Council of Ukraine is necessary in a national language. An amendment has been counted in part. I understand that the German deputy is proposing that it be taken fully into account. Who's in charge of taking it all into account, please vote. The committee counted in part. Please. [[11:38:43]] For-40 40. The decision is not made. 132nd. Moses. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-16-m0.u117	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that our ruling offers very clear and specific dates for the occupation of Crimea -- separately, separately -- of the Luhansk Region and separately of the Donetsk Region. Unfortunately, this part is unaccounted for. But notice the final edition of this first article, it contradicts itself, because at the beginning it is about what is recognized as occupied areas in general, and then it is stated that only Donetsk and Lugansk regions are defined, and Crimea is forgotten again. People who are good, how can exclusive things be voted on in an article? Your Honor, you might want to comment on this. We don't recognize Crimea, this article, we don't recognize Crimea as occupied territory, or what if it's not written here? How can that be? So we insist on the dates that are defined in our 132rd. Please put them to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-16-m0.u118	Please, Mr. Ivan.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-16-m0.u119	Dear reporter, I've already commented on one of your performances. The problem is that you don't seem to be reporting that we have a valid law on the occupied area of ARC Crime. There are designated areas, a fixed date. By the way, it's different from what you're offering. It was determined on February 20, 2014. You suggest a different date: February 26. As soon as it's dictated, I can't understand it. We tried not to introduce any interpretations, dates or any competition, cassuistics and legal norms. That is why we have clearly divided and respect the current Crime Act, where there is a date, there are territories and in this case it is the order of determination, and the status of the temporarily occupied territories of Donetsk and Lugansk areas, in no way denying the sovereign law established by another law in the area of the Crimea AR and the implementation of measures to ensure its full sovereignty in those territories, including.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-16-m0.u120	Thank you. So with this amendment, this situation is taken into account editorially, but we urge everyone to take it fully into account, the amendment given. Who supports Musia's proposal, please vote, Amendment 132. [[11:41:22]] For-60 The decision is not made. 113th. Don't insist. 134th. The authors do not insist. 137th. Igor Lucenko insists. First of all, 136th. 136th, Vojcitsky, please, and then 137th Lucenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-16-m0.u121	Victoria Vojticka, Self-Help Unit. The clarity and determination must be the key principles of the bill. The absence of a clear date for the occupation of the Donetsk and Lugansk regions plays only on our enemy, the invader of Russia. That's why we offered two dates to determine the occupation of both the Donetsk region and the Lugansk region. Any law of exile for a bill, more faithfully to say the law that regulates the occupation of Crimea is in no way related to the occupation of the Luhansk and Donetsk regions. So we insist on a clear definition of dates, because then we will have every reason to demand compensation from the aggressor state, both Ukraine and, above all, Ukrainians, people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-16-m0.u122	Thank you. So the amendment is taken into account in an editorial way. The drafting group requires that it be fully accounted for. Yeah? Whoever supports this proposal, please vote. [[11:43:05]] For-67 67. The decision is not made. Now, 137th, Lucenka. Turn on the microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-16-m0.u123	Dear colleagues, not only in the preamble to this important, unique bill, but also in article 1 we see this transitory logic of the separation of Donbas and the Crimea. I call on all my colleagues not to support the road logic, not to support the Kremlin's position that Donbas is occupied and the Crimea occupied is completely different. It's the same thing, let's not give the wrong signals to our international partners, to those allies who support us. Let us give the right signals to those in the occupied area of Crimea so that they know that we remember them, that we are doing all of them, including the legal steps to deliver them from this highway yoke. Let's give them the right signals and not betray their position, it's very difficult for them there, it's very easy for us here. Please delete the law separately in Donetsk, Lugansk, and replace it for the purposes of this law. Please support this.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-16-m0.u124	Thank you. So the amendment is rejected. Whoever supports Lucenka's amendment, please vote no. [[11:44:30.]] For-63 63-yes. The decision is not made. Next, 139th. Don't insist. 142nd. Don't insist. 138th, Scrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-16-m0.u125	Thank you. Alona's splinter, Fatherland faction. My colleagues, unfortunately, we see that now the important things, those constructive suggestions of my colleagues, are not supported by some kind of hall. And I'm asking you, MPs, first of all, to come into the hall. Secondly, to listen to what we're saying, because there are some very principled things that depend, including voting under this law, and how this law will work in the international legal plane. And here, about this amendment, I'm asking for an explanation from the gentleman who will report this bill, Mr. Winnick. As to why we forgot in the first article some of our territories, where we too have our exclusive sovereign right and rights to which we have been violated. First of all, we have forgotten the territory of Ukraine's exclusive maritime economic zone along the coast of the Crimean Peninsula and adjacent to the coast of the continental shelf, which extends to the jurisdiction of the Ukrainian authorities, and we also have to recognize such areas as occupied, of course. And it's also a nuisance under these territories, and the airspace over these areas is Ukraine's exclusive right to develop these territories, to develop natural fossils on the sea shelf of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-16-m0.u126	Please, Mr. Ivan.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-16-m0.u127	I really wanted to comment on general logic a long time ago. It's just a lot of one-of-a-kind lines, so let me comment on this. First. There have been many rights to the verb we use: "strengthening sovereignty" or "renewing sovereignty." The committee concluded that we did not lose our sovereignty, it was indirectly the same, and it was confirmed by our colleagues' individual proposals. We just need to provide it, including perhaps a strong path. In addition, there have been many expressions about the fact that we cannot divide Ukraine. Likewise, I am convinced that we cannot divide the date of the beginning of the aggression of the Russian Federation in the Donetsk and Lugansk areas or in the Crimea. The date of aggression is the only one – February 20, 2014. This fact is established as a legal, not a judicial decision, this fact is established by law. On the basis of this fact, there are numerous ways to ensure Ukraine’s interests in a material or intangible plane. So by adjusting and using that logic, we left one single date. As for the shelf, and so on, we're in "Transitional Positions," so notice, we've corrected the Special Law. Sorry about the status of occupied territory.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-16-m0.u128	Please, 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-16-m0.u129	That's why this is edited. What you're saying on the shelf, Crimea, is included in Transitional Positions by changing the profile laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-16-m0.u130	Thank you. Thus, the law is taken into account in an editorial way, but the national MP insists that it be taken fully into account. And who supports the Schrum proposal, please vote. [[11:47:52]] For-63 The decision is not taken. So 142 doesn't insist. 141th, insists. Wait a minute! 141th, Korchinska. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-16-m0.u131	Christ was born! Now the committee contradicts itself. If they insisted that the occupied territories of Ukraine be spoken of, then it would be logical for them to recognize only one date of occupation. Since you're in law, the committee, deliberately dividing the Crimea, the Lugansk region, the Donetsk region, then logically, of course, the internationals always insist that it should have a definition simply of "occupied territories," it's important to give a clear occupation. This amendment refers to the clear dates of the occupation of Crimea, Donetsk and Lugansk. Moreover, it is pointed out in this direction that DNR-LNR organizations operating in the occupied territories of Ukraine are recognized as terrorist organizations. I don't understand why the committee didn't support this amendment if we've been conducting an anti-terror operation with you for three years. Please support the revision.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-16-m0.u132	Thank you. So the committee's amendment is rejected. Who's supporting the 142nd edition. 141th Corchinsky, please vote. Please. [[11:49:34]] For-76 The decision is not taken. 145th. Don't insist. 144th, Chumak. Please. [[B in m in s a l in]] And then I'll give you 143. Let me give you the word of Chumaku first. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-16-m0.u133	My fellow Members, I insist that the law lays down the dates for the occupation of each particular area, because it depends on the operation of the legal acts adopted by the relevant authorities and the administration of Ukraine, as well as the actions of the rights that have been committed in the territories of those or other areas that are occupied today. So I don't think it's the only one, but I think it's clear how to divide the terms of the occupation of each particular area. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-16-m0.u134	Vote for 144 amendments, please. 144.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-16-m0.u135	Thank you. So the adjustment is partially counted. Who is to count it in full volume, as presented by Chumak, please vote. [[11:50:48]] For-76 The decision is not taken. 143rd, Gopko. And then it'll be yours.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-16-m0.u136	Dear colleagues, this amendment proposes to clearly identify all parts of the territory occupied by Ukraine, within which the Russian Federation Armed Forces and the occupation administration of the Russian Federation have established and exercised overall effective control, and identifies areas such as Crimea, Sevastopol, areas within separate areas of the cities, villages and villages of Donetsk and Lugansk regions and the respective inland waters, the territorial sea, nadra and airspace. The committee threw everything related to Crimea out of this amendment. The problem will not disappear because the majority do not want to describe the conflict in terms of international law and apply the only legal approach to all occupied areas. Sadly, by rejecting such approaches today, we will be forced to return to them later, but we are wasting precious time. And when we talk about setting a date, let's make it clear that we're setting the date of the Russian Federation's armed aggression as February 20th, and that's part of it. And occupation is part of armed aggression, it's not an occupation date, it's armed aggression. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-16-m0.u137	Thus, Amendment 143 is partially taken into account, but Hanna Hopko insists that it be fully accounted for. Whoever supports this proposal, please vote. [[11:52:18]] For-81 The decision is not taken. Now 145th, Lubinets. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-16-m0.u138	Good afternoon! I'd like a committee representative to comment, because my amendment is about defining. According to articles 2 and 132 of the Ukrainian Constitution, Ukraine’s sovereignty extends to all its territories, and Ukraine’s territorial system is based on the principles of unity and integrity of the state territory. So the consolidation of the definition of "temporary occupied territory" will allow for a more specific definition of territories that fall under occupation.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-16-m0.u139	So Amendment 145 is rejected by the committee, but Mr. Lubinec insists that it be voted on. Whoever supports this amendment, please vote. The committee turned it down. Please. [[11:53:27]] For-59 The decision is not made. Next 148. [[B in m in s a l in]] 147th. Lechenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-16-m0.u140	Lewchenko, Freedom, 223 District, Kiev City. These are the issues that we are discussing right now: the question of the beginning of the occupation -- this is a clear marker of the fact that this bill, in fact, is just a butaphoric, smoke curtain, which was directed at pushing 7164, namely the continuation of the so-called federal law that allowed the warrior puppets of Russia to have their own. Lets you have your own. Your own authority in occupied territories. Because by saying that it's supposed to be a good bill because there are two things here: on the one hand, the definition of Russia as an aggressor, and this is actually already made by the Supreme Council Order in 2015, and then they talk about the occupation that Russia has recognized as an occupation. But apart from general talk, apart from one general phrase, nothing is written here about occupation. Why? And because there's no start date for the occupation. If there is no start date for the occupation, it is not possible to determine who did the damage to Ukraine when it did so, in which areas the damage was caused. And so everything else is just a bit of a joke and a lie. That's what you are now.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-16-m0.u141	Thus, the amendment had already made a comment, and I put it to the vote immediately. The amendment is considered editorially, but Levchenko and a group of deputies insist that it be taken fully into account. Whoever supports this proposal, please take the lead. Please. [[11:55:14]] For-60 The decision is not taken. Next 156. The author does not insist. 157th. 149. Cool, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-16-m0.u142	Ivan Krulko, "The Fatherland" faction. This amendment is part of the committee, but it does not include a key matter. We suggest that the territories of Crimea and the city of Sevastopol, as well as the territory of Sevastopol, should also be recognized as occupied, temporarily occupied territories. as well as exclusively the waters of the sea and the territorial sea of Ukraine around the Crimea Peninsula. So I'm paying attention to the session room that this law has to be universal. It should apply not only to the areas of Donetsk and Luhansk, but also to Crimea, the city of Sevastopol, and all the waters around the Crimea Peninsula. Then it will be a full bill that will determine the legal principles for all the areas where Russian aggression has resulted in the occupation of part of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-16-m0.u143	Thank you. So 149 amendments are partially taken into account, but the author insists that they be taken fully into account. Whoever supports this proposal, please vote. [[11:56:51]] For-63 The decision is not made. 150th, 100th. Which one, Mr. Igor? 150th, Lucenko. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-16-m0.u144	Dear colleagues, I urge you all to check out the territory that was taken from the Ukrainian people by an aggressor. The amendment that I now propose to support by voting is correcting the big mistake that has been made in this bill from the very beginning, starting with its name. I repeat, it was a huge mistake to mention Lugansk, Donetsk, and not to mention Crimea as occupied territory. And now there's a lot of law enforcement, which is why we have to work with them. When reference is made to the land territory of Donetsk and Luhansk regions, reference should also be made to the land territory of Crimea and also to all the waters belonging to that area and, of course, to the airspace. So this right now applies, corrects this mistake that we forgot about Crimea and now we're talking about sea areas that belong to the Crimea. Please support.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-16-m0.u145	Thank you. The edit is partially counted, but the author insists that it be fully counted. Who supports Lucenka's proposal, please vote. [[11:58:22]] For-67 The decision is not made. 157th. Don't insist. 156th, Lubin. He insists. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-16-m0.u146	My amendment refers again to the definition of the boundaries of the really occupied territory, but I do not insist that things be clearly listed there. And by law, we have these powers of attorney to the General Staff of the Armed Forces of Ukraine. So I'm going to suggest that we clear the boundaries of the temporarily occupied territories in Donetsk and Lugansk. And there we can define both Donetsk and Lugansk and Crimea and the shelves and the airspace, so these powers under the same law belong to the General Staff. So let's not limit it. And this definition, clearly in the Donetsk and Lugansk region, just limits the authorization of the General Staff. That's why my offer to clean up.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-16-m0.u147	Thank you. 156 is rejected by the committee. Whoever supports it, please vote. The committee turned it down. [[11:59:49]] For-65 The decision is not made. 154th, Lucenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-16-m0.u148	Dear colleagues, we must not lose any chance to mention that the aggressor has not just introduced his troops, not just captured our territories, but that he is still actively engaged in the exploitation of the economic resources that he has received, particularly in Crimea. So I would like to add part one to paragraph three of the following sentence: "The territory of Ukraine's exclusive maritime economic zone along the coast of the Crimean Peninsula and adjacent to the coast of the continental shelf of Ukraine." I'll remind you, there's a gas and oil pumping in there now. This is our gas and oil. This is something to be remembered and reminded of. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-16-m0.u149	Thank you. So 154 revisions are included in part. The author insists that it be taken fully into account. Whoever supports this, I ask you to vote. [[12:00:53]] For-79 The decision is not taken. 157th. Don't insist. 158th. He insists. Let's get this done before the break, and then we'll call it a break. 157th, Lucenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-16-m0.u150	Dear colleagues, I fully agree with those national MPs, particularly Mr. Levchenk, that without a clear reference to the beginning of the occupation of clear territories, this law is so fictitious. So, of course, we need to be very clear about the boundaries, including not only the territorial ones, up to a millimeter, as I say, but also the time, until the moment when the occupation of our Ukrainian territories began. Therefore, my 157th amendment refers to: Article 1 is to be supplemented by the phrase that "on the day of the beginning of the temporary occupation of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea and the city of Sevastopol consider 20 February 2014". And once again, we need to make sure that everyone knows when Russia attacked us. Please support this formulation.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-16-m0.u151	Thank you. 157 revisions by the committee have been rejected. Whoever supports it, I ask you to vote. [[12:02:16]] For-59 The decision is not taken. Colleagues, 157 right. Let's figure out where we're going to continue. 158th. Don't insist. 159th. What's that? Oh, he insists. So we'll start with a break from your work. Mr. Jury, at 12,130, we'll start with your application to get you there and get you to sound it. In all, 673 rights, colleagues, we're going too slowly. I will ask and appeal to the deputies so that we can work more effectively after the break. And now I'm calling it a 30-minute break. And at 12:30, I invite everyone to the hall, especially the right-wing authors, to continue our work.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-16-m0.u152	So the time is spent, and the break is over. I want to remind you that we agreed to start our work with Amendment 158. And I give you my word for an amendment to Mr. Chizmaru. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-16-m0.u153	Dear colleagues, if we want this bill not to be decriminal, but normative, we need to clearly define the terms we use, we need to clearly define the dates so that it can actually give birth to rights and duties. And some of the reporters today have said that under this law we will calculate the damage and present it to the Russian Federation. But would you please tell the Justice Department where to count the damage? We understand that very many legal relations will be dealt with in international courts with by the Russian Federation. And international courts as normative bodies will read very clearly the position of our laws and the treatment we have made. And so if we make mistakes today, unfortunately, these errors may not be used in any way to protect Ukraine's rights and sovereign interests. So I stand for the fact that today we need to clearly define in this law the date of the occupation in February and admit that those 30 to 40 men who were in Crimea, that was the beginning of the occupation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-16-m0.u154	Thank you. 158 amendments were rejected by the committee. Whoever supports the Chizmar amendment, please vote. [[12:40:50]] For-45 45. The decision is not made. 159th, Lucenka, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-16-m0.u155	Dear colleagues, I don't understand why this bill is going to happen if we don't set a clear starting date for the occupation of the respective territories, because this is, above all, a legal document that allows us to present serious material claims to Russia as an aggressor country. To that end, we are adopting this law to show the world: from this point on, Putin has committed such crimes in this area. And the sooner we put these parameters of our claims to Putin, to Putinian Russia, the more likely it is that over the next few years, and hopefully as soon as possible it will be, we will be able to start getting compensation for the enormous damage that Putin has done to Ukraine and its aggression. That is why it is very important for us to take this opportunity in Parliament: to claim Ukraine. Let's not lose this chance, let's vote. Please support my work.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-16-m0.u156	Thank you. 159 revisions rejected by the committee. Whoever supports it, please vote. [[12:42:19]] For-42 42. The decision is not made. Next: 161th. Don't insist. And 162nd. Moses. For confirmation. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-16-m0.u157	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to ask for confirmation of 162 regulations that are anti-constitutional precisely because they give exclusive powers to the President of Ukraine, and this is a continuation of the systematic usurpation of power by Ukrainian current President Prashenko. 106. Article 106 of the Constitution directly provides for exclusive powers. And the President has a mechanism to influence him to make decisions about occupation or occupation because of the declaration of military status. And if this mechanism is, why hasn't the President used it to this day? Instead, he needs even more, we can see, with each law more and more authority. And I don't understand how a committee that has the right to do this, the anti-constitutional norm wants to write in the body of a bill. This is not the President's authority and function. So I ask you to vote against this amendment and to place it on the stand. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-16-m0.u158	Thank you. I'd like to point out that the committee supported her. And Mr. Musai asks her to be confirmed. We need to get a positive number of votes. Please, Siroid, one minute. Mr. John, we're going to have to comment. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-16-m0.u159	So does Amendment 162. In accordance with the Constitution of Ukraine, anything relating to territorial boundaries, anything, any administrative and territorial units, is generally the exclusive competence of the Ukrainian Parliament, and it is not that simple. Because the territory belongs to the people of Ukraine, not to the President or any other official. And in this context, the President cannot have any competence to determine whether to change the boundaries of any territory or to change the boundaries and territories under any status. Appropriately, this rule needs to be removed so that there is no usurpation of power that can have a dangerous effect on the state of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-16-m0.u160	Mr. Ivan, please comment. And then there'll be a vote. Please come in and take your seats.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-16-m0.u161	Dear colleagues, this paragraph is not about the administrative territorial division of Ukraine, this paragraph about the Russian Federation's armed aggression, the occupied territories and the implementation by the President of Ukraine of the powers of the Supreme Commander-in-Chief of Ukraine. Of course, a military vertical, military leadership, a vertical force within the framework of national security measures, within any measure of self-defence, defense of the state or of any armed aggression, this is the sole mandate of the President. And in this context, of course, the content of this paragraph is understood to be the presidential powers that it implements, protecting Ukraine, along with other military formations as the Supreme Commander. That is why, in this case, we leave this exclusive right behind the President of Ukraine on the basis of the well-founded submission of the Ministry of Defence and the direct leadership of the troops and the General Staff of the Armed Forces of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-16-m0.u162	Thank you. So the committee asks for support, it looks at confirmation, and the committee asks for support. Please vote, please vote, vote. [[12:46:26]] For-49 The decision is not made. Next 163. He insists. Scissor, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-16-m0.u163	Dear colleagues! We also want to change the Constitution today, where it is stipulated that it is the Supreme Council and the submission that makes the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, as provided for in article 12 of the External Law. on the basic principles of foreign and domestic politics. Today, we want to hand these powers over to the President, who will do it for the Ministry of Defence. I think we can't violate the Constitution and we have to leave the order where the Cabinet of Ministers is filing a change in the boundaries of villages, villages and other administrative units. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-16-m0.u164	Thank you. The amendment is rejected by the committee. Whoever supports the Chizmar amendment, please vote. [[12:47:28]] For-54 54. The decision is not made. My colleagues, I'm again addressing all right-wing authors, obviously everyone understands the importance of this bill, we're going too slowly. And I have a request, perhaps, to highlight those amendments that are not duplicated. 165th. Don't insist. 167th. Please, Captain, 167th.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-16-m0.u165	Olena Sotnik, Self-Help faction. I completely agree with the speaker: this is a very important law. Sadly, however, there is a hearing and sharing in the discussion of amendments of 50, a maximum of 100 people. And that's the first thing we need to talk about if we're talking about importance. Now, with regard to this amendment, I want to say that the reporter completely distorted all the key ideas that were to be put into this law. In particular, when he referred to the fact that the date of the occupation of Crimea would actually be, in his opinion, the date of occupation in Donetsk, Lugansk region. A very simple example. Imagine a man living somewhere in Gorlovka. After the aggression began, he left for Ukraine, where his belongings remained. And he wants to go to court for damages. What does he have to say on February 20 as the date of the occupation of the territory of the Donetsk region? Any court will refuse him, you'll bet.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-16-m0.u166	30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-16-m0.u167	You create very dangerous contradictions that will play against our people who will play against the state of Ukraine when we appeal to the Russian Federation for causing damage in connection with aggression in these territories. It is very clear: either this law should determine politics for all of Ukraine, which means Crimea is ours; or you refuse to fight in the future for Ukraine's sovereignty and the full restoration of Ukraine's territory within it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-16-m0.u168	Thank you. The amendment is rejected by the committee. Whoever supports Amendment 167, please vote. [[12:49:55]] For-53 The decision is not taken. 168th. Mustapha Najem insists, turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-16-m0.u169	Dear colleagues, this amendment also applies to the line of occupation. The thing is, we had a line of delimitation, the line of occupation during even these last three years was moving, there were population points that we were taking, there were settlements that we were giving up. And if we continue to determine the date and limit of occupation by this law alone, we will not consider the population points that will remain with us, or that will go from us. So I propose that we allow the government, because we have this tradition already in government, there are regulations that define the lines of distinction that will be defined during the occupation to identify those populated points that will be captured and destroyed by an aggressor. And if we don't do that, we now define a static line of delimitation, and those populated points that will then be destroyed, we can't distribute the bill on them.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-16-m0.u170	Thank you. It's only right to say, "the settlements we liberated," not "received." This will be wise. So 168 amendments are rejected by the committee. Those who support 168 amendments, please vote. [[12:51:26]] For-50 The decision is not taken. 170th. The watermelon. 169th is Logwinsky. 170th is Lubinets. He insists, doesn't he? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-16-m0.u171	Well, I've already commented on it. I still insist that in part two of article 1 of the draft law, the term "in the Donetsk and Luhansk region" should be deleted. This is a very simple logic: please do not limit this bill to the Donetsk and Lugansk regions alone. There is the mandate of the General Staff, he will determine both Crimea and Sevastopol, anything relating to Ukraine's rights to his territory. Remove these terms. Thank you. I just don't understand the logic of the committee. Why did you disagree? If you could, the committee secretary, please comment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-16-m0.u172	Thank you. The amendment is rejected. Whoever supports it, please vote. 170 right. [[12:52:43]] For-60 The decision is not taken. 176th. Don't insist. 177th. [[B in m in s a l in]] Is that a good house or a Musai? Please turn on Musia.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-16-m0.u173	177 right. Please note that in the paper proposed by the committee, he again proposes to guide the definition of an aggressor country, the occupation of two different laws: a law that has already been passed, which is an active law (for the Autonomous Republic of Crimea) and a law that is now trying to push the committee into the Bank's agreement. In fact, we're going to have a legal commission about occupation: one part will be recognized by one law, the other part by another law, and the courts will treat one another by another law. Is it difficult to make one law for occupied territories? And then everything will be in place. Absolutely logically said my colleague Lubinets that it would be better to remove those names in general, and the law would apply to any and any occupation. Why are you leaving just a little bit of what you need? Or add Crimea and it will be a complete occupation of all territories.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-16-m0.u174	Thank you. The amendment is partially edited, but the author insists that it be taken fully into account. Whoever supports this proposal, please vote. [[12:54:35]] For-56 The decision is not taken. 180th. Don't insist. 181. He insists, doesn't he? Please, Lucenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-16-m0.u175	Dear colleagues, we must use every opportunity we can to tell the world what we both recognize as Lugansk and Donetsk and Crimea equally occupied territories. We must not leave our opponents, our ideological rivals and our military rivals any room for manoeuvre at this time. It's a shame that the fourth year Parliament is engaged in such discussions that during the fourth year we're discussing that we should mention Crimea everywhere -- where we mention occupied territories. That's what I consider a disgrace to us. So please support my 180, the words "in the Donetsk and Lugansk regions" after the words "temporarily occupied territories" exclude. All the occupied territories of Russia are occupied territories, not just Lugansk and Donbas. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-16-m0.u176	So 180th is negative. Who is supporting the 180th People's Deputies of Lucenka, please vote. [[12:56:09]] For-60 The decision is not taken. 178th, Germany.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-16-m0.u177	Dear colleagues, with regard to 178 amendments, I stress that there is an implementation of this bill of the notion of "territorial communities" and "local self-government authorities". I want to prove it, I'd like to hear it from the secretary. There was a proposal, all clearly defined as regulating the activities of local communities, territorial communities, and self - government bodies. On what basis did the law in general provide for the cessation of the activities of self - government authorities when it is not norm in nature and cannot be done. It can only be suspended, and you're already eliminating them and stopping them. And that's why I want to take "edited" into account, and that's why I want to take this paper into account, which allows the territorial communities to use their natural rights -- the right to govern in the same areas, they're the same people, they form their own.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-16-m0.u178	Thank you. And thank you for understanding. So the amendment is edited, but the author, the national deputy of Germany, insists that it be taken fully into account. Whoever supports this proposal, please vote. Please. [[12:57:55]] For-26 The decision is not made. 181. Don't insist. 185th. He insists. Please, Svetlana Zlatczyk.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-16-m0.u179	Svetlana Zlatchuk. Dear colleagues, with this right, I propose that the legal status of the temporarily occupied territories in the Donetsk and Lugansk areas be determined by this law and may be amended or repealed solely by the laws of Ukraine. I mean, any deal, any international pact can't affect the cancellation. occupations, to determine the occupation of these territories. Please be supportive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-16-m0.u180	Thank you. The 185th amendment is rejected by the committee. Whoever supports it, please vote. [[12:58:58]] For-51 The decision is not made. 186th, Captain.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-16-m0.u181	Thank you, thank you. Olena Sotnik, Self-Help faction. For me, this is probably the most fundamental amendment in all this law. We can talk a lot about what the preamble refers to as Russian aggression, and some of the norms refer to the backdrop of Russian aggression. But we understand very well that the preamble is of a declarative nature. For Ukrainian citizens, in order to protect the rights of the state and the interests of the state, it is important that the law protect citizens' rights. So I insist that Russia should be recognized as an aggressor directly in the body of the law and directly in the articles of the law. We were able to make sure that Russia was recognized there a year ago as an aggressor by an international community. I don't understand why Ukraine, the Ukrainian Parliament, disagrees with this logic and doesn't want the law to establish that the Russian Federation is an aggressor. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-16-m0.u182	Vote for amendment 186. The committee turned her down. [[13:00:32]] For-51 Not supported. 187 Corchinski is partially accounted for, so let's move on. Krulko, 191st. Don't insist. Lucenko, 193. Don't insist. You're 193, by the way. Lucenko, 193. 193, Lucenka, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-16-m0.u183	Dear colleagues, our speaker, Andrew Parobius, recently said that we are moving too slowly in this bill. I absolutely agree with Mr. Parubius, we were moving too slowly with the legislative recognition of Russian aggression, we had to wait three and a half years. We're all ahead of us: The Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, the United Nations, all the international decent institutions have preceded us. Instead, Ukraine, which is a victim of aggression, still thinks that there is a dispute in Parliament whether it is necessary to include Crimea in the list of occupied territories or not. Why is this happening? So I ask you to support the amendment that defines the status of Crimea as occupied territory in the body of the bill. The second part of article 2 after the words “temporary occupation by the Russian Federation of territories” is supplemented by the words “Autonomous Republic of Crimea and the city of Sevastopol, the territory of Donetsk and Lugansk region”. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-16-m0.u184	We're assigned to 193 amendments rejected by the committee. [[13:02:14]] For-53 Not supported. 195th, Captain. Don't insist. 198, Lechchenka. Illenka. Please, 198, Ilyenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-16-m0.u185	Andrew Illenko, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. In fact, there's been a lot of talk about this, but we Freedoms insist that the bill clearly prescribes the date of the beginning of the occupation, and that should apply to Crimea, and that should apply to the Donetsk and Lugansk region. Only then can we talk about not just some butaphoric declaration, a slogan, and we can talk about absolutely clear, legally verified norms that can then become a clear basis for lawsuits, in order to make it clear that it's really an occupation, that it's a Russian occupation, and that it's responsible for it. So we're going to propose to settle this issue, to support our agenda and to make clear for Crimea the beginning of occupation, and for certain areas of the Donetsk and Lugansk region that are now occupied by the Russian Federation.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-16-m0.u186	I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Dear colleague, we are now voting for the 198th amendment of the People's Deputy Illenka, who was rejected by the committee. [[13:04:16]] For-44 44 votes, not supported by your amendment. Next up is the 203rd National Deputy Najem. Don't insist. The bird insists on 202. I announced it. Now, the Birddog insists on the 202nd, then to you, 203rd. The bird’s correction is edited, but Victoria insists on the full. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-16-m0.u187	Dear colleagues, I would like to point out that the table contains links that seem to have been edited, although it is not completely counted. Article 2, in particular paragraph 3, points out that the activities of the Armed Forces and other military formations of the Russian Federation, which are contrary to international humanitarian law, are illegal. Instead, other provisions of this bill refer to international law rather than international humanitarian law. And it is clear that international humanitarian law is part of international law. So let's please bring the standard in line with the correct terminology and say that the activities of the Russian Federation Armed Forces, which are in contravention of the norms of all international law, are accordingly illegal. So I'm asking you to support my amendment number 202.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-16-m0.u188	We vote for the amendment that the committee partially considered, but Mrs. Victoria insists. Please. [[13:05:55]] For-57 57 votes, out of the question. Next one is 203. Hire, national MP. Microphone, please turn it on.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-16-m0.u189	Dear colleagues, this amendment is partially taken into account. I'd like us to go back to her first edition. The point is that this amendment recognizes birth documents, births. It's not about birth, it's about birth, it's about death. This is an international practice. It is confirmed by the practice of the European Court of Human Rights in the first place. And there's also a call from the UN. I don't understand, and why it's written that it's edited, that's partially. And I don't understand which part of it was included, because it means both birth and death. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-16-m0.u190	The point is that there is a whole section of the bill that says that documents called the ORDO and the ORLO are not recognized except for birth and death. This is such a special norm in the law. But now we're putting it, it's just not going in your correction, it's completely taken into account in other rules of this law. We now vote in favour of the amendment of the 203 National Deputy Najem he is. Oh, he doesn't insist anymore. Okay. 204th. Please, Captain. Don't you insist? Don't insist. Let's move on. Rent, 210. 210th, Najem. Partially counted. Don't insist. Scram, 213th. Don't insist. Thank you. Next. Rybchin, 215th. Thank you very much. Next. Spotted, 218th. Microphone, please. 218th.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-16-m0.u191	Svetlana Zlatchuk. Dear colleagues, by this right, on the one hand, we insist that any acts issued in the Russian occupation are neither real nor legal. On the other hand, I propose that our citizens be able to use acts as evidence to establish birth or death in temporarily occupied areas that are equally consistent with the practice of the European Court of Human Rights. There is a whole range of cases, both Moldova and Turkey, but there is the same resolution, the advisory opinion of the UN International Court of Justice with the same approach. Please support this revision.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-16-m0.u192	Please vote on amendment 218, which is rejected by the committee, but for the same reasons that we talked about it being defined by a special article. Vote, please. So the standards Mrs. Svetlana is talking about are in other articles of this bill. [[13:08:40]] For-48 The next amendment is 219. Mrs. Zaleschuk doesn't insist. But it is absolutely right that the humanitarian aspect requires us to consider the birth and death of Ukrainian citizens in the occupied territory. Thank you, therefore, for this is in a separate norm of the article. So the next amendment is edited 225. Please, Captain Helena, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-16-m0.u193	Thank you. Captain Olena, Self-Help faction. Amendment 220. It's also written as an editorial. But it's not really counted. I would very much like a committee, a committee of profile, to ask, at least, how many cases are being brought before the European Court of Human Rights now, where people are being summoned to Ukraine, including those currently in occupied territories. Why is that? Because there was no clearly defined system policy in Ukraine. Even in this law you write about a special order of human rights. But the state of Ukraine cannot have control over these areas to ensure the rights and freedoms of people in these areas because it does not control these territories. Let the aggressor return to the territory, then we will make these commitments. And at this point, we have to make it clear that the full responsibility for damages, the moral damage, is being done by the Russian Federation. And that's what I'm writing.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-16-m0.u194	Please, Amendment 220 of the Self-Help factions has been taken into account on an editorial basis, but the faction insists on a full vote. Please vote, please make up your mind. 220th, colleagues. [[1:10:42]] For-56 56 votes. Correction not supported. Next. People's deputies, Yatzenko and Dudenkov, are demanding that you make an amendment for confirmation, please, Mr. Ivane, book you, 224th. This is the amendment of the National Deputies of Vinick, Pashinsky, Levus, Savichenko, that is, the committee they have just amended. Please, the People's Deputies. Handsome, huh? Jacenko and Dudenkov. The word of Dobrenkov. Please, Mr. Dudenkov.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-16-m0.u195	Good afternoon, dear fellows! We're actually looking at a very important bill right now, because the fate of Donbas is being determined and its reintegration process in general. Unfortunately, the adoption of the bill in the form that it is now voting and discussing in the context of the second reading will give very little hope for reintegration. Now there's a lot of talk about territories. There are people in the territories who need to survive. This amendment, 224, which I and the Opposition Block faction insist on putting on the stand, provides criminal responsibility for the people involved in the Russian Federation administration. Who Will Appreciate It? What share will be active or passive? And what kind of message do we give to the Donbas population that lives there and has to interact with those people in order to feed themselves and their families? I think this position is unacceptable and it should be removed, because we're going to dismiss Donbas by this law.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-16-m0.u196	Thank you. The position is clear. I'd like to hear the committee's position. At the same time, I should also point out that the position of responsibility should be determined by the Amnesty Act, not by the law. Please, Mr. Ivan. Mr. Ivan, your position as committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-16-m0.u197	Well, in fact, the expected comment from the opposition bloc, which has not yet been addressed by the Russian Federation as an aggressor country, has not even politically supported: the liberation of the territory, the involvement of the Russian Federation and its armed formations, which commit aggression against Ukraine. The only thing I want to point out is that this was the result of the work on the proposals that were echoing from the various factions of Parliament, which are now criticizing the work of the committee for some reason. Therefore, the committee denies that this amendment is rejected by its confirmation, but it has to be enforced. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-16-m0.u198	Thank you for your clarification. Colleagues, please identify yourself for this amendment. And I emphasize that the committee is an amendment to the committee. The committee supported her, and the MPs are asking her to be confirmed. I'd like to make a statement. [[13:13:54]] For-82 82 votes. Moving on, please lock on. 225 revisions. I'm on my way. I'm on my way. The 225 amendments, as well as Yatzenko and Dobrenkov, were asked to bet on confirmation. Please, Yatzenko microphone. I'm sorry, this is a self-help correction, yes, then I'll give you my word first. Here two positions, Self-Help requires that it be fully accounted for, the committee considered it in part, and the national MPs require it to be fully supported. First Yatzenko, then the Captain.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-16-m0.u199	Dear Chairman, dear colleagues, I ask that this amendment be made for confirmation as one that does not conform to the Constitution does not conform to the body of the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-16-m0.u200	Please, Captain. Helen Sotnik, you wanted to clarify this correction.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-16-m0.u201	Thank you. Olena Sotnik, Self-Help faction. In fact, I have an answer from colleagues who are asking for confirmation of the amendment. Do you realize that our amendment is very clear on what is meant by the activity for which a person is to be held responsible in occupied areas? If they have contributed to the occupation administration, if this is, for example, the formation of different gangs, etc., and so forth, that is, clear criteria, everything is clearly set. And if people fall under the signs, more specifically, their actions will fall under the signs of crime, no release from responsibility, no reintegration can take responsibility from those who committed crimes, including against Ukrainians, cannot deprive them of their responsibilities and they will be held accountable under the law, according to the Criminal Procedure Code. This is what this amendment is about, that no criminal will escape responsibility, who has contributed.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-16-m0.u202	Let's vote on this amendment, and now we're voting this one, 225th first. So this is the self-help amendment, the committee partially counted it, self-help insists on a full vote, and National MP Yatzenko demands confirmation of what the committee voted on. We're putting confirmation now, confirming what the committee has accepted, please identify yourself. [[13:16:37]] For-59 59 votes, moving on. 226 amendments, National MP Musia. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-16-m0.u203	Dear National Deputies! This right applies to the implementation of the rules of the Geneva, Hague Convention on the Responsibility of the Aggressor Country for Occupied Territories. But I would like to reflect on the statement from the Opposition Block that, you see, the collaborators who lead the administration there are unhappy people who need to survive, who need to be helped, and we have no right to persecute. Those Collaborators should be shot, and all the countries of the Collaborators have always been shot. That's why.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-16-m0.u204	I'm asking you not to call even Collaborators to violence. The court will be determined, and we don't have one. We're not fighters to shoot. I'm asking you very much, Your Honor, we're here to demonstrate the law that should return the territory, let us not shoot anyone, but we will judge. Please vote in favour of amendment 226 and do not use such words during the discussion, dear colleagues, humanists! Thank you. 226 revisions. [[13:17:55]] For-46 46 votes, not supported by your amendment. The next, too, is the 228th People's Deputy Humane People's Deputy Musia. 223, I announced you weren't in the hall, I beg to be, then I'll be back. 226th, please. 228th.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-16-m0.u205	Dear National Deputies! I ask you to take into account this same amendment, because it applies to both the Crimea and Sevastopol. And it is precisely a sign that the bill should be systematic, and the bill should take into account all the kinds of occupations that exist in Ukraine. They are or are not, regardless of the wind blowing and the desire to separate Crimea or separate Donetsk from Lugansk. That's why I'm asking for confirmation in full respect of this amendment. Please vote yes.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-16-m0.u206	228 amendments have been rejected, please state themselves, Your Honor. [[13:19:11]] For-48 48 national deputies. Next: People's Deputy Krulko. He insists. 223 revisions. I've announced you. You weren't there. We can't go back all the time. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-16-m0.u207	Ivan Krulko, "The Fatherland" faction. Madam Chairman, I would now like to address the amendment that has been broken, 225. This is an amendment that envisioned the irreparability of criminal punishment against those involved in the Russian Federation's armed aggression against Ukraine, and Deputy Yatzenko has made this amendment to confirm that those who are killing Ukrainians today who are killing Ukrainian soldiers do not have any criminal responsibility. So what is it? That is why I demand, I ask, when we vote on this bill as a whole, that this amendment be included, because those who commit crimes, crimes against humanity, violate international legislation, have criminal responsibility, and will bear it. This amendment is necessary because it should include the inviolability of criminal persecution against those who today commit war crimes against Ukraine and against the Ukrainian people.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-16-m0.u208	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the only thing I want to call on is we don't have the rule: a return to the same amendment three times. You are absolutely telling the right position on the irreparability of punishment. And I should point out that this is the Amnesty Law, which we have also voted with you, and the crimes that come under crime against humanity do not fall under amnesty. But in the end, there will be a concluding comment by a committee representative on the entire bill that we are now. That's where we're going. Dear colleagues, 229th German. Don't you insist? What's that? 229th German. Don't insist. And she insists on confirmation by the national deputy of Semimenach. What's that? So, look, right now we're in the 229th Amendment -- that's the German amendment. She insists on submitting confirmation to the national deputy of Semimenach. First the word Semensi, then the German, and we vote. Well, first Semenah, then you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-16-m0.u209	Roman Semenha, Self Help Union. Dear colleagues, in my statement, I would like to place on the confirmation of Deputy German's rights 229 and Mrs. Heratchenko's rights 231. I would like to point out that it is impossible to guarantee sovereignty in areas where, in fact, Ukraine is not in control today. Sovereignty in such cases is restored, and it's no different. Otherwise, it all fits into the philosophy of the Minsk Protocols. I think that for the fourth year of war, it must be recognized that the political part of Minsk is nothing more than the path to Ukraine's full surrender. Similarly, the Kremlin’s logic cannot be followed by dividing the legal question of Crimea and Donbas. Well, would you agree that today, listening to the meetings of the Supreme Council in Crimea, people feel in the occupied Crimea today? They ask the question, why does their Supreme Council look at Crimea and Donbas differently? I'm convinced that one area, one problem, one aggressor, and therefore one law has to address the issue of both Crimea, Sevastopol and the separate areas of Lugansk and Donetsk. Please bet on confirmation.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-16-m0.u210	We're starting to move on to the repairs. 229th. Mr. Germanko, do you have a comment? Please, the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-16-m0.u211	Dear colleagues, Cosma Prutkov suggested: "When you meet a blonde, look at the root." Would you please read what this is about, what is the proposal in this article 229? Read the philosophy of your bill, where you say sovereignty is guaranteed. A unified legal category is not "provided" but "protected" sovereignty. This is what they came out of when they were speaking. And secondly, when we talk about sovereignty, state sovereignty, it doesn't have to be. It was used to promote separatism at the national level. And here's what this is all about, this state sovereignty was all about in this amendment. And I'm grateful the committee took that into account. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-16-m0.u212	Let us place an amendment that was partially considered by the committee on the request of the People’s Deputies of Semimenha 229. Colleagues, please make up your mind, this is Amendment 229. [[13:24:00]] For-35 Thirty-five votes yes. There was also a requirement for 231 amendments to the authorship of the national deputy Heratchenko to be put to the vote. The People’s Deputy of Simeonach made this point. As the author of this amendment, I want to point out that there are plenty of lawyers in this room who know perfectly well that, in fact, Ukraine, as a participant and a member of these international organizations, has made voluntary commitments to take international law into account in its legislation, which is higher, in fact, than internal legislation and these are obvious norms. If you're saying things now that are opposed to the first law school, it's surprising to me, it's the first story. Another story. There's not a word in this amendment, first of all, about the Mina Treaty, but I want to emphasize whether you like it or not, the Minsk Treaty has released hostages of the 27th, not red tape. In the Minsk Accords. The Minsk Accords did not start a war against the Russian Federation, and the Minsk Accords allowed us to take a break to strengthen the Ukrainian army. The Minsk agreements are tied to sanctions against the Russian Federation, which in fact very clearly state that only after full implementation of the agreements and full implementation is the restoration of control over the Ukrainian-Russian border. And those who oppose this actually oppose the restoration of territorial integrity and sovereignty and the border of Ukraine. There is no such thing as commenting on a comment, a respected colleague. As the author, I had every right to comment on your position on this amendment. And now I'm putting to the vote, on your request, the amendment of 231 National Deputy Heratchenko, who the National MP of Semimenach is asking for confirmation. The committee counted it. Please identify yourself in the hall. I spoke as the author of the amendment now, not like that. But you said in your speech, 'The people's deputy, Heratchenko.' You were acting on this amendment to take her down, National Deputy Heratchenka. [[13:26:05]] For-36 Thirty-six votes, not supported. Let's move on. National MP Chubarov, 235. Please, the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-16-m0.u213	Dear colleagues! Article 3 in the first reading edition has a general but very principled character. It is said that the State policy of ensuring the sovereignty of Ukraine is based on the Constitution and laws of Ukraine, international treaties, principles and norms of international law. That is why I do not understand why in such a general but very principled article we once again do not agree to include the Autonomous Republic of Crimea and the city of Sevastopol. This is very important, and I'm going to ask you to put these. Add the word "Autonomous Republic of Crimea and the City of Sevastopol" to such an important article in this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-16-m0.u214	We're voting for 235 amendments. The committee rejected her, and this is the amendment of the national deputy Chubarov, who is asking her to support her. I'd like to make a statement. [[13:27:34]] Z-85 Not supported. Next, 236th, Semimenah. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-16-m0.u215	Semenha Roman. It's the Self-Help Unit. Well, a line to the last performance. I'm going to say, well, for year four, I think we need to know how different the agreements are from the protocols. Because, in fact, there are no Minsk treaties. Because treaties under international law are ratified by the National Parliament. And what's signed in Minsk is called protocols, agreements. But they have no relation to the covenants. Now essentially 236th revision. The restoration of State sovereignty cannot be carried out by means of regulations. It should only be in accordance with the rules of the Constitution and international law. In fact, the bill formally proposed corresponds to the capitalist mine protocols, which do not mention Crimea. Once again, I emphasize that we cannot violate logic: one status of territory is one law. And politics must be based solely on the norms of international public law, the Constitution of Ukraine and its laws. And in no way can regulation be allowed to do so by means of sub-legislative acts. Please be supportive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-16-m0.u216	Please determine for amendment 236 which, by the way, the committee has partially counted. But the Self-Help faction, as the authors, is asking you to take it fully into account. I'd like to make a statement. [[13:29:02]] For-64 Next. the next 241st. Musai, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-16-m0.u217	Please, 241, Musius.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-16-m0.u218	Ladies and gentlemen, I also ask that in the title of article 4, we also consider the Autonomous Republic of Crimea and Sevastopol, which provides for our amendment. In fact, the legislation referred to by the committee regarding the already regulated occupation of Crimea does not contain a number of rules contained in the bill. And in fact, it would complement Luhansk's introduction. To the Luhansk and Donetsk region of Crimea and Sevastopol, he would complement existing legislation. So I'd like you to take this completely into account. And the Honourable Vice-President of the Supreme Council spoke about humanism, commenting on my previous speech. So I'd say I advised her with the same humanism, you know, you gave up the Crimea without a single shot, only one shot, was killed by one Ukrainian soldier. 10,000 people of Ukrainians have died, soldiers and civilians because of your humanity. And you're talking about humanism here? What could be humanism in terms of the aggressor country?
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-16-m0.u219	Vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-16-m0.u220	241 Committee review rejected. Whoever supports it, I ask you to vote. [[13:30:39]] For-57 The decision is not made. My colleagues, once again, we're going too slowly to make amends. We must conclude the discussion today. So I turn to the right-wing authors: especially in cases where the rights are duplicated and applied to the same article, I do not insist on everyone. Next up is 245. Wojcietsky, please. Then I'll give you 44, okay. 45th Wojcietsky, then I'll give Germany 44th. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-16-m0.u221	Victoria Vojticka, Self-Help Unit. 245 readjustment refers to the determination of the goal of State policy for the restoration of Ukraine’s state sovereignty in the temporarily occupied territories of Ukraine. It's very important here to use the word "recovery" instead of "sustainment," because today the territory of Lugansk, Donetsk, separate territories is occupied and we cannot guarantee sovereignty in this area. The second thing that we insist on is that, in order to protect the interests and rights of the civilian population in temporarily occupied territories, people must be the priority of any policy that applies to occupied territories. Thank you. Please support this amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-16-m0.u222	Thank you. It's partially accounted for, but the authors ask that it be fully accounted for. Whoever supports this proposal please vote. Please. [[13:32:18]] For-53 The decision is not made. 244th, Germany. Turn on the microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-16-m0.u223	Germany, Opposition Block. My suggestion is that today there is no legal definition in article 4. See what it starts with: "State policy objectives." "the aim of public policy is to provide." There's no such thing as lawmaking technology, it's me for the authors who made it. And the second. There was my suggestion that people should be seen and therefore suggested that the goal was to stop the armed struggle, restore the constitutional system, and not to indicate which territory. And one more thing. Restoring the viability of cities and populace, that's not really what this is all about. What kind of reintegration can we talk about? And that's why I'm insisting that this offer be put in place for support, for what it takes, for it to be legal.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-16-m0.u224	Thank you. This amendment is partially edited. The author of the National MP, Germany, insists that it be taken fully into account. Whoever supports this proposal, please vote. Vote. [[13:33:54]] For-37 The decision is not taken. 248. Don't insist. Say it again. All right, turn on Skrum, she'll say.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-16-m0.u225	Alona's splinter, Fatherland faction. Thank you, colleagues. 246 axles. I have to go back to her because I'm going to read an article right now, what it looks like in the final edition after the committee's work. "The aim of the State policy of securing Ukraine's state sovereignty over temporarily occupied territories in Donetsk, Luhansk areas is to liberate these territories, protect rights, freedoms, the legitimate interests of citizens, strengthen independence, statehood, ensure territorial integrity." So we're not talking about Crimea, the city of Sevastopol. We don't even call it the goal of State policy to restore sovereignty over Crimea. We refer this to another law. And this, unfortunately, is the logic of the Minsk Treaties, is the logic of Mr. Putin, is the logic of the Russian Federation. I'm going to demand it again, and I'm going to demand it further, because it's very important for Ukrainian citizens to hear it and understand it. We must all be treated in the same way as the Crimea and the areas of Donetsk, Lugansk. Both are occupied, are illegally occupied, and because of the Russian Federation’s armed aggression. We have to write it in the same law. It's important. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-16-m0.u226	Thank you. Edit included partially. Who for supporting it fully, please vote. [[13:35:27]] For-61 The decision is not taken. 248. Don't insist. 251. Don't insist. 249, right? I'll find it. 49, Lubenec. Edited. Please, Mr. Dmitri.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-16-m0.u227	I didn't see where it was taken into account. What are you talking about, my amendment? About the liberation of these territories, restoring control of their territory within the border. Under international law, the territory of an independent State is determined by the State border. If we follow the logic that we need this bill just to protect Ukrainian interests in international courts, then again I insisted that it be an international legal definition: the state border of Ukraine. That's why I insisted that it be clearly stated that "restoration of control over its territory within the border." I can't understand the logic of a committee when the border isn't even mentioned. Thank you. Please bet on confirmation.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-16-m0.u228	Thank you. It's considered editorially. Who's in favour of supporting her completely in the Lubinian edition, please vote. [[13:36:55]] For-60 The decision is not taken. 251. Don't insist. 254th. Don't insist. 256th. Don't insist. 255th. Roman Semenha.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-16-m0.u229	Semenha Roman, "The Self-Help Union" faction. Honorary colleagues, since the restoration of sovereignty will not take place immediately and let us speak frankly about it, it is worth putting the basic tasks of public policy in chronological order. First, after the liberation of the territories, it is the Armed Forces of Ukraine that will ensure the rights of the civilian population, the protection of the rights of those affected by the aggression of the Russian Federation, and the occupation of both Crimea and Donbas. The law cannot leave gaps that can make it possible to legalize Russian enclaves, there cannot be a restoration of territorial integrity, unity without the protection of the rights of citizens who suffer as a result of Russian invaders and their terror and their textbook. Please support the revision.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-16-m0.u230	Thank you. I'm betting on the 255 vote, it's on an editorial basis. Who's in charge of taking it all into account, please vote. [[13:38:19]] For-55 The decision is not taken. Now it's 252 Oksana Bilozer and then 256th. Please, Mrs. Oksana.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-16-m0.u231	Thank you. I can see that my work is edited, but it is extremely important. And I didn't find where the bill was edited. So I want to emphasize how she is. It's about compensation. Write down in the bill: "reparation of damages caused by unlawful acts by the Russian Federation as an aggressor state, with further appeal for compensation by the aggressor State." Why is it important to see in our bill? Because our courts today have so many appeals from our citizens, and the courts are using the Terrorism Act, and it clearly states that the damage is compensated by the state. So we're going to have a caseload where the courts won't be able to make a decision because we have to rely on the fact that the damage is being compensated by the state of Ukraine. If we make such a definition into our bill, then the courts will be able to refer to our bill and the standards that determine that damages cover and compensation is provided by the aggressor country.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-16-m0.u232	Thank you. So the committee took the editing into account. Who's to be fully included in Oksana Bilozer's editorial, please vote. [[13:39:58]] Z-71 The decision is not made. 256th, Rybchin.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-16-m0.u233	Alexei Rybchin, Fatherland, Doñecina. The same article 4 on the goal of public policy consists of three points: the liberation of territories, the protection of rights and freedoms of the population, and the strengthening of the independence of the State. I propose to add a new paragraph to this content: "The aim of state policy should be to hold those responsible for carrying out armed aggression against Ukraine and temporarily occupying parts of its territory." And I am convinced that this should also be the goal of public policy for the purpose of ensuring state sovereignty. Those who have committed crimes against the State, about life, and about humanity should bear the legal responsibility. Impunity creates chaos, irresponsibility poses a potential danger to all nations and peoples. Please support my work.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-16-m0.u234	Please, Mr. Ivan. Similarly, comment on what Mrs. Oksana asked for.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-16-m0.u235	Dear colleagues, I answer to two reporters right away. First. As for the irreparability of punishment. With regard to the content of article 2, a discussion was held that individuals who violate the principles of international humanitarian law were involved in the occupational armed formations administration, being held accountable by the laws of Ukraine. Ukraine’s legislation. Thus, we do not create the foundation of any state policy, but we do in fact establish the obligation to bring responsibility under the law. So in this case, we find it inappropriate to take this into account in Article 4. As far as Mrs. Bilozer is concerned. In article 2, we have a paragraph that is the result of taking into account the editorial account of the rights of many deputies, the content of which is as follows: responsibility for material or intangible damage to Ukraine as a result of the aggression of the Russian Federation relies on the Russian Federation in accordance with the universal principles of international law. In addition, in the future, you will hear an amendment from the Fatherland faction, which suggests cancelling.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-16-m0.u236	30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-16-m0.u237	who proposes to cancel the judicial assembly on property claims to the Russian Federation. So this is again in the development of an idea that you and individual other deputies are implementing. This is all taken into account by the committee in novels and in the regulations of this law.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-16-m0.u238	Thank you. I bet on the vote of Amendment 256. It's rejected by the committee. Whoever supports it, please vote. [[13:42:44]] For-59 59th. The decision is not made. Next 260. Don't insist. It's 260. Turn on the microphone. And then there's going to be 59th Germany. Now turn on Musia's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-16-m0.u239	Ladies and gentlemen, please note that our amendment concerns the introduction of the 5th article also in addition to the Autonomous Republic of Crimea and Sevastopol. In general, article 5 is absolutely declarative because it refers to what is already provided for by the current legislation of Ukraine in the form of a Constitution and laws. Or this article is not included in this bill at all, if that is the case. But if the legislator wants to regulate specific occupied areas, it is very desirable to include all occupied territories, not to divide them into Donetsk-Lugansk separately and into the Autonomous Republic of Crimea separately. So I ask that you systematically and fully approach the construction of this 5 article as well, and take into account our amendment in full, not editorially, what I ask everyone to vote on.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-16-m0.u240	Thank you. 260 revisions rejected by the committee. Whoever supports it, please vote. [[13:44:22]] For-57 The decision is not made. 259, Germany. Turn on the microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-16-m0.u241	Germany, the Opposition Block. First of all, I'd like to say it's very strange to hear a rhetoric from a medical worker about gunshots, which we heard somewhere in early 1933. I would like us to listen to the matter quietly because we are being heard by the people who are on that side today. They're thinking about what integration, reintegration is going on in the hall when they're called upon to shoot for humanitarian action, Mr. Musius? Now it's over. Let us take a look at what is discussed in article 5 and how the proposal applied here solely to what it takes to work, for territorial communities, for united territorial communities and for every citizen to see protection, concrete protection from the state. What Is Sovereignty? Sovereignty is not an amorphous understanding, sovereignty is freedom of speech, sovereignty is freedom of movement.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-16-m0.u242	Please, 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-16-m0.u243	Support my proposal for article 5.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-16-m0.u244	Thank you. The amendment is edited. Who, in order to take it fully into account, as her national deputy, Germany, has submitted, please vote. [[13:46:10]] For-22. The decision is not made. 264th. Don't insist. 265th. Don't insist. 266th, insists Mr. Chubarov. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-16-m0.u245	I'm sorry I'm taking time, but I'm still gonna knock. I understand that the orientation of the law in the development of authors does not allow us, from a legal point of view, to organically enter the Autonomous Republic of Crimea and the city of Sevastopol. Nevertheless, there are moral losses, and we have already talked about how the people of Crimea react to our discussion. There is also the possibility that additional problems may arise in the course of the depopulation of Crimea. So I insist on including in this article 5, which is also of a general nature, but to include the Autonomous Republic of Crimea and the city of Sevastopol.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-16-m0.u246	Thank you. The committee's amendment is rejected and supported, please vote. [[13:47:29]] For-66 66. The decision is not made. 267th. Don't insist. 270th. Don't insist. Faster, Shepherd, please 260.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-16-m0.u247	Dear colleagues! Taras Shepherd, Self Help Union. We insist that, at last, in the law, we start calling things our own names. When we talk about sovereignty, we actually deny occupation, because sovereignty needs to be restored. And the guys who died in the Donetsk, Lugansk airports, Debaltsev, Ilovysk, they didn't die at the border to ensure sovereignty. And they were trying to restore and liberate our territory. So we have to finally get there and call things our names, that's one. And secondly, I just want to ask the Ukrainians today to understand, today, honourable Ukrainians, it doesn't matter who is voting for this law as a whole, but it is important who is fighting today for this law to finally become law. And he started working with his legal mechanisms. I just want to say one warning from one of the American generals when we appealed to him about the Act of Recognition of Territories occupied, he said: Putin won't let you do that. And today, in fact, there's a change in the adoption of a law to just some kind of law.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-16-m0.u248	269 revisions are partially edited. Who, in order to take it into account in the volume given by the authors, please vote. [[13:49:19]] For-61 The decision is not taken. 270th, Lucenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-16-m0.u249	Dear colleagues! Some national MPs are now, I'm sorry that they're drafting this bill, referring to Crimea and Sevastopol all the time. Friends, well, here on the contrary, the author of this bill, subject of the legislative initiative, must apologize: President Peter Alexiyovich Poshenko, who has submitted such a questionable, in terms of the quality of the bill that we have to correct here every time with such efforts, is conducting a discussion that is actually discrediting, including the Presidential Authority. Because she is questioning the loyalty of the author of this bill to the criminals who remained under the roadside occupation. Just to forget them, it was a huge disrespect, in terms of the President, from the President's side to those Crimean patriots who remained under Russian occupation. So my friends, my colleagues, please let's make our patriots in Crimea nice, let's clear a special mention of Donetska and Lugansk, and we recognize all the occupied territories as occupied, including Crimea. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-16-m0.u250	Thank you. 270 committee rulings are rejected. Whoever supports it, please vote. [[13:50:46.]] Z-70. The decision is not taken. 274th. Don't insist. 275th. Don't insist. 275, Gopko. 280th.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-16-m0.u251	We haven't come to her yet. 277th, Zalitzak.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-16-m0.u252	277th, Zalitzak. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-16-m0.u253	Svetlana Zlatchuk. Dear colleagues, I propose an amendment in which you emphasize Ukraine’s positive obligations to our Ukrainian citizens. In particular, I propose in such an editorial paragraph of the second article 5, that our national authorities take measures in accordance with international law to protect human and civic rights and fundamental freedoms in the temporarily occupied areas of Donetsk and Lugansk. I would like to point out that as early as 2915, Ukraine had derogated from the International Covenant on Humanitarian and Political Rights, as well as from the Declaration on Human Rights. And where Ukraine can't keep them, we don't stick to them. At the same time, though, we should not turn the lives of people who are in distress into an unbearable life. This law certainly advocates national interests, but we must take into account the rights of those remaining in those territories. Thank you. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-16-m0.u254	Thank you. 277th rejected by the committee. Whoever supports it, please vote. [[13:52:26]] For-61 The decision is not taken. 279. Don't insist. 285, Olena Sotnik.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-16-m0.u255	Olena Sotnik, Self-Help faction. Continuing on the interests of the civilian population. If this law really contained the standards that we would have recognized Russia as an aggressor, recognized to be an occupation, then the following would have been the case when the occupying country relied on the occupation, according to the Hague, Geneva Convention, for all obligations in respect of the rights of the civilian population. This would greatly simplify the situation for Ukraine when, once again, thousands of lawsuits are before the European Court of Human Rights. And if we don't take a clear position, if we don't define who is the occupation and who is responsible to these people, then only Ukraine, the Ukrainians, the taxpayers will be responsible for all the damage that Russia has done with its aggression against Ukraine. Therefore, it must be acknowledged that this is the case.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-16-m0.u256	285 is a partial adjustment. Who's in charge of taking it fully into account, please vote. [[13:54:08]] For-58 The decision is not taken. 280th, Cooper. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-16-m0.u257	Dear colleagues, the UKROP party insists that changes be made to article 5 of the Ukrainian law. The bill of this and the report that the armed part of the aggression of the Russian Federation is to be carried out in accordance with article 4 of the Ukrainian Defence Act. This is about the introduction of martial law in occupied areas of the line of delimitation, adjacent areas. Let me remind you as a lawyer, this is the only way that we can constitutionally restrict people's rights, even search, arrest. This will allow us to form an effective outlet, as resources can be mobilized. This will enable us to recognize our boys and girls as prisoners of war and to liberate them, according to the Geneva Conventions. I ask you to support the vote in favour of this bill, which provides for the introduction of martial law in occupied areas. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-16-m0.u258	Thank you. I'm betting on the vote of 280, it's partially counted, but a group of authors insists that it be fully counted. Whoever supports this, I ask you to vote. [[13:55:30.]] For-61 The decision is not taken. 287. Don't insist. 290. Don't insist. 291. Don't insist. 292. Don't insist. 294. He insists. Germany, 294.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-16-m0.u259	Dear colleagues, this article, which proposed the paper, deals with the protection of the civilian population in areas that are not controlled by Ukraine, as the law proposes to call them "occupied". First of all, I'd like to say that the concept of "ATO" and "occupied territory" is not related in terms of legal definition. And the second. If we're talking about protecting those people, we need to write specific mechanisms and defined principles, not out of the fact that there are enemies of generalism, separatists and everything else, there are no civilian people who are Ukrainians who are part of our independent and entire state. Will such a language be used in connection? Which is why I'm asking you to support my offer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-16-m0.u260	Thank you. I'm voting on Amendment 294. The committee turned her down. Whoever supports it, please vote. [[13:57:19]] For-25 The decision is not made. Colleagues, please listen carefully. We've just passed half the rights to the bill. That's because we've been working on it for 3.5 hours. We have two hours after lunch. If we go at the same pace as we did, we'll just go in with that bill on Wednesday, which I find unacceptable. That's why I'm talking to all the people's deputies again, because I know that most people in this room support a position to define Russia as an aggressor. Especially where rights are duplicated so as not to be emphasized, especially where they are uniform. Now I'm continuing the session for 15 minutes, and once again I'm asking the right-wing authors not to stress each one. So I'm going to keep counting. 296. He insists. Semenha.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-16-m0.u261	Semenha novel, "The Self-Help Union" faction. Colleagues, let us acknowledge that Ukraine today cannot guarantee the protection of the right to life, health, and property of those in temporarily occupied territories. And this fact must be enshrined in the law. Otherwise, the state will have to take responsibility and compensate for the crimes committed as a result of Russia’s aggression. Even now, the Ukrainian courts of the first instance are deciding on appropriate actions for the benefit of Ukrainian citizens. And it will be the taxpayers of Ukraine, not Russia. We propose to clarify with regard to the conclusion of temporary occupation, the responsibility of the State of Ukraine to protect the right to life and to preserve property in temporarily occupied areas, in accordance with international law, namely the Fourth Geneva Convention, places responsibility on the occupying State. So everything will be responsible, and financially especially the Russian Federation. And we suggest that we extend this standard not only to individual areas of Donbas but also to Crimea and Sevastopol. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-16-m0.u262	Thank you. 296 revisions rejected. Whoever supports it, I ask you to vote. [[13:59:35]] For-63 The decision is not made. 297th. Don't insist. 303rd. Don't insist. 306th. Don't insist. 307th Amendment, it's taken into account editorially. Can it be counted in full? So 307 is an editorial, you can put it in order to take it completely into account. Those who are fully accounted for can be relied upon for confirmation. If checked, you can set it to the full.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-16-m0.u263	There's a proposal by Roman Semenha that 307 papers should not be taken into account by the committee. Whoever supports Roman Semenha's proposal, please vote. Oh, please, I thought you were speechless. Please, Mr. Roman.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-16-m0.u264	Ladies and gentlemen, I'd like to place on the confirmation of an amendment that is partially taken into account by the deputy of Wesselov. The amendment poses significant risks, or directly, for Ukraine’s acceptance of the rights exercised in the occupied territories. What is it that is not actually the legalization of occupation power? Indeed, Ukraine must ensure the maximum integration of people who have been temporarily occupied by aggression. But how can Ukraine run a socio-economic program in areas it doesn't control? The edit is supported in such a way that it is unacceptable. That's why I'm asking for confirmation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-16-m0.u265	Thank you. The edit is edited. Who, in order to take it into account in the volume in which the authors submitted it, please vote. [[14:01:38]] For-24 The decision is not made. 308th. Same story. Please, Mr. Roman. No show. 308th is an editorial. Who is it that I ask to vote in full? Who's behind it? [[14:02:06]] For-22. The decision is not made. 309th. Don't insist. 310. Don't insist. 311. Don't insist. 312. Don't insist. Wesselov insists. 310. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-16-m0.u266	Dear colleagues, all my changes relate to the social and humanitarian sphere. And 310 laws apply to the registration of the birth and death of citizens living in occupied territory. Now, by legislation, this issue is settled, an adopted law that is applied by Ukrainian citizens who leave occupied territories, and they have the opportunity to register births and deaths through the courts. My right, 310, proposes an administrative procedure for the registration of such births and the death of citizens living in occupied territory.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-16-m0.u267	Thank you. The committee turned her down. Whoever supports Amendment 310, please vote. [[14:03:29]] For-30 The decision is not made. 317. Don't insist. 318. 316th. Guys, please don't be nervous. Just raise your hand. Was it an accident that I did not give my word? It wasn't. So do not react so emotionally. Take it easy. 316th. 15th. It'll be Curry. Yeah, 315th? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-16-m0.u268	Dear colleagues, in article 6 of the bill, in the version proposed by President Poroshenko, in the last paragraph, the phrase is such that the State of Ukraine is not responsible for the wrongful acts of the Russian Federation as an aggressor state. That's very good. But when it comes to damages, our citizens will have to go to trial and trial, and civil law uses slightly different terms. We suggest simplifying and giving guidance to judges in order to satisfy lawsuits against the Russian Federation and adding the phrase that compensation for the material and moral damage caused by the temporary occupation of the State of Ukraine is fully relied on by the Russian Federation. So that would simplify the legal defense. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-16-m0.u269	Thank you. A given adjustment is counted in part. Who's in favour of accepting it completely in the authors' paper, please vote. Please. [[14:05:07]] Z-62 The decision is not taken. We'll have Wessel's first, then I'll give Musia. Turn on the microphone, Wesselova. And please give me the correcting number right away.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-16-m0.u270	Dear colleagues, please support my license number 311. It sounds like this. To establish that citizens living in temporarily occupied areas in the Donetsk and Lugansk areas, pensions and social services are paid in an unoccupied area in an order determined by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, subject to the submission of an application for continuation of payment by 31 December each year. The amount of pensions that persons are entitled to pay in the past time without any limitation. At present, the Ukrainian Pension Fund does not even place that debt on the reserve fund in front of Ukrainian citizens who live in occupied areas, and we do not know what amount of pensions we will have to pay after the discharge, because there is not even such a bill. In addition, there is a risk that these citizens of Ukraine will appeal to the ECHR, and then we will compensate not only for the amount of pensions but also for the moral damage. So I'd like to support this amendment in terms of terms.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-16-m0.u271	So 312, right? 11th. I'm willing to vote on Amendment 311. The committee turned her down. Whoever supports it, please vote. [[14:06:46]] For-46 The decision is not taken. Turn on Mr. Musia's microphone. And you would like to emphasize what kind of revision you're going to be talking about.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-16-m0.u272	Regulation 316. I want to thank the committee here for including two very good points: this is the second paragraph of this article on the release of all illegally detained Ukrainians from the Russian Federation and the third on the relevant violations of the material rights of Ukrainians that have been realized. But in the law on, as in the existing Crimea Act, there are no such items. What's holding you back now that you've named Crimea and Sevastopol, as well as confirming illegal property rights violated by the Russian Federation and the release of hostages from the Crimea? In doing so, we would have resolved the criminal issue of unlawfully detained Crimean Tatars, Ukrainians, and all others. Ukrainian legislation does not regulate this. Well, it's hard to put two words in "Autonomous Republic of Crimea" there, and that's going to solve the issue of being able to file it with international courts and secure it.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-16-m0.u273	Thank you. So 316 is a partial adjustment. Who, as the authors put it in full volume, please vote. [[2:08:21]] For-53 The decision is not taken. 317. Don't insist. 318. Sashko insists, doesn't he? 317. Please, Sasha. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-16-m0.u274	Although the UN Security Council, in its resolution of February 17, made it clear that the solution to the situation in the eastern regions could only be achieved through a peaceful resolution of the crisis. The UN Security Council approves the implementation of the Minsk Agreements. So my proposal in the bill is clear that the Act on Temporary Measures in the ATO will operate in line with this stated law and guarantees, and the benefits for our citizens in the ATO will be saved. Part two of article 6 of the bill after the words “is determined by the Ukrainian Act on the Protection of the Rights and Freedoms of Citizens and the Legal Regime of the Interimly Occupied Territories of Ukraine” to be supplemented by the words “and by the Act on Temporary Measures for the period of the Anti-Terrorism Operation”. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-16-m0.u275	317 committee review rejected. Whoever supports it, I ask you to vote. [[14:09:40]] For-35 35. The decision is not made. 318. Don't insist. 320th. Illenko insists. Please, Illenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-16-m0.u276	Andrew Illenko, The All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. In our view, it is necessary to delete part two of article six of the bill, since it actually makes it possible to trade in temporarily occupied areas. And, we believe that this is absolutely unacceptable, just as all other issues have to do with the recognition of rights in occupied areas. We think that's completely contrary to basic logic, which is completely contrary to what we recognize as occupied territories. And then it'll just be a quasi-recognition, if we don't step it up with these necessary steps. So we think that trade in occupied areas is impossible. We think that the recognition of any right in the occupied territories is impossible, and it doesn't have to be covered by any humanitarian rhetoric, if it's occupied territory, it's occupied and a dot. We don't recognize any documents from there, and we don't have to have any economic contact with them until we release them and get them back into the constitutional order.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-16-m0.u277	Thank you. 320 readjustment rejected. Whoever supports it, I ask you to vote. [[14:11:13]] For-56 56. The decision is not made. 321. Don't insist. 322. Don't insist. 324th. Don't insist. 325th. Don't insist. 327. Don't insist. 328th. Don't insist. 329th. Don't insist. 330. Don't insist. 332nd. Don't insist. 337. Don't insist.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-16-m0.u278	334. Merry Christmas, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-16-m0.u279	Dear colleagues, I ask you to support my order of 334 concerning the settlement of the issue of temporarily displaced institutions and aboriginals entering from the temporarily occupied territories into the prisons located in Ukraine's controlled territory. This issue has already been regulated by existing legislation, but if we do not now introduce it into the new law, we will have to either adopt a new law and settle it on a new issue, because it is bound to the term of an anti-terror operation, or there is an ability to support my right now. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-16-m0.u280	Thank you. 334 revisions rejected by the committee. Anyone who supports it, please vote. [[14:12:57]] For-26 26th. The decision is not made. 338. Captain, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-16-m0.u281	Thank you. Olena Sotnik, Self-Help faction. 338 amendment, it's about what the state of Ukraine is doing for people, for the civilian population, to protect their rights. And we define very clearly here because there are specific mechanisms in international law and Ukraine will just look very positive and balanced if, on the one hand, we talk about the occupation and it has to be responsible for human rights and human rights in these areas. But, at the same time, as Ukraine, as a state, we contribute to the protection of their rights in the European Court of Human Rights, we contribute to the protection of their rights, according to article 33 of the Convention on the Protection of Human Rights. That is, we are helping our citizens, including temporarily displaced persons, as Ukraine can be a victim of Russian aggression, in order to protect our rights in connection with their violation by the Russian Federation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-16-m0.u282	Thank you. Amendment 338 is partially edited. Who's in charge of taking it fully into account, please vote for it. [[14:14:27]] For-49 The decision is not made. And in this chapter, the first last two amendments are 343 and 344 Lechchenka. Is he insisting? Turn on the microphone, please, it will be the latest revisions for lunch, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-16-m0.u283	Lewchenko, Freedom, 223 District of Kiev. Absolutely unacceptable is any trade in occupied areas, any economic ties to occupied areas. Unfortunately, this bill leaves this possibility, not just leaves it, it is legalized by this bill, and the Cabinet of Ministers decides that trade can be conducted. We propose to add article 6/1 to the bill, which would clearly state that the economic activity in the temporarily occupied territory is prohibited, including any operations for the supply of any goods, jobs, services in the temporarily occupied territory, except from the transfer to the temporarily occupied territory of humanitarian assistance in cooperation with the International Committee of the Red Cross and Red Crescent and the subsidiary of the Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe. There can be no trade with the invader, trade with the invader facilitates occupation. You're constantly manipulating, saying that you don't have to break ties. But in fact, if you take a piece of the country and you make it easier for someone who's taken a piece of the country to continue to control it, you're breaking ties, there can't be trade.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-16-m0.u284	That's 344ths. Third, right? So it's rejected by the committee. Whoever supports it, I ask you to vote. [[2:16:09]] For-53 The decision is not made. Let's do 344 more. Will you insist, Mr. Yuri? Not 44th of this chapter yet. Okay. That's you. Just so I know where we're starting. Then we start work from 44 after lunch. Now, according to the Rules, I have to finish the morning session. With your permission, I'll use the possibility to read the announcement. And I want to emphasize that we need to concentrate today to complete the chapter of the bill. And I'm going to ask everyone to work effectively after lunch. It's a short announcement. First. In accordance with article 60 of the Ukrainian Act on the Rules of Procedure of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, I report on the creation of an interfractional inter-fractional association of the Legal Coalition in the Supreme Council. The national deputies, Olena Sotnik and Igor Lucenka, were elected as coleaders of this union. Next: In accordance with article 60 of the Ukrainian Law on the Rules, I report the creation of an interfractional merger of Drinking Water. The leader of this union is the national deputy of the River Andrija Alexandrovich. In accordance with article 60 of the Ukrainian Act on the Rules of Procedure of the Supreme Council, I report on the creation of an interfractional coalition in the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the Coalition to Support the Economic Development and Investment Plan, the Marshall Plan for Ukraine. People’s MP Hopko Hanna Mikolayevna has been elected as leader of this association. And so, colleagues, the morning plenary meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, I declare closed. The evening session will begin at 2 p.m. That's why I'm asking the author to be there at 2:00 sharp. 4:00 p.m., 4:00 p.m., be there. And at 4:00 p.m., I'm asking all the national deputies to come to the hall to continue our work.
