ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-02-m1.u1	We'll wait another 30 seconds, colleagues, and then we'll open an evening meeting. All of it. Time's up, time's up. Pretty soon.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-02-m1.u2	Let's check it out. I'm asking everyone to come into the hall and get ready for registration. Colleagues, please take up your jobs. Hurry, hurry, be disciplined, please. So, colleagues, can we register? I'd like you to sign up, please. [[16:01:41]] 360 national deputies registered. The evening session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is publicized. So, colleagues, I'd like to inform you that a statement has been made to the Presidency for a break from two factions: the People's Front and the Radical Party, but they're ready to replace the break from the rostrum. At the same time, I urge all of us to enter the hall so that we can support the following bills by means of a reduced procedure so that we can get as close as possible today as possible to the agenda proposed for today. That's why I'm asking the factions to invite MPs into the hall. I now invite you to speak to the head of the Maxim Burbak People's Front faction. Please, Mr. Maxim.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-02-m1.u3	Thank you. Dear colleagues, in his letter to the Supreme Council, presented on September 18th in this room, the President of Ukraine expressed his position on the continuation of the Act on the Special Order of Local Self-Government in Certain Areas of Donetské and Lugansk. It is a perfect fact that Parliament's decision did not allow Putin to accuse Ukraine of breaking the peace settlement. This decision also helped to preserve and strengthen the regime of international sanctions against Russia. Our faction intends to support the President's position this year. To the firm conviction of the People's Front, the law must be clearly responsible for our initiative in the Law on the Specialities of State Policy, which provides for Ukraine's State Sovereignty in temporarily occupied territories in the Donetsk and Lugansk areas, is a legislative act that clearly determines the fact that Russia's aggression against Ukraine on Donbassa and Crimea. Donbas and Crimea are occupied. Russia is an aggressor. The law needs to be continued. The war continues because of Russia’s criminal actions. The Kremlin is fully responsible for the war and violation of all peace agreements. Instead, our decisions reveal Russia’s aggression in front of the world. The value of this document is that it does not give Russia a chance to escape responsibility. That's why the Kremlin is bending and looking for any way to get out of international pressure and sanctions. That's why they're making terrorist attacks. That's why they're activating their agency to blow up our positions. That's why they're trying to run a series of fairies on Donbas, where Russian troops are going to vote. Not continuing the law plays directly at the hands of the Kremlin and those in the world who seek to accuse the victim, not the aggressor. I will also remind you that any final decisions on peace agreements and special status can only be adopted by the Supreme Council of Ukraine, which is us with you, if the will of the Ukrainian people is to do so. This is a requirement of the Constitution. The guarantees of our independence are Ukrainian will and strong Ukrainian troops. The adoption of this law is not a simple decision in cooperation with our Western colleagues, it is necessary for the Kremlin's consolidated opposition. Ukraine adheres to its word, and our partners must keep their obligations. Thank you. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-02-m1.u4	Heroim Slava! So, colleagues, I invite everyone into the hall. We're moving on to the day-to-day issues. And I would like to point out that the next day is the draft Act amending some of Ukraine’s legislative acts to promote industrial development, investment, protection and guarantees of the rights and legitimate interests of business entities (number 6671). I'd like to encourage my colleague to support him with a reduced procedure. We have very important laws on law enforcement and security ahead of us. And if we go into full procedure, it'll be more than an hour, we just won't make it. And so the request that it be shortened so that we can get to your bill. So we need to maximize our mobility now, colleagues. I'm stressing once again, if we go into more than an hour's review, we just can't get to the next issue of order of the day, which is law enforcement, pension insurance. And that's why I'm asking you to understand the hall and ask everyone to support my proposal that we consider draft Law 6671 as a reduced procedure. Please take up your jobs. And please vote. Colleagues, please support the proposal to consider the reduced procedure. Vote. Please be supportive. [[16:06:43]] For-76 I'll do it again. Colleagues, I'm trying to convince my colleagues to support the proposal for a cut. I'll do it again. If there's no votes, we'll go in full. So, I ask everyone to take up their jobs, please prepare for the vote. And once again, I'm putting to the vote the proposal that we've considered draft Law 6671 as a reduced procedure. Please vote, please support, vote. [[16:08:26]] For-90 Colleagues, there is the firm conviction of the hall that we should consider the full procedure. Please don't use all 10 minutes, Victor. And we're moving on to draft Law 6671. And I invite the head of the committee on industrial policy and enterprise, Halasyuk Viktor Valeriovich, to report.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-02-m1.u5	Victor Halasyuk, Oleg Lachka Radical Party. Dear Mr. Head, distinguished Ukrainians, distinguished fellow national MPs! I present to you one of the most important in the history of Ukraine's independence of economic laws -- bill of economic laws, bill of free integration into engineering networks. Respectful colleagues, in their essence, are a major barrier to investment in the development of Ukrainian industry and economy. You see, today an investor who wants to build a factory, agrocomplex, a building that wants to create jobs, produce production in Ukraine, pay taxes in Ukraine, it's not even three today, but four skins, monopolies, private monopolies are robbing a Ukrainian producer today, an Ukrainian investor, an Ukrainian entrepreneur. I'll tell you how this happens. If an entrepreneur wants to build a small factory or a factory, first, they'll take a bribe to keep it out of technical conditions; second, they'll have to build it at their cost, for example, a substation, or some very expensive infrastructure that can sometimes cost almost as much as the basic production; and third, he'll have to give this object to a monopolist and then pay the State the added value tax, you'll just think about it, and the fourth investor will pay the investment component on the tariff. That is, for the same object that the investor himself is building to start production, he will have to pay four times. That's the answer to the question why Ukraine today is a raw colony. That's the answer to the question why today's opening of a big furniture store is called an investment boom. To be a real investment boom, barriers to entry into the Ukrainian economy must be removed and investment in the Ukrainian industry can be made. Take a look at the official statistics of the National Bank of Ukraine today, which is the flow of foreign direct investment for the year: about $2 billion. How much investment does Ukraine need to make in economic terms with our neighbor, Poland? 200 billion. So if Poland waits for Ukraine today, standing still, we're going to need the pace that we have today, a hundred years to catch up with our neighbor at the level of investment, economic development and the welfare of our citizens. Here is the answer to the question why millions of Ukrainians have been forced to leave their homes to feed their own families. They go to other countries, destroy their families to earn a few hundred euros. We, the author of Bill 6671 led by Oleg Lášk, have proposed, not only by the Radical Party, but by all factions and groups of the Ukrainian Parliament, a new model of joining all engineering networks: electricity, water, gas, sanitation, and so on. This is essentially an American and an Israeli approach: you want to build production -- they give you free access to infrastructure. Why Free? Because there's an investment component in the tariff that covers these expenses. So everything is transparent, there's no corruption, there's no duplication of payments, and there's an attractive investment climate. That's what the Radical Party team is proposing to do in Ukraine. And this is fundamentally important to move from a dead point of view. According to the new model of networking, the monopoly either gives the investor a ready connection point, or if he does exhibit technical conditions, within six months of the completion of the construction, the monopoly is obliged to compensate him fully of the building costs that the investor incurred because he was building under the technical conditions given by the monopoly. So we're going to move from a completely plundering model that exists today to a fair market relationship that is oriented towards industrial development and the domestic economy. Moreover, in addition to the new economic model of infrastructure integration, Bill 6671 also foresees the full openness of the technical documentation of monopolies, the full openness of information on network status, free capacity, competitiveness, the introduction of competition in the preparation of technical conditions, which is very important, as well as the perfectly well-established procedural procedures for the relationship between the investor, the manufacturer and the monopoly, and the severe sanctions for violations. Today, unfortunately, the Ukrainian industry, the Ukrainian investor, is completely repressive, so they either die and go bankrupt or spend their money offshore and build nothing in Ukraine. We want to make a radical change in this situation. The adoption of this law will significantly enhance the real investment appeal of Ukraine. Look today at our Ukrainian figures in Doing Business, see how much time and money it takes for any Ukrainian entrepreneur to build any manufacturing facility in Ukraine. This will take almost a year: bribes, corruption, excessive payments, some of the most expensive in the world. The Radical Party team and all of our co-conspirators in Parliament, who support real industrial development, are proposing a specific mechanism and model to change this situation. I would like to point out that from the new model of connection to engineering networks, which is built on American and Israeli experience, where the investment component of the tariff completely covers the cost of connecting to the network. Everyone wins: investors – through the economy of capital expenditure, subjects of natural monopolies – through increased consumption of their products, the territorial communities – through investments and taxes paid to local budgets and the state through economic development and financial stability. Because the price for the wrong economic policy in Ukraine today is millions of Ukrainians, millions of unemployed, millions of forced immigrants, millions of people who cannot afford to pay the basics themselves. Therefore, the adoption of such fundamental laws is Ukraine's path to economic development and financial independence. I would like to stress separately that, according to independent experts, the adoption of this new model of joining engineering networks will accelerate Ukraine's economic growth by at least one percent per year, i.e. consider instead of 2-3 percent raw drift, plus percent. At least 1.5 percent will allow the adoption of Industrial Parks Laws, which is the inclusion of billions of investments in the real economy. More than 1.5 percent of GDP growth is adopted by the Law "Buy Ukrainians, pay Ukrainians!", large-scale import arrangements, support for the Ukrainian manufacturer. At least a half-percent of GDP growth is finally created by the government of the Export Credit Agency, a law that was passed in Parliament over two years ago for the initiative of Oleg Ljach and our fellow thinkers. And so far, the Export Credit Agency has not been created. The full implementation of this industrial reform package, the free integration into the engineering networks that we are currently looking at. Cheaper credits to Ukrainian producers – exporters of finished products, not raw materials – through the Export Credit Agency. Strong investment incentives and guarantees through industrial parks, similar to those in China, Turkey, Poland, Slovakia. And finally the adoption of the revolutionary law, "Buy Ukrainian, pay the Ukrainians!"and similar to the American Law "Buy the American" that has been in force since 1933, they will allow a radical change in the economic trajectory of Ukraine and move from 2-3 per cent of raw debt drift to at least 8-10 per cent healthy economic growth, filling the economy with investments, export earnings and costs from the development of Ukrainian production, not entirely artificial loans and the International Monetary Fund, which place Ukraine in a dependent, critical position. That is why this bill is supported by the Ministry of Economics, the U.S.O.P., the Federation of Employers of Ukraine, the Chamber of Commerce and Industry, the American Chamber of Commerce in Ukraine, the Office of Effective Regulation, the USAID LEV project, the Confederation of Builders, the League of Defence Enterprises and from dozens of professional employers, investors, entrepreneurs. That's why I'm asking.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-02-m1.u6	Thank you. Thank you. But please stay, Mr. Victor, in place. There will be more questions. Please. I'm asking you to record a question to the reporter, please. Roman Semenha, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-02-m1.u7	Please pass the word to Victoria Vojcitsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-02-m1.u8	Dear colleague, yes, we do, unfortunately, see a violent monopoly and abuse in the market of connections to electricity networks. This is a unique situation in Ukraine, where we actually have corruption in the private sector, but unfortunately, the decision you're proposing is not really a solution, because so-called free joins are nothing more than cheese in a mouse trap. The cheese in the mouse box itself can be free of charge. What do you suggest? Is that what you want? You want the small and medium-sized business to continue to pay by default, and at the same time, all the big projects are going to be paid by the ordinary Ukrainian? Where do you see justice in this? Why do you put everything back on the shoulders of an ordinary Ukrainian?
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-02-m1.u9	Dear Mrs. Victoria, first of all, you obviously didn't listen very carefully to my speech or read the bill that we're proposing. It applies to joining everyone without excluding the types of engineering infrastructure — not just electricity — gas, sewerage, water. The only systemic model that is completely similar to the model that operates in the United States and Israel. If a small, medium-sized entrepreneur wants to build a building, a factory, an agrocomplex, he doesn't walk for years, he doesn't bribe, he doesn't get a monopoly to plug it in, he comes in, he gets his connection point, or he gets guaranteed compensation from a monopolist for the expenses he has incurred. This is a perfectly fair market model that removes today's artificial corruption administrative pressure on everyone without excluding manufacturers, entrepreneurs, agrarians in Ukraine. And that's why all the key organizations I've listed support this bill because it's a revolution in the development of the Ukrainian industry.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-02-m1.u10	Thank you. Please, Sergey Eutuszek.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-02-m1.u11	Sergey Eutuszek, "The Fatherland" faction. We're actually the Fatherland faction, like everyone else, who supported this bill, and we're also going to support it, but we're asking you not to prepare it for the second reading, and to pay attention to our observations, namely: the introduction of land services for the construction and operation of engineering and transport infrastructures legalizes the possibility of untargeted land use, including agriculture. This is contrary to the provisions of the Earth Code on the targeted use of land and the principle of priority for land use. In addition, building on a road or a land-based infrastructure facility will significantly limit the owner’s right to use such a site, which cannot be supported and can not be free of charge as proposed. I ask you to pay attention to this and prepare for the second reading already without these remarks, the normal bill that we are all voting on here.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-02-m1.u12	Thank you. Dear colleague, first of all, I thank the Fatherland faction for its support. Second of all, with respect to your question on the servitude. I would like to point out that we are essentially restoring the 99th article of the Ukrainian Earth Code, which used to apply to waiters, which deals with the construction of engineering objects. But I would like to point out that the project in no way narrows down the rights of landowners, where similar objects are being built. The full range of their rights is preserved. But what's more, in this bill, we specify and clearly define the right of owners to compensate for the damage if they are caused by the use of the relevant servitude. So we will work very hard on this issue for a second reading, and we will come up with a comprehensive solution that will guarantee work and remove the main barrier to entry into the Ukrainian industry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-02-m1.u13	Thank you. Question time's up, and I'm asking the factions to record the performance. Thank you, Mr. Victor. So from the People's Front. From the People's Front? It's a crooked one, isn't it? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-02-m1.u14	Good afternoon, dear friends! Good afternoon, dear Ukrainians! Gennady Krivoshia, faction of the People's Front. Well, first of all, I thank our colleagues from the Radical Party who have taken this initiative and I am co-author of this bill. And there are many other representatives of other political powers who are also co-authors of the bill. The problem is quite topical and quite serious. And that's why I don't think I'm going to surprise anyone when I say that there's a pretty big problem today with connecting to any engineering network, whether it's electricity or anything. Well, for example, in the Kyiv region, in the Boguslav common area, normal farming, I think that's also known to anyone who has made technical conditions, paid for their unfortunate farming. I'm sorry to bother them so much, but they paid more than 200,000 dollars for connecting to the network. And for more than a year, they can't connect. So today, this is quite a topical problem for ordinary, ordinary citizens, including business. Another problem. In the same Kyiv region, we see a number of residential complexes being built around Kiev. In doing so, the builders are either in a conspiracy or incomprehensible, in which relations with suppliers of appropriate services are provided to organizations. It is promised that there will also be connections to electricity and connectivity to so - called communications, such as plumbing and so forth. In fact, it turns out that people live in apartment buildings that do not even have a regular sewer, and excuse me for saying that there are gravel pits! What is it?Oh, my God! So to this day, we should make and, by adopting this law, establish rules and regulations that will guarantee both service providers and ordinary, ordinary people, and business conditions for establishing appropriate conditions for connecting to one or more networks. The People's Front faction has always advocated the interests of ordinary people, because we need to make certain today not just demands or conditions, we need to provide guarantees to ensure that a normal, simple person is able to connect to the right networks. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-02-m1.u15	Thank you for the faction's position. And please, Anton Yatzenko, he represents the position of the Rebirth Group.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-02-m1.u16	Dear colleagues, indeed those who have encountered construction, especially the national MPs, who are majors, we all see how difficult it is for people in general to work, when these networks need to be connected even often, that we do not want to involve any problems, artificial barriers, and so on. So, of course, it's an urgent bill, of course, it needs to be adopted immediately, it's long overdue, and it's going to greatly increase the investment appeal of Ukraine. So this is a very big request: let's all mobilize and support this bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-02-m1.u17	Thank you. Please, from. Igor Mosiychuk presents the position of the Radical Party faction. Please, Mr. Igor,
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-02-m1.u18	Igor Mosiyczuk, Oleg Lachka Radical Party Dear colleagues, do you think you work here and make decisions? Absolutely not. I suggest we all go out and hang the castle and forget about the existence of the Ukrainian Parliament. You know why? Because any court in this country can impose any law approved by the Ukrainian Parliament. A simple example. You and I, for the initiative of our Radical Party, Oleg Laska, have passed the Moratorium Act on the removal of roundwood. So in Odessa on March 1st and 2nd, a round forest entered the customs terminal. The customs officers, based on the law that we have adopted with you, have refused to allow him to be swept away and set off for the customs territory of Ukraine. The company, namely T.T.D. TIMBER SRL, appealed to the court. And the Odessa Court of Appeal, regardless of the law, regardless of the moratorium adopted in this room, has decided to commit itself to sweep the forest round and take over the territory of Ukraine. What happens next? He's suing the customs office, but they're still going: the prosecutor's office is breaking the case, and now the customs officers who are doing our law with you are preparing to hand over suspicions that they're not releasing a forest round in Ukraine. It's just a nuisance! Last week, the Thessaloniki District Court in Kiev granted my appeal to the director of the NABU, Artem Sitnik, who refused to investigate the facts of corruption regarding the smuggling of roundwood forests. Now, taking this opportunity, I am officially calling on Mr. Artem Sitnik as director of the NABU to violate the judges of the Odessa Court of Appeal, who ruled against the law of Ukraine, criminal conduct. I appeal to the Attorney General of Ukraine, Yuri Lucenka, to look into the situation of his prosecutors. And I'm addressing you, my dear colleagues: let's keep an eye on the laws that we're passing in this room. Otherwise, as the leader of our party, Oleg Lazko, does not need a country of 450 Darmoids, needs to reduce the number of parliaments, but Parliament really has to do its job.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-02-m1.u19	Thank you. Please welcome Mr. Chicken, who will present the position of the Peter Dusty Block. Please, Mr. Maxime.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-02-m1.u20	Dear colleagues, Chicken Maksim Pavlovich, Dnipro. Dear friends, that's a very good idea. And we absolutely support this right idea in this room. We have to protect not only Ukrainian producers, not just Ukrainian industrialists, not just Ukrainian entrepreneurs -- we have to protect ordinary Ukrainian citizens. Because the time has long come to place these subjects of natural monopolies that are now terrorizing the population of Ukraine. And it's not just about joining engineering networks. You see what they're doing, they're doing the deceptions, they're doing the shelling, how much they're bullying our citizens, and they're unreasonably shutting them off from the net, and they're essentially demanding payment of some unhindered money. Guys, I've been to Dniper for a while. You'd see what they did there repairs in the offices where they drive their cars. They're sitting on these tariffs, terrorizing all the Dnipra inhabitants by installing counters, and they're already so red, they smell gas from them. We need to put them in place, we need to protect people, we need to support this bill in the first reading. We are going to work on this bill for a second reading with mandatory involvement in this work of the Association of Ukrainian Cities, so that this law does not damage the budgets of urban, rural and district communities, and then this law will, indeed, protect citizens from the terror of natural monopolies. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-02-m1.u21	Please, from Self-Help, Roman Semenich. Please. He's taking the floor to his colleague Sidorovich Ruslan. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-02-m1.u22	Ruslan Sidorovich, Self-Help faction. Here in this lobby, it was said that we have a bad business climate in the country that we need to raise investment attractiveness. Indeed, it is. But I'll tell you what to start with: we need to start with property rights. And today, when a wave of raiding has swept over Ukraine, when a small, medium, or even more medium-sized business is simply looting shamelessly, hundreds of cases of raiding Ukraine, there is no other thing to talk about. Article 41 of the Constitution is totally out of date. With regard to antimonopoly legislation and the fight against monopolies. Unfortunately, in 2015 a discussion began on strengthening the institutional capacity of the antimonopoly committee, but it was dead. The strong, modern, booming economic America started with antitrust legislation, and these are not the dot decisions -- drops in the sea that are proposed in this bill, which will not significantly change the situation, this should be the subject of a separate discussion. Yes, there is indeed a need to strengthen deregulation, the responsibility of various control bodies, or of arbitrary authorities. But, please tell me, what kind of a piece of the bill is there to change the Ukrainian Land Authority Act, which is proposed to allow the design to be developed by the landowner without obtaining permission to produce such a project? That is, the authorities of local self - government will not even know who the land is. Next question. Articles 98 and 99 of the Code of Land, where amendments are proposed, are also proposed for the distribution of napkins to other, specifically defined, individuals. What kind of "identified persons"? When there is, of course, a person who owns some kind of property to which he should have access, it is understandable. Who is this other person? This opens up opportunities for incredible corruption abuses and the land of our territorial communities will come out of our noses, we won't even understand what's going on. Amendments to the 404th article of the Civil Code, which proposes to allow such land to be taken under so - called infrastructure objects without clearly identifying what it is. What will it be in practice? I'm explaining that there are going to be so-called dog booths that will be called infrastructure objects that are just going to take away the communal land, and you're not going to bring it back. So these things are absolutely impossible to accept, this is the destruction of local self-government, this is actually a secret privatization of municipal land, and this is the deprivation of citizens' rights.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-02-m1.u23	Thank you for your performance. Please, it'll end now, then. Please, from "The Will of the People" People's Deputy Molotock. No, I'll give it to everyone.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-02-m1.u24	Dear Mrs. Irina, I give the word to a professional.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-02-m1.u25	I see the People's Deputy Molotock is handing over the right to address Volodymyr Mikhailovich Litvina. Please. I've got the replicas all fixed up, then I'll give you my word. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-02-m1.u26	Dear National Deputies! Volodymyr Litwin, 65 constituency, Zitomirstina. Ukraine's misery is not that we lack the laws to regulate some areas of the country's life. The trouble is that Ukraine's laws are completely not being implemented, at best, they notice that we have laws to regulate one or the other spheres of our lives. Is this law to be adopted? Obviously, it is necessary for further improvement. But at the same time, dear colleagues, what law is required to ensure that the Railroad doesn't close down the freight stations? I can give examples: the Emylchin district of the Žitomir region, the Jablunce station, the Pulin district of the Žitomir region, the Kurne station. What can you do about the business that chartered the wagons and had the opportunity to export the goods? The next problem is that in the villages, the post office is massively closed. What do businesses do, what do ordinary people do? Where do they get the corresponding pension benefits? Therefore, to my profound conviction, when we consider this law, we need a government commission to inform the Supreme Council immediately on all these issues.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-02-m1.u27	Thank you, Reverend Vladimir Mikhailovich. Please, this is the last performance, then the line. The Fatherland faction, the position to present Alexander Kugel. Mrs. Alexander, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-02-m1.u28	Dear colleagues, I ask you to pay attention to me, because perhaps this is the only question that should unite us all if we are to protect, as a colleague said, not only industry, entrepreneurs, agrarians, but also the people of Ukraine. More. For the past 10 years, Ukraine has taken last place in Doing Business in the ease of connecting to gas, electricity and other networks. This is the result of monopolies, this connection that can't match the challenges that we have with you in raising the economy, creating new jobs and much more. Let me give you an example. The sums have a small, small, very nice packaging plant. At its own cost, a station was built that fully connected to electricity and gas networks. But the owner of the monopolist lied only for the connection – you listen: neither for the construction nor for the execution! – 30 million newly built enterprises that generate added value, GDP, wages, local taxes. You know, we've gathered with the head of Anya Starik's hoarded entrepreneurs in the Kyiv region, and I was surprised that they complained not about the taxpayers, nor about any of the controlling authorities, they said one thing: we're going to be out of the Olenergo Kiev. I personally went to the Security Service, to Mr. Gretzak, and I ask, if we have an eight-year-old aggressor country, and it ends in a wartime business in Ukraine, eight areas, isn't that the Security Service's inaction? Dear friends, many examples can be cited, and each one of you, who once created jobs, knows that this law is necessary. I'm offering compromise. We are the first to submit this bill, in this country we are carrying out the commission of both President Poshenko and all the Prime Ministers who were in need of a solution. I give you my word that our committee will not release this bill for second reading until we have a hundred percent government bill. But then, as it is, it can't go on, because it's 30 million that got an oligarch from.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-02-m1.u29	Please finish 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-02-m1.u30	It's an extra one from the factory. Because we're with you, if you connect a house or a factory, we hand it over for free and we make every year a capitalization. And you're saying that they don't have an increase in depreciation -- they increase the depreciation every year for the equity we give. I don't think there can be anyone here today who doesn't make every effort to support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-02-m1.u31	Thank you. Dear colleagues, there was a confusion with the word, and because of my mistake, the right of speakers was confused. Please, Mr. Capplin, give me a minute. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-02-m1.u32	Dear fellow countrymen, at the request of our colleagues I would like to express the position of the Association of Cities, it is firm. This bill actually has a lot of positive systemic money. But at the same time, it creates a prerequisite that eventually the simple inhabitants of Poltava, Kiev, Dnipropetrovska will pay, because these expenses will eventually be included in the size of the tariff is the first. The other one. What will be the end of this bill if it is adopted? It is an enterprise or a house, one way or another, that will not be connected and will have to give bribes again to the monopoly in order for the system to work. So there's only one way out -- demonopolization and destruction in principle of monopolies. I am opposed to having the expense of large owners and large businesses translated into mere poles or kyans. Where did you see a simple builder with empty pockets? And the common people are countless. And they usually make these extremely rich people rich today.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-02-m1.u33	The position is clear. I would like to remind you that the representative of the Maksim Chicken faction supported this bill in his speech. And now I'm asking you to sign up for a discussion by the Ukrainian National Deputies, and the Rules set aside nine minutes. Please sign up. Please, National Deputy Lazko. I'd like to have a word with you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-02-m1.u34	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. These are the darmoids and Tunisians who have just been speaking, and they tell 20 years about everything they say. You get out of this room and go to the people and see what the key problems are for them. So if you're not able to lift your horny butts out of these soft chairs, take sociology online and look at the key questions for people: jobs, rising prices, lack of stability, lack of perspective in your own country. And so they drive as hell from their homeland and go around the world, and God knows where to find an opportunity to feed his family and children. What is your assignment? Make sure that Ukrainians can implement themselves in their home country so that the child can feed himself in his home country. I met Tamara Grigorovna of the Herson region of the Holocaust yesterday at Marien Park, and she tells me that her grandson Nikita, who is 21 years old at Poltava Institute, came back from Poland to pass exams. And he spent all his other time in Poland because he's already out there looking for how he'll stay forever. And so young boys and girls like Nikita are millions who link their future to Ukraine. Our policy, proposed by the Radical Party, is a radical change in economic policy, the protection of national interests, so that the national producer is not an orphan in the internal market. You refer there to some city mayors, let those city mayors buy Ukrainian trams, not Polish trams. For two billion dollars, they bought Polish trams instead of buying lion trams, day - care trams, and finally go to Zaporozhye and buy, and they also started making trams. Ukraine has been transformed into a landfill where imported timber has been imported, and Ukraine has been transformed into an exporter of cheap labour and raw materials. We break our backs with those -- and don't stand in our way -- those who are against development because there is no other way to be powerful, strong equal partners. It's economic recovery, jobs, overcoming poverty, supporting national businesses, which is the only way to become strong. Don't get married like the President is going to America to participate in a two-cater ceremony that was built forty years ago. Libya did not receive, so Ukraine was given in exchange for nuclear weapons, in exchange for the Budapest Memorandum. I won't let anyone humiliate Ukraine by participating in a metal ceremony. We're going to rebuild our shipbuilding industry, we're going to rebuild our economy, we're going to lift our home country from our knees.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-02-m1.u35	Odarchenko Yuri Vitaliovich. It's a quote from "The Atlantic has spread his shoulders," I understand.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-02-m1.u36	Yuri Odarchenko, Fatherland faction, Hersonian. Dear colleagues, the rapporteur rightly said that in this bill it was possible to create conditions for the growth of the economy. Because there's going to be conditions for capital investment to increase, and capital investment is -- and I want to remind my colleagues -- it's not just the work of the builders, it's also the creation of jobs. Now we have a very visual document that clearly illustrates how our economy develops in past periods. We have an accountancy report that clearly illustrates what the economy of Ukraine is doing. Everyone can see it, it's open on the Internet. The first biggest factor in economic growth is price increases. The second biggest factor is the increase in imports and the increase in VAT, which is due to the arrival of imported goods. What does that mean? This means a serious stagnation of the economy when an internal producer cannot produce anything as a result of the conditions created in Ukraine. Dear friends, well, they got some more 3G license money. But it's also extra taxation. NBA's policy is to print money, it's to issue securities in large percentages, which make the economy suffer. We are convinced that creating fair and honest conditions that will enable entrepreneurs to make serious investments will give them an opportunity to increase our economy. The questions that arise are indeed related to the violation of the valid parameters of the Codex earth, but I am convinced that they can be polished before the second reading. Dear friends, and what is important is the very serious, important pressure on the monopolies that exist. I want to give an example of the monopolies that exist in Hersonian, such a structure as "Hersonregiongas." In addition, because Hersonregiongas solves its problems at the expense of these technical conditions, they've decided today to make extra payments for 2015 because there's no authority on these monopolies. Despite the Prime Minister's statement "Don't Gaskets", threats, the Herson Monopoly takes bribes and makes extra payments for 2015. Such, you know, blasphemy, such insolence never throughout, I think, Ukraine's independence was gone. And this law is a serious blow to monopolies. And we're proposing to support it because it's useful for the Ukrainian economy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-02-m1.u37	Thank you. And a closing statement from the National Deputies. Anatoly Matthewnko gives the floor to Oksani Prodan. Please, Mrs. Oksana. Out of the way, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-02-m1.u38	Yeah. Dear colleagues! First of all, I want to thank the authors who introduced this bill. Because it's actually, maybe even for the first time in this box, it's a complex one that's really focused on dealing with monopolies, with monopolies in every area: both in the land system, and in the gas and electricity supply. It's actually what businessmen and entrepreneurs are all about, and it's just citizens who are trying to build something or create something in this country today. So, first of all, thank you so much for having this bill. At the same time, I ask you to pay attention now to both the co-authors and all the colleagues so that we can take this bill very seriously for a second reading. Why, I'll explain why this is very important to me. Part of, for example, I would like to ask the authors to support the deletion of article 28 of the Local Self-Government Act, which provides for the imposition on local self-government bodies of the obligation to compensate customers for any expenses. Local self - government authorities should be handed over to specific legal persons who are subject to entrepreneurial activity by the network’s customers. That's part one. I ask that we delete this article from the first reading, article 28 of the Law on Local Self - Rule. Next. I believe that until the second reading, the authorization of the Antimonopoly Committee should be maximized. Because yes, we're introducing a few credentials, a few additional possibilities for controlling monopolies. But I'm sure that the new added importance of the influence on monopolies is and we have to write them in this bill. That's next. Next. I'd like us to take a good look at the bill and complete it by joining different networks. For example, in the electricity bill, we're talking about standard and non-standard connectivity, which, to me, is somewhat different. Standard connection, it has to be automatic and it has to be separate, well, automatically done, not additionally paid. And what's very important about drafting the bill. We must now make every effort not to increase this law to the future tariff. We should remember that all that we put on the monopoly if we don’t put it in the existing costs for them today will increase the tariff. From this we should definitely go to the second reading. Again, I ask you to delete the 28th article of the Law on Local Self - Rule. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-02-m1.u39	Thank you. Another minute is for discussion. And I give it to Tarasyuk, and Tarasyuk gives it to Sergey Sobolev. One minute, please. Then it closes.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-02-m1.u40	Dear colleagues, I have really taken a minute to express my position on the impossibility of raising tariffs if this bill takes place and enters into force. What will the monopolies gain from this? They're going to get capitalization, which they didn't dream of, because when you put in your own costs a transformer, an electricity grid or a gas pipe, it's going to further capitalize the monopoly business. And if they're still demanding a raise, I'm sorry, it's a bill that won't work for citizens. It is with this amendment that the inability to raise tariffs is entitled to life. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-02-m1.u41	So, colleagues, we're done here, we're three minutes away from making a decision. So I urge all the factions to invite members of the House, the Supreme Council Secretariat, to report that in three minutes we will make a decision. And I'm asking everyone to take up jobs. Now the final word from the committee is Victor Halasyuk, and then we vote. Please, Mr. Victor. And consider, perhaps, these suggestions.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-02-m1.u42	Yeah. Dear Andrew Volodymyrovich! Dear colleagues! The Anti-Corruption and Anti-Corruption Committee believes that there are no corruption factors in the project, and the draft act meets the requirements of anti-corruption legislation. There is also a positive conclusion from the Ministry of Economic Development and Trade, signed by First Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Economic Development, Stepan Ivanovich Kubeva. In addition, I announced how systematic and full support from the production associations of associations is vital. In view of the foregoing, the members of the Committee on Industrial Policy and Entrepreneurship -- I would like to thank my distinguished colleagues, who are all co-authors of this strategic bill, and with whom we worked very hard on this complex and complex revolutionary bill -- members of the Committee on Prompolitics and Entrepreneurship have decided to recommend Bill 6671 to the Supreme Council of Ukraine to recommend that it be accepted on the first reading as a basis. Taking into account the presentations that have been made in the hall today, I would like to thank all the honourable colleagues for their words of support, for recommending development. And I would like to stress separately that in order for us to adopt this bill as a basis, I propose to support the amendment made by Mrs. Oksana Prodan, and to exclude part of chapter six of the bill concerning amendments to the Ukrainian Law on Local Self-Government in Ukraine. With this clarification, please support in the first reading on the basis of -- and finally open the way for investment in the real economy, in the construction of new factories, agricomplexes, enterprises, in order to get rid of credit, the International Monetary Fund dictatorship, in order to overcome this, totally unacceptable, unemployment, emigration, moneylessness, which is the result of the wrong economic policy and a totally unhealthy investment climate. Let's correct the investment climate by such bold laws as this one, "Buy Ukrainian, pay the Ukrainians!"such as industrial parks and other industrial laws that allow Ukraine to get out of a raw chasm and become a wealthy European country. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-02-m1.u43	So, colleagues, let's move on to making a decision. I'm asking everyone to come into the hall and take jobs, get ready for the vote. I call upon the heads of factions to invite all the national deputies to the Hall. Please come back from bed. We had an hourly discussion of the draft law, this amendment that was proposed during the discussion, is consistent with the committee. And I'm going to put to a vote with this bill that Halasuk made for the transcription, and that's why it's important now to maximize the mobilization in the hall. Ready? I'll make this offer. So, colleagues, I'm voting on a draft Act amending some of Ukraine's legislative acts to promote industrial development, investment activity, protection and guarantees of the rights and legitimate interests of business entities (number 6671) with a bill issued by the head of the committee, Halasyuk Viktor Valeriyovich, under the transcript. 6671, I said. On the basis of that, colleagues. Taking into account the work Oxana Prodan has done. Please vote and please support. Let's vote, colleagues. Please vote. [[17:01:02]] For 197 I'll be back. In factions, please include. "Peter Poshenko" – 59, "The People's Front" – 58, "The Opposition Block" – 0, "The Self-Help" – 7, "The Radical Party" – 17, "The Father's Party" – 9, "The Will of the People" – 11, "The Rebirth Party – 18, "The Non-Factory – 18. During the discussion, colleagues expressed their support. I'm going to put you back in, and I'm going to ask everyone to come into the hall and vote. So, colleagues, please prepare for the vote, first I'll put you back. And I would like to stress, that's just on the basis of Oxana's revision of Sales. So, colleagues, I'm voting on the proposal to go back to the consideration of draft Law No. 6671. Please, colleagues, vote and please support the return to the law. We vote, we support, we vote, we vote. [[17:02:35]] For-200 My colleagues, I'm going to put up again, too large a lack of voices. If it doesn't work out, I'm going to put the next proposal on the committee for processing. Now, colleagues, please maximize your mobility. I'm re-voting the motion, back to voting on the basis of draft Law 6671. Please vote, please support, vote, please support [[17:03:27]] For 207 My colleagues, I'll put it back together again, but it's a huge breakup. Colleagues, I'm by all the laws that they are, three times on my way back. I'll put it back on, and if there are no votes, I'll put the next proposal to the vote on the committee for further work. So right now I'm asking all law-abiding people to mobilize, I'm going to put them back. Everyone please take up their jobs. My colleagues, have they all been identified? Can we vote? I am putting to the vote the proposal to return to draft Law 6671 as a basis. Please vote and please support, colleagues, every vote. Please support, we vote. [[17:04:39]] For 209 Colleagues. Any comments may be given after the hearing is concluded. My colleagues, the next one, I'm going to make the following suggestion: to the committee for the re-reading. I ask everyone to unite around this proposal, colleagues, so that we do not lose the bill. I ask you to mobilize as much as possible, I ask those who abstain to support this proposal, it's compromising to keep the bill. Yes, and I'm putting to the vote a motion for a draft Law 6681 to be sent to the committee to prepare for the re-reading of the first reading. And please support everyone, colleagues, please vote, please support. Let's vote. I'm asking you not to lose the bill. [[17:05:43]] For 223 Three votes. Colleagues, three votes is not much. Attention! Now I'm going to make an offer to go back to this proposal and support it, three votes is a little bit, that's a compromise offer. For the bill not to be rejected, I ask you to support it. It's the right and the right thing to do. So, colleagues, I'm voting on the proposal to go back to the draft Law 6671 to put it on the committee. Whoever supports this proposal, please support the committee for the return. Please vote, colleagues, three votes is not enough. Please be supportive. We vote carefully and responsibly, please support, vote. [[17:06:44]] For 228 We're back. Now I'm putting Law 6671 on the committee for the re-reading. Please vote, please support. It's a compromise offer. I'm asking everyone to support it. Vote, fellows! We're working on it. Every voice! Please be supportive. Vote! We're voting on our colleagues. [[17:07:16]] For 228 Decision taken. Now I've got a statement from two factions: the Fatherland faction and the Radical Party. They're ready to take a break from the rostrum. And Oleg Lazko is invited to the floor.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-02-m1.u44	Dear Mr. Head, fellow MPs! Don't make a beautiful mine at a bad game. I'll explain to the Ukrainians what just happened in this room. Our team has prepared, and we thank all the deputies from the various factions that have supported our bill, which has proposed to destroy the monopoly of oligarchs and mafias in the natural sectors of the economy: energy, gas, water, and other monopolies. Every person who tries to start his own business in Ukraine, from a small kiosk to a large factory, cannot start a business until he gives up bribes. They haven't earned anything yet, and bribes have to be handed out. Let me give you an example. My wife put gas in the house. I didn't think my wife, they didn't know, went, said. Yeah, pay up, we'll hook you up in six months. After paying the bribe for 5,000 dollars, they turned in two weeks. Then she told me this story. That's what happens to every person in Ukraine: he didn't pay the bribe -- he didn't hook up, he didn't give him a job. We have proposed a bill that destroys the Mafia, the mafia's all-empowerment power, which destroys the monopolies of the oligarchs. Today, unfortunately, in this parliament, the mafia has won and defeated the oligarchs because the political forces financed by the oligarchs have been actively defending their interests today and have overturned this law, which enables them to develop the Ukrainian economy, to support the national producer, to create jobs for our Ukrainians. Today, unfortunately, this room has been conquered by the homeless, tribes that have turned Ukraine into a large landfill, an exporter of cheap labor and raw materials. Regrettably, patriotic people who realize that Ukraine’s power in economic development, in new jobs, in increasing the wealth of every Ukrainian family, today has been shown to be a minority. But I'll tell you, we're not going to give up, we're going to continue the fight, and we're going to get the adoption not only of this law, but of all the other laws that are going to destroy the monopoly of profiting oligarchs in 27 years, we've turned Ukraine into a waste of money. We sit on the sidelines of civilization and come here, fool people and tell them how they care for people. You care for people -- help people have jobs, you care for people -- help create jobs, you care for a powerful Ukraine, you restore peace and you make it stronger because of economic development. I want to go to the oligarchs and the mob. We're not afraid of you, we're going to destroy your monopolies, we're going to tear out your grief in power, in government, in the President, in parliament, and we're going to make the resources of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-02-m1.u45	30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-02-m1.u46	And we're going to make the resources of Ukraine work for the development of Ukraine. And separately, I'm addressing President Prashenko, whose faction didn't support him, because of her position, the law was overturned. [[Noise Nodes]] There was a collapse of the law through the position of the dusty faction. Dear Peter Alexiyovich, you told the election that you knew how to build a business, and you know how to build a country. In the presidency, you're still building your own business instead of building it.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-02-m1.u47	So, colleagues, we're moving on to the next one. A replica? Please, a line. Chicken, one minute, replica.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-02-m1.u48	Dear colleagues, for the sake of objectivity. I'm sorry the session room didn't support this bill, but we don't give up hope and we'll work in the rest. But for the sake of objectivity, I want to say that the faction of Peter Dustenk gave the largest number of votes. [[B in m in s a l in]] More than 70. Look at the voting table. It's for the truth. Don't lie. But we will not give up and continue to work, and we will rid the country of the terror of these natural monopolies.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-02-m1.u49	So, colleagues, let's move on to the next question of order of the day. Next draft of the Act amending certain Ukrainian legislation on the use of designations and signs of belonging to the National Police of Ukraine (No. 7474). And I'm asking you to support his consideration of the reduced procedure. Please vote back. [[17:12:43]] For 134 132. 134. Colleagues, I'm going to propose once again that we consider draft Law 7474 as a reduced procedure. Please vote and please support. Vote. [[17:13:12]] For 134 I'll bet you a final one. I'll bet. If there are no votes, we'll go in full procedure, colleagues. So 7474 is a reduced procedure. Please vote, please support. [[17:13:41]] For a hundred and So let us go to the draft Act amending some Ukrainian legislation on the use of designations and signs of belonging to the National Police of Ukraine (7474). And I invite you to report to the Deputy Minister of Internal Affairs, Trojan Vadim Anatoliyovich. As long as Vadim is leaving, colleagues, we have 45 minutes, it means that it is as brief as possible to speak out so that we can look at him and make a positive decision. Please. Please, Mr. Vadim.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-02-m1.u50	Dear Andrey Volodymyrovich, distinguished national deputies! Today we are proposing a bill to amend some of the legislation on the use of naming and the signs of belonging to the National Police. In order to regulate this problem that we have, we ask you to support the National Police in this bill. The need to develop this project is due to the fact that in the process of carrying out the tasks assigned to the National Police of Ukraine in recent years, the police have shown a number of separate cases of use by legal persons, public organizations of appointment and signs of belonging to the National Police. In particular, the term "police" is used on motor vehicles, on signs of distinction: on shevrons, on the same slopes, on buildings. Please consider this bill and support the National Police. It is proposed that the use of designations and signs of membership of the National Police be carried out exclusively by the Ukrainian police. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-02-m1.u51	Thank you, but we still have questions, so stay in the rostrum. I'm asking you to record a question to the reporter. Valerius Pisarenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-02-m1.u52	Thank you. I want to ask you a question that we really need to support the National Police on many things. For example, in the budget we saw a significant increase in the funds that will be allocated next year. But today, for example, I have a lot of people coming to reception in Kharkiv as an MP in the Majority District asking me this question: "When can the National Police provide security on the streets?" Because the Chevrons are very good, but we see mass action going on somewhere, either under the Attorney General's Office, or under the Supreme Council, or anywhere, yes, sometimes we see fighting, fighting. A journalist recently got beaten up, here. And it's very strange that the police are standing there watching. When the police respond to mere street violations, there is more bullying. It's better than when the Shevrons write what it is.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-02-m1.u53	Thank you. Thank you for your question, it's up to date. You know, there's a lot of action going on right now that's causing some kind of disturbance, but I'm going to deny it to you because I haven't seen any more of this mess where the National Police can't handle it. And as for the journalist, you know that two people have been detained, a criminal case is being investigated. So I think the police will always do their job of protecting citizens and journalists. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-02-m1.u54	Thank you, Your Honor. And please, here's a question from our colleague Leonid Hamtz. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-02-m1.u55	Thank you. Leonid Jemetz, the city of Kiev, the People's Front. I fully understand the idea of this bill, which should be aimed at preventing anyone from taking advantage of what would look like an officer of the police, and in fact, the robber and the person who has, well, absolutely different intentions, except for the protection of the rule of law. But I have a number of questions from the text of the bill, because there's no clear regulation, so there's no error in the costumes of animators, children's toys, which are also made by the Chevrons, and the appropriate form, in external advertising, which can use signs, including those related to the look of the police or the sign of the police. Please explain how the bill will address these issues. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-02-m1.u56	Please respond.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-02-m1.u57	Thank you for asking. I think the amendments you're proposing will be introduced and considered.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-02-m1.u58	Thank you. One last question. Please, National Deputy Moseschuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-02-m1.u59	Mr. Reporter, would you please give examples of when police symbols were used? Because I know things like that when I'm attracted to raiders of different objects. That's one question. And the second. Please, look in the hall now. Look who's voting now, and shape the Ministry's attitude accordingly, including those of those colleagues. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-02-m1.u60	Thank you for asking. As far as raiding is concerned, that's what it is. We have isolated cases where security firms that use our name or attribute, they take part in the capture of some kind of enterprise. The other one. This is what we have, for example, the Zaporozhye area. Recently, there was a devastating attack. People were just putting on a security badge, but there was the word "police," and everyone even initially decided that a robbery had been committed by the police. But that's not true. I'm gonna, I think we're gonna fight this. And after this bill has been passed, we will solve our problems.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-02-m1.u61	Thank you, Mr. Troyan. You can go to your place, to the rostrum of government, to the bed of government, more loyal. And I invite you to report to the head of the Committee on the Law Enforcement of Andrija Kozemyakin’s activities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-02-m1.u62	Dear Chairman, dear colleagues! The Committee on Law Enforcement has considered a draft Ukrainian law amending some Ukrainian legislation on the use of designations and signs of membership in the National Police of Ukraine No. 7474. The project proposes to establish administrative responsibility for the illegal use of designations and signs of belonging to the National Police of Ukraine by amending the Ukrainian Code of Administrative Offences and the Ukrainian National Police Act. This means that all the other social organizations we have are in their names. And their names contain the word "police", will have no right in their names and emblems to use the name and symbolism of this public authority, and will not mislead people. The only police in Ukraine is the National Police of Ukraine. Thus, the committee unanimously approved the decision to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine the results of the first reading of the set project to be adopted on a basis and as a whole. Thank you. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-02-m1.u63	Thank you, Your Honor, Mr. Andrey, for the presentation of the committee's position. Colleagues, I would like to point out that the committee is proposing as a basis and voting in general. I'm asking the factions to sound ready to make such a decision so that we can navigate. And please sign up for a faction discussion.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-02-m1.u64	He left early. Oh, no? What about the discussion?
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-02-m1.u65	Dear colleagues, I must apologize to the reporter. I just forgot that we have a long procedure going on right now, a full procedure, and I didn't give you time to ask Mr. Andrew. This is how I propose to go. The factions are about to come out, then we'll give you time to answer the committee's questions, I apologize, and then the MPs will take the floor for their speeches. Please state the position of the opposition block. I'm sorry again.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-02-m1.u66	Germany, the Opposition Block. Dear colleagues, I would like to hear not about the form, not about the chavrons, but about the content behind it. What does the National Police want to hide by introducing administrative responsibility? I want to inform those who insist on this, that turning away from the fact that someone is using the form for their mercantile purposes, is already an established form of criminal responsibility when it comes to committing a crime. As far as the case is concerned, you will remember when a famous law that has entered history as a dragon or whatever was involved in the question of balaclavas and wearing the form of soldiers, as if stamped for three years, is unacceptable. So I would like to talk here, not about the question of form, but about the question of content. I would like to hear again from Mr. Shevchenk, who is a member of the police there, as to how this could not be done by oath of duty to a police officer, to a police officer, to protect the rights of health, honor and dignity of citizens. The more public, the public beating of a mass media representative, where the whole ranks stood, and no one rose up, no one stood up for a woman. That's the point. And in the form of what they were standing in, and in the form of who's using these Chevrons, it's the police's job to prevent and protect themselves, to expose them, and to solve questions. It's all set up in the Code of Administrative Offences. Where there is a question of the exchange of intelligence and responsibility for assigning the powers of law enforcement officials. Here's the question. So I would like to make a decision, and the Opposition Block will not support this bill, based on the fact that today's need for a meaningful fulfillment of legislation on the National Police is that they have to answer under the Police Act.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-02-m1.u67	The next speech is the People's Deputy Kurilo to present the position of the People's Front. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-02-m1.u68	Dear TV setters! Dear National Deputies! We are now discussing a draft Act amending some Ukrainian legislation on the use of designations and signs of belonging to the Ukrainian National Police. Note that the bill was introduced to the Supreme Council on December 29, 2017. It's been nine months since he came into our room. But I'm not so sure that this little bill is going to be adopted today. Then I am not sure who came up with such a broad discussion. The bill, which is completely technical, can be adopted literally in 10 minutes using the whole procedure, we'll discuss the conclusion of the plenary session, and then we won't just have physical voices. I don't understand why the MPs left their desks and left the Parliamentary Hall. The Peter Prashenko faction will vote in favour of this bill and will support it as a whole. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-02-m1.u69	Thank you, Mr. Kurilo, for the position expressed on the Peter Dusty Block. Please introduce Alexander Kugel to the Fatherland position.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-02-m1.u70	I support my colleague that, unfortunately, a serious feeling that the bill will now be overturned. And to the developers and to those who, if Goddess gives and we support him in the first reading, I very seriously ask that we work on the second reading so that we don't have any contradictions with the active names. Because, for example, I only know two foreign brands that come to us are perfumes and optics called Police. In addition, I support my colleague, who said about the questions of toys or souvenirs that are used in this case and cannot be sold without the name Police. I think this is something that we need to find out when we finish the second reading, and Fatherland will support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-02-m1.u71	Thank you. And now, please, Anton Gerashchenko, I invite you to take the floor and present the position of the People's Front.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-02-m1.u72	Honorable national MPs, distinguished Ukrainian people, honourable presiding officer! I regret that, unfortunately, this law is laid down by a large procedure, complete because it is very simple. We have a problem in Ukraine that every public organization or private firm today can put the word "police" in their name. And we have dozens of examples where some public organizations or private security companies say that we're the police of some kind of substance, or the police of Restoration. And people have doubts, and they might think that people who have no relation to the police have a bearing on the police. That's why we've proposed the adoption of a law that imposes an administrative fine of a thousand or two thousand tax minimums on citizens' incomes for those organizations that will illegally use the term "police." The law is very simple, it is not about influence, it is not about power and its distribution. So I'm asking all the deputies from all the factions and the opposition and the leaders and the mayors and the listers to support this law in an unanimity manner. It's the first reading. If there are any additions, we'll adjust it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-02-m1.u73	Thank you. Please, Victoria Vojtsicka conveys the word of Oleni Sotnik. Please, Mrs. Helena.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-02-m1.u74	Thank you very much, Madam Chairman. Indeed, the law is very simple and contains all the changes to several articles, but it is very significant, definitive. We would not have corrected these technical errors if there had been a normal order of review and compliance with the Rules when considering important bills such as the National Police Bill. If we were not in a hurry, there would be no such cases and we would not have had to correct the fundamental errors for 10 months. That's the first one. Second, regarding the possibility of its adoption as a whole. Unfortunately, I can't agree with that, and I'm surprised that the anti-corruption committee, when it came to the conclusion, somehow didn't see the problem in this law, when the police chief is actually given the opportunity to determine his own judgment, and who can use naming and who can't. This can also lead to a risk, including a risk of corruption. But the key thing is, what I would like to say right now, and to turn to our law enforcement agencies, we have a deputy minister here: it's very important that the name should be the point. I mean, when the police, for example, were under the walls of the Supreme Council, the last time there were serious clashes with the Euronomists, I personally witnessed how the police, while people were actually subjected to violence, did nothing. It's very important that the police, with the word "police" on them, did their functions directly. I think this is going to be crucial and showy for the citizens. And this is about questions, you know, today, about the very painful question of protecting our public activists. This is also important when people are actually beaten, sometimes killed, and there are no investigations, and they are defenseless, and the police are the first to protect them. So technically, yes, we have to support it, but we still have to answer not only the name, but the point. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-02-m1.u75	Thank you. And the last performance by the factions. Please, Igor Mosiyczuk, please, the Radical Party of Light.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-02-m1.u76	Igor Mosiyczuk, Oleg Lachka Radical Party Is this bill necessary? Yes. Should it be considered in full procedure? No, it's not. Is it necessary to humiliate, as is happening now, both the National Police and our parliamentary committee of law enforcement and law enforcement? Of course not. But some of the colleagues who lick the door of the cabinets to the Mantis or come to the committee asking us to accept something, they're doing it now. The police are humiliated, the committee is humiliated, and they are committed in general, both in terms of law enforcement and in terms of Ukrainian parliamentaryism. I would like to see those who voted in favour of the complete procedure, those who are not in the room at the moment, and the next time these citizens, the people's deputies, turn to them, we will react exactly as they did to this extremely simple bill, which is actually only signified in one way: in order to demonstrate to the country, to demonstrate to the Ukrainian citizens that there is one National Police and that the raiders, who are covered in its name and criminals, have no right to do so. The faction of the Radical Party of Oleg Láška will support this bill and urge colleagues to return to the hall because the collapse of this bill will be a spitting block for Ukrainian law enforcement officials, for those who defend the rule of law every day in Ukrainian streets where terrorists and bandits are shot. You're just spitting on them right now without supporting this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-02-m1.u77	Thank you. Colleagues, if I understand correctly from the speeches, and Mr. Cosemyakin, as head of the committee of profile, supports this, all speak in favour of shortening the time for our discussion in order to be able to vote. So Mr. Kožemyakin thinks it is a question. Okay! Let's sign up for a question to the committee head. Please! Please, colleagues. Please, a question from Caplin, a national MP. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-02-m1.u78	Dear colleagues, dear fellow countrymen! Instead of asking the honourable committee leader a few words about this bill, and in the context of this bill on the importance and mission of the reformed National Police on the protection of the rights and interests of ordinary people. It said here that look back, look at the Supreme Council Hall of Ukraine, and if there were once not so many votes voted the first time, the second time, then you respond accordingly to their questions. I would like to remind my honourable colleague that normally normal people's MPs turn to the National Police, not as traditional as before, to protect their economic interests or to save their backseat or their skin, but to protect their electorate, the simple people who chose them. Therefore, the National Police, regardless of how the national MPs voted, should be careful in favour of the short-term procedure or the short-term procedure for this bill or against it.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-02-m1.u79	Please, it wasn't a question, it was a replica. And the next question, sir. Please respond, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-02-m1.u80	I understand, Mr. Sergei, that's right, that's emotion, yes. But I want to say the following. At one time, when we were all here with a few of the people's deputies who are in the Council today, representing factions of opposition and most of them, we were ashamed at the time to uphold any law that applies not to the police at the time, but to the police — the IMF, yes. We were ashamed, we didn't do it, we blocked it, and so on. Today we want to do this, and more than that, we're proud of this law, and we want these guys to work better, and this law we're doing it to make them understand that if there's a person who's writing "police," and he's the police, he's the National Police of Ukraine, and the one who's opposite is the enemy, that's all, or the impostor, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-02-m1.u81	Please, the next question is the national MP Sugonako.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-02-m1.u82	I give you my word.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-02-m1.u83	Capplin, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-02-m1.u84	I would also like to add and support this bill. Indeed, no one, no form, with any noblest purpose, no social organization, no natural person has the right to use the word "police", a Shevron with the word "police" in any public or other interest. And we must mobilize today the maximum number of Ukrainian national deputies to vote for this extremely important bill. Or him. Should any discussion of the issues of the National Police follow a reduced or uncut procedure? We're on the trails of real reform of the National Police, and we have to give the necessary attention here in the Hall, discussing and discussing every aspect of the National Police. So come here, we'll discuss, we'll change the police, we'll give birth to a real Ukrainian.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-02-m1.u85	Thank you. Will you respond, Mr. Andrey? Thank you. You can go to work. Colleagues, do we need to talk to the MPs right now or should we vote? Showcases? I'm offering six minutes for the MPs: three deputies for two minutes. Please sign up. [[B in m in s a l in]] Well, I want us to be able to vote the whole block by the police today. Please, six minutes. The rules allow the chairman to make such regulations. Such a position should be expressed: in two minutes, three national deputies will participate in the debate. Sergei Vlasenko, please. Please, he passes the word Mustafa Najem. Please, Sugonyako, give me your word. Caplin again. Please. See, we're all in favor. Not even without it. Please, Mr. Capplin, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-02-m1.u86	Mrs. Irina, I'd like to use it. We will vote in favour of this bill, of course. I'm going to spend literally one minute. I'd like to respond to that. Well, the congregations of my colleagues at the Supreme Council's rostrum, who were there for a certain bill. Dear compatriots! Trust a man with a 10-year-old experience in a real economy where hundreds of people worked. This bill, which we rejected, really threatened to increase tariffs for ordinary Ukrainians: water tariffs, electricity tariffs.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-02-m1.u87	Thank you. Please. [[B in m in s a l in]] I'm begging you now. [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear colleague, I ask you to discuss the law. Please. Dear colleagues, look, there's 20 minutes left until today's workday. I very much ask that we be as tolerant as we have been doing all day, walking through the Rules and speaking, as you are, Mr. Kaplin, this is almost all day long following the Rules solely on the subject of the bill. Borislav Bereza is passing it on. [[B in m in s a l in]] I've got a Bereza now. Please, Kishkar is handing over Krivenka. Please, two minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-02-m1.u88	Dear presiding fellows, distinguished viewers! We will support this bill. And I want to address Mr. Troyan, in his person, Mr. Habakkuk, regarding the investigation of the assaults and the assassination attempt at Odessa on Michael Kupolod, Gregory Kozm and Oleg Mikhailik, head of the People's Force, the previous leader of the Ukrainian People's Movement in Odessa. Detained performers, but the investigation continues to stand. And in this respect, we see the conspiracy of both the prosecution and the Odessa militia with the local authorities, and this is covered not only in these crimes, but also in economic crimes, what we see in the school's airport. You fought, liberated, Mr. Troyan, Mariupol along with our other volunteers. You know what it's like to give up 90 acres at a single military airport, and nothing's being investigated. Both the police and the D.A. are doing their best with the local authorities. If it hadn't been for the SBU, they wouldn't have even been detained by the Kulaw and Cosma, but for two months, they'd still be quiet. Others are unexplored, there are no organizers, although in Odessa everyone says what they know and who the contracting party is and who the organizer is. So I urge you to take this matter under control and join the common multi-political, multi-civilist alliances in the struggle for the Ukrainian Odessa. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-02-m1.u89	Dear colleague, I must ask you to discuss the body of the law. Next time, I'm gone. People's Deputy Gerashchenko, Bereza. No, I just disappeared, my computer's gone. Please, Borislav Bereza, please. Capplin came up, and I lost everything on the screens.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-02-m1.u90	Mr. Capplin, please step away from Mrs. Heratschenko, because she's missing everything. I want to make it clear that the bill is really interesting, but there are a few questions. For example, I can't understand why there's punishment, the use of naming and the signs of belonging only to the National Police. After all, a number of other public authorities have their logos, designer clothes, and other signs. Why doesn't anyone even say anything about them? This is the first time. And secondly, I've read what the GNEU says -- it's the main science and expertise -- and it recommends that we listen to what I think. See also, "adoption by the police chief to decide for ourselves whether to use the term "police" and its derivatives, not by the police, but by other legal or natural persons, in our opinion, creates a risk of subjective approach and corruption-related factors." You see, there are a few questions that need to be asked. But I want to say something. I can't understand why there's a bill that has so many questions from GNEU. And that's why I'd like to understand. [[B in m in s a l in]] I understand the honourable MPs, but the GNEU should now watch how really scientific and expert evaluation is done. So what I want to do is I want to work more closely with this law between the first and the second readings. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-02-m1.u91	Thank you. Colleagues, there'll be a vote in two minutes. I very much ask my colleagues to return to the session room. If my computer shows a letter of correctness, now Heratchenko Anton does not require a word, Kaplin does not require a word, Levchenko. Capplin's asking. On the subject of the law, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-02-m1.u92	I'm totally on the subject, Mrs. Irina. The fact is that in the presence of practically a third party in the National Police, violating the Rules and banning national MP Sergei Kaplin from concluding his speech is totally insane. We must, here I support Mr. Pinzenik always, follow every letter of the Rules. This is our face, the face of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. I'd impose criminal punishment for violating the Rules. I'd like to continue. Again. Dear fellow countrymen, in order to choose an adequate new authority in the country, an adequate new President, an adequate new composition of Parliament, local councils, city mayors, you must learn to see populism coming out of the rostrum of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, learn to see the evil that is hidden by the fine names of the bill. Learn to see when the prooligarchy forces that cover you with the various beautiful names of the parties try to sway you, increase your tariffs, force you to take the last one out of your pocket and pay for the archergo and so on. We will always defend your interests in a literate, constructive, detailed, systematic way. We will defend your right to run this country, to be protected in this country. We will protect your constitutional rights. I want to emphasize again. Today, one of the political parties tried to move forward.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-02-m1.u93	Dear colleague! I'm asking you to turn off the microphone. Thank you. Dear colleagues, I also propose to impose criminal responsibility for violating the Rules, and let's see who it reaches first, this responsibility.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-02-m1.u94	So, colleagues, we've finished the discussion. We're moving on to making a decision, colleagues. I'm asking everyone to come into the hall and take jobs. I beg you, colleagues, Jaroslav, Jaroslav, please. It's the vote. Come on, we're barely pulling out those voices, colleagues. Well, this is about non-political issues, this is about supporting the National Police. I ask everyone, colleagues, to take up jobs and prepare for the vote. Colleagues, I'd like to emphasize. We have a chance to pass the next bill, as well as the Legislative Security Committee now. But let's get together and vote on this law and we'll have another chance to pass. Colleagues, please enter the hall now. At work, I ask everyone to take up their jobs. So, colleagues, I'm voting on the draft Act amending what Ukrainian legislation on the use of appointment and the signs of belonging to the National Police of Ukraine (No. 7474). The committee's proposal is to vote on the basis as a whole. It's a technical law, it's the support of the Ukrainian National Police. Please vote and please support. Colleagues, I'm asking you to vote and I'm asking you to support me. Let's vote, colleagues. [[17:49:23]] For 190 We didn't make it. I'm asking the factions to mobilize the people's deputies now, and I'm going to read by factions. Block of Peter Poshenko – 78, National Front – 54, Opposition Block – 0, Self-help – 17, Radical Party – 9, Fatherland – 10, Will of the People – 4, Rebirth Party – 3, non-fractional – 15. Colleagues, each faction saw the number of deputies. And I'm asking everyone to come to the hall, and I think it's unacceptable when we can't mobilize the faction in support of the National Police reform. I'm asking the factions to invite all the deputies into the hall, and I'm going to put them back on the table, so it's very important that the deputies go into the hall and take jobs. So I'm going to put it to a vote right now. Don't leave the hall. I am voting on the proposal to return to the vote in favour of the draft Act amending certain Ukrainian legislation on the use of appointment and the signs of belonging to the National Police (No. 7474). Please vote and please support. Colleagues, we vote. Every voice. Please be supportive. Vote. [[17:51:21]] For 202 Not all of them made it. Please invite the deputies to the Chamber. Please don't go out now. And I'm asking the members of the committee. And I'm asking both members of the committee now, and the heads of factions to provide discipline during the vote. I'll give it to you now. Colleagues, I give you 30 seconds. And now I'm giving the closing statement to Troyan Vadim Anatolyevich. Please, Mr. Vadim, one minute, call for the law to be upheld. 30 seconds. And I'm asking everyone to mobilize, colleagues. Look who's gone. Call me back. Yes, please, Vadim. Yes, I did. Say the flaming word.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-02-m1.u95	Glory to Ukraine! You know, I understand that you're starting political debates, you're getting ready for elections, and you might have something to say to the police. But I know exactly, and I came to work with her just to make the law with you. We just passed a bill, it's very simple. There are people who, in a criminal or other way, start using the name National Police of Ukraine. I ask you to support this bill so that such people cannot use our name or slander our name. People who wear uniforms. I'll tell you, I've been running you know criminal police just for 1 year. I'll tell you that 15,000 people don't sleep at night, don't sleep, believe me, operatives, the very best service in the National Police, they're investigating, investigating, investigating criminals and investigating.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-02-m1.u96	30 seconds. I added 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-02-m1.u97	And believe me, 15,000 of them never, I can't explain to them why national MPs can't support us in the simplest way: not letting criminals use our name. People's deputies, please support us. I'm talking to you as a Ukrainian, as a patriot, and as a national police officer. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-02-m1.u98	Heroim Slava! Colleagues, I'd like everyone to take up their jobs from the boat and return to the hall. I believe that all who are present in this room must support this position. I think it should be a question that unites the entire room. So, I'm asking you to prepare for the vote, I'm asking you, colleagues, all to take up jobs. So I am voting on the proposal to return to the vote for the draft Act amending some Ukrainian legislation on the use of appointments and signs of belonging to the National Police of Ukraine (No.7474). Please vote, please support. Colleagues, every vote, we vote, please support, we vote. [[17:55:05]] For 228 We're back, colleagues. Please prepare, please return to your workplace. And I'm voting on Bill No. 7474 on the proposal of a committee on the basis and in general. Please support, please vote, colleagues, every vote has weight, carefully please vote, please support, vote. Colleagues, we vote carefully and responsibly. [[17:55:41]] For 233 233-yes. The law is passed. Welcome, Vadim Anatoliyovich, welcome to your position, Troyan. Thank you to all national deputies for their support. Unfortunately, colleagues, we're not going to be able to look at the next draft of the law, it's from the same committee, 8184. Next week, I think we can mobilize and go through it. And, dear colleagues, I want to say that it has been a difficult day, but we have been able to adopt a number of very important laws. At this evening's meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, I declare closed. Tomorrow at 10 a.m. I'm inviting everyone into the hall to continue our work. We're going to have a cluster of ratifications of international agreements tomorrow, and I hope for a high level of mobilization in the hall. Thank you. Good-bye.
