ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-19-m0.u1	Good morning. I'm asking my respectable colleagues to come into the hall and prepare for registration. So, are you ready to register? National deputies of Ukraine are requested to sign up for the meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. I'd like you to sign up. [[10:04:20]] 349 national deputies registered. The morning plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. My colleagues, I would like to remind you that we are starting work on the continuation of the draft Law that we started yesterday, 6746. Then draft Law 6789 on National Security and Defence. And, colleagues, I want to inform you that we have a historic chance today. Today, the Supreme Council will consider the appeal of the President of Ukraine to His Holiness Bartholomew, Archbishop of Constantinople and New Rome, the Space Patriarch, asking the Orthodox Church in Ukraine to give Tomos to the Automobile Church. I consider this a matter of historical importance for Ukraine, for all of us. And this question is primarily a question of religion, but it's also a question of establishing statehood and national security. So I call upon all the national MPs to be as gathered today as possible, to be as mobilized as possible. After the first two questions, I'm going to propose that we put the decision in the agenda, and at 10:40, we're going to go over this. So I ask all the factions to invite the deputies to the hall as much as possible so that we can concentrate, so that we can give, I believe, and I believe that we will be able to give 300 votes in support of this decision, and we will pray to God that our address and address to the President of Ukraine will be heard, and we will be able to get Tomos as soon as possible for the Ukrainian Church's autocephaly. And now we're going to continue our consideration of the question. A statement came from two factions. What factions? The Radical Party and Self-Help. And I give you my word for the speech, they're ready to replace the break for the speech. I'll give you three minutes to do this. And then, I remind you, Oksana sold the next amendment to 86, and we're moving on to the law. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-19-m0.u2	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Dear fellow national MPs, Ukraine before the 32nd anniversary of the Chernobyl disaster. It is our duty to adopt a law that will restore the national guarantees and social rights of people who have protected Ukraine and the world from the nuclear plague at the cost of their lives and health. The Radical Party faction blocks the parliamentary rostrum, demanding that it be placed in the agenda and that it consider Bill No. 4442, which renews the Act on State Guarantees for the Social Protection of Chernobyl. These State guarantees were revoked by the government of Azarov in 2011. To date, the law has not been restored, and any government by hand regulates payments to black people. We view this as dishonest and wrong. There are two decisions of the Constitutional Court that oblige the Chernobyl spending to be provided for in the State budget in order to enforce the law. We demand the implementation of the law, the restoration of social guarantees and state support for Ukrainian liquidators and survivors of the Chernobyl disaster, the restoration of state funding, the feeding of children in schools, the recalculation of pensions for Chernobyl, the restoration of health care and social security. We insist that the bill be considered so that Chernobyl heroes do not pick up when they need to be treated, treated, fed, and all the other problems associated with the Chernobyl plague. Regrettably, there is not much left of the Chernobyl family in Ukraine. Today, many of them are starving at the Ministry of Social Policy. They demand that the authorities hear them. When the authorities tell us that there are no funds for the execution of state guarantees for the Chernobyl population, stealing is less necessary. Cover the smuggling on customs, at least $5 billion, we'll get extra revenue from the state budget. Have an honest re-sales contest of 4G frequency, at least a billion dollars to the government budget. Stop corruption in the oil and gas sector and on municipal tariffs, at least $5 billion will be allocated to the state budget. Return the money from offshore, where hundreds of millions of dollars were spent. Here's the money for the Chernobyl community, for raising social standards, for raising wages and pensions for Ukrainians. To have money, one thing is to stop stealing and pursuing completely different economic policies, trade not in the national interests of Ukraine and in the non - cost labour force, but in the value added product, and make the Ukrainians earn in their own country. We demand a review of Bill 4442.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-19-m0.u3	So we are moving forward, i.e. further consideration of the draft Law on Amendments to certain Ukrainian legislative acts on ensuring the principles of procedural justice and improving the effectiveness of conduct in cases of violations of economic competition legislation (6746). I want to remind you that we stopped at the correction yesterday. Mrs. Oksana Sold! If possible, step away so that we can have visual contact with the right - hand author. 86 revisions, if I'm not mistaken. So now I'm asking Victoria the Bird to prepare for the discussion. And I invite you to the words of Oksana Prodan, 86 revisions. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-19-m0.u4	Dear Andrey Volodymyrovich! I have three amendments to confirm: 86, 87, and 112. In advance, there are no other amendments for confirmation. Please submit for confirmation amendment 86, which provides that when the applicant submits an application for a marker, he should submit, among other documents he submits, all the cartel participants he knows. Not all who are members of the cartel, but only those who are known to him. Because a market participant cannot know about all cartel participants. Please place on confirmation and please support the hall. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-19-m0.u5	Please, Mrs. Victoria.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-19-m0.u6	It was probably not about confirmation, but about Mrs. Oksana’s insistence on supporting the amendment. Because this amendment was rejected by the committee, like the previous Mrs. Oksana, 85th. The ideological committee supports your idea. But the committee was supported by the 82nd People's Deputy Ivanchuk, and this changed the structure of article 52 marked 1. And in this connection, the proposal that is now being presented is irrelevant and is no longer to be taken into account. That is why the 86 amendments were rejected by the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-19-m0.u7	Thank you. But Mrs. Oksana insists on voting. And that's why I'm going to take a separate vote on every amendment. First vote. Whoever supports the amendment of the 86 People's Chamber of Commerce, please vote, the committee has rejected it. [[10:13:06]] Z-71 The decision is not taken. I'm willing to vote on Amendment 87. Whoever supports it, please vote, the committee has rejected it. [[10:13:30.]] For-64 The decision is not taken. And I'm betting on the vote of Amendment 112. I'll be back. So I'm going to put 112. Please vote who supports it, the committee has rejected it. Please. [[10:13:59]] For-56 The decision is not taken. So I'm going after the following amendments. We haven't reached it yet, we've just gone through the Oxanas Sales Corrections, and now we're back to 90, and I'm calling. 94th. Don't insist. 95th. Don't insist. 96th. Don't insist. 97th. Don't insist. 98th. Don't insist. 99th. Don't insist. 103rd. Don't insist. 104th. He insists. And then you. 104th Semenha.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-19-m0.u8	Semenha Roman, "The Self-Help Union" faction. Dear colleagues, my right is to exclude from article 60 of the law rules on the protection of economic competition, a rule that severely limits the right of legal and natural persons to access to justice. The point is that article 60 of the law, although it gives the applicant and the defendant the right to appeal against the decisions of the Antimonopoly Committee, can only apply for a two - month period and cannot be reinstated. This means that whether the important reasons for missing a given term or not, the court will still refuse to refer the case to the plaintiff because the term cannot be restored. In our view, this approach is contrary to the current procedural legislation and practice of the European Court of Human Rights. I'd like to support you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-19-m0.u9	Thank you, Sir Semenich. Dear colleagues, so. We're voting now. I can't hear you, please turn on Mrs. Bird's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-19-m0.u10	I'll comment from the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-19-m0.u11	From the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-19-m0.u12	Yeah, I wanted to, so from the committee to say that, first of all, this position and this argument is completely irrelevant. First of all, I would like to draw the attention of the national deputy to the fact that he proposes to make changes to an article that was not considered in the first reading, which does not correspond explicitly with the Rules. Let's stick to the Rules anyway. It's different. The question of restoring missed applicants to challenge the decision of the Antimonopoly Committee is clearly not the subject of the project, and the purpose of the change does not result from the adoption of other changes proposed by the project. These are the general rules of procedural legislation and, in particular, the Code of Conduct. Therefore, it is not possible to talk about the fact that someone deprived of the right to appeal is in force because the general standards of the GCC are in force, please let us apply them.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-19-m0.u13	Thank you. Dear colleagues, even in the Presidium, are not aware of the way the discussion is going. I don't think anyone in the hall has heard Mr. Semenah's amendment of honor or the explanation of the honourable Mrs. Bird. I ask you very much, let us honor one another, both those near the rostrum and those seated in the hall, and listen to the discussion. Please, I'm putting to the vote Amendment 104. Semenah explained his position if anyone heard him. It's a committee against it. Please identify yourself in the hall. [[10:17:19]] For-82 82 people's deputies. Correction not supported. Next 105. Mrs. Sumar doesn't insist. 106th Semenha. 106th? Don't insist. I'm watching. Stop! 107th was, Semenha. Now 106th. Now. 106th is Ivanchuk's amendment. But Odarchenka’s national deputy demands that he be given his word. Ivanchuk’s amendment was supported by a committee. Please, National Deputy Odarchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-19-m0.u14	Thank you, Mrs. Irina. I'm asking 106 to make an amendment for confirmation. Honorary colleagues, the bill stipulates that in the event of a complaint by the Antimonopoly Committee, it takes effect only after the complaint has been brought before all three institutions, i.e. the Supreme Court. The 106 amendments taken into account indicate that the decision of the Antimonopoly Committee takes effect after the appeal. Thus, there may be some rather complex situations where a multimillion-dollar fine will be applied after the appeal, and an incredibly overloaded Supreme Court will consider this complaint in two or three years, when the funds are collected, the enterprise will go bankrupt. So until the Supreme Court is properly staffed, I suggest that you leave the first reading: all the downloads after the final decision. Please place this amendment on confirmation.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-19-m0.u15	Thank you. Please, Your Honor, please comment from the Committee on Amendment 106.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-19-m0.u16	We have general principles that say that the decisions of the Antimonopoly Committee do not take effect during this two-month period. during which the subject is given the right to an accusation. If two months passed, he did not charge, respectively, the decision of the Antimonopoly Committee becomes effective and must be implemented. On the other hand, if he goes to court, there are general principles. There is an opportunity to sue in the first instance and again, if he does not continue to appeal, the decision becomes effective. If, however, he complains in an appeal, it is obvious that the decision must be taken after. shall enter into force after appeal. So I ask you to support Ivanchuk's amendment and not balance the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-19-m0.u17	Dear colleagues, I'm paying attention to you. I've just been speaking from Mrs. Birdskin's Committee. And she's now asking the room to point out that the committee has supported Amendment 106 and is asking not to balance the bill. I'm betting on confirmation of Deputy Odarchenk's request for amendment 106, reminding you that the committee has supported it. Please make up your mind. [[10:20:40]] For-127 127 votes in favour. Please take the committee into account when we approach the finish line. 105 amendment, national deputy Sažko. And I'm sorry I missed you. Please, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-19-m0.u18	Thank you. Sergey Sažko, 59th constituency, Donetskina. Please consider my amendment No. 105 on making changes to part one of article 60 of the law. It is proposed that the right to challenge decisions be established not only by the authorities of the AMCA but also directly by officials who make their own decisions, orders, or demands. Targeted to extend existing practical remedies for operators, it is suggested, inter alia, to allow changes to the AMCA's decision because of a complaint about the size of the fine in court, Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-19-m0.u19	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I'm putting to the vote the amendment of 105 National MP Saska, the committee rejected it, the author asks for support. Please make up your mind. [[10:22:00]] For-92 92 votes for your amendment, it doesn't count. 107th People's Deputies, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-19-m0.u20	Semenha Roman, "The Self-Help Union" faction. This amendment also applies to the setting of a deadline during which the decision of the Ukrainian Antimonopoly Committee to impose a fine should the subject of the complaint be suspended. At the same time, the draft law provides for the possibility of the court stopping the decision of the Antimonopoly Committee until the appeal is closed. Our law provides that in the event of a cassation of the enforcement of the decisions of the Antimonopoly Committee, the decision of the court of cassation will cease to be valid. Please be supportive. I think it's perfectly logical that allows us to suspend the decision of the Antimonopoly Committee until the final decision of the court. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-19-m0.u21	Thank you, Your Honor. The committee turned her down. Dear colleagues, I call once again for silence in the session room so that we can, well, honor the authors of the amendments and hear their explanations. And I'm asking you to identify yourself. Please change number 107. [[10:23:18]] For-81 81 votes. Your amendment is not supported. 110th. Mrs. Birdie, turn on the microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-19-m0.u22	No, no, no, I don't insist.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-19-m0.u23	Mrs. Birdie doesn't insist. Thank you very much, Mrs. Bird. 112th, Mrs. Prodan. We've already spoken about this amendment. 114th, Mrs. Bird. Last one, 117th, Mrs. Schrum. Olena Schrum. I can't see. Don't insist. Dear colleagues, we've finished the work on the amendments. I very much ask you now to listen very carefully to the representative of Mrs. Victoria the Bird that will sum up the discussion, and especially to the rule concerning amendment 106. And we're going to be determined by the vote. I'm asking for your attention! And please turn on Mrs. Bird's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-19-m0.u24	Ladies and gentlemen, I very much ask you to support this legislative initiative, because this is about the protection and rights of consumers who have both rights and deserve that the Anti-Monopoly Committee should actually hold all violators accountable, and consumers should buy quality goods at cheap prices. This is about protecting business, because there can be no culpability, including on the part of the Antimonopoly Committee, and there can be no two-pronged approach. Moreover, I want to say that this is an effective mechanism for investigating the most dangerous cartel competition violations, and here we are providing the mechanisms envisaged by the European Union. There are a lot of positive norms here, and I'd really like to have my work done before, because I'm not the person of the process, I'm the person of the outcome. I very much ask you to support and wait for me to quietly go to the maternity home and give birth there, not in this session room. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-19-m0.u25	Mrs. Victoria, you're going to have a lot of babysitters if anything happens in this session room. But it's gonna be okay. Friends, we heard the drafter, and we heard the position, in this case, and the committee. And the committee asks us to return to the 106th amendment before the vote. I ask the MPs to return to the session room and we will be determined by the vote. The head of the committee requires words. [[B in m in s a l in]] We were just giving a closing word from Mrs. Birdman of the Committee. Is there anything you'd like to add? When I break the rules, I apologize to my colleague immediately. Mr. Andrey, can I give you a word? Yes. In violation of the Rules, I give two minutes to the head of the committee. Fellows, go back to work for the time being. Please, Mr. Andrey. We are no longer in violation of the Rules today, we are now withdrawing a little from it. Please, two minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-19-m0.u26	Dear Madam Chairman! Dear National Deputies! I would like, Mrs. Irina, just to ask you to put before the voting for the bill as a whole in the second reading to confirm Amendments 73 and 106, because if we don't count them, they are now out of the body of the law, the bill will be completely balanced and there is no point in adopting it in the second reading and in general. I very much ask you to put 73 and 106 votes before the general vote, please. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-19-m0.u27	Thank you. Thank you, Your Honor. Just like the author of the bill, and Victoria Ptašnik's committee representative asked to return to these amendments before the final vote. These are amendments, I remind you, 73 and 106 without which the committee believes this bill is being balanced. Dear colleagues, we are now going to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-19-m0.u28	So, colleagues, let's move on to making a decision. And I'm asking everyone to come into the hall and take jobs. So, colleagues, in the course of the discussion, the chairman of the committee and the rapporteur asked us to go back to number 73 and 106. They are convinced that without those rights, the law will be incomplete and will not work fully. So the committee asks that the Supreme Council Hall return to rights 73 and 106 and take these regulations into account, and then move on to the adoption of the law as a whole. And so now I'm going to put these two amendments to the vote, and then the law as a whole. Please take your seats and prepare for the vote. Attention, colleagues! Please go back to work, and we'll move on to making a decision. So I'm voting on the proposal to go back to rights 73 and 106, this is the committee's request. And I'm asking you to support the committee's proposal, and I'm asking you to vote in favour of returning to number 73 and regulation 106. Please vote. And I'm asking you to back me up. So we vote. Please be supportive. Please vote for the return. Vote. [[10:29:42]] For 175 We didn't make it. I'll do it again, but it's too big a break. So once again, I want to say that we've been talking about the bill for a few hours. The committee head requests that we return to rights 73 and 106 because otherwise the law may be unbalanced. So I'm asking all the national MPs to take a closer look at this proposal and I'm going to put the motion back on the vote. Please take up your jobs. You're ready, aren't you? So once again, I'm going to ask you to go back to the 73 and to the 106. Please vote and support the return. Please support the committee's proposal. Vote. Please be supportive. Vote. [[10:30:50]] For-188. There is no majority in the room to go back to the right. And so we move on to the adoption of the law as a whole without going back to those rights. And I am voting on the draft Act amending certain Ukrainian legislative acts to ensure the principles of procedural justice and improve the efficiency of conduct in cases of infringement of economic competition legislation (No. 6746). And I ask you to vote on the law in the second reading and in general. Please vote and please support. Colleagues, we vote. Please be supportive. With the offer of the head of the Fairmark subcommittee, who sounded it under the transcript. [[10:31:55]] For-200 Colleagues, during the discussion, we actually supported all the factions in the bill. I'll be right back. One minute, please, Victoria the Bird. And I'd like you to come into the hall and take your jobs. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-19-m0.u29	Colleagues, I call on those MPs who don't vote. I don't understand why you don't want to put in place, for example, specific lines during which the Antimonopoly Committee is going to investigate the violation, so that it doesn't take years for these investigations, but that they're going to be obliged to bring matters to an end, so that they don't lose their business constantly with their questions, and that business has to answer all the time, and that they have to investigate these cases to the end. Why you do not want to vote that the owners have the right to know about the documents and that the committee is obliged to answer. provide this documentation? Why do you not want to introduce procedures that are in the European Union in order to investigate the cartels at last, so that the committee does not deal with minor issues, but that there is really a secret conspiracy in the market that is being investigated and that violators are being held accountable? I call on everyone, because it's business rights, it's investigating the most dangerous cases, and it's actually consumer rights that have the right to buy quality goods, not overpriced.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-19-m0.u30	30 seconds, complete. And please come into the hall. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-19-m0.u31	This is about the rights of consumers who are entitled to quality products at economically sound prices. And if individual monopolies abuse their rights and actually raise prices for their products, they should be punished, including the Antimonopoly Committee. So I'm asking you very much to support this initiative. This initiative was born along with the Association’s competition law lawyers.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-19-m0.u32	Thank you. Colleagues, I'm asking you to take up your jobs. Indeed, this initiative came about nine months ago, nine months ago we prepared this bill, and the committee carried out the work. Have respect for Victoria the Bird, who has come to report to the hall and is expected to be waiting in the hospital for a son or a daughter today. She came to convince us that this law would be upheld. Let us also show respect for the ideas set forth in the law, but also for the author of the law, and for the committee that prepared the bill. Let's go back now, colleagues, and vote on the law as a whole. I'm sure it's just not everyone's orientation. Nine months of law, and let us make a positive decision today. Please come into the hall. I'll be back in a minute. So, colleagues, I'm voting on the proposal to go back to draft Law No. 6746. I ask everyone to participate carefully in the vote and ask everyone to vote and support. So, colleagues, I would like to vote in favour of the return to draft Law 6746. Please, everyone, carefully take part in the vote and please support. So we vote. Arthur, every voice. Please take your seats. Please vote for the return, please support. Vote. Please be supportive. I'd like your support, colleagues. Vote. [[10:36:08]] For the 220. Six votes. Six votes. If you'd like to invite the deputies into the hall, I'll put them back in. I see we haven't made it. Six votes. Please take up jobs. Heads of factions, invite the deputies to the hall. So don't leave the hall, please. Mr. Igor, come back. The MPs are here. And I, my colleagues, am re-voting the proposal to return. And I'm voting on the proposal to go back to voting for bill 6746. And I ask everyone to be in the workplace and take part in the vote. So I'm putting the vote back to 6746 and I'm asking everyone to vote, and I'm asking you to come back. Vote. Please be supportive. Please vote. Let's vote, colleagues. Careful! Every voice. Vote. [[10:38:15]] For 215 Guys, I'll put it back on. And I ask the heads of factions, please show by factions. The factions. "Peter Prashenko" – 84, "The People's Front" – 64, "The Opposition Block" – 0, "The Self-Help" – 14, "The Fatherhood" – 13, "The Will of the People" – 5, "The Rebirth Party" – 1. I want to report to you now that after the next Security and Defence Act, I will put forward a proposal for the inclusion in the agenda of a number of bills and among them also Bill 4442, which will include this bill. And I'm asking you to take the job right now, and take the vote. Please. So, colleagues, I ask you to prepare for the vote and I ask you to take part in the vote. I would like to vote in favour of returning to the draft Act amending some of the Ukrainian legislative acts to ensure the principles of procedural justice and to improve the effectiveness of implementation in cases of violations of economic competition legislation, in return. I ask everyone to participate carefully in the vote, and I ask for your support. So I would like to vote for the return to 6746. Please vote and please support, we vote. Please support, we vote. [[10:40:58]] For 227 We're back to the law. Now I'm re-nominationing the vote, going back to 73 and 106. So let me vote. Who supports the Committee's proposal for a return to rights 73 and 106. Please vote, please support your return to your right. Please vote, please support. [[10:41:34]] For-198 Hall didn't come back. The decision is not taken. And I now put to the vote the draft Act amending some of the Ukrainian legislative acts to ensure the principles of procedural justice and to improve the effectiveness of implementation in cases of violations of economic competition legislation (No. 6747) in the second reading and in general with the amendment of Firemark, which was made yesterday under the transcript. Please vote and please support. Colleagues, every voice. Please vote, please support. Colleagues, vote. Arthur, we have a vote. Please be supportive. Please vote. Let's vote, colleagues. Please be supportive. Vote. Vote. [[10:42:34]] For 212 What's going on in the hall, colleagues? I'll put it back on, if there are no votes, I'll put it back on second reading. But a strange situation is happening in the hall. So, colleagues, once again I'm proposing to return to draft Law 6746 and I'm asking you to vote and I'm asking you to support it. Vote, colleagues, every voice. If you'll excuse me, I'd like to vote. We're voting for the return. Please be supportive. [[10:43:26]] For 217 So I'm betting on the second reading again. I'm asking you, colleagues, to support the second reading again. We've been looking at the bill for three years. We worked three hours to make the best decision. So I'm voting on the next proposal provided by the Rules for draft Law 6746 to be sent to the committee. Do you vote? All right, colleagues, pay attention! I'm going to put the situation in the faction again, and I'm going to put it back again. But I'm asking everyone to vote with great care, to vote responsibly. So everyone's ready? Every voice matters, look. I'm voting on the proposal to return to draft Law 6746. Please vote, please support the return. Please be supportive. Vote! Please vote. Vote. [[10:44:35]] For 223 She didn't make it. Irina Heratschenko didn't make it, that's a big reason. So I'm betting on the return of Law 6746. And I ask everyone, I emphasize, to vote responsibly and carefully. Please support the return to draft Law 6746. Please vote, please support. Vote, fellows! Carefully and responsibly! Vote! Please be supportive. Vote. [[10:45:14]] For 222 No, it's not. So I'm voting a motion to have Law 6746 sent to the committee for a second reading. Please vote and please support the 6746 committee for a second reading. Please vote. We vote that we don't lose the bill. Please support everyone. Vote, please. [[10:45:49]] For 238. Decision taken. Now, colleagues. [[B in m in s a l in]] No! No! Our colleagues, the next law, is very short -- 6689 -- this is the draft Act amending article 21-4 of the Ukrainian Law on Military Duty and Military Service. After this law, we move on to the issue of regulations and the inclusion of the day session in the order of the day. And I'm asking you, colleagues, to prepare. I invite you to report to the National Security and Defence Committee of John Winnick. There's only nine bars, and I'm asking everyone to stay in the workplace.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-19-m0.u33	Good morning, dear colleagues. It's a simple but very important project. It increases the one - time payment to families of dead military personnel from 500 to 750 minimum. He diversifys payments when he receives the corresponding disabilities, injuries, and so on. During the service of military personnel. In addition, it extends social protection to non-citizens and foreigners who, according to current legislation, have the right to contract and serve in the Ukrainian Armed Forces and protect our state with you. There were 15 rights to this project, two are listed in editorial terms, 13 are rejected. At once, I would like to say, according to the remedies that have been rejected, they involved the spread of social protection in families whose deaths occurred, not immediately during injuries, but after a certain period of time or illness. I would like to remind everyone, colleagues, that the relevant bill (for registration number 6268-1) has already been considered by our committee in the first reading, is prepared by the committee for second reading. We didn't make it to the committee yesterday. But I think that today, maybe we'll hold a committee in the hall and ask the Chief of the Supreme Council at the evening session to vote on it. Now I'm asking you to support 6689 and move on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-19-m0.u34	Thank you, Your Honor. We're moving on to the amendments, we're moving on to the amendments. Amendment No. 3 of the People's Deputy of Seminy. Mr. Semenach, Your Honor, Mr. Semenach, do you insist on the 3rd? And amendment number two, People's Deputy Capplin. It was taken into account in part, but the author insists on taking full account. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-19-m0.u35	I insist. I insist on a full vote in favour of this amendment in the line of reference. And I would like to take this opportunity to emphasize, to address the faction leaders present today, with maximum mobilisation, to vote on the Chernobyl laws and to allow those people who, by the way, have come to the Supreme Council of Ukraine today to receive adequate social security and recalculated pensions. And I ask you to include a broadcast of a meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the street where several hundred black people from all over the country are gathered. They should know about today's session and the consideration of our legislative initiatives concerning the protection of their social rights, their pensions, and generally the issue of respect by the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the coalition, the authorities, the opposition to the Chernobylites. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-19-m0.u36	I ask you to discuss, I ask you very much to discuss amendments, not to speak on political issues when discussing amendments to a completely different bill. We're not discussing social issues right now, Your Honor. We're not making a second amendment to the vote because the author wanted to make a political statement, not sound an amendment. Dear colleagues, this amendment was partly taken into account by the committee and we do not vote on it. 4th Amendment, People's Deputy of Semimenah. Amendment number 3, People's Deputy of Semimenach does not insist. Amendment number 4. I'm asking you to turn on the microphone for the People's Deputy Semensi. And please give me amendment number four. The main thing that goes on is your revisions, my dear colleague. And I'm asking you very much -- there's 15 of your amendments and one of Caplin's, make up your mind. which is in principle for you to put to the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-19-m0.u37	Semenha Roman, "The Self-Help Union" faction. Dear Chairman, I'm with your permission in fact 7 revisions. I would like to point out to colleagues that the manual distribution and budget management of the government has resulted in other, unfortunately, consequences, namely, that the payment of one-off cash assistance in the event of the disability of the group resulting from injury, injury or injury during military service has been disrupted and that the payment has decreased significantly. According to Kabminu’s decree, its calculation takes place using the minimum subsistence rate set at the beginning of the year. I suggest that you replace this index with the minimum subsistence rate set at the time the disabled military officer is installed. And this one-time aid is 400 living minimums. From the beginning and the end of the year, the subsistence minimum usually increases by 150 dollars, that is to say, in fact, a cash difference of 60,000 dollars, which is a considerable amount of money for a person who has partially or completely lost his job. That's why I'm asking you to back me up. It seems to me that this will be more in line with the need to resolve this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-19-m0.u38	Thank you, Sir Semenich. We are discussing the 7th amendment at the request of the People's Deputy of Semimenha, and the Secretary of the Committee of Safety and Defence requires a word to express the position of the committee. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-19-m0.u39	In general, we certainly support that, over the course of a year, living minimum can change, but this is certainly also related to budget expenditure and, although we support the ideology of this amendment, we are obliged to abide by the requirements of the Rules and the Constitution, that the bills that we accept must also take into account the requirements of the Budget Code. That's why it's about January 1. We're going to adopt the budget every year for the following year, we're going to set the minimum minimum of living per year, and this is the principle of the rule of law that we're always taking into account in this session hall -- this was rejected. Although, in fact, we certainly support the absolute adequacy of social assistance payments in relation to the current economic situation, inflation processes, its indexation over the year, or within the relevant deadlines. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-19-m0.u40	Thank you. Dear colleagues, at the request of the People's Deputy of Semimenah, we are now to be determined by Amendment 7. Roman, Mr. Roman has presented his position to us. I'm asking very much for the hall to be defined right now. The committee turned her down. I'd like to make a statement. [[10:54:18]] For 118 118 national deputies supported your amendment, Mr. Romane, but it doesn't count. I understand you're not insisting on the 4th, the 5th, the 6th, and the 7th we're past. 8-a, 9-a, you don't insist. 10th, 11th, don't insist. And now Capplin, National Deputy, the 12th Amendment. I'm sorry. We're gonna talk to the niggers through a couple of laws. Please, Mr. Capplin's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-19-m0.u41	Please place an amendment to the vote in my editor's statement. And, Madam Chairman, once again, I urge you to include a broadcast of the Supreme Council meeting for the people gathered on the street. I want to tell you that as the son of a dead nigger who volunteered to protect the world from the Chernobyl plague, I have the moral right to represent their interests here and to make sure that they get it, that the living get social protection. I ask you to enquire, turn on the broadcast for the Chernobylites on the street, so that those who come from all over the country will hear about what is happening in the Supreme Council of Ukraine, and see the gratitude of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to them, and the willingness of the Supreme Council to protect their social rights. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-19-m0.u42	Dear colleague, I beg you to abide by the Rules. And I would like to ask you to speak solely on the grounds of Amendment 12. We didn't hear the text of amendment number 12, which the committee, by the way, rejected because you dedicated your speech to another issue. A representative of the committee, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-19-m0.u43	Well, actually, this project was called upon to extend social protection to foreigners and non-citizens who contracted military service. And the idea of providing adequate equivalent social protection to those who, on an equal footing with Ukrainian citizens, protect our state, relied on the basis of this project. So this correction actually duplicates the idea, and that's why it's rejected. The committee actually prepared for the second reading of this project, took into account all the observations of the scientific management. And the brilliant norm that defines that foreigners and stateless persons who are legally engaged in military service in the Armed Forces of Ukraine under a contract that extends to them social protection, which is provided for military personnel of Ukraine and their families, is included in the text in the second reading on the proposal of the Chief Scientific and Experimental Authority. So let us move on to making a decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-19-m0.u44	Thank you, Your Honor. Please identify yourself by. Dear Mr. Capplin, to determine your correction? Appointing for Amendment 12. [[10:57:38]] For-99 99 votes, correction not supported. And the last amendment to this bill is number 15. I ask you to turn on the microphone to the distinguished Mr. Semenichi and thank him for presenting his amendments in a very concise manner. Last amendment number 15. Colleagues, please return to the session room. This is going to be a very important vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-19-m0.u45	Semenha Roman, "The Self-Help Union" faction. Dear colleagues, the law applies equally to the size and attachment to the subsistence minimum, namely. I propose that one-time financial assistance to Ukrainian military personnel and members of their families will also be determined, based on the size of the subsistence minimum established on the date of death or the date of disability, the date of determination of the rate of disability without disability, not on January 1, as proposed by the draft law. The editing, by the way, is symmetrical to 3, 7 and 10, which is intended for foreign and stateless military personnel and members of their families. Please be supportive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-19-m0.u46	Dear colleagues, please identify yourself for Amendment 15. Amendment number 15. I'd like to make a statement, fellow officers of honor. Vote. This is the amendment of the 15th People's Deputy of Semimenha. The committee turned her down. The author insists. [[10:59:01]] For 116 116 national deputies have been supported, Your Honor, Mr. Romane, by your amendment. It's deflecting. And we finished our consideration of the bill. Colleagues, I very much ask you to return to the session room of all.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-19-m0.u47	So, colleagues, we've finished the discussion and we're moving on to making a decision. I'm asking everyone to come into the hall and take jobs. So I ask everyone to prepare for the vote, for the decision. So I'm voting on the draft Act amending article 21-4 of the Ukrainian Act on Military Duty and Military Service (No. 6689) on second reading and in general. Please vote, please support. Let's vote, colleagues. Please be supportive. [[11:00:30]] For the 250. The law is passed. Now, colleagues, let's move on to the chapter to the agenda and to the decision-making process. And the first is the bill of support for the President of Ukraine's appeal to the Universal Patriarch Warfolomy to provide Tomos with the Orthodox Church's auto-cafalia in Ukraine. So I'm putting a motion to vote so that we can look at it right after the day-to-day session. So I ask everyone to prepare for the vote. Everyone please take part in the vote and I ask for your support. Fellows, return to the hall. Go back to the hall, please. Go back to the hall. And I'm asking you to support the proposal for inclusion in the agenda for the decision of Project Order 8284. Please vote and please support. Vote. Please be supportive. [[11:01:46]] For 240 Decision taken. Next. I demand that the Petra Dustenka block propose the inclusion in the agenda for the adoption of the draft Law on the National Bureau of Financial Security of Ukraine (8157, 8157-1 and 8157-2). Please support the inclusion of the day session in order to make a decision. Please vote, please support. Vote. If you'll excuse me, I'd like to vote. [[11:02:39]] For a hundred and The decision is not taken. Next. As promised, I propose to include in the agenda of the day session the draft Laws 4442 and 4442-1. Please vote. [[11:03:11]] For 242 We've put it in order of the day. Please, I'll bet again. We don't get it. So once again, I'm putting a motion for a vote to put the agenda into order for the decision-making session of the draft law, which the Security Committee insists on, is draft Law 82. Tell me, the security committee, give me a hint. Vinick, don't you insist? What? There was no committee decision. So, colleagues, I am now, colleagues, since there is no final decision on the Security Committee when the Security Committee makes its final decision, we'll put it up to date. And now we're moving on to the question that we've put into the agenda of the day session. This is a draft decree supporting the appeal of the President of Ukraine to the Ecumenical Patriarch Bartholomew to provide Tomos with the Automobile of the Orthodox Church in Ukraine (No. 8284). And I would like to report that the President of Ukraine, Peter Alexiyovich Poroshenko, has arrived in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. And I invite you to participate in the discussion and decision-making of this bill by President Peter Alexiyovich Poroshenko of Ukraine. Please. [[Applause]] And I invite you to speak with the President of Ukraine, Peter Alexiyovich Prashenko. I'd like everyone's attention, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-19-m0.u48	Christ Voscres! Dear Mr. Head! Honorable Predestination! Dear colleagues of the Ukrainian National Deputies! Dear Ukrainian people, dear compatriots! Like thunder in the middle of a clear sky, this is the question that we are discussing and discussing today has occurred for many of those who are not very careful in following the issue of the Ukrainian only Mass Orthodox Church. I want to point out that she was in my line of work, the Church, the highest priority in my election program, and from the very first days of the presidency. I have repeatedly emphasized this in my presentations, especially on the day of baptism, and I have strengthened my words with works to fulfill my promises. And all these years, the foreign - eyed dialogue between Ukraine and the universe throne lasted. Our team members were on their way to Fanar for work. Fighting for the Ukrainian Church is a job that is important, honorable, but at the same time extremely responsible. My great encounter with His Holiness, Patriarch Bartholomew, was far from the first, but it turned out to be the first most encouraging and most effective. In the course of a few hours of conversation with Patriarch, with the Synod, I finally felt that it was time to cut this diplomatic silence with quick concrete steps. You see, even the sun came up during our discussion. [[Applause]] For days I wrote an official petition to the Space Patriarch for Tomos, for the Orthodox Church’s autocafalia in Ukraine, for the Ukrainian Church’s independence, if you speak secularly. And this long - awaited Tomos will be not only an act of Orthodoxy but also an act of deep, deep historical justice. It was from the Kingdom that the light of Christian faith was shed on our blessed earth, and after that we shared with the coffers where the ancient princes of Kiev were very carelessly founded by Moscow. [[Applause]] The long - awaited Tomos will further strengthen religious freedom in Ukraine, strengthen interfaith peace, establish the law and freedoms of citizens, who will finally be the only ones to cease to be divided into seemingly canonic and seemingly uncanonical. Such a Tomos, my dears, will strengthen our independence, he will remove the rudiments of that political project, which is called "Russian peace," and which, by the way, has been invented by the hierarchy of the Russian Orthodox Church. Then this dangerous political heresy was taken into arms by the Russian Federation. And finally, our united Ukrainian Orthodox Church can become the largest in the entire Orthodox world. And I was talking about this perspective this week with the leaders of all three Orthodox churches in Ukraine. The Constantinople Church has been, is and will be, a Mother Church to which we, her children, seek help in overcoming division, and His Holiness is the only one who can help the Orthodox Ukraine to settle the canon status of the Ukrainian Church in the structure of the world Orthodox Church. So I ask you, honourable national deputies, to support my letter to the Space Patriarch by special decree of Parliament. I remember very well that you had already voted in favour of Vladika, and that was in 2016. I'll tell you in secret, I'm also writing letters to his Holiness not for the first time. But now it has to be done again, on diplomatic grounds, to continue and complete the successful negotiation process of the multi-year age. Which has many years of time and time. Your letter, your determination, which I hope you will now accept and support, appropriate addresses of the Ukrainian hierarchy that have already been signed, and I have to send to Istanbul as soon as possible. His Holiness, Patriarch Filaret, handed over to me the signatures of all the hierarchy of the Kyiv Patriarchate with a request to the Universe about Tomos regarding autocafalia. In the same way, they wrote to the Universal Patriarch of the Ukrainian Autocaphal Orthodox Church, and Bishop Makarios has already given them to me. And I'm glad not only that these two churches responded to my call quickly, but they certainly demonstrated for the first time in 26 years the willingness to unite and forget some of the misunderstandings that have occasionally arisen in their relationship. I would like to point out that the door of the united church is open to all. I would like to remind everyone of the words of the late Prime Minister of the Ukrainian Orthodox Church of the Moscow Patriarchate of Metropolitan Volodymyr: "Autocefalia is a way of organizing church life, witnessing the numerical and qualitative growth of the church, its ability to form itself." And in turn, once again, I emphasize that we should leave the ancient canon principle: civil and land distributions should follow the distribution of church affairs. Every time after independence, the State began to discuss autocafalia. At different times, it was in Greece, Serbia, Romania, Bulgaria, Georgia, and the same Russia, and so forth. And we're like that saying, "We ate at the god of the calf"? Ukraine as an independent state, according to the traditions of the Orthodox world, is not simply entitled, it is obliged to establish such a church and ensure its recognition by the entire world of the Orthodox Church. And I would like to point out that many polls show that, to an increasing number of Orthodox citizens of Ukraine, they want to have, as established in the whole Orthodox world, in most Orthodox countries, the only suburban Autokefal Ukrainian Church. [[Applause]] The church, which will be eucharistically, is prayerfully combined with other local churches, but administratively independent of any foreign church jurisdiction, especially the one directly linked to the aggressor country. And I have addressed the Universe on behalf of millions of Ukrainian citizens of Orthodox religion who prefer to have their own church recognized by the world as, I now stress separately, their own church as an absolutely necessary attribute of an independent state, the state of Ukraine. [[Applause]] Dear and dear national deputies, all the churches of the new and modern times have been recognized only by the active involvement of the State in this process. These are the tradition and requirement of the Universal patriarchal throne. And, in fact, autocafalia is given not as much to a particular church as it is given to the country. So for us, as the President, for you, the honourable people's deputies, to stay away would be to support the status quo that suits Moscow. And I've warned you a long time ago, I'm sorry to quote myself, that we're not going to scrutinize another state. Involvement of another state in our church affairs because of its attempts to exploit the feelings of part of the Ukrainian Orthodox people in its interests. And we've been looking for, and we've found this form that, regardless of whether it's bigger or smaller, all of Ukraine's Orthodox jurisdictions finally become joint participants in the constitution of the District Church of Ukraine. For all true patriots, strengthening unity is a priority, because unity is our main weapon in the fight against the Russian aggressor. And I am glad that this idea brought the whole Supreme Council together, and I am very grateful for it. Thank you very much to both the Head and the faction leaders, each national MP for agreeing to consider this matter without delay. It's really worth it. It goes far beyond the church, it's about our final independence from Moscow. Ladies and gentlemen, it's not just religion, it's geopolitical. And for me, this is about the establishment of an independent local church of the same weight as the stateless one, the Association Agreement with the European Union, as our joint struggle for EU membership and NATO membership, which is still ahead. This is a matter of national security and our defenses in this hybrid war, because the Kremlin views the Russian Church as one of the key instruments of influence on Ukraine. So I would like to stress that I am very determined to act and to resist all those who will interfere with the national interests of Ukraine and will now try to break down cooperation with the Universal Patriarchal throne. [[Applause]] And at the time, I want to assure you that the Tomos that we so hope for and for which we are doing so much work, and the appearance of the professed One Mass Church will in no way violate the constitutional principle of freedom of conscience. The only Orthodox Mass Church will not become a state, and all believers have and will have the right to freely choose both a particular temple and a specific church jurisdiction. And whoever wants to stay in that church that will preserve the unity of the Russian Orthodox Church also retains this guaranteed right of choice. And in such a matter of religion, of any compulsion or prohibition -- and I'm underscoring it separately -- it's absolutely unacceptable. In particular, I would like to stress the inadmissibility of any violence in interfaith relations. His applause, do not bring forth the Lord, the collisions will certainly draw us, not close to the goal, but away from it. Or more -- they can make it impossible to achieve it. There's gonna be a car accident, time's gonna put everything in its place. Not in a day, not in a month, not in a year, not even in a year, but in a certain way. And after you vote, I'll be able to tell His Holiness Bartholomew today that we all basically did our part of what we talked about and what we agreed on on April 9th. And let the powerful voice of millions of Orthodox Ukrainians, bishops and laymen, the position of power, the position of parliament, the position of the President be heard by the Universal Patriarch and the Synod. I believe in the Ukrainian automobile because I believe it has God’s will on it. We remain conscientiously praying for the Universal Patriarch and for giving Thomas the Orthodox Church of Ukraine as soon as possible. I urge everyone, everyone to pray for it. Thank you. [[Applause]] Christ Voscres! And the glory of Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-19-m0.u49	Thank you, Mr. President. Thank you, Mr. President. And a word of invitation is made to the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Andri Volodymyrovich Parubius, who will present this decree. [[Applause]] And I want to remind my colleagues that among the decision makers is the leadership of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and most of the leaders of the MP groups and factions. Please, Mr. Andrey.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-19-m0.u50	Dear Mr. President! Dear colleagues! Today we have a historic chance – the President of Ukraine has asked Parliament to support his appeal to His Holiness Bartholomew. I want to remind you that in its time the Ukrainian Parliament accepted a petition to the Patriarch, and that then greatly intensified the dialogue and brought the debate about the creation in Ukraine of the only Mass Orthodox Church. I met and met with the Holy Patriarch and Bishops on November 19th, 16th, and they appreciated very highly the address given by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. It started an annual and extensive discussion. Today’s appeal can bring us closer to that historic day when it can be the proclamation of the creation of the only Massive Ukrainian Orthodox Church. With God’s help, we restore historical justice. After all, church canons clearly claim that every nation, every independent state, has the right to its own independent church. We return and realize our legitimate right to have our own Orthodox Church of the Ukrainian people. Very symbolic of this year’s 100th anniversary of the convening of the All - Ukrainian Church Council, which advocated the creation of an independent church of the Moscow Patriarchate of the Ukrainian Orthodox Church. Then, 100 years ago, on January 19, 18, the work of the Council was interrupted by an attack by Russian majority troops on Kiev. And today we have the same enemy that's trying to dictate to us our story that's trying to dictate what our future should be. But today we're restoring the chance that we failed to implement 100 years ago by creating the only Mass Orthodox Church and giving it caefalism. It's not just a religious question, it's a matter of historical importance, it's a question of affirming our statehood, it's a matter of national security, and it's a question of being a Ukrainian state and of being a Ukrainian nation. The most holy Patriarch of Bartholomew is the only person in the world who has the canonic right and the legal authority to give the Ukrainian Church Tomos the autocephaly. And I hope that in the 1030th anniversary of the baptism of Russia-Ukraine, the Ukrainian people will receive a historical gift from the hands of the Holy Patriarch. And I am confident that today our entire hall will be able to unite around this appeal and support the appeal of the President of Ukraine. God, help us with this. Christ Voscres! Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-19-m0.u51	Thank you, Mr. Head. And the co-report invites Irina Podoljak, the first deputy head of the Committee on Culture and Spirituality, to present the committee’s position. And we are very grateful to the profile committee for having the relevant decision reviewed expeditiously. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-19-m0.u52	Dear colleagues, the Committee on Culture and Spirituality at its meeting on 18 April 2018, discussed the draft Decision on Support for the Address of the President of Ukraine to the Space Patriarch Warfolomy on the granting of Tomos to the Orthodox Church in Ukraine by the People's Deputies of Ukraine Paruby, Heratschenko, Timoshenko, Gerasimov, Burbak, Teteruk, Berezuk, Láško, Lucenko, Siroid, Ivahivi. The purpose of the draft decision is to support the appeal of the President of Ukraine to the Universal Patriarch Warfolomy for the granting of Tomos to the Orthodox Church in Ukraine. The panellists stressed the importance of adopting the above draft decision. And as a result of the review, the Committee on Culture and Spirituality recommends a draft Order to support the President of Ukraine's appeal to the Space Patriarch Bartholomew to provide Tomos with the Orthodox Church's autocephaly in Ukraine as a whole. Thank you, colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-19-m0.u53	Thank you. I'd like the factions and groups to record a statement from the rostrum. Please participate in the recording and please record. From the Radical Party to the word Lazko Oleg Valeriyovich is invited.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-19-m0.u54	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. The Ukrainian Mass Church is the cornerstone of the foundations of an independent state. Therefore, the Radical Party team will unanimously support the appeal to the Universal Patriarch for recognition of the autocathalism and independence of the Ukrainian Church. I'd like to speak to President Dusty. We listened very carefully to your talk. You rightly said that to overcome Russian aggression requires unity. But, Your Honor Peter Alexiovich, that is not all it takes to overcome Russian aggression. To overcome Russian aggression, in addition to unity, we still need honesty and justice, which unfortunately is not in our present power.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-19-m0.u55	From the Opposition Block to the word Boyko Yuri is invited.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-19-m0.u56	Calm down! They're all believers. Calm down! Ladies and gentlemen. Dear Mr. President! The Honorable Speaker! Dear National Deputies! Our parliament has recently passed dozens of decrees starting with the Order at the end of the trials in the DPRK, the appeal to Poland regarding the Institute of Memory, and the same ruling on the appeal to Patriarch Bartholomew. We have another vision of today’s event. We think we're starting a presidential campaign today. But what's sad and bad is that the presidential campaign starts with the most sensitive topic in society today, the question of religion. Our position is that the State should not interfere with religious matters. All of this should be decided by the leaders of religious institutions and laymen. And politicians have the right to take part in this process only as regular residents. [[B in m in s a l in]] I will never believe that the ruler of Onufrei can be guided by someone outside the country because I know that he is a patriot of the country and an honest man who serves God. That is why our faction opposes this decision. And I insist that the question of the church be resolved only by the kind of inter-church dialogue that church leaders are conducting. We'll vote against it. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-19-m0.u57	From the People's Front, Mr. Yelensky is invited to the floor. Please. Please, "The People's Front" has a word, give me a chance. Please, from the People's Front, Mr. Yelensky.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-19-m0.u58	Dear colleagues, dear Ukrainians, I want to explain to you what we're voting for today. Today, we will vote in favour of millions of Ukrainians, so that millions of Ukrainians will not be besmirched as without undeserved kindness. Today we will vote for millions of Orthodox Ukrainians to live by law. They lived by God’s law and by the law of the Gospel, which says that there is nothing more than love. This law is central to the church. And this law is central to the people, not the method by which the Spirit of God is wriggling, not where it is said in the Scriptures, but where it is permitted by the Kremlin and permitted by the Moscow Patriarchate. Dear friends! Dear colleagues! What do they want us to prove now? We want to prove that Georgians, Serbs, Albanians, Poles, Romanians have the right to their church. And only Ukrainians have no such right. [[Applause]] Why? Why do they not have such a right? The patriarch Cyril explained this to us. He said directly that Kiev is our Jerusalem and our Constantinople, and we will never let it go. [[Applause]] We Ukrainians are heirs of ancient Russians who never spoke of themselves in Messianic terms. They said, "and this faith, and God gave that faith. And we," they said, "employees of the eleventh hour. The Lord had mercy on all of us, and he did not neglect us." [[Applause]] One Great Kyiv Metropolitan said that the partitions that were created among Christians did not reach the heavens. The heavens reach those fences that are placed around Ukraine and around the Ukrainian Church, which are built by human hands, and are thus to be overthrown. Praise Jesus Christ! And glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-19-m0.u59	Thank you. From the Self-Help faction to the word, Oleg Berezuk is invited. Please allow the speaker to make his way to the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-19-m0.u60	In his house, his truth, his power, and his will. And no one is going to tell us where to stand and what to do, because it's Ukrainian identity. The National MP, the President, the Parliament are the droplets, droplets of the energy flow of millions of people, their sweat and their blood for centuries that have won their identity on their land. And if we can end this path of energy today, we're just going to be the drop that finished this process. The Ukrainian Orthodox Autokefal Church is an organizational structure that unites people to protect their rights, which the Lord has granted the right to life, the right to freedom, the right to property and the right to dignity. And I will pray with you that the Lord will help the authorities to defend sovereignty, not trade with an age-old enemy today, to defend the sovereignty of the country by fighting corruption, by adopting laws, not by supporting it, by fighting for sovereignty, by caring for a Ukrainian soldier who is the only guarantee of Ukrainian integrity and sovereignty. And I hope that the Church will stand with us and strengthen our faith in the Lord, who gave man the right to life, liberty, property and will. And this is going to happen in the Ukrainian independent state, and let the Lord and the Ukrainian people help us. Glory be to Ukraine and glory to Jesus Christ!
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-19-m0.u61	From Peter Prashenko's Block, Arthur Gerasimov is invited to the floor. Please, Mr. Arthur.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-19-m0.u62	Dear Mr. President, Mr. Head, distinguished colleagues, citizens of Ukraine! Today, our country and Ukrainians are, more than ever, close to receiving Tomos’s car Cafe of Constantinople Patriarchate for the creation in Ukraine of the only Mass Orthodox Church. For Ukrainian society, it is a historic opportunity to gain a canonic church with a center in Kiev, not Moscow. In addition, I would like to repeat what was happening in this room today. It's not just an event that's about to happen, it's a restoration of historical justice. Because it was from Kiev more than a thousand years ago that Orthodox faith spread in the Eastern European region, including in the aggressor country. All we need in this room today is unity. The unity shown today by its people is the same as the unity demonstrated today by the patriarchs of the Ukrainian churches. I believe that the Supreme Council must fulfil its responsibility to protect Ukraine's interests and to support the Order on the President of Ukraine's application to the Universal Patriarch, which is also an indispensable step towards the emergence of an independent Ukrainian Orthodox Church. The Petra Dustenka Faction will support this decision. And we urge all the colleagues in the room to demonstrate unity and to support this determination unanimously. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-19-m0.u63	Thank you. From the "Fatherland" faction to the word, Timoshenko Julia Volodymyrna is invited. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-19-m0.u64	The Ukrainian people are worth great sacrifices, great sacrifices in the centuries. The centuries - old effort to choose the independence of its own state is of great value to us and to all future generations. And now, if we are believers, we need to understand that a house that breaks apart on its own does not stand. Therefore, if we want success, prosperity, happiness, faith for our people, we must be alone. And the only Southern Orthodox Church is a spiritual foundation that can be another powerful impetus to the formation of our state. And that is why I believe that all Ukrainians today must pray for us to acquire such a single, monolithic, unbeatable spiritual foundation. You know that the many consequences that we have today, the cruel consequences, are also part of disbelief, part of cruelty, aggression, strife, divisions. And so to heal these wounds is the sacred duty of our generation. And I want to say again that Ukraine will not rise from its knees until it kneels before God. And today we have a historic opportunity to become different, to become one, to become whole, first of all, spiritually. Our team, realizing that these religious matters are not political affairs, is a clear and clear statement that we will unanimously support such a statement. And I urge all of Ukraine to pray that this address will be satisfied. And I can say that we should do all of this with faith in God and with faith in Ukraine. We believe in God and believe in Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-19-m0.u65	Thank you. From the "will of the people" to the word, Eugene Ribczynski is invited. From the place, too, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-19-m0.u66	I think it's a better place for an entourage. Thank you. I would like to say that this is not a historical fact that Yuri Dolgoruki founded Moscow, Peter Alexiyovich. It was the Moscow ideologists who tied our prince of Kiev to the swamp where he was. To Mokka, Moskva, where mosquitoes fly, and they still fly. So I'd like to point out the following, that it was Kiyivska Rus, that there was no other Russian. Only this land was baptized, but Dniper’s idols were floating far away, and today they are standing on Moscow’s Kremlin slopes. I would like to say the next thing that Girinowski once said was a very interesting phrase that if Ukrainians were Catholics, we wouldn't even hear about them. I wish they'd never heard of us from now on. I would like our Church to be the only fitless one ever since today and forever. I'd like what was supposed to happen 25 years ago to happen today, because even though one president of Ukraine has the courage. Although I have a lot of questions for him. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-19-m0.u67	And, colleagues, I now give the floor to the Deputy First Deputy Head of the Supreme Council. And the Rebirth, then the Hero, and then we go to the vote. Please, from Rebirth.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-19-m0.u68	Mr. President! Dear National Deputies! Dear Brothers and Sisters! Christ the Resurrection! Bright and joyful Passover days, but a little sad in the soul and in the heart. We are very grateful to you, Mr. President, for what you are doing for us to build the Ukrainian state, so that every Ukrainian can understand that we are the only nation and we are the only people. Thank you so much for this. We support initiatives that protect our people who are building an ambulance network, making social protection accessible to our people. We support all of this as politicians. But what concerns faith and individuality is to be very careful about it. My grandfathers, my great-grandparents, and my mother, in general, accepted a haircut in that church where I go, I go every Sunday, and I walk, whatever happens here, if even she stays alone. And I ask all of you, honourable politicians, my dear friends, let us now understand one thing. One: The Church is separate from the State by the Constitution. Second, the only source of authority in Ukraine is the people. And did he give all of us, honourable national deputies, the right of the people to raise this question? [[B in m in s a l in]] When we went to the elections and communicated with people, no one raised the question. And I understand your mood. [[B in m in s a l in]] I respect you, don't I? I understand the mood that's in society right now. So we suggest that if we have people delegate these powers, we can hold a referendum in the state. That's the first one. The other one. As politicians, we should not turn to the Universal Patriarch, for we are only politicians, and we should turn to the heads of the churches to have a joint dialogue, to have a single position, and let them turn. As a Christian, I will stand praying that there will be peace in Ukraine, that the people live in prosperity, and that our Orthodox faith be the only one, as Prince Vladimir wanted, inviting all the people to be baptized in the waters of Dniper. Our faction, our group will not support this, for we are for unity to be true, one, pure and holy.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-19-m0.u69	So I now invite Irina Heratchenko to the presentation. And then we go to the vote. I ask all the heads of factions to invite MPs into the hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-19-m0.u70	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we are discussing an extremely delicate and sensitive subject. And I think we have a particularly delicate and sensitive approach to what's going on in this room. Ukraine is a multinational country where people of different nationalities and religious backgrounds live peacefully. And recently, I am proud that a survey has been published, where it has been considered that Ukraine among the countries of Europe is the most tolerant country. We don't have anti-Semitism, we don't have xenophobia, and there are rare cases that we have to fight. In fact, the same thing, and it's very important, there are and there will be different churches, and every person has the right to choose his own church. At the same time, we have the right to have a single church. I want to thank from all of us every church and every priest who prays every day, prays for the Ukrainian army, for the Ukrainian soldiers, and ask these churches that don't talk about it, "Unless peace in your church is protected by the Ukrainian Army, which in some. in some services they are not mentioned?" I want to thank every church that thanks and prays for a mother who has lost children who pray for peace in Ukraine. And in fact, today we are indeed present at a historic event that we do not simply have the right to, and it is our duty to unite the country. But this is both a challenge, and this challenge will only lead to, in fact, to society, to churches and to all of our neighbouring countries, as far as Ukraine is democratic and mature. Because today and yesterday, and tomorrow, churches of all religions will exist peacefully in Ukraine. We have a church that remains separate from the state. But why was the church part of the State, of power, for how many years? And even in the Supreme Council of Ukraine there is a church in the premises, but one patriarch. Why do some of our colleagues at times confuse national politics and add religion? Let's be honest, our task with you is to work for the unity of the country, and the unity of the country is to fight for a strong army, it's to help create the One Municipal Orthodox Autocathal Church, where Ukraine will be mentioned today, to pray for peace in Ukraine, for our army, for our soldier, for Ukraine, not for other people's power. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-19-m0.u71	So, colleagues, the discussion is over. We're moving on to making a decision. I'm asking everyone to take up their jobs, come into the hall. I'm sure millions of Ukrainians will follow the way that every national MP voted, because everyone understands that this is a fundamental issue, the issue of being Ukraine and the Ukrainian state. And let us not be led into fornication by those who think of the interests of another state, not Ukrainian. Everyone, please be ready. And I'm putting to the vote the bill of support for the President of Ukraine's appeal to the Universal Patriarch Warfolomy to give Tomos the auto-cafalia of the Orthodox Church in Ukraine (No. 8284) as a basis and as a whole. Please be supportive. With God’s help, please vote. Vote. Please be supportive. Vote. [[11:49:51]] For 268. It's been decided. Glory to Ukraine! [[Applause]] Peter Alexiyovich Poroshenko, president of Ukraine, is invited to the conclusion. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-19-m0.u72	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank everyone for the unity that has been demonstrated in this room, and I am sure that it is in keeping with the moods that prevail in the Ukrainian society. I would like to point out that the cornerstone of the presidential election campaign, like most national MPs, was the creation of the only Massive Ukrainian Orthodox Church. [[Applause]] I would like to point out that the State has no right and should not interfere in church affairs, including or even more, the foreign state has no right to intervene in church affairs in Ukraine. [[Applause]] I would like to point out that if Moscow is announcing Ukraine in its canonic territory, is it not an encroachment on Ukraine's territorial integrity, and if we have the right to observe it quietly? Therefore, my dears, let me welcome you all with a wise decision. We will not allow the rights of every believer to be affected. And let me say this powerful spirit of Ukrainian independence, once again, because the Ukrainian Auto-Cefal Mass Church is one of the institutional foundations of our independence, let me hand over this spirit in a telephone conversation with the Universal Patriarch, which will take place right now. And we're going to prove to this day the position of Parliament, the position of the President, the position of the people and the position of the Ukrainian hierarchy of churches. Thank you. Praise Jesus Christ! And the glory of Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-19-m0.u73	Heroic glory! Welcome, Mr. President. Welcome to the Ukrainian Parliament with a decision taken. So, colleagues, according to the Rules, we do not have time to go into the next bill. And that's why I'm calling it a 30-minute break. At 12:30, everyone please return to the hall to continue our work. Congratulations again. Let us pray and wait for the decision of the Universal Patriarch.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-19-m0.u74	Hence, respectable colleagues, the time taken for a break, is exhausted. We move on to the next issue of the agenda. I want to remind you that we now have a block of agrarian politics. These are the four questions proposed by the committee: 7511, 5448-d, 4922-d and 4532. So, colleagues, in order for us to be able to have an effective agenda, I now invite you to vote in favour of the shortened procedure. So let's move on to Bill 7511. This is a draft law amending the Ukraine Code of Land and some Ukrainian legislation to ensure that participants and persons like them, including participants in the ATO, the Dignity Revolution and their families, benefit from receiving land, as well as the cessation of corruption in the area of administration of state and municipal property. And I'm asking you to support the proposal for a reduced procedure. Please vote, please support. [[12:34:22]] For-68 Hall expressed deep conviction that we should consider the law in full procedure. That is why I invite you to the report of the Ukrainian national deputy Ivchenka Vadim Evgenovich. Please, Vadim Evgenovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-19-m0.u75	Vadim Yvchenko, "The Fatherland" faction. Dear colleagues, you know, have prepared a very important bill along with colleagues from all factions. What is the importance of today’s bill? You know, ATO soldiers are now using some kind of corrupt scheme, where they don't seem to be assigning land that they're selling right now, and these land plots are sitting in certain areas. Repeatedly, teams, news teams, teams investigating different schemes, corruption schemes, have revealed the facts when you gave the land to 400 atolls, and then they're sitting in two or three owners, and it can't be farmers. So we suggested a mechanism where we say that the ATO soldiers, those directly involved in the Dignity Revolution, their relatives, can give up the land because it's actually not enough for everyone. And they can get compensation from the state budget, from the district budget, from the local budget. In fact, we're offering monetaryization of some of the benefits directly to ATO participants. So let me tell you, in 2018, applications for land were made for 188,000 anti-terrorists by 2018. Permission to develop documentation is granted to more than 135 thousand, that is 72 percent. Permission denied to 46,000 ATO participants, 6,000 of whom are awaiting permission. Colleagues who participate in the ATO are usually given the land of the OSH, which has already been given nearly 116,000 hectares. Of these, 10,000 hectares are for individual construction and 3,000 hectares are for gardening. We were approached by the authorities of the local government of rural, village heads, where they say they simply have no land, and the demands of the participants of the ATO are fair. So they can put some money into local budgets and offer some money. And it's going to be much more expensive than they get in a corrupt way. Yes, today, according to a monetary policy estimate of 2,000. 2 hectares will cost about, OSH land, 78,000 dollars. Under, let's say 12 hundred under gardening is 6.5. And under construction, it's almost 41,000. Thus, much more money can be found in the legal way. I also want to say that we have offered those who really want to process, those who really want to take these lands and work on them to get them. But they cannot sell the first seven years after receiving such land. And this is going to go into cadastre, into a register of rights that provides effective control, and it's going to make a lot of operations impossible. Colleagues, we need you to understand that the land is not actually free. The whole country is owned by people, or in a long-term lease. And this is shown in most of the studies, and this is shown in the statement of the register of ownership rights, and in the register of the LLC. So we have to say that there's a constant rotation, and the atolls, they're coming back. Today in Kiev, some 20,000 atolls need land and the benefits we give them with you. But in fact there is no land in Kiev; there is no land in the regions of the earth; there is no free land in the villages of the land. That is why the proposed mechanism will allow much support for these veterans, but their numbers will continue to increase because there is a steady rotation. Colleagues, as we consider all these laws, have turned to our welfare, which is represented in the Supreme Council. We asked the Association of Antiterrorists to give their summary. Everyone has clearly supported this bill. Everyone supports the fact that those who do not want or have no opportunity to get this land may refuse and receive funds from the local budget, from the district and from the state, and we grant this right. We are expanding the possibilities for these veterans today, except for the land, in exchange for the land, to receive the monetaryization of these benefits that the state gives them. You know, the main thing for us in the agrarian sector is that really the land has been given to those who will work for it. We are against using the earth in various shadow schemes, and so today we have a lot of land and land that no one actually controls. And we want a simple farmer, a simple one - person or a simple person who wants to start his own business, make his own family farm, make investments in developing this business that is actually going to grow from the ground. We actually want to take down land corruption and take away the potential of those people who use veterans of an anti-terrorism operation, for example, using them to increase their, not to be honest, land banks. We want ATO participants to get land, work on it, and those who don't want it just want to get help from the state, we suggest expanding the mechanism at the expense of local, district and central budgets. My colleagues, I mean, it's not a lot of money, believe me, if it's going to be distributed between all budgets. I just want to remind you of some figures that we spend 13.5 billion per year on judges, 6.5 billion on the Attorney-General's Office, 66 billion on IMF, 3.5 billion on Kabmin, etc., etc. We spend a lot of money on all these organs. I think the budgets of all levels will be able to offer worthy aid to veterans, participants in the ATO. And I also want to say that these are citizens who have suffered as a result of the Chernobyl disaster, as well as social workers, all of these citizens are directly included in this list, which will guarantee the first priority right to obtain free ownership of these land. Colleagues, it is vital that we consolidate and support the bill in the first reading. It will enable: (a) to remove the corrupt shadow market of the earth’s circumference from the participant of the ATO to the person. And to the participants in the ATO, to veterans, to the veterans of the Chernobyl community, I've already told them that social workers will be able to get the monetaryization in the form that the local budgets are district and centrals can be set up and given instead if they are. instead of giving up land. What else will happen? They will be greatly improved, for refusing to land the OSH and handing over some sort of tin today cost a truck up to a thousand dollars. In our calculation, they can get up to 70,000 dollars because they can take compensation for the land of gardening, for land for individual construction, and for the land of the OSH. I know that local self-government is supported by associations of atochists. And along with the coauthors in this law are our welfare, such as the national MPs as Bielecki, Petrenko and others. Colleagues and representatives of all factions, members of all factions, signed the bill. He was unanimously voted on the agrarian committee, for which I want to thank every member of the agrarian committee. And I'm asking you today to make this law pass in the Supreme Council, and we have really taken away the shadowy circulation of this land and given real support, real funds in the legal field to our veterans, people who have suffered from the Chernobyl disaster, as well as social workers. Thank you. Please vote "yes" on the first reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-19-m0.u76	Thank you. Stay in the rostrum, Wadim. Now the question to the reporter. I'm asking you to record a question. Please. Please, Lensky, turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-19-m0.u77	Please pass the word to Moses Igor.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-19-m0.u78	Igor Mosiyczuk, the Radical Party of Lachka. There's no secret to how corrupt schemes are now being built around land allocations to participants in our national-liberal war in the East. Please tell me your bill, which you're presenting, will remove the corruption component among the local self-government authorities, the State Commission, in granting land? Because mass, you know, even in Poltavska, in my hometown, in the Vorsel region, land is being distributed to the participants of the National Liberation War, and they end up in the hands of latifundists or some sort of businessman. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-19-m0.u79	Thank you for the questions, and by the way, thank you to the faction, there are representatives in the co-sponsors of this bill. I'll tell you this: Today, an ATO participant or veteran can turn to local government for land, or today it's the state land of Dergeokanastre, but in fact they will be handed over to united communities or rural (rural) councils in the future, and get land. In fact, they can sell it immediately. So using the sales mechanism immediately, we're allowing a shadowy circulation of this land. What do we propose? We suggest that if such a land is taken by an ATO participant or an ATO veteran, it cannot sell the land for the first seven years. So we're actually picking up a speculator, we're picking up those who want to sell. And those who really want to get the money, they realize that they're not going to take the land today, for example, and process it for seven years, and only after seven years can they sell it, they're going to give up that land and they're going to sell it.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-19-m0.u80	30 seconds, please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-19-m0.u81	And they're going to write a statement to get compensation in the form of money that's going to be put into three levels of budgets. So we're actually going to take away the speculator and actually give real money. And we figured that's about 70,000 dollars, not 20 dollars, as given to ATO veterans today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-19-m0.u82	Please give the question to Sergey Kaplin.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-19-m0.u83	Dear Mr. Vadim, I'd like to get a comment from you, I think, on the other hand, all the niggers who are watching our air right now want a comment from you. Is it not somehow related to this lengthy process of considering this extremely relevant and extremely important bill with a view to delaying time so as not to consider today the issue of the social protection of the Chernobylites? Yeah, it's going to take about 8 billion dollars for these needs, but I think we have to pay the debts to the Chernobyls, Afghans, military pensioners, and then to the International Monetary Fund. Do you think not voting on the National Coalition deputies here for the simplified procedure of dealing with this issue was not a way, a manipulative way of delaying the consideration of the Chernobyl issue? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-19-m0.u84	Dear colleagues, I, this is a rhetorical question. The Motherland has been supporting, always supporting the benefits for the Chernobyl family. You know that we stood up for, stand up for, and stand up for those bills that we put up. So I'm going to move on to another issue so that I can get to the quickest possible draft legislation on the protection and strengthening of these, well, social protection and support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-19-m0.u85	I invite the head of the Committee on Agricultural Policy and Land Relations of Oleg Kulinić to report. And to you, Mr. Wadim, thank you for your report. And you can go back to your workplace. Please, Mr. Kulinich.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-19-m0.u86	Dear colleagues, the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Agriculture Policy and Land Relations at its meeting on 15 March 2018, reviewed the draft Ukrainian Law amending the Ukraine Code of Land and certain Ukrainian legislative acts to ensure that participants and persons like them, including participants in the anti-terrorist operation, the Humanitarian Revolution and their families benefit from receiving land, as well as the cessation of corruption in the area of land and municipal property management (Registration No. 7511). The committee notes that the problem raised in the bill is really relevant. Today, there are very few free lands of state and municipal property, and sometimes they are simply not there. And in many places, they're not enough to provide free privatization for participants in combat. And from this situation, there could be money compensation, in this particular situation. At the same time, some comments were made at the committee's meeting regarding the legal technique of teaching the bill's rules. They should be taken into account when preparing the bill for the second reading. The main scientific and expert office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine believes that the first reading of the bill makes it advisable to go back to work on the points made and the proposals made. However, the Committee on Agricultural Policy and Land Relations decided to support the bill in its first reading and recommend that the Supreme Council of Ukraine accept it as a basis. Please support the committee's decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-19-m0.u87	Thank you. Dear colleagues, please sign up for a question to a co-conspirator. Please, Semenha Roman, your question.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-19-m0.u88	I have a question for a distinguished reporter, two. First. Whether or not a specific procedure has been developed to compensate money. And the others. Is it anticipated that this financial compensation will be included in the local budgets? I mean, whether it's on the central budget or whether it's on the local government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-19-m0.u89	Thank you for asking. I wanted to point out that this bill was only supported on the ground, because there are a lot of disagreements about not only the participants in the fighting, but also all categories of citizens who are entitled to free privatization. So in this way, it might be better to get to the second reading, to work on such a mechanism, if there were participants in combat, perhaps not monetary compensation, but just financial assistance to avoid speculation with the ground. So I think that by the second reading, we will be able to work on such a mechanism so that it is, in fact, within the framework of the law, within the framework of the Constitution and that every citizen's right to acquire the land that he owns under the Constitution is preserved. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-19-m0.u90	Thank you. Please, the next question. The national deputy of Evtushok.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-19-m0.u91	Sergey Eutuszek, "The Fatherland" faction. Well, actually, we've now heard the rapporteur on this bill and the position of the committee. That's very good. Clearly, if there is a decision to vote unanimously on the committee, the session room should now support the committee’s decision. But next. I have a question for the next issue. Are there any preconditions in this bill to remove the corruption scheme, which consists of the mass allocation of materially motivated landowners of the state and municipal property under the OAS, with the aim of further alienating them and replacing their purpose? There's a lot of examples of bad, bad ones, so when we use our attachés, our military, then our military starts selling these land plots, then other corruption schemes get involved. I'm asking you to give me an answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-19-m0.u92	Thank you for asking. Indeed, the problem is very urgent, and unfortunately, today it is a problem when it is used simply by participants in combat, and land is given to participants in combat. Well, there are practices that don't even live in a given region or even in this area. And there is not enough land for those involved in the fighting that live in the area, and that's why the schemes are used. I would like to point out that there are other legislative initiatives in the Agrarian Policy and Land Relations Committee on this issue, and we are constantly working on this to improve our land legislation, and to ensure that the ATOs and the social workers get honest, and that this is within the framework of existing legislation and that the Constitution of our State is respected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-19-m0.u93	Thank you. That concludes our questions. Did you have a question, Mr. Sporish? I can do without him. Okay. Colleagues, I'm asking you to sign up for a bill. And now we're going to have the factions. Please. Please, the national deputy Eutuszk passes the word to Yvchenk to speak from the faction of "The Fatherland." Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-19-m0.u94	Vadim Yvchenko, "The Fatherland" faction. Dear colleagues, what's this bill for anyway? This bill removes the corruption that is taking place today in the shadowy vicinity of the land of our so-called Atosnik veterans. Including giving and expanding opportunities to those veterans who do not want or will not process land, receive monetary or compensation. We are in favour of: (a) removing direct shadow circulation and giving land to those who will actually cultivate it in the village, in the OTG, or in the area. To be a farmer, it would be a person who would really create his own farming, creating jobs on the spot. There'll never be a job in the village. Only farmers, only cooperatives that have land, can directly family farms get the village out of what we have with you today. And secondly, you and I have to understand that corruption is present at the handover of these lands, because in most ATO participants they want proper support, we give them proper support through the mechanisms of monetaryizing these benefits. And if you count it, today ATO participants can get land from gardening, land from individual construction, and from OSH. According to the legal and monetary valuation of these lands, that's over 70,000 dollars. And in fact, we distribute it at different levels of the budget and we give these participants the opportunity to actually get the right amount of money. It's not just 800 to 1,000 dollars in shadow, it's worth the money. And these are some of the local budgets, including the ability and willingness to do so. Colleagues, let's vote, in the second reading, we're fully reconciled with our moments, including local self-government, because today, if they have land, veterans come to them and ask for land. And actually what they do is they give their own, and they come from a different part of our country, where they're free, where they're not yet committed to renting, and they actually want to take these lands just to sell them and, let's say, in the shadow of the circle, they get some, let's say, latifundists of these lands. Colleagues, let's get this order straight. We're being asked for associations, we're being asked for local self-government. And let's remove from the shadow, from the circle of shadow these earths. Thank you. Fatherland will vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-19-m0.u95	Thank you, Your Honor. The Radical Party, Mrs. Koseljeva, is invited to attend. Please. Please. Mr. Ljasko is invited by the Radical Party to discuss this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-19-m0.u96	Thank you, Mrs. Vice Head. Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Our team will support a law that will allow us to regulate land for anti-terrorists, free-war heroes. But it is vital that the law is adopted so that these rights are not misused. I mean, set a whole series of restrictions so they don't change. I used to, remember, pick up land by mud, so many children, and the other drunkards took 20 times, converted, sold, and the real ones who need this land had no opportunity to build a house or run a farm. So we insist that it be predicted that the land is obtained within the community by local residents, not by what the locals say there is no land, but it turns out that, in secret, the local authorities are tearing down that land and giving it to the "cosmonauts" behind bribes. Moreover, the obligation, for example, if not built in that part of the earth for five years, to consider her return, to ban the alienation of the earth, so that there would be no speculations that had been obtained, resold, laid down, and left, and no house. That is to say, avoid the abuse of the name of the free - war participants by passersby and adventurers who abuse their rights. And it's very important that the laws are enforced, because when we're with you today, we're giving benefits to the participants in the ATO. Under the Supreme Council are the Chernobylites, and 30 years ago, parliament and government were giving them benefits, and today no one is doing the benefits. And people have taken state-guaranteed social standards, aids, and they are now forced to rally and starve to get what's rightfully theirs. And the Radical Party faction alone in this Parliament is forced to block the parliamentary rostrum in order to force the government to force the parliamentary majority to give them due diligence. For three days we blocked the parliamentary rostrum, we also called on Comrade Timoshenko Julius Volodymyrna, and others to join us in blocking and to ensure that this Law 4442 on the Protection of Chernobyl is considered. We thank all members of Parliament who have supported our initiative. We voted, we put this law into the order of the day. And today we demand that Parliament's leadership put this law under review, so that we not only include it in the agenda, but consider it, make a decision, and give it back to the black people according to the law. Stop robbing people. A great honor and thanks to the heroes who saved Ukraine from Chernobyl.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-19-m0.u97	Please, from the "People's Front" faction, Helen Masorina will be speaking out of place. Dear Mrs. Julia, after all the performances, I'll give you your line. Mrs. Timoshenko insists that she be given a minute. I'm sorry, I didn't listen. So now it's Mrs. Timoshenko's microphone and then it's Masorina. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-19-m0.u98	Dear colleagues, I want to say very clearly and clearly that the Fatherland Party, the Fatherland faction, I have twice worked as Prime Minister, we have always carried out absolutely persistent strategies, concrete decisions on the support of Chernobyl. And we feel that it is not only before the festivals that we need to raise these questions and not just before the seasons, but we need to keep thinking about people’s health and life. And so I want to make it clear right now that the bill that the faction leader just talked about, 4442 in support of the Chernobyls, is supported by our faction. It's a good bill, and we're going to vote for it with all the factions. And they voted before when it was to be included in the agenda. Everything good for the country we share.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-19-m0.u99	Thank you. As far as I could tell, the Fatherland faction was coming up. Julia Volodymyrna, the faction was mentioned in a negative context? Please enable Mrs. Massorini's microphone to perform.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-19-m0.u100	Massorina Olena, People's Front. Dear colleagues, an extremely important bill that we will support, and members of our faction are co-authors of the bill. The only thing you have to consider in the second reading is to figure out the amount. That amount will be paid to the gun if it is impossible for them to get land. Because we have to preserve social justice here: the land in Ukraine in one part is worth a different price, and we've been protecting Ukraine's bombers all together. Therefore, with this in mind, we can now vote in the first reading, taking into account the general vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-19-m0.u101	Thank you, Mrs. Helena. Please, from Self-Help, Roman Semenich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-19-m0.u102	Semenha Roman, "The Self-Help Union" faction. Honorable colleagues, the presiding lady, surely blamed the nation against those hundreds of thousands of people, Ukrainian soldiers who gave up their lives and health in defense of the state. A few years ago, the state must have made the right and the right decision, but not the right decision to allocate land for the participants in the anti-terror operation. Why Not? Because during this time, at the beginning of this year, nearly 188 thousand ATO participants were allowed. At the same time, about 135 thousand licenses are granted today, about two thirds. Today, 46,000 are denied, and another 6,000 ATO participants are awaiting such a decision. So I think that this law really solves the problem that was created. First of all, because some of the local officials are taking advantage of this issue. The second reason is that there is no such free land in the individual communities. At the same time, I think that this law should also solve the issue that land acquisition cannot be required. This is not slavery if a person is to receive monetary compensation, but instead of land, he has the right to receive monetary compensation. Next. The Self-Help Group will support this bill in the first reading with a substantial revision to the second reading. First, it has to be taken into account and developed, and a clear procedure has been adopted that will make it impossible to abuse these issues. And secondly, we are definitely against the fact that the next, absolutely correct, legislative initiative goes into the pockets of local budgets. Well, you know, people didn't fight for either Lvivsky or Kharkiv or Sumsky, people gave their health for their lives, and it's the State's duty to provide money from the central budget to the participants in anti-terrorist operations. The other one. I want to address my colleague in Parliament, the honourable Madam Chairman, today we have an agrarian day or part of an agrarian day, but today the most important bill, which is unfortunately about Bill 7403-2, the authorship of deputies from the agrarian committee, which unfortunately the government and parliament have robbed some 51 thousand farmers and agriculture during the budgetary process. Should this not be the basic law today that will restore justice in the field of looting, resulting in the redistribution of money in the pockets of three or four oligarchs? Because it is this law today that will bring the state back face to true producers. So I'm addressing the chairman, right after this bill, to put Bill 7403/2, which is in order today, and to immediately consider and return the money to the farmers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-19-m0.u103	Thank you, Sir Roman. As you know, the chairman of the session has no right of his will to put any bill above it unless the session room has voted for it, so we're moving forward with the schedule. Ladies and gentlemen, I now give the floor to John Melniczuk of Peter Dustenk's Block. Mr. Ivan. Mr. John Melniczuk, please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-19-m0.u104	Dear Irina Volodymyrna, please pass the word to Grigory Mikhailovich. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-19-m0.u105	Please give the floor to the honorable Mr. Baggage.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-19-m0.u106	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I'd like to address you with such a request and say, first of all, that this law has not fallen out of heaven, it is not a lobbyist. This law came about only because the Agrarian and Land Relations Committee had been thrown at by autisms, cannibals, and others who had suffered at various times in various events, by letters, calls, petitions, petitions, beliefs, and even threats. I want to thank all those who have supported and recommended, and ask our colleagues to support this bill, because it solves a lot of problems. First of all, once again, I want to remind you that in order to take away the issue of corruption, we have written out such a precaution that whoever gets the land has no right to sell it for seven years. He must use it for a purpose. Another question, which is that a lot of people are lucky enough to get 10 hundred land to be built, especially when a city of district subordination and district centers, because for this land in 10 hundred to build at its own expense, today it's $25,000 to $35,000. I want to ask you again, deal with these people's problems and support this bill. It's extremely important, it's social, and people will thank you for it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-19-m0.u107	Thank you, Your Honor. And now, from the will of the people, the word is given to Sergey Shahov. This is the last performance by factions and MPs.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-19-m0.u108	Luganshina, Sergey Shahov, the political power of Our End. Dear colleagues, in our country every man has the right to his own land. The main thing is that this law that we are upholding today is not used against our Ukrainian people as well as those who today defend our earth from the enemy. And there's another question. Today, when we passed through with Sergei Rudik, from Sumar, and Lubenec across the border, and watched as we built the tent through which the hen could jump, it was built on the ground into the peasants, and today the peasants do not spend money for that land, nor are they compensated. We also need to pay attention. This bill 7511 we support, and I'm also asking you to introduce to the hall a draft bill that we worked with colleagues in the summer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-19-m0.u109	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we're done with the factions. I ask you to sign up for the speeches by the Ukrainian national deputies to those colleagues who want to join the debate on Bill 7511 concerning amendments to the Earth Code. Please, Mikhailo Bondar, you have the floor. Let's have a word with you. Dear colleagues, there will be a vote on this bill in nine minutes. That's what I understand. Everyone's supporting him. It's just so everyone can get back to the hall. So I'd like to take a moment to return to the hall. Please, Mr. Mikhailo.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-19-m0.u110	Thank you. Bondar Mikhailo, 119 constituency, Majority, four districts, each with a lot of guns. All areas of agriculture. The gunman himself didn't take his or her rights in any area, either under construction or in the OAS, but every time I work in the district, every time I'm in the neighborhood, there's guns coming to me every time with questions that don't have enough land, they don't issue, we're in line, we're waiting. And one of the questions is that the monetaryization of such benefits has arisen on more than one occasion. I want to support my colleague, Helen Masorin, in order to settle the issue of justice before the second reading, so that, for example, the land area there, when the assessment of land near Kiev is one and in rural. There was nothing different about the village in Lviv, and there was no such thing as envy among the bombers. And I think in the second question, the committee will settle this issue. And in the first, I call for this bill to be voted on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-19-m0.u111	Thank you. Please, Igor Mosiyczuk, give me your word.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-19-m0.u112	Igor Mosiyczuk, faction of the Radical Party of Oleg Lášk. Our faction will support this bill as well as all the bills aimed at the social protection of our heroes in the diocese of the national liberation war in the east. We will support it not only because it is designed to protect but also because it organizes the order of land for our heroes. At the same time, I would like to draw the attention of Parliament and Ukrainian society that not all of the participants in the war of our national liberation in the East are heroes, not all of them can bear that name. There are different kinds of animals, including those present in this hall that are covered up. Who, in the face of war, create their own dirty things. There's a lot of talk in the country about records. So I have an hour of records made in the cell of the Kharkiv SSO, where the national deputy Melniczuk Sergey went, who turned his former subordinates, the Idarians, against his brothers, against his former deputy, the Bati, Valentina Licholita. I have these records where Melniczuk sits, where the Aydar prisoners, the prosecutor of the military prosecutor's office are sitting, and Melniczuk is literally telling them, "You want to go free, please show up, and you'll be released on my behalf." Can this man be considered a hero? Absolutely not. A selling animal, a carnage, and a bastard. And people like that -- they're really worth the land, two to two meters, and the time is coming -- he's going to get it.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-19-m0.u113	Dear fellow Members, on a regular basis, I urge all members of the national parliament, despite personal hostility, not to use the rostrum to find out the relationship and so forth. Thank you, Your Honor. And now for the word. I remember hearing the talk. And after the speeches, I'll give you my word, but I'll give you my word without the mutual images of other non-parliamentary expressions. Mr. Dubinin is invited to the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-19-m0.u114	I'd like to give it to Irina Konstanovic.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-19-m0.u115	Please turn on the microphone, Mrs. Irina Konstanovic, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-19-m0.u116	Irina Konstankevich, Wolin, 23th constituency. Ladies and gentlemen, I urge you to support Bill 7511, which concerns the social protection of ATO fighters. These are real problems that fighters who have returned from the east face virtually every day. The State and our authorities, by declaring social support, have actually done the opposite over the years. And with concrete and vivid examples, in my quotes, the social protection of ATO fighters in Volina, particularly the Manevicki district, where the number of ATO fighters standing on the ground exceeds 250; the Kivertsi district, where such statements are also written in 300 and other areas. I want to say that the declarativeness and advocacy of the social protection of ATO fighters is already gaining critical limits. That's why I'm asking you to support this bill. And the national deputies of the Ukrainian Union of Patriots of UCROP, who have always supported the ATO fighters, are united around the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-19-m0.u117	Thank you. Thank you. Most recent speech by the Ukrainian National Deputies. National MP Bezbach, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-19-m0.u118	Please pass the word to Rudik. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-19-m0.u119	Please, National Deputy Rudik, give me your word.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-19-m0.u120	Dear colleagues! In May 2014, as head of the Ukrainian State Agency for Land Resources, I initiated this program, which is called: "To grant ATO participants the first-line right to land. " Why did I leave four years ago? And you remember, it was the outbreak of war. I thought to myself, who now owns the real land in the villages that controls the lives of every peasant? You know the answer to that question yourself: Latifundists, the former heads of the colgs, who took most of the land and actually lived it and managed it as the fortresses of the peasants. And I thought, "What if we gave this land to those who shed blood for it? How would the social situation in the countryside change?" And there was an initiative under the existing Land Privatization Act, which is distributed in relation to every type of social population in our country: first and foremost to those who shed blood for it. I could then have known that it would take four years, and Parliament would not approve any legislation that regulates the issue of giving land to ATO participants. I emphasize, none in four years. On September 15, 2016, I registered Bill 5125. Under it were virtually all the ATO veterans who fought and sat with us in this room. It was only six months ago, and on March 15, 2017, he was reviewed by a training committee and approved the basis and asked to be transferred to the hall. There is no law to this day. He was to give all the participants of the ATO land, regardless of which land it is — agricultural land, gardening, garage, or special construction. You, when you got one, maybe there were people in this room who got the apartments, and then you asked, what are you going to do with that apartment after you privatized? No one asked. Any person who got the right to an apartment from the state could then sell it, inherit it, and do anything with it. What we are saying today is what to do to an atoller, what he will do with his land. Think about the point. Do we think he has a right to her? May. Do whatever he wants, let him do it. Only one thing that will move me to vote in favour of this bill in the first reading is the absence of any draft law that regulates the issue of social guarantees in the area of land rights for ATO participants. If it wasn't for this rule, I would never vote for it. I'm asking you, colleagues, for the second reading, let's make sure they don't get paid off, because I'm very concerned that just power will buy off every atoll.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-19-m0.u121	Dear colleagues, speaking from the deputies is over. I'm asking you to return to the session room. Requires the word to be spoken by the head of the ATO’s professional committee for veterans and participants. Please. And yes. And then your line, yes. This is a violation of the Rules, but so far there are no deputies in the Hall. And I, with your permission, honorary colleagues from Fatherland, will now give the floor to the head of the profile committee. Please, Mr. Alexander.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-19-m0.u122	This bill was not considered on the ATO's relevant Committee on Veterans and Participants in Warfare.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-19-m0.u123	Ukrainian, please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-19-m0.u124	I don't know what he's looking at on the Agrarian Committee. I very much ask that the MPs vote for the re-reading so that we do not vote in favour of the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-19-m0.u125	Thank you, Sir Alexander. When performing in a negative context, one of the colleagues was mentioned in the exchange of courtesies. One minute to reply to the People's Deputy Melniczuk. The bill is closed. And let's go to the vote. Please, Mr. Melniczuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-19-m0.u126	The corrupter who called my family who took money to perform some MP's powers, they're, "piarats," they're taking away the land from people: it's in Dragobrat, it's in Claudius Forest, it's in Babka, it's a site near Red Calina, where people died. And you're going to have to answer for the death of the boys. And if you have these materials, please publish them, show them, or tell them about some vending machines, some records. Make it public! If you had it, you'd have done it a long time ago. And so the whole country sees that you stole the money, you took it. You've been in corruption and a pair of mouths. For fire trucks, put the money back in the budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-19-m0.u127	Thank you. So, colleagues, now it's going to be the closing word. Then we go to the vote. So in two or three minutes, we're going to make a decision. And I ask all the MPs to come into the hall and ask the factions to invite the deputies into the hall. Now three minutes for the closing statement, Ivchenko Vadim Evgenovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-19-m0.u128	Vadim Yvchenko, "The Fatherland" faction. Ladies and gentlemen, I don't understand the politics and the comments of the head of the Committee on Veterans, because the Committee on Agriculture Policy and Land Relations is that it regulates land relations. The Agrarian and Land Relations Committee has a professional subcommittee that is clearly overshadowed by claims about the shadow of the earth today. So this proposal was actually made on the committee to get us out of this shadow circle, and the land was given to those who would process it, that's Mr. Rudik's answer. No one's going to tell the brother's attaché. Whether an ATO veteran, veterans, or victims during the Dignity Revolution, no one will tell us to take the land or not to take it. They want you to take it. But there will be an opportunity, apart from the land, to take direct budget support for these people in the land of gardening, individual construction, and the land of the OSH. And that's about it for you, once again, individual construction, the average we took around the country, 41,000 dollars. OSH averages, i.e. it's not Kiev, not Lutsk, not Lviv anything, on average in country 37, it's every citizen's right to three types of land, and gardening is 6.5,000 dollars. So in fact, almost 70,000 get to those who really need our help and support -- they're ATO veterans. And if this law is not voted out, know that we will never be able to get rid of the shadow circle, and these veterans will receive copies. And some of them will then be made through schematics to detect those pseudo-farmers, and eight of them across the country that took almost a million hectares of land. And this is going to be politics. So the request to listen to those people and colleagues, the Slippery, Mr. Slippery, who clearly said that this is not a party challenge, it's a direct exercise of justice in land relations, which is essential today before we continue to discuss in general the land relations that will continue with the land in the country. I ask you to vote in the first reading. And in the second place, we'll all work out all the proposals together, along with your committee. And believe me, it will be a professional law that will support veterans, participants and all those who need first-hand support today, and will completely destroy the shadowy circulation of the earth in this context. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-19-m0.u129	Thank you. So let's move on to the decision-making process, and I ask everyone to take up their jobs. Please prepare yourself for making a decision. Please return to your workplace from your beds. We're moving on to making a decision. Heads of factions, invite the deputies to the hall. And I am voting on the draft Act amending some of the amendments to the Ukraine Code of Land and some of the Ukrainian legislative acts to ensure that participants and persons like them, including participants in the ATO, the Dignity Revolution and their families, benefit from receiving land, as well as the cessation of corruption in the field of State and municipal property management (No. 7511). Please vote, and I ask you to support this as a basis. Let's vote, colleagues. Please be supportive. [[13:29:40]] For 219 I'll be back. Please take up your jobs. Please prepare for the vote. I propose to return to draft Law 7511. Please vote and please support. We're voting for the return. Please be supportive. [[13:30:15.]] For 218. Colleagues, first of all, would you like to support the committee for work? Let me re-set the return, and then, if you don't, let me do it again first. I'll be back again. If there are no votes, I'll make the next proposal under the Rules for one more time. So once again, I propose to go back to the committee's proposal to adopt the bill as a basis for 7511. Anyone who supports it, please vote. Vote. Please be supportive. [[13:31:02]] For 230 So we're back. And I'm putting bill 7511 on a committee proposal as a basis. Please vote, please support. Vote. Please vote. [[13:31:28]] For 225 Colleagues, this is some strange story. Colleagues, I'm betting, final time, return. If there are no votes to return now, I'll put them on the committee. This cannot go on indefinitely. So I'm voting on the proposal to go back to draft Law 7511. We're short on one vote, colleagues. Please vote and please support. And I ask you, carefully, to be in your workplace. So please vote and please support. Vote. Please support the return. [[13:32:21]] For 223 I bet you do, colleagues. So I'm putting draft Law 7511 to the committee for re-reading. And, colleagues, I'm asking you to support everyone so that we don't lose the bill. I'm asking you to support everyone. So 7511 to the committee, for re-reading. Please vote and please support. Vote. [[13:33:07]] For 224 And the third proposal, which is, is the subject of a legislative initiative for further development. I propose a third proposal to draft Law 7511 to direct the subject of a legislative initiative for further development. Please vote and please support. Vote. [[13:33:40]] For 251 Decision taken. We move on to the next issue of the agenda, this is the draft Law on Basic Principles and Requirements for Organic Production and Labelling of Organic Products (No. 5448-d). Colleagues, we're going at a very slow pace. I ask you to support the consideration of this law by a reduced procedure. Please vote, please support. We're voting for a reduced procedure, please support. [[13:34:24]] For-141 I'll ask you again, colleagues, you see the agenda, we have a lot of important questions ahead. I ask you once again to support the consideration of draft Law 5448-d by a reduced procedure. Please vote, please support, vote. [[13:34:57]] For 133 So we follow the full procedure. And I invite you to the report of Ukrainian National Deputy Kulinich Oleg Ivanovich. Please, Oleg Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-19-m0.u130	Dear colleagues, today our nation has not so much ready agricultural production that could compete in the world’s markets. But organic production is for the niche where we can actually compete. We have every opportunity to produce organic products for both our citizens and international markets. This is the kind of policy that we need to develop and continuously stimulate. The finalized project addresses three key issues that will enable the organic sector to work successfully. First of all, it's the certification of the manufacturing process itself, not the product, as laid down in current legislation. Only control at all stages of production can make sure that the product is really organic. This is the approach set out in European Union legislation, and this project fully implements it. Secondly, it's an effective two-way control system. Control will be both by certification authorities and by manufacturers. In doing so, manufacturers will be controlled by both state inspectors and certification authorities. And the third. These are the penalties provided for in the bill. Without an effective liability mechanism, the shelves of our stores will continue to be stacked with organic, bio, eco, but that doesn't mean that these products are organic, it won't match, really, reality. The law that prohibits such branding for inorganic products is unfortunately not working today, and the manufacturer is simply misleading the consumer. This is because the current legislation does not establish a mechanism of control and accountability. Clearly, then, this law is needed by our nation. It will give manufacturers a clear legal basis for working under European rules and consumers good quality products. Dear colleagues, the bill has been elaborated on the committee and has been practically developed and signed by representatives of all the factions of the Supreme Council. So I'd like to ask him to support me as a basis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-19-m0.u131	Thank you, stay in the rostrum, three minutes to ask. Please record the question. Anointed, please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-19-m0.u132	Andrew Pomazanov, People's Front faction. Dear Oleg Ivanovich, first of all, I want to thank you for, indeed, a fairly quality draft. But even less so, when I'm thoroughly familiar with the rules of this legislative initiative, I have a question. First. We all realize that much now, and the products that are marked, as if ecologically clean and certified, are not like that. That's the first question. What responsibility in this legislative act is laid down in the legislative initiative for those who do not have the necessary certificates? And the second question is, who are they, who are they, who are they, and what will be the procedure for granting permission to the relevant companies that will actually issue these certificates? Because we know sad statistics, sad practices, sometimes by other authorities, in other areas are given authority to businesses that are simply abused. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-19-m0.u133	Was it a speech or a question? Are you going to answer that? Please, Oleg Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-19-m0.u134	Thank you for asking. In my speech, I was just saying that there is no sanctioning system in the current legislation, which was exactly what allowed the disgruntled producers of such products to label it ecologically and to overwhelm the shelves of our stores with inconvenient products. If we impose fines, I think we're going to work in detail on the second reading of this bill, more specifically, it's going to be that lever and that mechanism that will only allow organic quality products to be found on the shelf. As far as certification is concerned, all private and state laboratories that will undergo accreditation will be able to provide and actually export our products to European markets.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-19-m0.u135	Thank you. Rybchin conveys Sobolje’s word for question. Please, Mr. Sergei.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-19-m0.u136	We are very grateful that you drafted the bill, made our proposals. We'll support him. But I have a question about something else. How do you, as an MP representing the rural district, know what abuses are being made with the extradition of land to the participants in the fighting, to the participants in the Revolution, to the participants in the ATO, how do you appreciate the position of the presidential faction, which has actually failed in one voice this bill, which has allowed all the participants in the ATO to receive the land legally? How do you appreciate this demoralization of this faction that gives, when you need any lobbyist laws, 130 votes, and when you need to support the participants in the anti-terror operation, you've barely voted 60 votes? How do you appreciate this faction's behavior? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-19-m0.u137	Thank you. Thank you for asking, Mr. Sergei. Well, it's not exactly the bill. I'd like to point out that we have other legislative initiatives on this issue on the committee, and I think maybe we're working on other legislative initiatives along with colleagues from your faction. And next time we're going to put these bills into the session room and support them in the first reading. I would like to point out that this agrarian committee, representing experts from all factions, is constantly working on this issue. And I think that this question will not go away; it will be voted on as soon as possible. And we're going to stop corruption and abuse of the land when it's given to the participants in the fighting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-19-m0.u138	A final question from Sporish.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-19-m0.u139	Ivan Sporish, Peter Dusty Block, 15th Wynnickin County. Of course, labelling of organic products is essential, and we understand that. And as it has already been said, not once, that there is no control at this time, according to today's law. Of course, once again, control of organic certification is also necessary, and we understand. But I only have one question. If fines are developed, however much and depending on what sanctions will be and how much will be paid by those who violate real certification and branding and so on? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-19-m0.u140	Thank you for asking. Thank you for asking. We're going to do this right before the second reading. This direction, and I think we're going to do everything we can to make sure that these fines are such a level that in the subsequent producer of organic products that abuse their position, do not allow this to happen, and that the shelves of our stores are filled with quality organic products. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-19-m0.u141	Thank you. Thank you for your answers. The report invites the deputy head of the Committee on Agaric Politics and Land Relations, Zabotni Grigory Mihajlovich. Please, Mr. Gregory.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-19-m0.u142	President-in-Office, Honorary Fellows, the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Agriculture Policy and Land Relations for the Implementation of the Supreme Council Order of 14 November 2017 at its meeting on 15 March 2018, discussed the draft Law on Basic Principles and Requirements for Organic Production, around and marking organic products prepared for re-reading and decided to recommend it to the Supreme Council of Ukraine as a basis. The proposed project has two important goals. First, it improves legal regulation in the field of organic production. Second, it brings Ukraine's legislation into line with the requirements of European Union legislation. This bill defines the basic principles and concepts of organic production, the characteristics of circulation, distribution and labelling of such products, and other legal relations in this field. However, such measures cannot be effective without the explicit powers of government regulation of registration and control functions, as well as the imposition of certain restrictions in the field. That's why we're proposing this bill to solve this circle of issues. Before the draft law was reprinted, it was supplemented by rules and regulations relating to detailed rules of organic production, aquaculture, and animal production. Now the entire civilized world is gradually moving on to an organic production model. Therefore, we need to keep pace with time, and this requires an appropriate legislative framework. Dear colleagues, I ask you to support the committee's decision and to adopt the bill of registration number 5448-d. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-19-m0.u143	Stay in the rostrum, there'll be questions. Please sign up for the question. Ichchenko Vadim.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-19-m0.u144	Vadim Yvchenko, "The Fatherland" faction. I thank you very much personally for being on the committee, and everywhere you push, it's very important today. For example, what is happening in the agricultural sector is a very important sector — agriculture, including agricultural production and agriculture. But for now, I want to. I have to say, there are no deputies in the hall. We understand that we now need to be asked to put us on a rating vote and not to fail the bill. Because it's a past bill. In fact, they were all in favour, but only a few corrupts dropped the vote. All the factions gave, gave, but a few people today who don't understand what's going on in the land sphere, and as the participants in the ATO are using, they blew that vote. So I very much ask you to go directly to the Head in the end to put on a rating vote. The Fatherland faction, of course, supports the bill, but we can't fail it. It's an organic bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-19-m0.u145	I will explain the matter with your permission, and you will listen to me carefully. We're in full procedure. This means that after the interview, we'll have talk from factions, speeches from MPs. So we're not going to be able to get through this bill by noon. A few factions may take place before lunchtime. After lunch, the factions' heads continue to appear, then the deputies, and I think it's on course at 16.20-16. 30 we'll be able to make a decision. So already the task is going to maximize people's mobility, and that's going to be a good enough time to make a decision. So you can understand the logic of consideration. It's a deal, isn't it? So the next question. Oleg's Medina.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-19-m0.u146	Oleg Medunica, town of Sumi. Dear colleagues, this bill is a practical implementation of our European integration policy, because standardization of our organic agriculture into the European Union's rules will allow the agricultural processing sector to have more added value because organic farming for those who produce it gives much more than just ordinary agricultural products. Therefore, it is important to support this bill, which will enable us to create new jobs, increase foreign exchange earnings from exports and enable us to get better and better food for Ukrainians. The People's Front is in.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-19-m0.u147	Thank you. Please, Mr. Gregory.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-19-m0.u148	Thank you very much for your support, colleague. And what I'm saying is that it's absolutely right that today is a more acute problem than organic production doesn't exist. This is the way the entire civilized world goes about managing itself. And if we want to eat clean, normal foods, and to have healthy, normal, developed children, we have to support and vote on this bill today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-19-m0.u149	Thank you. Question time is complete. Thank you for the report. And now I ask the heads of factions and groups to record the performance. Please record. From Petr Poshenko's Block, Barn Oleg Stepanovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-19-m0.u150	This bill is obviously needed to bring Ukrainian agricultural producer standards to certain standards, where we want to go and get closer, away from the Russian Asian horde. But by going back to the previous law, I would like to address all of our colleagues. Dear ones, we must raise the Ukrainian village, we must encourage those who work on the ground, those who want to work on the ground, and help with grants, not compensation for those who never work or work, but for those who come to the Ukrainian village, and give them funds, subsidies for the development of private farms, to work on Ukrainian land, to work on their families, to pay taxes, to raise the village and to work on themselves, and not on someone else, to rent a land that we would give them in haste. That's why my position here is fundamental. We must prohibit the handing over of land to anyone, we must help those who have gone through a hell of war, stand on their feet in the village, form farms and give them land to use. And not give compensation to anyone there for the land, and we have to give grants, compensation to those guys who came to the village to pick up this village and work for themselves. And this is a European principle, and this is the principle of rebirth of the Ukrainian village. So I call on everyone, don't manipulate the facts, and those who want to work on the ground, come to Ternopolska, you'll get land for farms to use, and we'll help you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-19-m0.u151	Thank you. From the Fatherland faction, Ivchenko Vadim Evgenovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-19-m0.u152	Vadim Yvchenko, "The Fatherland" faction. Dear colleagues, look at our land: Of the 42 million hectares that are being processed, almost 8 are being driven out of effective traffic. There's so much mineral fertilizer in there, so many chemicals to make something grow. Can't we just take politics with you and make sure that we only grow the land banks of those who do organic farming? Go to Poltavščina, Shishicki district. The hero of Ukraine processes 8,000 acres [8.5,000 ha] of land. You know, he started in the Soviet Union with two centrifuges, then 20 centrifuges, and now he has as many centrifuges in the hectare as he has the largest holding company, using modern technology and using modern plant protection -- 80-90 centrifuges of corn. They come from all over the world to sell their land. It has a hectare today that costs 25,000 euros. Colleagues, this is the future, this is the future of Ukraine, because it is the livelihood of Europe. We have to do everything we can to develop organic agriculture so that we can support as much as possible those farms that want to be certified or certified as organic producers. We have to make a follow-up of this product, and so that the consumer is not deceived, that he buys directly organic products. We have to make a register of these enterprises and give them maximum support from the country's budget, and to that end, we have to help them get to international markets. Colleagues, this is the future. The future cannot happen without an appropriate law. The future cannot happen without a law that aligns our legislation with EU directives. This is the second time that we have considered this question. And believe me, today we have to make the most of our decision. "Paternity" supports, supports and will support those in the future who will lead organic production, agriculture in our agrarian policy, who will avoid all these harmful substitutes and harmful direct fertilizers, I don't know, the remedies used in agricultural production. Please, let us, at last today, adopt this law in the first reading, to the second we have something to work on, and we will accept it as quickly as possible in the second. This year this legislation should be harmonised with EU directives according to our obligations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-19-m0.u153	Thank you for your presentation. And now the speech is given to the honourable colleague who represents the position of the People's Front, Mr. Amazanov, please. Mr. Clumsy. Excuse me, please. Mr. Clumsy. To whom the word Mr. Anointed One conveys the word. Excuse me.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-19-m0.u154	Good afternoon, dear fellows! Thank you, Andrey Anointed, for your word. Dear colleagues, I'd like to pay attention to a few things that we're all talking about today, but I don't think everyone fully understands. First of all, I'd like to draw attention to what organic production is, and in fact, whether it's effective, or inefficient, to write this organic product on this product. Today, unfortunately, most manufacturers use these inscriptions only to increase the turnover of their product, so - called larger sales. It's clearly marketing, it's their business, it's profit. But there is a very big flaw and a negative. People trust the green inscriptions, but they don't understand that they have an incomprehensible quality product. Thanks to our authors, I'd like to thank them for wanting to settle, and I think today we're first-reading a solution to this problem, and we're going to be able to make sure that the product and the product are actually quality and match those inscriptions that we see below. The other one. I would like to thank those manufacturers who are actually meeting the requirements of the EU rules today and who meet the quality of the product that corresponds to what is written there on the label or on the package. It's very important because it's being used and it's not just us with you, it's our kids using it. And children are our future. And just in order for children to have a quality product, we today have to vote in favour of this law. Because food security is not just the future of our country, it is the future of the entire nation and the future of the world. We don’t even know how many junk foods we eat today are on the table with us. Just raise the list of components that are part of a product, so how can you remember that if sausage is meat and meat is only 30 percent meat? Shame! The People's Front faction will support this initiative. And another moment that I'd like to talk about today. I welcome the idea of the authors that they allow for the introduction of so-called market surveillance, not to oppress a businessman, not to drop him, to impose a fine, but to be effectively controlled for quality production. And today, the State Service needs to understand that they really have to run the necessary department to control this and the inspectors have to check it out. But not to check the existence of a paper, a so-called certificate, but to understand that all production is certified and that this product, when it goes abroad, will not require any paper, but will know that it actually meets international European standards. And then both ISO and other services will understand how much Ukraine has moved forward.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-19-m0.u155	Ten seconds to complete.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-19-m0.u156	And this is going to be exactly what it's going to be like for the whole world. The People's Front faction will vote in favour of this bill. I urge everyone to vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-19-m0.u157	Thank you. From the Radical Party Lazko Oleg.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-19-m0.u158	Dear little colleagues, I appeal to your conscience and conscience and urge you to return face to Ukrainian peasant and Ukrainian cow. Unfortunately, there is little left because of the policy of power. But so that they don't disappear at all so that we can revive animal farming in our villages, unfortunately neglected on the best Ukrainian land, our team is seeking the adoption of the Law banning the use of palm oil in dairy products. They're taking all the shit to Ukraine. Last year more than 200,000 tons of palm oil, not even eaten by monkeys, was imported and agreed upon by Ukrainians. Why? Because they make profits by poisoning people. All scientists have long established that the melting temperature of palm oil is 45 degrees Fahrenheit [45 ° C]. At body temperature, the standard 36.6 use of palm oil is a direct route to oncology, to cardiovascular disease. Some earn income from the lives and health of Ukrainians. They feed people cheap, low-quality stupid, and then they pay tens of thousands of dollars for chemotherapy, oncology treatment, and cardiovascular diseases. The most vulnerable to palm oil products are children who usually use milk and older people. Therefore, our obligation to adopt a law that prohibits the indignation of Ukrainians and establishes a dragon’s responsibility for the health and life of Ukrainians. We call on Parliament to support the bill we have initiated to ban palm oil. This will save thousands and thousands of Ukrainians' lives, save them from severe cancer and cardiovascular diseases. Restoring the livestock in the village and increasing the implementation of milk, quality Ukrainian milk. The government today prohibits the purchase of milk and meat from private rural courts, but Ukraine has set a record five years after the import of meat. We're bringing pork, palm oil, fox devil instead of creating conditions for the development of our own economy, our own production, our own farming, the restoration of livestock and the increase in farmers' income. Because the best Ukrainian cow is the only way a peasant and a family can feed their children. We urge Parliament to conscience and conscience, to consider our bill, to ban the use of palm oil, to preserve the health of Ukrainians, to restore a cow in a Ukrainian village, and to work for Ukrainian peasants.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-19-m0.u159	Thank you. So, colleagues, our time for the morning meeting is up. The next performance from Self-Help will be by John Miroshnichenko, and we will begin with Mr. John's speech with our poor work. So this is going to be the first performance, so I'm asking you to be on time at 4:00 in the hall. Colleagues, then there'll be speeches from the national deputies for 15 minutes, then a closing statement, and then we'll move on to making a decision. Now I want to make a message, colleagues, attention. Women veterans of the ATO in eastern Ukraine today, April 19, 2018, at 2 p.m., are invited by Ukrainian national deputies to show the documentary "Invisible Battalion", on the third floor in the towers of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. And I ask everyone to participate in a documentary on the third floor of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. I want everyone to participate in this artistic event in the Ukrainian Parliament. I declare the morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine closed. At 16 o'clock, I invite everyone to the hall to continue our work.
