ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-13-m0.u1	Dear colleagues, please come into the hall and prepare for registration. People's deputies please come into the hall. So I'm going to ask you to take up jobs. Are you ready for your registration? I'd like you to sign up. Please register. [[10:07:53]] 336 national deputies registered. The morning plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Today is the birthday of the National Deputies. Andrija Volodymyrovich Galchenka Hello. [[Applause]] Pavlovich Sabashuk. Hello, Mr. Peter. [[Applause]] Yuri Igorovich Solovia Mr. Igor, welcome. [[Applause]] Petra Vasilovich Jurczyn. [[Applause]] Anton Volodymyrovich Yatzenka, welcome! [[Applause]] I'd like to remind you that today we're going to start work on "the hour of questions to the government." Colleagues, I'd like to offer you this plan for today. In order for us to have a session closed today, not in the second, but in the first hour, if there is no objection, we will go through all the necessary procedures, procedures, and closures at the first hour. Now, colleagues, I ask all national deputies to take up their jobs. We're moving on to an hour of questions to the government. And I'm inviting you to the show. [[B in m in s a l in]] Colleagues, this format is proposed. Is there no objection to the question at first and the Prime Minister to speak after the questions? Is there no objection? It's completely within our hour of questioning to the government. So please, colleagues, we are now moving on to questions if there is no objection and then the Prime Minister will speak. The first block we have is questions from MP factions and groups. I ask all representatives of the factions and groups who intend to speak to prepare for the recording. And I'm recording questions from MP factions and groups. Please hold the record, please log in. From the People's Front to the word, the head of the MaksimBurbak faction is invited. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-13-m0.u2	Good afternoon! Mr. Prime Minister, Reverend Vladimir Borisovich! Dear Vladimir Borisovich, good afternoon! Yesterday, we accepted all the regulations and a viable Supreme Anti-Corruption Court was created, the Supreme Council did everything. And now I think we're going to unlock our continued cooperation with our Western partners, with international financial organizations. Please tell me, what are the prospects for continued cooperation with international financial organizations?
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-13-m0.u3	Thank you, Reverend Maxim Yuriovich. I thank the deputies for yesterday's decision, it's not easy enough, but I think it's long-awaited by Ukrainian society. It must now be implemented in order for us to have a just, independent judicial system. I mean, anti-corruption courts. As far as our cooperation is concerned, I think something needs to be answered more broadly. From 2005 to 2013, more than $50 billion of debt was created in Ukraine, which was actually borrowed and just spent unknown where and for what. Today, there's been a situation where you and I have been serving these debts since 2014, when we realize that, including the state-wide treasury from 2010 to 2013, including, in fact, we've started servicing these debts. In order to handle these debts, we need to raise about $5 billion a year just to service them. Over the next five years, we have to pay back $33 billion. Obviously, when it comes to economics, the economy is starting to recover, but in order to handle these debts and to ensure the stability of the economic system, the financial and economic system of the country, it's about having to borrow these resources somewhere, preferably cheaper, to give resources to those who have taken care of us, and thus reduce service, reduce debt. My strategy as Prime Minister, the government, I firmly believe that all of the national MPs, is to repay these debts, to ensure faster economic growth, in order to make the economy strong. There were key requirements, a couple of key requirements. From the point of view of the anti-corruption infrastructure that we've implemented, but it's very important, I stress, primarily for Ukrainian citizens. This is very important -- the creation of anti-corruption courts -- for investors who come to invest in the economy of the state. And it's also very important for our international partners who talk about: okay, we're willing to invest or give you credit at cheap rates, but please show that you're transparent, that you're open, that you don't have corruption.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-13-m0.u4	Give me a minute, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-13-m0.u5	And that would be a very important decision. Now the question is, for a year now, we've been having discussions about how to price gas in the country. You know, for the Ukrainian industry, the gas costs, there, about 10,000 dollars, the cheaper it is, the government imposed restrictions on the population, and that's a limit of 7,000 dollars, up to 7,000 dollars. It's about leveling the price in Ukraine and making it the only one. I definitely disagree with that, and this year we are having a serious discussion with the International Monetary Fund. We're looking for the right approach now. But what is important to me? It is important that the Ukrainians do not suffer. And you need adequate compensators to avoid providing. What is the impossibility of serving international debts? Well, you know what it is, it's a defolt. What's a defolt? It's a sharp rise in prices, a sharp inflation, a decline in the income of Ukrainians, basically everything we've accumulated. Like a dynamic that will continue to grow, everything can be zero, and yet, God forbid, and minus. We must not allow such a tragic scenario. That's why now.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-13-m0.u6	30 seconds to complete.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-13-m0.u7	Thank you, Mr. Head. Now that we're in negotiations, we're looking for compromises to first protect the interests of Ukrainian citizens and Ukraine, I'm hoping for understanding with international partners. Thank you for asking.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-13-m0.u8	Thank you. From the Self-Help faction of Tetjana Ostrov, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-13-m0.u9	Dear Mr. Prime Minister, the third day of the government district in Gruszewski is blocked by car owners on foreign registration, demanding that your 479 Anti-Smuggling Order be revoked. But there is no word in this decree about a car with a foreign registration. Instead, people are being torn down by someone today, and they expect repression by impounding cars, with some fines of 170 thousand dollars, and that's what's causing their demands. We don't have our own car manufacturing, we don't have affordable credit, and there are artificial barriers to import in terms of standards and high excise duties. So, as long as we don't lower excise duties for all Ukrainian citizens, for anyone who wants to drive a used car, I ask your commission, until the Parliament solves this issue so that people on foreign registration of cars don't move. Please state the government’s position on this matter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-13-m0.u10	Thank you for asking. As far as cars are concerned. Clearly, this problem requires legislative regulation and a definition of perhaps a new policy in terms of customs payments paid by Ukraine for cars. It's on one side. On the other hand, let's develop national legislation to stimulate manufacturing inside the country of cars, let's just give them ideal conditions for us to have the world's auto manufacturers come and work. This is the second position. But that also requires our joint decision. I'm willing to be as flexible as possible on this issue as possible to have production here in Ukraine. And by the way, I want to tell you that we have a Eurocar today -- a beautiful business that can make cars. Today there's a "KNOCK" agreement that -- maybe I'll have a meeting soon -- on the placement of additional production in Ukraine of cars, but it's a matter of such a far-reaching perspective. I realize that people today are concerned about the real state of affairs. As for the 479 decrees. Colleagues, it has the following name: to destroy shadow schemes when goods are scattered to Ukraine. And we don't see what these goods are. If they come at an undervalue, if they come after other shadow schemes, I said that we're going to fight it, and it's the decision of the Ukrainian government. The police don't enter the customs zones, maybe they don't. They work essentially analytically, databases to calculate these patterns. And that is why I think that this decision should only be reinforced, strengthened and done to ensure that it works on the budget of Ukraine and Ukrainian citizens. Now, about drivers and cars. I heard the position. There can be no reprisals, I am deeply convinced of that. And that's why I'm going to have a conversation with the National Police today, and with whom it's necessary that no one in the legislative order should "shock" people on this issue. This is also very important. But I want to talk to all the protestors.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-13-m0.u11	One minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-13-m0.u12	You have to be civilized. Here, in this room, there are no enemies of yours, and where there is a government house, there are no enemies of yours. We understand the problem, we try to solve it. I know you're having a lot of discussions on the committee, but crossing the line of normal relationships is just impossible. And I'm speaking very frankly. Play with muscles, demean. No one will humiliate you, but you have no right to humiliate MPs or anyone else. It's unacceptable, I'm saying this to the stockholders. What is more, I think that someone is behind them, someone who uses their own schemes with other dirty ones. And I am deeply convinced of that. So there will be no reprisals, we will protect you, and we will not insult you. We ask you to abide by the law, and we ask you to abide by the traffic rules, like all road users. And I am deeply convinced that there will be no questions, no repressive special actions. I'm today.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-13-m0.u13	30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-13-m0.u14	That's what I'm saying today. We'll talk to the Minister of Internal Affairs, with everyone he needs to talk to, in order for everything to be completely civilized. And the MPs would just ask, as quickly as possible, for you to adopt these decisions in order to solve this problem systematically and put a dot on this issue. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-13-m0.u15	Thank you. From the Shahov People's Will Group. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-13-m0.u16	Dear Vladimir Borisovich, I personally support these numbers, because that's $3 billion to the budget in Ukraine. Explain why. Because these people still drive here, and a million of these cars in the city. And it's still in Ukraine. 30 percent are willing to pay for the import. And secondly, today I've had practically a fight with Minister Nasalik, who wouldn't let the national MP in and wouldn't allow a union. If miners come for their wages with hammers like that in 1993, believe me. Please pay from the 15th, 16th, 17th, and now three months is unpaid. In May. And a hundred people -- coal miners -- are trying to liberate some acid Valentine from Lysicanskwogilly today. Please note this. Once again, in 1993, the miners, when they came to Parliament, there was neither Parliament nor the Cabinet of Ministers.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-13-m0.u17	30 seconds, please. I already said 30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-13-m0.u18	Vladimir Borisovich, son of miners, I have no father or mother. The coal pool in Luhansk was flooded, in Stahan, the Illich mine was flooded, the XXl of the convention is flooded! Don't destroy the coal industry and let it develop, let it modernize the coal sector. You're paying money to Russia, to America, to Africa. Right away. And tell me. I want you to stay for three, four months. Children are starving today, feed the children!
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-13-m0.u19	Please, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-13-m0.u20	Thank you! I heard. Well, I gave you an answer. I think that's enough. The miners. Look, I wish we weren't here to compete with eloquent performances. I worry about people who don't get paid. What's more, as you know, when we did our pension reform, it was the miners who got the biggest pension benefits. This tells us that we have also begun to restore social justice. Now it's about state mines. The inefficient management model destroyed the government mines, and we didn't destroy them. And today we have debts, systemic ones that accumulate because the system is, excuse me, inadequate to the needs of people. But no one has the right not to pay people for their conscientious work. So we find funds in the government budget from other articles, we turn them over to pay wages, and we pay them not to create debt. More than that, we are. There's a bill that provides for a coal distribution there of 1 billion 400 million. I asked the deputies to take him in, Michael Bondar brought him in. If it's accepted, we can have within the budget, the redistribution do within these limits, and we can normally end the year without debt. But I told the minister that we don't just need a few years to compensate for the cost of coal, which is more expensive than it costs. Where does the difference in value come from? People get coal, which is 2-3 times more cost than they can buy anywhere. So you need to upgrade the mines, you need new power, and so on, as was done in the Lviv swimming pool. And this needs to be done all over the country, this is fundamentally an important issue. So my question of miners hurts, I respect their work, I think our job is to make sure they don't feel so uncomfortable and the debt is paid. But what I'm stressing is, let's work on this seriously.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-13-m0.u21	30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-13-m0.u22	Parliamentary support is also important. And since you've come with two of these attributes, the tool, I have. Can I make a joke? Do you mind? I then propose to the Secretary of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the Supreme Council's Office instead of this table, to give you a service license from a member of the Supreme Council of the same size, and the hammer to make a key to the National Deputy's office. Thank you. It's the same size and you'll be walking with him every day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-13-m0.u23	From Peter Dustenka's Block, Ruddick. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-13-m0.u24	Dear Vladimir Borisovich, distinguished members of the government! I support 100 percent of the proposal from Tetjana Ostrikov and Sergey Shahov as necessary to solve the urgent problem with the Europeans. At two o'clock in the morning, I came back from them -- totally normal people, I don't know who was in trouble, I didn't have anything. They were perfectly able to explain everything. It's a very different story today. But besides this problem, there's another very important and urgent problem -- "Dniproazot," which stopped on June 15 because of the increase in gas prices by 2,000 dollars. As we know, Dniproazot is the only producer in Ukraine of liquid chlorine, which is an essential ingredient to purify drinking water in our taps. What's the water in our taps? I encourage the members of the government to go out after an hour of questions to the government there, to parliament, and if you don't find time, then they will come to you. There the Green Party activists brought samples of our water from the key rivers of Ukraine: Dnipro, Tismin, Chermos, South Bug, Right. If this chlorine is not released, no water canal will start to clean the water.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-13-m0.u25	30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-13-m0.u26	Please give an answer to what the government has done and will do so as not to stop Dniprozot in this very important problem. 'Cause in 20 days, there's gonna be trouble. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-13-m0.u27	Thank you, Mr. Sergei. The quality of drinking water -- I know not what they're bringing, but I know about the quality of drinking water, because for 8 years I've been the city's big head. He had the honor of being the city's head of the great, 400th-thousand town of Winnitz, and I understand that is the problem of drinking water or sewage. The question of rivers, the quality of water in Ukraine and the environment in general is an extremely important issue, because no one has systematically addressed this issue. Today, rivers are in a catastrophic state and have water quality. It takes a serious program, and that's the big money, the money we need to channel (and I think it's tens of billions or hundreds of billions) to do this work. And now we're looking for opportunities, including international financial resources, because it's not right for Ukraine right now, for this minute. As far as I'm concerned. But this question, I agree with you, is very important. It is a matter of both health and safety. As for Dniprost. I know about the Dniprost problem. Dniprosote buys gas like the whole of Ukraine buys it, industry. There's no cheaper gas. Nobody sells it. It is simply impossible to buy it cheaper than it is worth today. I was thinking about how this could be done. I don't have the answer to that question, because everyone who gets it, take it from private gas producers, they'll sell it for less than 10,000, can you find one? No one's selling, and that's an obvious fact. Nor can the state sell it cheaper than we get it, because it will be a loss and someone will go to jail for it. So there's no solution now. As far as chlorine is concerned. I've been assigned to deal with this matter systematically by Deputy Prime Minister Hennadia Zubka. And the plan that he presented to me, which is approved, tells me that chlorine in Ukraine will be. As far as the business is concerned, I'm willing to do anything. You don't have to go here or there. For me, every job in Ukraine is of great value. I'm willing to do anything, but what I can do to keep them safe, so that people get paid and so on. If there's anything I can do.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-13-m0.u28	Please, 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-13-m0.u29	If anything I can do affects the firm's resilience, I'm willing to do it. But I don't have the tools yet. I think everyone understands that, and no one really gives a recipe right now at this moment. Thank you for asking.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-13-m0.u30	Thank you. From Rebirth Group, Yacenko Anton, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-13-m0.u31	Dear colleagues, yesterday and today we have very important protest actions. And indeed, there is a problem for both people and the problem of budgeting. So from the Rebirth Group, we ask that the government join us, and, Mr. Parubius, that we may still be able to consider today and adopt as the law on so-called 'euroblachs'. If not, gather the next session of the Supreme Council on Tuesday. So I'm asking everyone to mobilize and finally people will be happy. And the second question to the government: is it now the end of money to Mrs. Suprun, to treat children and people abroad? It's a very important question, because a very large number of public organizations and patients are calling. Thank you and please support. Let's mobilize today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-13-m0.u32	Thank you. Since there was also a call to me, colleagues, let's get all the deputies out of factions, groups for 11 hours. And I ask all the heads of factions, the leaders of the groups to gather as many deputies as possible. I'm going to run a rating vote, and we're going to see if we can make a decision. So, Mr. Anton, I'm addressing you and I would like you to mobilize the deputies for 11 hours. Please, Prime Minister. And the question is next from the "Paternity" faction. I'd like a cup of Alexander, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-13-m0.u33	Vladimir Borisovich, distinguished members of the government! Let me just remind you, as an interned politician, that people go out on such actions not because they have to love someone or not love, respect and respect. They're brought to this condition. That's how entrepreneurs come out, miners. Vladimir Borisovich, it's our fault. It is Parliament that has not been able to adopt the bill in a year. And that is, indeed, our shame. For a year, they came with peaceful action, but not all of them. You're the only one who's asked. They asked for a simple supplement in your decision: in paragraph 2, two, add the words "except the exercise of control of the means of transport of personal use". It's the means of transport at a foreign registration. So what's going on now? I spoke to them twice yesterday. In Zaporozhye.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-13-m0.u34	30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-13-m0.u35	The police arrested several cars. The situation began in Odessa. I don't believe there's gonna be a full warehouse today. It's a shame to say that. But I'm asking you very much at any time like the Prime Minister: get us out of what we've done. Just give not only a word, I know that your position is that you're in defense, but give an order or a change to this, so that before the adoption of the bill there is no culpability to those people.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-13-m0.u36	Thank you. Please, Vladimir Borisovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-13-m0.u37	Thank you, Reverend Alexander Volodymyr. You know, I'm not talking about, well, it's clear that people don't always like power. But the important thing is that we, the authorities, when we are in it, love people. And that's not why I'm against any aggression at all. And when people go out, in principle, it would be enough to say, there, I don't know, to ask if there's a small group of people to come out, to say, look, here's the thing, this is the situation in us, it's taking some kind of a turn, we need that, that and that. And, you know, in principle, I think that a lot of people know that if there's a question, it's objective, I'm always in favor of justice, and I'm always in a position to protect and not to allow any aggravation. I've only said what we have. Our relationship should be based only on mutual respect. And that's very important. Moreover, I believe that the Ukrainian Parliament today is capable of showing respect for Ukrainian society. Both our government and I, as Prime Minister, always respect people and their problems, which are very important. So I definitely, I don't know how we're settling this, I've just heard the problem. And I'm going to do everything I can to make sure that the situation is completely controlled and that there are no problems. The parliamentary process thus foresees, perhaps something to do earlier, something later, I hope that today you will be able to adopt a decision that will allow the first step to be taken to resolve this issue. Thank you for asking.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-13-m0.u38	Thank you. All I'm saying is that I'm asking the faction members to come to the hall and be in the hall at 11 o'clock. So now from the Radical Party, I give the word to Oleg Lashkov. Please, Mr. Oleg.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-13-m0.u39	Dear Mr. Prime Minister, let's not talk about the details, although they are important, let's talk about the strategy: the strategy of overcoming poverty, the strategy of restoring the economy. Because the only way to stop labour migration is to stop sitting like drug addicts on the needle of external credits, is to restore their own production. You're offering to raise prices for gas. You say you'll find compensators. The best compensator is to raise Ukrainians' incomes, increase their purchasing power. And this is real business support when people go and buy goods, and they have something to feed their families. Don't come up with anything to support business: deregulation, privatization, drywall and all. Give people a job in Ukraine, a decent salary, a pension, and then you'll see growth in economic growth, and the main thing is economic recovery because of the radical change in economic policy that we're proposing. We ask you to support our initiatives: 2 million jobs, at least 100 billion.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-13-m0.u40	30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-13-m0.u41	At least $100 billion of additional investment -- and we're going to turn Ukraine into a flowering garden where everyone will respect, because our country will be strong. The bums, the beggars, the beggars, no one in the world likes. Do you like it when you're asked? No, it's not. And I don't like it. But you respect the strong. Thus, we must be strong. So I urge you to change economic policy: raise wages, raise Ukrainian income and create jobs for our people.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-13-m0.u42	Thank you, Reverend Oleg Valeriovich. I just want to tell you one thing. I can't say that when I'm asked, it's not bad for me. I like to give it back, and it's for me. Well, me. Naturally absolutely, that's how my parents taught me. And I want to say this: you're absolutely right. What is the message of our success? Our guarantee, Ukraine's success, is a strong economy. Further from a strong economy, we build all the quality systems of life, starting with security and defense, and ending with social protection. We need funds and resources to do that. And that's why I'm with you every day, and together we're passing some laws, some changes, including fighting dirty schemes, to fill the Ukrainian budget. And that's very important. That's why we need investment in the economy. And investment can go in externally, internally, privatization is also an investment. Well, agree with the fact that those enterprises that have been privatized their time and are now advanced, modernized, they go to global markets, they develop new products, they invest in their development and so on, and so on, and so on, and so on, and so on, and that's what we need. It's an industry. But don't forget the services, the Ukrainian exports. That's all that gives us the extra cost and power of our economy. So we don't have any differences. This will allow us both to pay off our debts, and to stand firm on our feet, and to form an internal and external policy that is very important. Now, for gas prices. I'm responsible, I don't want to raise the price of gas, I don't want to do that. This can only be a necessary step to prevent economic catastrophe and poverty for Ukrainian citizens. And that's why we're so clearly in these positions right now. I'm going to ask for consultations with faction leaders on this issue and I'm just going to show you two scenarios, three scenarios that we can go to. On the one hand, on the other hand.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-13-m0.u43	One minute, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-13-m0.u44	As for my activity as Prime Minister and our government, and the previous government of Arsenius Yatsenuk, we did everything we could to stabilize the situation and begin to grow. You'll see, inflation is slowing down now, prices are still stable, the next year is going to be a better situation. But if we can't handle external debt, we're going to have huge, huge problems that will be felt, not by oligarches, as always, by ordinary Ukrainian citizens, because, God forbid, there might be some kind of problem. But I'm not allowing this scenario, I'm allowing economic growth, I'm allowing price stability, I'm allowing inflation slowing down, I'm restoring credit, I'm increasing investment, I'm allowing for successful and competitive privatization, which is a strategy that will allow you to create new jobs, create new Ukrainian products, go to new markets and provide Ukrainians with a decent salary and, as a result, a decent pension, Thank you for asking.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-13-m0.u45	Thank you. Gusak's Opposition Block, please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-13-m0.u46	I have a question for the Prime Minister of Ukraine. Dear Vladimir Borisovich, the debt owed to the miners of the state mines has already exceeded 1 billion dollars, and the Supreme Council has not adopted Bill 8316, which will allow this debt to be repaid. August 26, the great festival of the Ukrainian coal industry is the day of the miner. And it looks like this day the miners will be again without pay. Indeed, problems in the Ukrainian coal industry have been accumulated decades since the Soviet Union. But from 2003 to mid - 2014, there was no debt on government mines. And by the way, the bill 8316 you're supporting has actually blocked the government finance department. That's my question. Vladimir Borisovich, the government for two years, you don't get confused every month by miners who just ask that if they work, they pay their wages on time. Solve this problem once and for all, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-13-m0.u47	Thank you so much for your question. And I'm embarrassed and I'm worried, I said that. I'm worried about the salary of Ukrainian citizens. I'm really worried about the salary debt because I realize there's nothing to live for. And that's why in the last month we've identified 320, I think, millions passed on, and there's still 1 billion left. I'd like to ask you to meet for 11 hours now, and I'm asking the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, if there's a quorum, to vote on both the Law to the neuronomists, and 8116 on the basis and in general, then you'll open up the possibility of a progressive repayment within 1 billion 400, we'll have a reserve left over, and we'll be able to sort this out gradually. Without Parliament's decision to make up for these debts, it is simply not possible, and that is an obvious fact. And as for the absence of debt, in the previous years, as you said, I understand, but the carbon complex was completely different, his situation was quite different. When we lost a lot of our assets in the occupied territory, it changed the whole picture, the economic one including. But what is the question? If debt were not allowed and the mines were upgraded in the 10 years you called, there would be no debt today. I mean, they separated everything from the best state, I mean government property, they did something for themselves, they didn't give them, so to speak, just die, these mines, and they paid their wages, but everything else was just destroyed. And so today, yes, such a critical situation, just like with roads in Ukraine. It needs to be restored, and we need new investments in the state's coal industry. Thank you for asking. Thank you for taking care of this subject. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-13-m0.u48	Thank you. So, colleagues, I'd like to speak with the national MPs right away. Anyone who raises his hand should remember that the recording takes place through the "Council" system and there is no other mechanism for the performance, there is one mechanism: to ask a colleague to sign up and then pass on the word. With my hand up, I can't give it out of my voice. So all the national MPs who would like to ask questions for the government, please take part in the record and please record. So, Barwinenko Vitaly Dmitrovitch. [[B in m in s a l in]] Colleagues, please stop the noise in the hall! Please, I've been walking. I've been walking.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-13-m0.u49	Vasile Guljavil, group of Rebirth Party. Dear Vladimir Borisovich, I am not asking any more questions, but I am addressing you from the employees of the Black Sea Sea Sea Port of Odessa. Today, investors go to the port -- that's very good, but people have great doubts that when investors come, people will stay there. There's going to be social benefits, and that's over 4,000 employees. People are asking you as Prime Minister of Ukraine to take personal control of the privatisation of the Black Sea Sea Port, so that people have guarantees of work so that people have social benefits and confidence in tomorrow. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-13-m0.u50	Thank you for asking. I don't remember any plans to privatize the Black Sea port. But with regard to investments, investments are clearly, entirely, linked to the creation of new jobs, new opportunities, and the expansion of all port operations. So I'm here, on the contrary, I think that if there's an investment, it's going to be much better. And there are no plans to privatize it, so it's probably not exactly accurate. Thank you for asking.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-13-m0.u51	Romanova Anna Anatoliyevna, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-13-m0.u52	Vladimir Borisovich, I have a question from the entire Self-Help faction to you. Such a collapse in the country’s tourism market, as we see today, has never occurred in all the years of Ukraine’s independence. More than two thousand people have been the victims of shahrai tour operators, who have sold tour guides more than there are any places in the world, avialist. What's more, I definitely think that this scheme covers its inaction of the Ministry of Economics, which licenses these tour operators. And the government didn't consider stopping these licenses. Moreover, they have never been tested. According to official data, another side of the issue, according to official data of the State Service, only about 3,000 airline delays were observed in the first quarter of 2018. Over 3,000! To a lesser extent, people were affected.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-13-m0.u53	Please, 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-13-m0.u54	I have a very clear question for you: when are these pirate tour operators going to be held accountable to thousands of people and compensated? Because now they're just not picking up, they're not answering the calls, they're making government noises.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-13-m0.u55	Thank you for asking. As you can see, all these companies are tourists, they're private, and they're licensed according to the laws that are passed. Obviously, what happened to the tourist area is very difficult to monitor in real time. What's the question: we don't understand the power of a tourist company, for example, we don't know, as you said, according to your data that they sold 20 percent more trips than they could handle. We can't quickly calculate this. And so what happened is a serious call from the point of view of what the problem is and the requirements of the qualified and responsible tourism companies, including everything that applies to aviation. 93 percent of all aircraft fly on time, but even this 7 percent is a huge, crazy amount that affects both quality and Ukrainian citizens' plans. So when this whole story began, I gave the order to the First Deputy Prime Minister, the Minister of Economics, in conjunction with the Ministry. He and the Ministry of Infrastructure have formed a group and are now working to bring them both to the point of responsibility and to make proposals, and to increase the responsibility for tourism. Such incidents have happened before, but in recent years, I don’t remember, this is probably the first time that this happened. So we understand that, now we're going to think about it, we're already thinking about how to strengthen their responsibility and make it more difficult to do this business. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-13-m0.u56	Thank you. Welcome to the speech of the People's Deputy Bondar.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-13-m0.u57	Please give Polakov the word.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-13-m0.u58	Please turn on the Polakov microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-13-m0.u59	Mr. Prime Minister Vladimir Borisovich, I appeal to you. Last night we all saw a story on "Schema," where at night the head of an independent anti-corruption bureau, Mr. Sitnik, drove into a private house to the head of our state for some secret meeting. That's what I'm talking to you about. There is a government-elected NABU auditor who has to verify what this so-called independent anti-corruption body is doing. Why does the head of the NAB receive instructions that are unknown and unknown which, I think, are very far from fighting corruption? What would be appropriate is perhaps for the audience to check what they are doing, what these are private meetings, and what is being decided on them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-13-m0.u60	Thank you. It is very difficult for me to comment on this question. But in fact, as the law provides, there are appropriate audiences authorized to verify the activities of the National Anticorruption Bureau of Ukraine. I think that if you go directly to them as a national MP, they'll give you an answer as to whether it's in their jurisdiction or not. Thank you for asking.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-13-m0.u61	Thank you. Welcome to the speech of the People's Deputies of Goncharenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-13-m0.u62	Honorable Vladimir Borisovich, on the night of July 11, there was a disaster in the city of Balta Odessa, where the school No. 3 of the city burned down as a result of the lightning strike. And now hundreds of students in the Baltic are really having a problem with how the school year starts. It's a huge problem for this city, and it's the one that can't handle it. Volodymyr Borisovich, I would like to ask you to find an opportunity to provide assistance to a united Baltic community from the Cabinet of Ministers reserve fund and to help build a school so that on September 1st all children of the city of Balta Odessa district can go to school. It's a very important question, I know that for you there are also such questions that something inside you, you know, answers that, so I'm asking you to help with that question -- in the city of Balta. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-13-m0.u63	Thank you for asking. The first thing I want to say is, we have a really beautiful Baltic united territorial community. That's true. And a community that is sufficiently successful, model, and we have always supported and supported this process and unification, and local self - government. As soon as that happened, Deputy Prime Minister Zubko contacted the head of the Stepanov district administration -- and within the Odessa area, resources were invented to help solve the problem to the Baltic territorial community. Thank you for asking.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-13-m0.u64	Thank you. I'd like to invite you to the floor of the People's Deputy Belkov.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-13-m0.u65	Thank you very much, Madam Chairman. Dear Mr. Prime Minister, I have a question. I analyzed the statistics on gas production in the first half of the year. Well, I welcome all of us, there are very positive developments, especially in the part of the mining by private campaigns. They are indeed growing in volume today. At the same time, if we reform the Derjgeonadr, it will be even better. If there's auctions, it'll be even better. At the same time, there is a little spoon in this barrel of joy. Crushing, unfortunately, isn't very positive today. Please tell me what the government is planning to do today to take control of Scrooge into its own hands to help the company actually break this negative trend? What can we do to make them begin to extract gas at a higher rate? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-13-m0.u66	Thank you, Mrs. Olga, for your question. What I'm saying is that we actually created all the conditions with you to increase gas production. Clearly, this requires investment. And everything about the company, for example, the Scrooge, we understand that it's part of the NAC of Naftogazu. And this is a global company that we've now given the opportunity to run on all the principles of good corporate governance. And this is what our owners do before the board of supervisors and the company's management. I'm waiting for real steps not only to increase the yield and to get into Skrnaft, but all that's going on with Crushing. But what is obvious is that we need to fill the national needs and needs of Ukrainians with our own gas. And to that end, we are very close to forming a new auction system for selling the right to nadra. So I think this whole thing in the complex is going to give us that O.R. independence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-13-m0.u67	Thank you. Welcome to the speech of the People's Deputy Kishkar.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-13-m0.u68	I'm handing over Victor Krivenk.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-13-m0.u69	Victor Krivenko, National Movement of Ukraine. Dear Prime Minister! Mr. Shahov, may I see the Prime Minister? Thank you, thank you. The situation is at school airport. You know, the Odessa authorities stole 90 acres of defense land. This is the only military airport in the south. This was at the time that Russia had already restored military airport in Tiraspol, Transnistria. Cynically, 90 acres [90 ha] was grossly stolen. Now, there are NATO planes at this airport, and there are American planes. Mr. Prime Minister, can you hear me? Vladimir Borisovich! I'm sorry, yes, yes, thank you. You do. It's a very important question, I'm asking you to take personal control. This is the airport where Truhanov's aunts took off the fence, where our military didn't comply with their statutes and didn't shoot them on the spot, and the situation is critical. I'm asking you to take personal control. I also called on the Chief Commander, the Defense Minister, to place garrison on this earth. In 2007, the military was still on the phone.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-13-m0.u70	30 seconds, please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-13-m0.u71	As early as 2007, the military was asked to form the area. These documents were lost in Odessa city authorities, and then 90 acres [90 ha] of Odessa land was handed over to nearby companies. Thanks to the NABU, we have already recovered 90 million dollars that the Odessa authorities stole from the Krayan factory. I and more than thirty other deputies signed a petition corresponding to the law enforcement authorities. And only the NAB broke the case, and you saw that our trials were again released from Truhanov. So I urge you to take responsibility for this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-13-m0.u72	Thank you. As we spoke to you before the meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, give me your address on the matter. I'm going to write a resolution from the point of view of everyone being included in the verification process. And by the results, you will be informed. If action is needed, we will use it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-13-m0.u73	Thank you. Welcome to the speech of the Long People's Deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-13-m0.u74	Madam Chairman, I'd like to ask because from all over the group, we only have one MP, my speech is to share with Mr. Hirschfeld.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-13-m0.u75	Unfortunately, it's not time for a performance. That's why I'm asking.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-13-m0.u76	The other one. Now, Mr. Prime Minister, Mrs. Greenevich, Lilia Greenevich, I would like to say this. I was just listening. Most parliaments on Friday either criticize the government or. and often right, or make suggestions. I've never heard anyone just thank you. And now I personally want to thank Minister of Education Greenevich Lilia and Prime Minister of Ukraine Volodymyr BorisovichGroysman for the fact that their government has proved to be one who is not indifferent to the issue of enlightened, talented young people. Thanks to the personal care of the Minister and Prime Minister of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-13-m0.u77	30 seconds, please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-13-m0.u78	Can I finish?
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-13-m0.u79	30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-13-m0.u80	Ukraine and the Small Academy of Sciences were granted UNESCO status, the status of the UNESCO centre, which is very important for the country. And this government has increased by five times the number of international educational measures in which Ukraine and Ukraine are taking part, and the number of Ukrainian winners of global competitions has increased by 10 times. So thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-13-m0.u81	Who Will Answer?
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-13-m0.u82	I will answer for the entire government: thank you! All of it.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-13-m0.u83	Thank you. I'd like to invite you to the floor of the People's Deputy Barna.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-13-m0.u84	Good afternoon. Mine.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-13-m0.u85	Please allow the Minister of Education to answer. I'm sorry, I'm next.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-13-m0.u86	Let me tell you, colleagues, I just want to tell you some nice news for information. Our math team, for the first time in independence, placed 5th place in the world, we got 4 gold and 1 silver medal at the World Math Olympics. These are our Ukrainian children. [[Applause]] It happened yesterday. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-13-m0.u87	Thank you. And now please turn on the microphone to the National MP Barney.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-13-m0.u88	Praise Jesus Christ! First of all, I would like to address the head of our Parliament, the leadership of the Supreme Council, with the question of continuing, not closing, but continuing the session until a number of vital laws are adopted for the economic, political, legal and social protection of Ukraine's interests. I think those deputies support my position, especially from Fatherland, Julia Volodymyrna Timoshenko, who has been for two weeks. I walked these two weeks of meetings abroad, but it gave a very critical assessment of the President's activities, which, unlike in the ATO area, protects our interests. One second. I am addressing the Prime Minister with such an offer. Recently, the Ukrainian Security Service discovered a number of corruption schemes and activities in the water management of the regions, which were being consulted on this whole.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-13-m0.u89	Please, 30 seconds. Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-13-m0.u90	led by Ovčarenko and Horiev. Therefore, to ensure the objectivity of the conduct of investigations, I ask you to separate yourself from the occupied positions of the State Water Agency and to conduct a service investigation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-13-m0.u91	Musai, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-13-m0.u92	Good afternoon! I have a question for the Prime Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, you just shouted, "Don't disturb the Prime Minister!".. And then you stop and you distract him. Have culture and respect for other colleagues too. Mr. Prime Minister, you just told me, and it's very good that you respect Parliament and so on. But the members of your government, sadly, do not respect the Health Committee, and they do not go to its meetings on a chronic basis. Ms. Uljana Suprun, her deputies to the last two meetings were not at all present at the committee meeting, and not only at the committee meeting, but also at the joint meeting of the Committee on Social Policy. It is clear from Mrs. Suprun that she is a foreigner; she does not understand the Ukrainians; and the glory of Yahweh is to you. You have taken responsibility for the government, please come in from September, as a person who has taken responsibility for health care for our committee meetings. I have a very specific question for Suprun. I know you're a Ukrainian citizen. Are you a citizen of the United States today? Answer me completely.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-13-m0.u93	Good afternoon!
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-13-m0.u94	Please, Mrs. Ulyana.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-13-m0.u95	I am a Ukrainian citizen, I have done everything that my law requires regarding my citizenship in Ukraine, and I serve the Ukrainian state.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-13-m0.u96	Brichenko Igor Vitaliyovich. And that's the final question. Please pass.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-13-m0.u97	Igor Brichenko, People's Front. Please pass the word to the lobbyist of the coal industry and to the miner defender Bondar Mikhail.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-13-m0.u98	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-13-m0.u99	Thank you. Thank you, colleague! Bondar Mikhailo, 119th constituency. In fact, many questions have been asked today, both in coal mines and on wages. I still urge my colleagues to return to the hall and vote on the 8362 bill. And to the Prime Minister, a question. It's not just a question of pay, it's also a question of coal production. And that's the first thing. It has to do with the lack of wagons, empty wagons, to send their products. And according to the train, it's with heat and electric vehicles. Also, please raise this issue in government, and it needs to be resolved more quickly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-13-m0.u100	Thank you very much. I think this year we're going to build more cars than ever, including all market operators. As far as the thrust is concerned, we're starting to get a new mobile warehouse, a new drive that we've shared, according to the plans for joint production, made with General Electric. So it's not going to get worse, it's just going to get better. We've lost a lot in the temporary occupied areas of the mobile warehouse, and so on. And the same thing, the same position. The Millionaire Company of the Crossroads is surrounded by all kinds of schemes and everything else is just a disaster. How can such a billionaire company be dragged into such a story that there are no wagons, there is no weight, there is no such thing? It's a disaster. And so now we're just starting to unwrap, calculate these schemes, destroy them, exploit our enemies. Let them all go somewhere, nowhere to go, and get out of the situation they're in. So the wagons are being built today, the whole industry on this issue is involved, the weight is going to be and we're going to be as measured as possible. But what you said, I'm going to get in touch with the train manager, figure out how the redistribution is going on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-13-m0.u101	Thank you. Thus, colleagues, questions from national deputies, have been completed. I ask all the heads of factions to arrive at the Supreme Council of Ukraine in 10 minutes, especially those who have made many speeches to protect those who are conducting protests today. I'll be there in 10 minutes. Look who's gone. And I'm asking everyone to be in the hall in 10 minutes. And I warn both the heads of factions and all the national MPs and non-factionals to arrive in 10 minutes. And now, as we agreed, we're giving the floor to Prime Minister Vladimir BorisovichGroysman of Ukraine. 10 minutes Prime Minister of Ukraine Vladimir Borisovich Groisman. Please, 10 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-13-m0.u102	Thank you. Mr. President of the Supreme Council, honourable fellow members of the national MPs, I do not have much time in your hands because I respect your work and I know that there are still many possibilities today to pass many useful laws, including to settle the issue with cars and miners. But today I want to thank you from this rostrum for the conclusion of the session, which was probably not easy, but it should be noted that we have been able to unite with you, and when it comes to state decisions, we will make decisions in this room. We have formed with you a list of 35 economic laws, 9 of which have already been adopted throughout the Supreme Council of Ukraine, 5 in the first reading. Clearly, our foundation, a strong, prosperous Ukraine, is the national economy. And that's why I think we should devote the new session to strengthening the national economy, economic growth and shaping a good future. I understand that you and I are starting an electoral campaign, but I think as long as the candidates compete in this room, we need to demonstrate absolute unity with regard to making the right state decisions, and maybe for the first time. Many predict that Parliament doesn't work during the electoral period, but this time we have an opportunity to say that we serve the electorate, and we serve the electorate. No matter how long we work with you, there are many challenges. I am deeply convinced that we can give a very clear answer to these challenges. I want to thank Parliament today for yesterday’s decision that brought the hall together, and we have actually completed the formation of anticorruption infrastructure. Some people may not like it, but this is a requirement, above all, of Ukrainian society. This gives us the opportunity to say and give a very strong and real signal that we are dreaming of building and taking concrete steps by a just state. And when I said that I was willing to assume the prime minister's mandate, it wasn't a bluff. It was my life position. The position that said two things: first, if we take this step together, then we can claim people's trust, if we don't, then we have to make the same conclusions. I'm staying with you, and I think in the next 15 months we'll be able to do a lot of right things to make Ukraine richer. We have full plans, we have many questions from Ukrainian society and from our work together, not politics, not empty promises, but real, responsible policies when we speak and do when we are able to unite for a successful, strong, beautiful Ukraine. I want to encourage everyone to unite today. I am speaking from this rostrum today, and most of our challenges are the issue of combating the shadow schemes in our country, which make a huge evil after filling the state treasury, which makes Ukrainian citizens poorer and our country more dependent than we could be. That's why I think that today the entire legal system, all the authorities -- parliament, the government -- have to unite around to destroy any schemes that weaken our country. And I am deeply convinced that we are capable of doing this to you. Let's work qualitatively, openly, and when the time comes to report from these rostrums on the completion of our cadence before the new cadence, so that we can look completely openly at people's eyes and talk about the real, concrete steps that we have taken for the benefit of Ukrainian citizens, our state of Ukraine. Thank you, Mr. Head of the Supreme Council! [[Applause]] That's how the Opposition Block applauds, and I want to thank you, colleagues. I'd like to thank my colleagues for the Peter Prashenko Block, the National Deputies. Thank you very much, colleagues, for your support, for your understanding and for your complicity. Dear colleagues, thank you to the People's Front. [[Applause]] Thank you for your position, for your support, I feel it very much. I want to thank you, Oleg Valeriyovich, you. Thanks for the criticism, for the support, for the initiative. And the factions of Fatherland: Alexander Volodymyrna, Mr. Boris Ivanovich. Fellows of the Rebirth Group, thank you, Victor Bondar is the leader of the group. Thank you, "The will of the people." Thank you, Self Help, Oleg Romanovich. And thank you, non-fractional deputies who never vote for anything. That's what I want. Mikhail, you don't vote for anything, but thank you. [[Applause]] I hope from the new session you can vote for a strong, prosperous, independent and powerful state. Thank you all, fellows of honor! And I want to thank the Head of the Supreme Council. Andry Volodymyrovich, thank you very much for your decision. And let's work together. And the Economic Policy Committee is the driver of the reform of the Ukrainian Parliament. Thank you all! Thank you, colleagues!
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-13-m0.u103	So, colleagues, I'd like everyone to come into the hall. Please invite everyone to the Hall, please invite the secretariat of the Supreme Council to the Hall. Government, stay back! Take a few more minutes. I'd like all the factions to invite all the deputies to the hall. I was asked to wait two more minutes. While we're waiting for two minutes, there's a statement for a break from two factions: Self-help and Fatherland. They're ready to replace it with a performance. Please give me 3 minutes, IrinaSioenka. Three minutes to vote, colleagues. I'm asking everyone to come into the hall, take jobs. And I'm asking responsiblely, colleagues! That's a good thing to say on the air. It's important to be in the hall while you're working. Please, Mrs. Irina. Three minutes to vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-13-m0.u104	Dear colleagues, Parliament is going on vacation, but we have not voted to make any changes to the state budget. Because the government has not prepared or contributed funds to Parliament for medicine. For the last time in this room, the issue of the Central Electoral Commission has been actively considered, essentially, who will count the number of voters in the elections. And this is the life and health of these voters, and for some reason no one thinks. Regrettably, the interests of the first persons of our nation are merely to hold fast to authority and to provide everything necessary to preserve the life and health of those who have taken power, unfortunately no one thinks. I'll call you the numbers of terrible deaths in our country. During the past year, 392,000 people died from cardiovascular diseases, 3.5 thousand died from the accident, while in 4 years during the ATO we lost 11,000 people, i.e. in fact, every month we lose the population of the state almost 3-4 ATO. And that is no reason for the factions to leave this room or that is no reason for Parliament not to go on vacation right now and to make no change in public funding on the issue of emergency medical care. Imagine how many lives we could have saved if an emergency health care system was working properly if an emergency ambulance with medical equipment and doctors arrived at the right time. July-month is no money from the state budget for emergency medical care to the government. At the same time, another concept of problem - solving has been developed, but the discussion is not the solution to these problems. It was also decided to send control officers to watch the work of the ferrets, doctors, drivers all over Ukraine, instead of raising people’s wages, buying cars, and buying uniforms. First, create conditions, then control those who are now barely surviving on a beggarly salary of 3,700. The treatment program abroad is no longer available in the state budget, and 50 people are on the line. Make immediate decisions for the government, do not leave people to their death. I want to point out that it's very important that the first people of our nation care about the life and health of those who have brought you all into this power, and that emergency medical care can be needed at any time by both the deputies and government officials. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-13-m0.u105	Thank you. So, colleagues, please take up jobs. I ask all the national deputies to enter the hall, all those in the beds, I ask you to return to the hall. Now I'm going to call it by name, colleagues. [[B in m in s a l in]] Please take up your jobs, colleagues! I see who's out of place. And please don't tell me when to put it to the vote. You're ready, aren't you? Please take up jobs. I see. Come on. I'll wait 30 seconds. Take up your jobs, colleagues. Everyone, please prepare for the vote. So, I will now put to the vote the proposal to include in the agenda a draft Act amending the Ukrainian Tax Code on Taxation by Taxation of Light means of Transport (Nos. 8487 and 8487-1), as well as a draft Act amending the Ukrainian Customs Code and certain Ukrainian legislation on the importation of means of transport into the customs territory of Ukraine (8488 and 8488-1). Now I'm going to be one, and then the second law proposes to put the session in order. So, colleagues, I put to the vote the first sentence: to include in the agenda of the day session a draft Act amending the Ukrainian Tax Code on Excise Taxation of Light Vehicles (Nos. 8487 and 8487-1). Entry into the agenda of the day session for decision-making now. Please vote and please support. Let's vote, colleagues. Please be supportive. Vote. We vote, every vote. Please be supportive. [[11:18:13]] For 264 Decision taken. Now on the miners, now I'm asking you, colleagues, next. The next draft of the Law on Amendments to the Customs Code of Ukraine and certain legislative acts of Ukraine concerning the introduction of transport equipment into the customs territory of Ukraine (8488, 8488-1) is the inclusion in the agenda of the day session for decision-making. Please vote, please support. Vote. [[11:19:04]] For 260 And the last one that was required for miners, No. 8362. So 8362 is a day-to-day session for decision-making. 8362, please vote and please support. Vote. [[11:19:40]] For 256 Decision taken. So, colleagues, so colleagues, we are. Attention, colleagues, we have very limited time. I suggest one minute to participate in the discussion, otherwise we will not accept anything. As long as we have the focus in the room, the first number is draft Law 8487 and 8487-1. Please support the consideration of the reduced procedure. Vote. [[11:20:27]] For-191 Decision taken. And I'd like to invite the head of the Tax and Customs Committee to address Souther Nina Petrovna, please. One minute at a time, one minute at a time. Colleagues, this is the general agreement of the hall, one minute -- and the report.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-13-m0.u106	Dear colleagues, I will not delay your attention because you are all familiar with this bill of Law 8487. The main thing is that we have offered an alternative solution, not special conditions for those who use cars on foreign registration, but the introduction of new excise duty rates from cars for all Ukrainian citizens. Tax rates are clear, economically sound. The base rate of a thousand cubic centimeters for cars on petrol engines is 50 euros and 75 euros on diesel engines, with two coefficients applied to ensure that all our citizens benefit from the same rules. Indeed, the age ratio present in the formula leads to older cars being driven inconveniently because they have to be paid a high tax. But it is only in this way that we can regulate an ecological tax that is not yet available in Ukraine. That's why.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-13-m0.u107	30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-13-m0.u108	In order not to impose any additional taxes, as in all European countries, I insist that the age ratio is still present, because cars, indeed, are not needed to drive 25-year-olds to Ukraine. And you don't have to discuss this option, that these are cars for 300 euros. So I ask you to support the committee's decision to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-13-m0.u109	Thank you. The National Deputy of Ukraine, Tetjana Georgievna, is invited to the report.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-13-m0.u110	Dear colleagues! This situation, which resulted in the filling of the streets of Ukraine by machines on foreign registration, was caused by two legislative norms. This is what Ukraine's legislation prohibits today from importing and sweeping into Ukraine's customs territory a car of the "eko-5" senior standard. This is the first position. These people may want to blur and pay the customs fees, but they can't do that because of the legislative ban. And the second norm. These are the draconian, just extremely high excises that are present today for sweeping used cars. And that's why our faction will support such a concept, so that we can afford to clear up used cars and new cars for everyone and every citizen of Ukraine, not just to solve the problem of so-called 'eurobs'. But our bill is fundamentally different from the main one, because cars over 5 years of age, such as two-litre gasoline, are offered to have 360 euros of excise duty. The main bill is 1.5 euros. That's not gonna work.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-13-m0.u111	30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-13-m0.u112	This will not solve the problem of those on the street today. So we're willing to support it on the basis of a few self-help items. First, make excises on imported cars. In a foreign registration, there were just like the ones stipulated in our bill: a 360-euro two-litre gasoline car. This is the first position. The second position is that these cars should not go to the checkpoints, but be blurry about the simplified procedure.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-13-m0.u113	Thank you. [[B in m in s a l in]] Colleagues! 30 seconds. Finish it.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-13-m0.u114	That's huge, because if they all go to the checkpoints, they're going to be any movement of goods, and then we're going to be under-compensated at the added cost tax, and we're going to be fully charged with the checkpoints. And that will also lead to corruption. So these are the key two requirements. And the third thing I have to say. We cannot allow new large - scale five - litre machines, as we are offered, to make an Excision of 250 euros. That's unacceptable! It's not the law.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-13-m0.u115	Please record: two in, two in. And, colleagues, in a minute. Do not put your laws at risk, fellow workers. [[B in m in s a l in]] Semenha Roman, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-13-m0.u116	Please give Tetjani Ostrovi a word.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-13-m0.u117	Dear colleagues, as I have already pointed out, Self-help will support the adoption of any decision to reduce car prices and excise duties for everyone and for every Ukrainian citizen, but we believe that excise duties are indeed available, not 1.5 thousand euros per two-litre car for 15 years, as we are offered in the main bill. And secondly, we think that on new import machines, large engine volumes, excise duties can't be 200 euros. This is unacceptable, and we ask that these requirements be taken into account in the decision before the first reading. Only if these requirements are met are we prepared to support the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-13-m0.u118	"Peter Dust Block," Arthur Gerasimov, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-13-m0.u119	Dear Andrey Volodymyrovich! Dear colleagues! Dear voters! The faction of the Party of Peter Prashenko has consistently supported the adoption of these bills. And we welcome today the decisions of our colleagues from the Fatherland, the Radical Party, Self-Help, who have also joined in supporting the bills that we have consistently supported. Therefore, we urge all our colleagues to unite, vote, and make decisions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-13-m0.u120	Thank you. People's Front, Wozniak. Please, Wozniak, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-13-m0.u121	Pass the word to the echo, please. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-13-m0.u122	Yuri Wozniak, Equine, 153 constituency. First of all, I'd like to say that this law does not apply to Europharmaceuticals, this law for all Ukrainians, it applies to every citizen, because in order to clear up the car you have to pay four taxes: it's VAT, it's customs, it's excise collection and it's the Pension Fund. In any country of the world, VAT and customs is a component of car blurry. Accordingly, we leave these taxes on the scale that is now in the law of Ukraine. We're changing the excise, we're changing it to about 3, 4 times for all Ukrainians. That's why the People's Front fully supports this bill and will vote 100 percent in favour. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-13-m0.u123	Thank you. From the Opposition Block, Gusak, one minute. Passes Papieva, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-13-m0.u124	Thank you. Honorable National Deputies of Ukraine! Dear citizens of Ukraine! You can see that this problem has been created by an active authority, for two years now, there is this problem, and the culprits are the active authorities, and especially the executive authorities in the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. Finally, the Supreme Council of Ukraine has managed, as always, to defend the interests of our citizens of Ukraine. I call on all factions to support Ukrainian citizens. The Opposition Block votes in favour of this bill, and we propose to vote on it today as a whole. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-13-m0.u125	Colleagues! Thank you. I'm asking you to speak very briefly. From the Radical Party of Oleg Lazko. Then Bondar, Kuzel, Shahov.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-13-m0.u126	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. We are voting in favour of a bill that will allow us to pay reasonable taxes to the Ukrainians. But none of you, those who speak and fight for people, have said the key. In order for people to have the opportunity to buy cars or even ride their children or bicycles themselves, they must have a decent salary and work, economic recovery, automobile rehabilitation, and not the transformation of Ukraine into a cemetery of old rotten grain of every kind, but their factories. Look, in Russia, in Brazil, in other countries, the Mercedes, the Fultzwagens, the Peugeots, everyone else, they build factories and they sell them on their market. What you have to do to get the factories to bring, put them here, not bring us import junk, draw billions out of Ukraine, and then we go crazy. Don't worry. More factories, more jobs, more wages. Then each Ukrainian can provide for himself and his family.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-13-m0.u127	Bondar, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-13-m0.u128	Dear Andrew Volodymyrovich, distinguished colleagues! The Rebirth Party has repeatedly talked about supporting these bills, and we're voting, and we're voting. Moreover, we insist that there should be a comprehensive program for restoring the Ukrainian industry. We've registered a bill that allows you to raise the Ukrainian industry and enable you to build a new highway, which is going to be modern, to bring in foreign investors who are going to build the most modern factories to give jobs and pay wages. That's why we support this bill. Our deputies went out and met with people on a number of occasions, including Yacenko, Geller, Billowol, Kulinich Oleg. It is those who have only been going out for the last days, meeting and guaranteeing that we will resolve these matters. And this bill will allow you to buy modern cars at normal prices, as all Europeans buy them in Europe, although the level of our wages is not enough to buy the cars that the Germans buy. So we are in charge of raising industry and paying decent wages so that we can buy modern cars.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-13-m0.u129	Thank you. Kugel, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-13-m0.u130	Dear colleagues, yesterday everyone who stands by looked at you all as government officials and deputies driving cars. They didn't see anything called "Lanos," and it says that we talk a lot about our own manufacturer, and there's no condition that production works here. There is already experience in China and elsewhere. We'll support the bill in the first reading, but I support the self-help requirement, which is only on the first reading, because all the people who strike want to participate, and they have the right to talk about the real moment. And I ask you very much, Vladimir Borisovich, and the authors of the bill, to include in the first reading of the bill a rule of continuation that you and I have adopted here together, a reduction in duties on budget cars, transportation, that is, for the population, low-cost cars, which are also used for "rapid" cars, and others.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-13-m0.u131	Thank you. Colleagues, I'd like to see you. I'll give you my word. You know, the more performances there are, the less chances of keeping people in the room. I understand everyone wants to show their position. Under the following laws, only those who signed "two-for-two-against". Last act, final one, Shahov. And we vote. I'd like everyone to come into the hall in a minute. Please, Shahov.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-13-m0.u132	Dear colleagues, it took two years for people to go to the Supreme Council and require us to do so, which will give us 80 billion dollars in our budget. I also spent six months driving such a car and asked my friend to give me this car. Dear colleagues, I welcome the adoption of this law, with the adoption, with the maintenance of this law, and I wish today the government to build factories that will enable the economy of our state to develop, the cheap production of cars that Henry Ford did, as the Volkswagens did in Germany, as they did the opportunity to raise the economy of our state completely, is the foundation of our state. Please, Your Honor, we will support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-13-m0.u133	So, colleagues, please come into the hall and take up jobs. Everyone, please come into the hall. One minute, Prime Minister Graceman. Everyone please take up their jobs. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-13-m0.u134	Dear colleagues, national MPs! I'd like to say a few very important words. Wait a minute! First. I propose that we now adopt this very first law that was prepared by the committee. You don't have to look for something better, because we don't catch anything right now, that's the first. To prepare him for second reading, to give an answer to people, to guarantee that no one is touching them, we have already spoken to you today. And the main thing is that I want to ask you: let's not go the other way about excises. Let's work out - Oleg Valeriyovich, Oleg Valeriyovich, listen carefully! - Let's work out a very serious, strong Automobile Act in Ukraine by September, create the best conditions in the world for manufacturers to come here and produce cars and ordinary cars and electric cars. And we can adopt it in September, cool, systemic law, it's going to be work, it's going to be cars and it's going to be a totally strong economy. So let's now support this law and work together to create conditions, the most competitive in the world, the location of production in Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-13-m0.u135	So let's move on to making a decision. I'm asking everyone to take up jobs. Let's move on to making a decision, colleagues. I am voting on the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Tax Code on Excise Taxation of Light Vehicles (No.8487). Just on the ground, colleagues, on the ground. If you'll excuse me, I'd like to vote. Careful, every voice. Vote! Please support, we vote. Vote, fellows! [[11:35:35]] For 265 Decision taken. Let's move on to the following law: Law 8488 and Law 8488-1. Please support his consideration of the reduced procedure. Please be supportive. [[B in m in s a l in]] [[11:36:01]] For 204 So, please report, one minute, Eugene.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-13-m0.u136	Dear colleagues, we're all talking about the state allowing this collapse, and it's because of the gaps in the Customs Code. So taking into account the situation and the lattices that people have used to avoid blurring cars and paying no customs fees, we make changes to a number of laws: this and this. It's in the Customs Code to prevent all abuse, and in those laws that regulate activity and the National Police, too. In addition, we are really fixing large amounts of fines for violating the legislation that we are going to accept with you. And that's obviously what you have to do, otherwise when you talk about dragon fines, you don't want to do new rules in the future. And we're liberalizing excise tax rates so much that, in fact, I thank Minfin for agreeing to the temporary losses that will bring this law into force in order to make it possible and to make up for the greater number of cars that can make up for it.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-13-m0.u137	So one minute, Tetjana Ostrovka. And let's go to the vote. One minute is the vote, colleagues. Please take up jobs.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-13-m0.u138	Dear colleagues, I want you to be aware of what you are now voting for: for a 15-year-old vehicle, Volkswagen Passat, two-litre gasoline excises will be, according to the newly voted Tax Code, one-and-a-half thousand euros, plus VAT, plus customs. This does not solve the question or make the car accessible. Instead, for a five - gallon car, a new five - liter car, the excise will be 250 euros. For this, the Chamber now voted. What's more, this bill doesn't solve the question of how many people there are -- 500 or 600,000 -- no one knows today, the state doesn't know -- that they don't go to the checkpoints. You understand what it means that they will all be forced to go to state crossings across the state border of Ukraine, which will completely stop the movement of normal goods, vehicles, and people. So these things need to be corrected for a second reading. I very much want you to now, when you vote for the amendments to the Customs Code, also make this political requirement. Otherwise, it will be propaganda and fraud.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-13-m0.u139	Thank you. So let's move on to making a decision. I'm asking you to take up jobs. And, colleagues, I am voting on the draft Act amending the Customs Code of Ukraine and some Ukrainian legislation on the import of means of transport into the customs territory of Ukraine (No.8488) as a basis only. Please vote, please support. Vote, please. Please be supportive. [[11:39:22]] For 256 Decision taken. [[Applause]] Colleagues, before we go to the question of miners, we'll be across in a minute, there's a big request. One minute, colleagues, one minute, one minute. [[Noise Nodes]] There's a request for 7390 to just put into the agenda, not to look at. It's a request from our colleagues: just include, colleagues. This is the general position. All right. It's 10 seconds, colleagues, 10 seconds, just turn it on. So I'm voting on the proposal to just put the Bill 7390 into the agenda -- this is about the current accounts of electricity suppliers at a regulated tariff. Just getting into the agenda of the day session. Whoever supports this, I ask you to vote. We vote in favour, we vote in favour. Those who support me, I ask you to vote, to vote. [[11:40:25]] For 199 The decision is not taken. Let's go to Bill 8362. And I'm asking you to support his consideration of the reduced procedure. Please vote for the short cut. Vote. [[11:40:51]] For a hundred and Decision taken. I invite you to the author's report on the bill of Ukrainian MP Bondar Mikhail Leontijovich. One minute, please. Please, Bondar.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-13-m0.u140	Honorary colleagues, a bill signed by a committee member, proposed an increase of 2.8 billion subsidies for coal miners for development, for purchase, for modernization. Realizing that this is a difficult situation and a budget deficit, we're ready for this figure of 1.4 billion, or 1.4 billion. And I want to read that "to introduce to the Ukrainian Act "On Ukraine's State Budget for 2018." It's the first item in the 17th article. Article 14, paragraph 17, read: “State support for coal-based enterprises to partially cover the costs and costs of finished coal products by sources defined in Article 11, paragraphs 8, 9 and 11, of this Act”. The other one. Article 28 reads as follows: "To grant the Office of the Ministers of Ukraine the right to obtain from the special fund of confiscated funds and funds derived from the realisation of property confiscated by the court for committing corruption and corruption."
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-13-m0.u141	30 seconds. All right, let's get
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-13-m0.u142	"except for the confiscated bonds of the internal government loan, all of which at nominal cost relate to the reduction of the public debt with the simultaneous repayment of the liabilities under these bonds, to the reallocation between the directions of their use, as defined in article 14 and the existing budgetary programmes, in agreement with the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on budgetary matters." In Appendix No. 3 to the Law.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-13-m0.u143	Let me finish. Please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-13-m0.u144	In Appendix No. 3 of the Ukrainian Law on the State Budget for 2018, the name of the budget programme "Supporting the implementation of the electricity market" should be changed to "State support for coal enterprises to partially cover costs from the cost of finished coal production". Please, colleagues, vote for this.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-13-m0.u145	From the committee to the report, Melnik is invited. Who's from the Budget Committee? Melnik Sergey Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-13-m0.u146	Dear colleagues, the budget committee has discussed the project. I'd like to add that it's also agreed to redistribute 205 million at the expense of another programme to pay off damages for wages. As for the project, it was decided by the committee to send it for further processing, since the project had been designed. there's no defined sources of coverage, it's unbalanced. So today, at least we have to figure out the sources of the expenditure, because budget failure and 2.8 billion will increase the cash gap. That is why we are obliged; the government must determine the source of the expenditure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-13-m0.u147	So there are many who want to speak. Please, two in, two in. Two in, two in. From the People's Front.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-13-m0.u148	Please pass the word to Michael Bondar.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-13-m0.u149	Very delicate, Mr. Michael, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-13-m0.u150	Dear colleagues, I've just read that it's not 2.8 billion, it's 1.4. And I read where the funding came from. So it's all settled. So please vote in favour. I had to.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-13-m0.u151	Thank you. From the Radical Party. Oleg Lakota, please, 1 minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-13-m0.u152	For $3 billion last year, imported coal was purchased. Now you look like you're helping miners. The best way to help miners and their families is to buy domestic coal, invest in the Ukrainian carbon industry, pay high wages to Ukrainian miners, not American, Vietnamese Chiuarian. That is why we require the government to adopt a state-owned programme for the development of the carbon economy, investment and modernization of mines in order to reduce energy efficiency and increase wages! And on the occasion of this Sunday, 300,000 workers of the mining and metallurgical complex of Ukraine meet their professional festival - Metallurgy Day. Me and my team, and I'm convinced that everyone will join us in welcoming us, let's thank these powerful, courageous, heroic people for their work, for their workmanship, for making Ukraine's metallurgy stronger, more worthy and richer! [[Applause]] Praise be to the people.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-13-m0.u153	Thank you. From the Opposition Block, Yuri Boyko. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-13-m0.u154	Dear Mr. Prime Minister! Dear Mr. Prime Minister! The Honorable Speaker! Dear National Deputies! It is clear that our faction will support a bill for which people will be given what they have earned, unloaded coal, and then were forced to come here and defend their rights to pay before the Supreme Council. We support the bill. But in order for Parliament not to turn into a fire team every time, I insist that there be a state policy in your government to support the coal sector. And there, behind you, Mr. Prime Minister, is the Minister of Energy. Let him run the coal industry, not the lookers you've set him up with. Then you'll have the order, then you'll have the money in the miners. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-13-m0.u155	Thank you. From Peter Poshenko's Block of Dombrowski. Please, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-13-m0.u156	Dear colleagues, on behalf of the Fuel and Energy Committee and as co-author of the bill, on behalf of the Peter Poshenko Block, I ask you to support this bill. Because I hope that there are no national deputies in this room who do not understand how important, difficult, and responsible our miners are doing today. But at the same time, I would like to say that the coal sector needs a serious modernization. Today's decision is temporary, it takes off debts on wages. We need to make a very serious reconstruction of this area, we need to give investment resources there, we need to privatize non-profit mines that will not draw money from the government budget in the future. So the program in the government is, I ask the Prime Minister, well, to strengthen this position more from the point of view of the implementation of those plans, the actions adopted by the committee and prepared by the government. Please support the bill and support the miners. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-13-m0.u157	Thank you. Colleagues, from Rebirth, Anton Yatzenko, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-13-m0.u158	Dear Mr. Head! Dear colleagues! Rebirth supports, of course, this law to ensure payment to miners. But it's a shame that today we can't find five minutes, there, or 10 of our precious time, and do the same for the energy industry, just for the state -- I emphasize that yesterday we agreed, the companies of the state -- that people don't get paid for months, I mean Bill 7390, where 2,000 energy has already been released only in the Zaporozhye region, out of 6,000. So it's very sad, Andry Volodymyrovich, that we can't have this law passed for a month or two, which is totally focused on social things. I would ask you, my friends, let's mobilize and go meet the energy people, they're no worse than the miners, I think. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-13-m0.u159	Now, colleagues, from Shahov's Will, one minute. Colleagues, in two minutes we're going to vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-13-m0.u160	People's Will Group, Sergeyshakhov, political force "Our End". Ladies and gentlemen, a historic event is taking place today when all the national deputies gathered on Friday to support miners from all over the Luhansk region, both from Donetsk and from Lviv, and from Kirovgrad, as well as miners from the Volin region. Mr. Prime Minister, we're asking you to allocate more money for the Volin Mine 10th, 800 million dollars on top of all, could give you hundreds of millions of coal. Next. Notice the Lysican Coal Basin, where there's a 10 percent increase in salt, that's 10 times the cost of coal. And we also need to develop a carbon field. Now 100 million tons of coal are in the Luhansk region, right where the war is going, right there. build the coal sector. You don't have to buy coal in Russia, Africa, America today. We have to pay the miners our normal salary, they do.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-13-m0.u161	Thank you. And a closing statement from the factions. From "The Fatherland" Rybchin. And I'm asking everyone to come into the hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-13-m0.u162	Alexei Rybchin, Fatherland faction, Donetsk. Fatherland has always supported miners and will support them this time. Yulia Timoshenko’s government has always given special attention to miners, communicated with them, knew about their problems, and promoted the prestige of mining. So I'm surprised when the government de facto moved away from this problem, when it wasn't specifically budgeted; when my esteemed colleagues come out, they're drafting a bill, then they're dictated from a leaf that we don't understand what. We don't know the long-term carbon strategy, how we're going to achieve environmental standards, including our commitments, under the Paris Climate Agreement, as we're going to do a green transition. A very large number of problems in this area, but today we have to solve the problem of miners who are standing here, who have come not only from the east and the west, but from the whole country. And I want to hear the government's position, why should the deputies, in the fire order, put an end to the fires that your government has led to? Fatherland supports this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-13-m0.u163	So, colleagues, one minute is Prime Minister, and we vote. Let's go into the hall. Please, Prime Minister of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-13-m0.u164	Thank you. I'd like to ask a colleague of the people's deputies to support this bill, to make changes. And it's not a fire bill, it's a bill. Misha, how much.? Mikhailo Bondar, how many months have you been dating this bill on the hall?
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-13-m0.u165	Four, I guess. The language says it's a planning story of change because we see that coal production in government mines is more expensive than coal in the market. And here's the question of modernization. Modernization costs money. To get these costs, you have to get the sector out of debt. One pulls the other. And that's why we're doing this right now. And, indeed, there is a program. And let us unite. If you see the best way out, I'm willing to share it with you. I'd like to speak to Yuri Anatoliyovich, who just said that the minister was framed as "watchers." It was addressed, I understand, to me. I know you've been a good fuel and energy minister for many years, you know the field, you know all the participants. I would be very grateful if you would publicly give me the names, the locations of all the "watching" coal industries. And I promise you, my reaction will be hard, open, we'll break the schematics. Everything in Ukraine belongs to Ukrainians, not viewers. And I'm counting on your support, because this is a very difficult fight, believe me. But we will win it, the truth is with us.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-13-m0.u166	So, colleagues, we're taking up jobs. I want more of you. Please, 10 seconds of replica.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-13-m0.u167	And I ask, colleagues, to vote on this bill as a whole with the amendments and changes that Michael Bondar has made and with technical legal remedies. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-13-m0.u168	Colleagues, pay attention! I want to inform you that now, after the vote, I will put another motion to the vote. I was approached by a committee with this. Don't scream, please. So the definition of the 6027-d. The factions said that everyone familiar with it was merely a clarification of the law. I'll put it to a vote after that. And now we're moving on to making a decision. And I'm voting on the draft Law on Amendments to Ukraine's Law on Ukraine's State Budget for 2018 on adequate financial security for the State Coal sector (No. 8362) as a basis and as a whole with technical legal rights, as amended by Bondar's transcript. With the amendments that Michael Bondar wrote under the transcript. Please vote. Please be supportive. Vote. [[11:55:08]] For 261 The law is passed. And now, colleagues, I'm asking you to vote -- be on the spot -- to remove the disagreements in the text of the adopted Ukrainian Law on Amendments to certain Ukrainian legislative acts on the reinstatement of credit. In accordance with article 131 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s Rules, we need to remove some disagreements in certain provisions of the law. I was asked by the profile committee to put this clarification to the vote. And I am voting on the proposals I have tabled to remove the disagreements in the text of the adopted Ukrainian Law on Amendments to certain Ukrainian legislative acts on Credit Restoration (Registration No. 6027-d). This is a clarification of the law without discussion. Please vote, please support, vote, colleagues, please support the clarification, please support the clarification. Please support, we vote. [[11:56:26]] For 203 The decision is not made. And, fellows, I'm going to put 7390 again, just putting the day session in order, stressing only inclusion, without consideration, without consideration. So I'm asking you to support the inclusion in the agenda of the daily session of bill 7390, please vote, please support, vote, please support, please support, only support for inclusion in the agenda of the day session, only inclusion. [[11:57:03]] For 204 The decision is not made. Colleagues, now two minutes to announce Irina Heratchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-13-m0.u169	Dear colleagues, today his 42nd birthday in Russian prison is celebrated, not to be said, but survives, lives in prayer for the Ukraine of OlegSenz. This is the fifth birthday that the Ukrainian, Crimean Oleg Sunszov, spends in a road jail, on these days when the World Cup goes to Russia for football, he goes with 61:0 to the benefit of Oleg Sunszova, and Putina zero in this account. Dear colleagues, today the mother of OlegSentsov applied to Putin for the mercy of her son. And you and I are calling on the whole world, including our strategic partner, the United States, to push Russia. And during President Trump's meeting with Putin in Helsinki, demanding the release of the Shadow, the release of Baluch, the release of Clich, the release of Eugene Panov, who was given eight years in Crimea as if he were a terrorist; the release of Karpuk Mikola, who himself is waiting at home, like Oleg Sentsov, the son; the release of the Crimean, the release of our boys, who are being held for more than four years in the occupied territories of Donetsk and Lugansk: Glondarja, Pantushenko, Korankov, Dejeva, Ivanchuk, Orishka, Orishka, Orishka Roma -- the release of journalist Stanislav Asiev, who they have been keeping for more than a year and not even his mother, they don't call. And we demand that all our world partners be similarly pressured by the Russian Federation with one requirement: "Get out of Ukraine and give away political prisoners!".. I remind you once again that Ukraine is ready to hand over 36 Russian criminals who fought on Donbassa or had terrorist attacks in Kiev, in Odessa, in Kharkiv, in Herson for our liberation, there is no answer to that. And we're addressing the Ministry of Foreign Affairs with.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-13-m0.u170	30 seconds to complete.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-13-m0.u171	Please, Mr. Acid, we ask the Ministry of Foreign Affairs: once again, make an official note of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Russia with this "list of 36" requiring an official response to Ukraine's proposal and give us ours. Lie, live! Ukrainians and Crimean Tatars, everybody live! You will be in Ukraine soon. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-13-m0.u172	Heroic glory! Colleagues, there's an offer from several factions that we're about to close the session. All present, and the government, all deputies, on this optimistic note, will we complete? Can we keep it up, colleagues? Thank you, colleagues. Now.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-13-m0.u173	Dear colleagues! The head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Andri Parubius, is invited to attend. Please, Mr. Andrey.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-13-m0.u174	Dear colleagues, we are. No one could have imagined that on Friday the 13th, not the closing day of the plenary, but on the final Friday the Ukrainian Parliament would be able to adopt the very important laws that people would expect. [[Applause]] All those who said that the Ukrainian Parliament didn't act, that it couldn't act, today they saw the enormous potential of the Ukrainian Parliament, the Parliament elected after Maidan, and the Parliament that hears people, and the Parliament that understands what we have to do under the conditions of the war Ukraine. I want to sum it up very briefly. Not long ago, starting this session, I was speaking from this rostrum. Then we'll agree on a general plan for this session, if you recall. We then defined: (a) that we should adopt the Higher Anti-Corruption Court Act at the beginning of the session, that we should adopt the National Security Act, which is an extremely crucial law, we agreed here that we should resolve personnel issues, and that we should draw up a plan and present a plan after the implementation of the cooperation agreement with Europe. from the EU on European integration. And today we can say yes: Ukraine's Supreme Anti-Corruption Court, created in this Chamber by the Ukrainian Parliament, to which I welcome you! [[Applause]] I want to say, the large-scale National Security Act, which has launched large-scale reforms in the entire security sector, which has been adopted with all the NATO recommendations, which have become a major step in Ukraine's approach to NATO, adopted by the Ukrainian Parliament. I welcome you, fellows! [[Applause]] I want to say that on personnel matters, we have resolved the matter of the Court of Auditors, we have resolved the matter of the National Bank, which for a very long time, unfortunately, we have not been able to resolve the issue of the Commissioner for Human Rights. These were important decisions, and we were able to make them in a consolidated way. Yes, we have the Central Election Commission issue. I want to say that I am convinced that this should be the first question of the next meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine -- the question of the creation and updating of the Central Electoral Commission. This is our task, from which we should start in the next. Our next meeting. I want to say that we have adopted almost 20 laws necessary for the implementation of the Agreement on European Integration in the implementation of our cooperation with the European Union. We had a very active international activity. I could say a lot of what our committees have achieved. But one of the key tasks, I think, was to create the Inter-Parliamentary Assembly of Ukraine-Georgia-Moldova. [[Applause]] a new body that shows inter-parliamentary cooperation and Ukrainian leadership in the Balto Black Sea Belt. The trip of speakers from Poland, Lithuania, Ukraine, Moldova, Georgia to Washington has already yielded results. Yesterday's Congress resolution on support for Eastern European countries is also a concept of the shield of Europe that creates our states against the Russian threat to the Russian occupation. The Balto Black Sea Belt protects the whole free world from Russian threats. In total, during this eighth session we passed 87 laws in general, colleagues, 87 laws, and including today’s, it’s already 88. The first reading contains 47 laws, including today’s 49 laws; 37 decrees are supported. In general, this is more than 150 positive decisions made by the Ukrainian Parliament. And, colleagues, I would like, despite all the arguments that are in this room, to thank each of the people's deputies, who with their energy, who have helped with their spirit to make a decision, of course, to all the factions. "Peter Prashenko's Block," a big thank you as a foundation, as the largest faction of Parliament. [[Applause]] People's Front, big thanks for a stable, consistent position. [[Applause]] A radical party, a big thank you for the energy and the spirit. The Fatherland faction is both critical and supportive when it comes to the issue of Ukrainian state decisions. Thank Self-Help for the initiative and all that energy position. Thank the Opposition Block for the criticism that was made during our Council's meeting. [[Applause]] And to the "will of the people" group and to the "rebirth" group, and most importantly, we forget about non-fractional, non-fractional voices that make decision-making voices very often. Colleagues, many of our decisions are key to non-fractional decisions -- 25, 27 -- and they are very often the determining factor. [[Applause]] I want to thank the President of Ukraine, colleagues, for our cooperation during this session. [[Applause]] And the Anti-Corruption Court Act and the National Security Act were the authorship of the President of Ukraine. And let's thank you for your cooperation and for the cooperation of President Peter Dustenk. I want to thank the Prime Minister of UkraineGroysman and the entire government. [[Applause]] A Unique Cooperation! The unique cooperation between our organs. I think this is an example of the day before the most difficult election year. I'm sure the Ukrainian Supreme Council should be the center of stability. Trust me, the stable Supreme Council is a stable Ukraine. [[Applause]] Why is the enemy so eager to destroy the Supreme Council? We are the most open organ, and perhaps the most vulnerable. All the people around us, near our walls, we hear them. It is important for us to remember the key word that I repeat in every speech, the word "responsibility," to remember that history has given us the opportunity and responsibility to live and work during this period -- a defining period for Ukraine. That is why I want everyone to have a spirit, a responsibility. And, dear colleagues, I want to assure you that this assurance is that we will also be able to work actively, actively both in the fall and in the spring and in the next fall for Ukraine, for Ukrainian citizens. This is our responsibility and our responsibility. Hello, fellows! Thank you all. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-13-m0.u175	Thank you, Mr. Andrey. Thank you for your performance.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-13-m0.u176	Colleagues, please prepare. Now I am to fulfill my obligation, for this will be dishonest, I have promised the national MP that I will read his statement. In accordance with the third section of article 60 of the Law on the Rules of Procedure of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, I report the withdrawal of the "Block of Peter Poroshenko" faction of Krivohatka. I promised, and I announced as I had promised. Now, colleagues, please prepare for the Hymn. So please include Hymn. [[The National Hymn of Ukraine]] My colleagues, I'll remind you, next week, work on committees, commissions, MP factions, and we're still working. And on the eighth session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, I declare the eighth call closed. And I declare the plenary session closed. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-13-m0.u177	Thank you all again! Hello!
