ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-08-m0.u1	Good morning! Colleagues, please come into the hall, take up jobs, get ready for registration. So, colleagues, please prepare for registration. So, colleagues, please register. I'd like you to sign up. [[10:08:20]] 355 national deputies registered. The morning plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Colleagues, it's our birthday at Yuri Mikolaiovich Berezi, the hero of the Ukrainian-Russian war. Mr. Yuri, happy birthday! [[Applause]] Igor Anatolyovich Didenko. Welcome to our colleague! In Mikoli Volodymyrovicz Lyushnaka. Welcome! Happy birthday! And John Ivanovich Melniczuk. Welcome to our friend's birthday! [[Applause]] Colleagues, on February 8, 1994, Ukraine signed a framework document, the NATO Partnership for Peace programme. And since that day, today's anniversary, Ukraine's path to NATO has begun. This document says that this partnership is conceived as an expression of shared conviction that stability and security in the Euro-Atlantic region can only be achieved through cooperation and joint action. This was the first step towards NATO. And, colleagues, we voted by this Parliament in favour of Ukraine's strategic task of joining NATO. This is a guarantee of our security, especially at the time of the Russian aggression. And I am convinced that Ukraine will be in NATO, and we will conclude this path together. Let's move on to the agenda. Colleagues, we have two blocks today. The first block is a question of social policy, issues that need to be united, which need to be non-conflict. And I am convinced that we will be able to get through them quickly and efficiently. And the second block is about culture. And I also believe and I hope that we can go through it without much and long discussion. But I would also like to point out that we have a lot of questions about temporary elections. About 90 decrees, almost 100 decrees, are in Parliament for the appointment of temporary elections. This is our debt to the local communities. And so during the day, I'm going to put a motion on the vote so that we can unlock the next election. And I'm counting on the whole room to support this position. It's 90 votes, it's going to have to be mobilized. But I would like all of my proposals to be analysed, discussed among themselves, so that when I put it to the vote, we have a consolidated and mobilized hall. So the committee did a previous job, and today, I think it would be right if we could vote on at least a part of the appointment of the temporary election. So we move on to the first question of the order of the day. This is a bill amending some Ukrainian legislation on strengthening the requirements of Ukrainian laws aimed at creating unhindered access for people with disabilities to buildings and buildings. An important social bill. And I would ask, colleagues, that we vote in favour of reviewing it as a reduced procedure so that we can adopt more social laws. And I would like to be supporting this proposal, supporting the entire hall and all the factions. And I'm asking you to take your jobs and get ready for the vote. So, can we vote? I would like to stress once again: a bill to create unhindered access for people with disabilities to buildings and buildings. I'm sure everyone will support him. And I'm putting to the vote the proposal that this bill of Law 6536 should be considered in a simplified procedure. And I ask you to vote, and I ask you to support me. Vote. Please support, colleagues, we vote. [[10:13:07]] For 133 My colleagues, not all of them have made it. I want to stress once again, this is a bill that aims at creating unhindered access for people with disabilities to buildings and buildings. The law is not vast, but it is still socially important. And I think we all agree that in order to be able to look at more laws, we better go through the laws that aren't conflicted by the reduced procedure. So I ask once again, colleagues, to prepare and support the proposal for a reduced procedure. Ready? Please, I'd like you to come into the hall and take your seats. Colleagues, please take your seats, prepare for the vote. And I'm re-voting the proposal that we consider draft Law 6536 as a reduced procedure. Please vote and please support, vote, colleagues, please support. [[10:14:31]] For 139 I'll put it again, if there's no votes, we'll go through the full procedure again, the card didn't work. I ask you to invite the heads of factions to the hall, please invite the deputies to the hall. So they went into the hall. Please take up your jobs. Vote. Please prepare for the vote and please support, indeed. So, are you ready? I am voting once again on the proposal that the draft Law is designed to create unhindered access for people with disabilities to buildings and buildings (No. 6536) we have considered a reduced procedure. Please vote and please support your colleagues. I ask everyone to support this proposal, we vote. Please vote, please support. Vote. [[10:16:15.]] For-147 I see they haven't made it. So, colleagues, I'm asking you to take up jobs. They're coming in, aren't they? What, are we in full procedure? Let me put it again, colleagues. If there are no votes, we're going into full procedure. I'm asking you to support the proposal so that we can consider the draft law in a simplified procedure. Please vote, please support. [[10:17:27]] For-143 Less votes. Obviously, there is the political will of the hall for us to be in full procedure. And I invite you to report to Deputy Minister of Social Policy Fedorovich Natalia Volodymyrna. Please, Mrs. Natalia.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-08-m0.u2	Dear Mr. Head! Dear National Deputies! In accordance with the UN Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities, Ukraine has undertaken to take appropriate measures to ensure that persons with disabilities have access at the same level as other citizens to the physical environment of transport, information, and communications. These measures should include identification and removal of barriers and barriers that hinder accessibility under the principle of universal design. Today, you are considering a draft Act amending some Ukrainian legislation on strengthening the requirements of Ukrainian laws aimed at creating unhindered access to buildings and buildings. The draft of the Act provides for amendments to the Ukrainian Code on Administrative Offences and Ukrainian Laws on Urban Control, on Architecture Activities, on Urban Basics, on the establishment of an effective mechanism to monitor compliance with the requirements of legislation on the need to create an unhindered environment for people with disabilities and other low-mobil population groups. In particular, it is proposed to increase the responsibility of officials in cases of administrative misconduct related to non-compliance with State building standards, standards and rules on accessibility for small-scale population groups by depriving the court of the right to hold certain positions or to engage in certain activities, as well as the imposition of a fine on the project’s chief architect, the project chief engineer, and the strengthening of responsibility for authorial and technical supervision. It is proposed to carry out inspections and passports of buildings and buildings that are subject to mandatory testing in accordance with legislation to ensure their reliability and safety during operation, including in relation to the needs of persons with disabilities, in accordance with the building standards and rules on accessibility for small-scale population groups. Ladies and gentlemen, this bill was given to the Ministry of Social Policy. At the time we were preparing it, we didn't have a lot of accessibility experts, and we had a lot of different experts, architects, builders to write this bill qualitatively and to make it work. Today we have great support in our colleagues from the Ministry of Infrastructure, and we thank them for their support. We look forward to your support for this bill today, which is very important, so that people with disabilities can have adequate access to all infrastructures, including buildings and buildings. Please support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-08-m0.u3	Thank you. Please sign up for the question, three minutes, to the reporter. Musi, turn on the microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-08-m0.u4	Good afternoon, distinguished national MPs! I have a question for the reporter. Please tell me that the bill provides that people with limited capabilities will have access to those buildings that will be being built now, or to all those that were built 200-300 years ago. Because it's also very important. We know that today, unfortunately, even the new buildings are not equipped in the 99's, probably a percentage of the cases in the special areas that give equal access to them. persons with disabilities and persons with limited capacity to do so. Will there be any mechanism to build appropriate approaches to old buildings?
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-08-m0.u5	Please answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-08-m0.u6	Thank you so much for asking that question. The bill stipulates that all projects designed for the construction, reconstruction, and capital repair of existing buildings should be designed to provide for appropriate standards. The bill also stipulates that the mandatory passporting of all buildings that are now under construction must be made in order to tell how accessible or unavailable the building is and what necessary changes must be made in order to create accessibility for persons with disabilities.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-08-m0.u7	Thank you. Controversy Ivan Dmitrovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-08-m0.u8	Ivan Sporish, Peter Dusty Block, 15th District, Winnitzkin. Of course, a bill is vital, essential for people with disabilities. And I think it's very nice that all the ministries agreed to the bill. We must accept it today. But I have a question to follow. This is the imposition of fines on those who do not do all of this in order to be able to do so, and disabled persons may fall within the structure and so forth. The fines are small enough, and I think we need to raise the responsibility even more, even before we get out of work. There's a bill. Is it a bill or not? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-08-m0.u9	Please, Mrs. Natala.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-08-m0.u10	The bill proposes that the courts be given the right to decide on the removal of certain activities for one year, for example, for architects who have violated the requirements. And I think that between the first and the second readings we can work out this bill to make it as good as possible.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-08-m0.u11	Thank you. And the final question is, "Shinkovich."
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-08-m0.u12	Thank you. Andry Šinkovic, Petra Poroshenko's Block, Hmeljničkina. Madam Deputy Minister, two questions short. First. How will farming take place, especially in buildings that are already functioning, or in old buildings? Who will exercise control over the implementation of this law? Because we know that in those services that control architectural norms, unfortunately, today at the level of Dergeokadastrom, probably the highest degree of corruption. Please answer in what way is this prescribed in the law? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-08-m0.u13	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-08-m0.u14	This bill proposes that local government administrations and local self-government authorities be given the right to exercise control over this cluster of issues. You'll recall that this is the right that local governments and local self-government had, if I'm right, until 2011, until the City Activity Act was amended. And when local government authorities and local authorities had such a right, in fact, many objects were created available in Ukraine. And, in particular, in my hometown, the accessibility committee not only worked effectively with local self-government authorities, but also with the board of directors of social protection, social organizations of people with disabilities. And so the projects were made with accessibility, taking into account accessibility, because it's important to design correctly. And we, of course, foresee responsibility at the design stage, not just when the project is already done. And the owner, for example, who's going to order this project, is difficult because he paid the money to the experts, and the project wasn't made to account for accessibility.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-08-m0.u15	Thank you. Question time is complete. And I invite the head of the Committee in the matter of veterans, participants in combat, participants in the ATO of Trelyaków Alexander Yuriovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-08-m0.u16	Dear colleagues, it is no secret that today almost ninety percent of the dwellings are not suitable for the needs of persons with disabilities. We realize that there are objective problems with the adaptation of old housing, but we must stop the shameful practice of barrier housing that is being built today. There should be a clear responsibility for accessibility for persons with disabilities, starting with the construction of the building before it is put into service. Therefore, our committee recommends the adoption of Bill 6536 as a basis. The bill was also supported by committees: construction, construction and housing, state-building, regional policy and local self-government, budget, legal policy and justice and prevention, anti-corruption. The comments that have been made before the bill, including the Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration, will be processed in the preparation of the bill for second reading. Please support the committee's decision, the bill is based. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-08-m0.u17	Thank you. Colleagues, both committees supported the bill. And I don't think our discussion is going to be very long. Wait, wait, what are you? Now the question is, three minutes. Colleagues, please be as brief as possible. Please record the question to the reporter. Semenha Roman.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-08-m0.u18	Semenha Roman, Self-help faction. I have a question for the honourable chairman of the committee. Do you not consider, despite the bill's supportive idea, a certain imbalance in the size of the fines proposed? What do you mean? The draft law stipulates that for administrative offences, for voluntary constructions, for example, administrative offences are proposed ten times more than for nearly similar criminal offences. I think this imbalance needs to be removed. It's important for me to hear your point of view. Today, for example, for criminally punished, a voluntary construction is a fine of 300 to 500 untaxed minimums, and for administrative penalties, 3,000 to 5,000 untaxed minimums are provided for the planning and construction of the territory. I think it needs to be removed. We must not allow new laws to allow such an imbalance of punishment between administrative and criminal offences. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-08-m0.u19	Please, Mr. Alexander.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-08-m0.u20	I'm sure these funds will go to support people with disabilities. I'd put more of that on. Because all the years in Ukraine and now, during independence, all those who build these buildings in Ukraine do nothing for these people. Why do you see a lot of people with disabilities in America when you're in the street? Not because they're more there, but because they can live there. Why in our country, I'm once again, why don't we see them in our country? Because they can't go out. So I think the fine should be very large. Yeah, yeah.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-08-m0.u21	Thank you. Kugel, Kuzel Alexander.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-08-m0.u22	Mr. Head, well, first of all, thank you for considering today a package of laws that touch people with limited capabilities. And let's pick the words "disabled," as we agreed, they're people with limited capabilities. The first question I don't accept is because we're more asking for housing. We have to make the first demands on all state buildings, because in the same Cabinet of Ministers and in some ministries, a disabled person cannot enter. Secondly, the construction standard, the decision on the construction of the disabled was made in 2009. Today's the 18th. And at that time, there is no law on building a standard that is described as a building standard. And thirdly, in support of Mr. Semenich, I've asked you several times, let's consider my bill. Today, the bill contains a rule that violates the Constitution that persons with disabilities should only be admitted to work in commercial structures. What, a disabled person can't work in the Supreme Council? Well, a disabled person can't work in the department.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-08-m0.u23	30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-08-m0.u24	That a disabled person can't work in any department of any department? This law needs to be changed. But unfortunately, you're talking about increasing fines. This does not improve the lives of people with disabilities. Give your opinion on this matter.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-08-m0.u25	Please, Mr. Alexander.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-08-m0.u26	We can't negotiate with you what to call people with disabilities, because there's a European charter, it's clearly defined as what to call it. That's the first one. So please comply with the European Charter. The other one. [[B in m in s a l in]] Please come to the committee for once when the committee is working. Please, bring it in. Once again, it's on the website when the committee's working. Come between the first and second readings to the committee for at least one bill. The "Fatherland" faction is delegating at least one person to the Committee on veterans and participants in the ATO, and people with disabilities. And we'll be happy to work with you. As long as no one works there, only the populists speak from the rostrum. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-08-m0.u27	Question time is complete. Thank you. And I would like to stress that the committee's recommendation is a foundation. And we can do a lot of discussion. [[B in m in s a l in]] That's how the factions are going to do the performances, colleagues. All right, one minute, Kugel.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-08-m0.u28	Dear Mr. Head, every session of yours is attended by our experts. You and I had a couple of personal appointments and we didn't find time, because unfortunately, all the committee meetings are going on at the same time, you know. I very much ask you, our party member Mr. Suškević works with you every day. And so please let at least one party work with you the way the "Paternity" team works. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-08-m0.u29	Thank you, colleagues. Mr. Alexander, time for questions is over. It's from the factions. Colleagues, there will be a lot of opportunities for the performances. I'm asking you to sign up for the factions and groups. From the Opposition Block, Pavelenko Yuri Alexiyovich. Out of place, right? Turn on the microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-08-m0.u30	Please pass the word to the Royal Natalia Yuriovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-08-m0.u31	From the rostrum. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-08-m0.u32	Dear colleagues, this is an extremely important bill. And at the same time, it's just as cynical, because today this bill, which may allow it to take a little precautionary step for people with disabilities, but what account? At the expense of whom will this unchallengedness be done? At the expense of the ŽEKs, the ODS, or people with limited capabilities. Look, people don't have the money to pay these disproportionate tariffs today. And that is the decision you are proposing today to raise tariffs even more and to translate unchallengedness into people today. Your Honor, this is cynical, and we firmly deny it. Therefore, the Opposition Block proposes that this bill should be finalized and addressed with regard to creating a barrier at the expense of the budget rather than at the expense of raising tariffs. That's the first question. The second question. Today we awaited the start of the debate on social protection in Parliament. But believe me, these three bills that we're proposing, we're not going to solve the complex issue of social protection. So the Opposition Block proposes, and we have repeatedly asked the speaker to consider, listen to the government, today to hear the consequences of the adoption of pension reform, and to address the changes to the 2018 budget on raising social standards. First, consider the issue of comprehensive protection of people with limited capabilities. Because you have cynically deprived people of benefits, compensations, and disability pensions, you have now abandoned them as a boneless person at the expense of the people. No, that's not gonna happen. And today, when there's not a whole lot of people in the room to consider people with limited possibilities, we think it's unacceptable. That's why the Opposition Block insists on working on it. We insist that the cost - freeness of the budget should be determined. And we insist on uniting the efforts of all deputies and addressing the complex issue of protection of people with limited capabilities, pension and compensation, and the return of benefits. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-08-m0.u33	Thank you. Please, from the Self-Help faction, Helen Stotnik gives the word to Roman Semensi. Please, you'll be out of town, won't you? Out of the way. Please, out of the way.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-08-m0.u34	Semenha Roman, Self-Help Unit. Dear fellow citizens! A few figures to understand the significance and importance of this problem for the country. Today, people with disabilities in Ukraine account for about 6 percent of the population of Ukraine, and by the beginning of the year, about 2 million,600,000 people. Only children with disabilities in Ukraine are about 156 000. But the state’s position in numbers is very eloquent. I'm going to give an example of one figure to understand how pathetic the state is today to treat such people. Social assistance to disabled children today will grow up in the current year, think about it, from 961 bracelets to 1,000 47 bracelets a month. Undoubtedly, full socialization of people will not only be due to access to a barrier - free environment but also to the full integration of infrastructure, transportation, medicine, public food facilities, banks, legal institutions, and all that relates to services and trade. This is the only way these people can be fully socialized. Because for the time being, we can, unfortunately, still observe only abroad, except for the individual pandas that lead today to pharmacies, supermarkets, and Ukraine’s unforeseeable infrastructure for such people. Well, there's another number for statistics, to understand. About 1,000,100 government facilities are now available to people with limited capacity for just 35 percent of buildings. Now, again today, we hear the call that the state should decide. Dear colleagues, today the state is objectively underexpenditured. Moreover, world practice says that it is very often at the expense of the local authorities themselves. If we see different regions, for example, in my Harkowe, more than 50 percent are now equipped with these pandas. So it really depends on if the local authorities want to do this and hear people, it's been happening for a long time. Next. We certainly support the very purpose of the bill establishing an effective mechanism to monitor compliance with the requirements of legislation on the need to create such an unhindered environment for persons with limited capacity and other small-scale population groups by increasing administrative responsibility for non-compliance. The second important aspect raised by the bill is the involvement and extension of the competence of the social networks of persons with disabilities. Such public associations will now be involved in the discussion of urban documentation. We believe that the involvement of such people, their problems, will be better heard. But the important observation that I have already made to the head of the committee, I think it should be removed in preparation for the second reading, and I ask you to hear a representative of the ministry: they can't exceed ten times the same fines for criminal offences, administrative offences. So I'm asking you to remove that to the second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-08-m0.u35	Thank you. Please, from Fatherland, Alexander Kugel, may I have a word with you?
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-08-m0.u36	Dear friends! Once there was a very interesting program on one of the channels, when it was suggested that carefree activists get on a wheelchair and feel disabled all day, a person with limited capabilities. I can say that their conclusions after that day had to be fully incorporated into this law. These people today have no capacity for socialization and a sense of life. First of all, there's a way to get out of the apartment where you live. I can. I will never forget the appeal of a woman who lost not only her mother but also her personal health when she was on Obolon in her driveway instead of a panda setting up a marine for protection. And she wrote to all the ministries, and she was writing to all the authorities, but her mother died, and she never got out, and she was holding her hand, losing her health. And that's why the tenants are going to wake up, they're going to make a panda faster than the state will, because we're a human nation. Secondly, does the State have to surrender one object without this panda and without all conditions? No, it doesn't. Start, state, don't take any buildings. Local government today has a serious impact on the GASK, on those who accept the new building, and you can demand and not sign, not for any bribes, acceptance of those buildings that are not foreseen. But by supporting my colleague Semenich, I want to say that this is wider than buildings. It's a matter of moving. We don't have a normal amount of transportation, as in Europe, as taxis do to people like them, as they help them to move, as they do today with an organization like the MEC that gives them disability. I got a phone call from a yellow water woman today. She's blind, but in order to form a disability, she has to go to Dnipropetrovsk and have a lot of money. And there's nothing she can do. And tell me, please, by supporting me to take these fines off, because it's only wage earners who collect fines without putting in any cash for people who need our attention with you. The position of the Fatherland Party: the main thing for the disabled is not your taxes -- 200, 300, 000 -- they want to be in society, they want to be at work, they want to have coffee, they want to talk and live together in equal conditions with people who don't have such problems. We support in the first reading, but.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-08-m0.u37	Thank you, Mrs. Alexander. 30 seconds, please, 30 seconds to complete.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-08-m0.u38	But we promise, Mr. Tretyakov, we'll have a lot of amendments, just so they won't be taken into account. Thank you. On fines, we support and take off.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-08-m0.u39	Thank you. Please, Alexander Billowal of the Rebirth Party. Alexander Belovel. Okay! Mikola Palamarchuk. Mikola Palamarchuk. Mr. Mikola Palamarchuk! Mr. MustafaNayem. Alexander Trelyakov, you're on record. I'll distract you. Alexander Trelyakov, word for word. I was just distracting you from an exciting conversation. Please, Alexander Trelyakov.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-08-m0.u40	You know, I just listened to the ex-Minister of Social Policy, from the Party Regions, who courageously described how bad things are and how bad the Government is working today. They didn't do anything when they were in power for five years. You didn't do anything. Secondly, I'm asking you a lot of questions when you say you don't have to take it from people, but you have to take it from the budget, you just have legal nihilism. Because the budget is made up of people, Ukrainian citizens, as well as companies that work and pay taxes. That's why I'm saying it's necessary for the state to help people with disabilities from the budget. Secondly, with regard to discussion and fines, what two distinguished factions say: "Fatherhood" and "self-help." Come to the committee, not just send the papers, come to the committee between the first and second readings. Please don't interrupt, it's a hoax. Come to the committee between the first and second readings, come. And I'm sure we'll do the right thing for the people of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-08-m0.u41	Dear colleagues, they weren't called names. It was a discussion. [[B in m in s a l in]] I beg you not to scream. As far as I can tell, first of all, there were all those who wanted to speak, except for the People's Front, who couldn't register. Mr. Clumsy will be speaking now. It's about the replica. It wasn't called a name, it wasn't called a faction, but you could. [[B in m in s a l in]] But you can. Okay, well, at the end of the discussion, you'll get a replica. Please, Mr. Bloody One.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-08-m0.u42	Good afternoon, dear fellows! Gennady Krivoshya, faction of the People's Front. The People's Front faction will definitely support this initiative. And first of all, I would like to thank our department of profile, which has come up with such an initiative and has just offered to be considered in Parliament. Someone might say that it's not our authority, that it might be the local self-government or the Cabinet of Ministers, but we're paying attention to this bill today not only to people with disabilities, but also to people with disabilities. People are good, they're just the necessary things to be in every house. These things, even these pandas, are used by ordinary young mothers and their children. With an ordinary wheel, you can't go anywhere, you can't go in and up the stairs. Therefore a great recommendation and a great request to all, Mr. Chairman, a great request: to involve all the national deputies in the hall, because by the number of men who are now. Which are in the hall, we understand that we are not voting. And I would very much like to be supported by everyone, regardless of political ambition or power. Because the ministry, which has done quite a bit of work, and I understand that this is a big problem, they're focusing on it quite seriously. And we need to make sure that the Ministry can clearly require local self-government authorities what they have to submit to the project documents, every architect has to take that into account. So this has to be adopted at the legislative level. I ask everyone to join this initiative and vote in favour of this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-08-m0.u43	Thank you. I will definitely call to the session room of all the deputies. The discussion is still under way. Dear Alexander Trelyakov, Alexander Trelyakov, Alexander Yuriovich, would you please say, during your speech, that you mentioned "The Opposition Block"? They remembered. Please, one minute on the line. Who from the Opposition Block? The faction manager? Mrs. Coralevsky? Mrs. Natale, I'm just asking you not to exchange kindness, not to mention anyone. One minute, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-08-m0.u44	Dear colleagues, we really understand the problems in the budget today. We realize that it is impossible to solve all questions. But let's be honest and compare the level of disability protection four years ago and now. The level of pension to the person and the benefit that was 4 years ago in people with limited capabilities, and now. That's why I don't think you're going to be doing the evaluation right now, like it was, or how it happened, because it's gotten a lot worse. You found money in the 18th-year budget to repair the Marian Palace, you found money to keep the government and many other institutions. But you didn't find money to protect people with limited capabilities. Therefore, we insist that we protect people properly today, not just ourselves and ourselves. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-08-m0.u45	Colleagues, the Radical Party insists now. Now. The Radical Couple also insists. But speaking on the subject, we're now discussing, I'll remind you what the law is called, just in case, Mr. Liege: the Act on Amendments to certain Ukrainian legislative acts on strengthening the requirements of laws aimed at creating unhindered access for people with disabilities to buildings and buildings. And, Mrs. Natale, after discussion in general, I will give you my word. We, according to the Rules, have a law to discuss now. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-08-m0.u46	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Our faction here went to the rostrum to protest Parliament's inaction. An extremely important question is now being considered, access to infrastructure for people with special needs, the ability of people with special needs to live decently in their own country. If we see that there are no votes in Parliament, no people who can make decisions, a parliamentary session closed yesterday because more than fifty deputies went to a prayer breakfast in America. Instead of going to breakfast, to dinner and to the Ukrainians, and seeing if there are Ukrainians who have breakfasts, lunches, dinners, they have gone to America for prayer breakfast. In order to satisfy their egos, they run there near the "me" and the "w" they drag behind the congressmen to take pictures and then they come back here to Ukraine, and they show them how cool they are. What's cool is when you work here and you have a sense of duty, it's cool when you remember the interests of Ukrainians, it's cool when you work in Ukrainians for breakfast, lunch and dinner. Or our people were brought to the pen, and now they are going to prayer breakfasts in America. I believe, and we address the Head of the Supreme Council: first, to publish in the newspaper Voice of Ukraine a list of missing national MPs in the plenary week. The whole country needs to know the names of these people. The other one. Calculate from the salary a time that is not available in plenary sessions. I understand that their pay is for the light bulb, because when they pay $100,000 for breakfast and photos with American congressmen. You should be proud of photography with Ukrainian people, but they're afraid to go out with people because people will tell them the results of their policies. Our faction protestes the irresponsibility of our colleagues who, instead of adopting laws that make life easier for Ukrainians, travel abroad for the money of the Ukrainians themselves. They're going to calculate the salary -- once, publish the surnames -- two. And in general, it's an urgent issue of reducing the number of deputies and putting in place a mechanism for recalling MPs. If the electorate sees that he does not go to work, does not vote, does not work, such a deputy should be given a mandate. And the last. I'm certainly happy for a colleague who's having breakfast in America today. But I would be even more pleased if Ukrainian families and Ukrainian children ate both at lunch and at dinner and for breakfast all food, not just black bread without butter on one water.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-08-m0.u47	We'll assume that this was an intervention in the discussion of the law, although it was more about the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. And it is only here that we can encourage colleagues to attend all the meetings, committees, and parliament. Colleagues, we are now moving on to the performances by the Ukrainian National Deputies. That'll take nine minutes. Three colleagues will be able to get a word in three minutes. Please sign up. And then he asks for a representative of the profile committee. This is not according to the Rules, but we will honor our colleagues from the government and give this opportunity. Please, Mrs. Korolevska, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-08-m0.u48	Please, Igorshurma. Pass the word.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-08-m0.u49	Please, Mr. Shurma.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-08-m0.u50	IgorShurma, the Opposition Block. Dear colleagues! What is now happening in the hall is a sign of complete irresponsibility, including, unfortunately, the government. On such a day, raising social issues, knowing that they cannot even gather today, a coalition of 226 votes, 150 votes for a reduced procedure, stands at a rate of 3 to 4 times. What is more, the question is, unfortunately, unprofessional. Before speaking on the subject, all the speakers here were from many factions, including the coalition. Until you apologize to people with special needs, calling them disabled, you have no moral right to talk about any social standards. This is the first one. The other one. What you're saying is that you don't know the problems, because it's not just about the pandas today. What, though, can blind people do with their eyesight? What about those who can't hear? And would you please tell me what ministries you can go to today through a button that is installed outside when you can't go in or go on a panda? As long as the authorities themselves are not willing to establish their accessibility, you do not regulate any laws. What fines are you talking about? But you're already afraid of those fines, and no one catches anyone at any rate, and no one does anything on tobacco fines, you have cabinets blown that firemen should be called. And that's the main thing. Today, look, I'm not a political comrade of the Radical Party, but they've raised the right question for today. You can call me another state in the world, from which 40 people went to breakfast. And you know what insider information says this breakfast is worth $50,000? And I said for nothing: count the cost of flying, of living, of how much they paid for it. Maybe they'd better be invited here by the president, cheaper, he'd come here with some kind of humanitarian aid. And more than that, I'll tell you, as long as you do populism and lay down laws that need to be done, you won't do anything. Maintaining position on Kharkiv. Only socially responsible businesses, non-budgetary funds made available to all the administrations of the city of Harkov and the area, all social protection agencies. And what you're going to do by taking money from one person, and saying it's for people with special needs, it's just wrong. To avoid breaking the law, return it at all and work hard.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-08-m0.u51	Thank you. Yes, Bloody Gennady. Turn on the microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-08-m0.u52	Thank you. Gennady Krivoshya, faction of the People's Front. Well, first of all, I'd like to respond a little bit to the previous speech. Indeed, these authorities of local self - government can do so. But I want to tell you that leadership in one self-governance body, in another self-governance, is quite different. Some, if you'll excuse me, steal money, others try to do something, some cities do things, some don't do things. We need to make our demands clear and do it as it is. And why I'm so actively supporting this bill because I want literally a few words out of one. One message that came to me more than a month ago. About one person, I'd like everyone to listen to those words, they're Russian, but I'm going to translate it so everyone understands it in Ukrainian. "A 16-year-old girl became disabled. For eight years, she had been lying on her stomach for eight years. After that, she got stronger and started fighting for her life. She realized that the only way out of her life was to do some manual labor, and she started doing it, and she started selling it." So this person and activists came to me and asked me to help this person, you know what question? She was denied one of her hands. She's now raising funds to perform a proper microsurgery. Yes, good people, people find their own way out, work their own way out of the house, and they make money lying on their stomachs. And we've had a little demagogee with you, so if you'll excuse me for saying something, we're doing something that's delicious. But I want us to understand that we have to vote for these people, not to be a pianist. Here's an example. This is an example for all of you, where you are doing the pianist work here, not voting for the common people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-08-m0.u53	Thank you. Colleagues, there will be a vote in a few minutes, we'll finish the discussion, we'll move on to a decision. That's why I'm asking all the factions to invite MPs into the hall. I now give the floor to Kodola Alexander Mikhailovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-08-m0.u54	Alexander Kodola, Montenegrin, People's Front faction. Dear colleagues, we are really looking at a very important bill today, a very important bill. And as a representative of the Committee on Construction, Urban and Housing, I want to say that we today have very poor standards, standards and rules regarding accessibility to small-scale population buildings. For example, in Montenegro, I want to say that the builders are starting to meet these standards, but, of course, there's still a lot of work to be done in this direction. It is therefore clear that our faction supports the adoption of this bill. And we ask the entire room to mobilize today and to approve it in the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-08-m0.u55	Thank you, colleagues! And the closing statement is Litwin Volodymir. From the rostrum or from the place? Vladimir Mikhailovich from the rostrum, please. Colleagues, closing statement, we're moving on to the vote in three minutes. Okay, I'll give you one minute later.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-08-m0.u56	Dear National Deputies! Last week, I met in one of the areas -- the Zebarani district of Žitomir district -- with people who have special needs, and those for a small area of 140 people who were abandoned. The efforts of local authorities and activists are not enough. And at the same time, I have to tell you, dear colleagues, if you compare their faith in life, optimism, I think that many of us here are just moral disabled people, compared to these people. You think about it, we're looking at the whole law about having pandas for people with special needs. Do we have a state building housing? No! No! They build private, as it were, investors. Who accepts this residence? Authorities. I think we can solve this problem without adopting the law. And we're taking the law to confirm that we don't have the authority, and we're doing absolutely nothing. And finally one more moment. We will thus delay making the necessary decisions until the country of Ukraine becomes a country of disabled people. Yesterday I addressed the Head of the Supreme Council, to you, honourable colleagues, to decide on the military pensioners, for the pensioners of the Ministry of Internal Affairs. We've talked, everyone's backing up, the reaction is zero. Where's our position? Let's throw away our party differences, get side by side, and make the decision that we owe the Cabinet of Ministers without waiting for elections, because before the elections, all the decisions that are necessary will be made. Regrettably, no offer finds support. And I have a personal impression that we're looking for the work of the Supreme Council, we're demonstrating the process, because there's not enough votes to even take this, the social responsible and absolutely necessary, decision. Well, according to everything, let's take the courage to go to the election early, especially since you, your esteemed colleagues, have taken 512 million dollars off your shoulders to finance political parties, and now you're going to create a CBC under you, you're going to make choices for yourself, and you're going to count. So you make a decision now and no longer torture the Ukrainian people, to whom you all swear so fervently by adopting beautiful patriotic slogans, and there is absolutely no work. As for this decision, let us make it.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-08-m0.u57	So let's move on to decision making, take up jobs. Final word, one minute, Mrs. Natala Fedorovich, turn on the microphone. And take your places, colleagues, in a minute of voting. Please, Mrs. Natalia.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-08-m0.u58	Ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I would like to address Natalia Jurijovna and make some clarifications about the duties of owners and users of objects of architecture. Article 28 speaks of their obligation to carry out inspections and passports of buildings and buildings. We understand that in order to understand what needs to be done, we need to first examine, write a task. The proposed changes do not in any way oblige the owners of the QIZEK or the OSBB to do certain work. We can make any decision that goes on and give a subsidy, for example, at the expense of local self-government, is the next decision. But to begin with, we need to understand what the problem is. I ask you to support this bill is very important, it needs not only people with disabilities, but also mothers who need it every day, but also for each of us who can find it in different situations and have the right needs. Please support this bill, it's very important, it's social. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-08-m0.u59	Thank you. So let's move on to making a decision. I emphasize, that's just the basis. Everyone who has been corrected will be able to contribute between the first and the second readings. And I am voting on the draft Act amending some Ukrainian legislation on strengthening the requirements of Ukraine's laws aimed at creating unhindered access for people with disabilities to buildings and buildings (No. 6536) on a basis, colleagues, only on a basis. So I'm asking you to support everyone in one-on-one terms. Please vote, please support. Vote. [[11:06:01]] For 241 Decision taken. Colleagues, there will now be two laws in the second reading, very brief, so please don't split up, there's only a few rights. In addition, on Tuesday we did not get to the law that provides social support to the families of the Heroes of Heaven. It's a very important law, and we have to adopt it by February 18th, and after two laws in the second reading, I'm going to ask you to move it. Please prepare yourself for the committee head and please don't all part now. The laws that will be followed in the daytime are short - lived. So the first one is a bill amending some Ukrainian legislation on the protection of the housing rights of orphans and children deprived of parental care and persons of their number (5045). And I invite you to a report (this second reading, this second reading) by the head of the Committee on Family, Youth Policy, Sports and Tourism. Please, Mr. Ivan.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-08-m0.u60	Dear Chairman, distinguished national MPs! As we can see, the first bill that we adopted in the first reading, and the bill that we've adopted now, is 5045 in the second reading, it's pretty important because it gives us the right to protect orphans and children who are deprived of parental care, as well as those who are in number. The bill received 17 amendments. The subcommittee suggests. 7 amendments are counted, 5 amendments are partially taken into account and 5 amendments are rejected. As the chairman has already said, quite a few amendments have been made, and they are all almost accounted for, and we should, in fact, adopt the bill and still give the opportunity on this issue to protect the rights of orphans children. Most of the changes proposed for second reading are precise and editorial. There was a discussion at the session where housing accounts were to be made for displaced orphans and children deprived of parental care, either at their place of residence or at the place of registration. Well, as we know, at the place of registration, it's going to be more or less fair, because at the place of residence, we know very well that in rural areas, there's no place to register such children. So I think we've come to the one conclusion that we should keep the first-reading and install at the place of registration. The Committee also decided not to amend article 39 of the Housing Code on the housing of orphans and children deprived of parental care who are in charge of internally displaced persons, since article 36 of the same Code gave the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine the right to determine the cases of citizens who need to improve their living conditions beyond their place of residence. The committee therefore requests that the bill be supported in a second reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-08-m0.u61	Thank you. Right hand is only five. I'll call the authors. Does anyone insist? Please be prepared. And there'll be a vote in a few minutes. 2nd. Don't insist. Third. Don't insist. 5th. Don't insist. 13th. Don't insist. 14th. Don't insist. So we have a fully harmonized bill. The discussion is over, let's move on to the decision-making process. I'm asking everyone to take up jobs. Colleagues, please. Stop the discussion, get ready for the vote. Please. Please prepare for the vote. Come in, come in, fellows. And I'm voting on a bill amending some Ukrainian legislation on the protection of the housing rights of orphans and children deprived of parental care and persons of their number (No. 5045) on second reading and in general. Please vote, please support. Vote. Please be supportive. [[11:11:33]] For 255 The law is passed. We're gonna have a little fun. So the next, too, is a very short law -- it's a bill amending the Ukrainian Law on Freedom of Movement and Free Choice of Residence in Ukraine (as far as Homeless Persons are concerned) -- it's also a second reading. And I invite you to report to the First Vice-Chairman of the Committee on Human Rights, National Minorities and International Relations of Packana Valeri Vasilovich. Please, Mr. Valérie.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-08-m0.u62	Good afternoon, Your Honourable Chairman, Honorable People's Deputies! It's been a year since we've owed the law in accordance with the Supreme Council Order of January 18, 17. A year ago, the committee passed a regulated bill that it would have had. The one we should be taking with you. What are we talking about? This bill seeks to protect the rights of homeless citizens. It provides for the possibility to register residences of homeless citizens at a specialized social institution, a social service facility. Today, homeless citizens who receive social services in institutions established in accordance with Ukrainian laws are effectively deprived of access to their homes by social welfare organizations. This deprives the legislature. It deprives the most vulnerable of the population's right to receive high-quality social services. The committee received 18 rights and amendments from legislators. The vast majority of whom the 13th Committee has taken into account, proposes to take into account, rejected 5 amendments that have been made in violation of article 116 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Rules and are not subject to the regulation of the Freedom and Movement Act and the free choice of residence in Ukraine. The committee had a working group of representatives of the Ministry of Social Policy, the State Migration Service, and national deputies, as well as assistants, public organizations. In its work, the committee took into account the decree of the Cabinet of Ministers. And for today, I want to go through all the amendments. I don't think there'll be any comments about the amendments. This law is important because people who are now homeless have no quality social services. Let's give these people the opportunity to get the same social services that all of our citizens get. Dear Mr. Head, ready for amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-08-m0.u63	Thank you. So please ask the right-wing authors to prepare. Let me remind you, there are only a few rights in this law, so please don't break up. And I'm starting to call them. Two orders, Semenha. Don't insist. The 4th, Semenha. Don't insist. 10th, Semenha. He insists. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-08-m0.u64	Semenha Roman, Self-Help Unit. Dear colleagues, I want you to listen carefully. In undisputed support for the idea of this bill, the self-help faction at the time of the first reading of this bill expressed strong objections about how the procedures for the registration of carefree persons in social institutions were handled. We believe that this can be used, there are risks in a wicked way to have a significant impact in elections in one-mandom majority districts and in local elections. What is more, the position of the committee that has categorically rejected our proposals, which have been made in the form of rights, is that the committee is deliberately ignoring these risks that exist. In particular, the law stipulated that it would be for the State to determine the marginal number of homeless persons who could be registered by a special social institution. I pay attention to all major MPs: these risks are not taken out of the law.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-08-m0.u65	Please, 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-08-m0.u66	We've taken your amendments into account. And I want to argue a little bit, colleague, because this amendment may then conflict with the free choice of residence, the Freedom of Residence Act, according to which citizens are guaranteed freedom of movement and free choice of residence in Ukraine. In this way we will discriminate against our citizens. I think we need to reject this amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-08-m0.u67	Thank you. Do you insist on voting? I'm setting the 10, aren't I, Roman? 10th vote. The committee turned her down. Whoever supports this amendment, please vote. [[11:16:40]] For 116 The decision is not taken. Next 15th. He insists. Please, Roman Semenha.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-08-m0.u68	Semenha Roman, Self-help faction. Dear colleagues, once again, I would like to point out that this draft law, prepared by the committee on second reading, foresees, unfortunately, huge risks to manipulating the number of such people. In order to prevent this problem, we prepared a portion of the rights that were unfortunately ignored by the committee. There's no denying that social institutions can offer a place for the homeless. But it is our right to register such people at a specialized institution, regardless of the fact that they live directly. And the law relies on specialized agencies to keep separate lists of the same homeless persons who live directly in the respective institutions. This would reduce these risks and resolve the problem. Well, explain, why isn't this checked out? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-08-m0.u69	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-08-m0.u70	Your Honor, what you're proposing is already included in another law. I read to you literally, "The Law of Ukraine on the Fundamentals of Social Protection of Homeless Persons and Homeless Children" already provides for the calculation of homeless persons by their place of residence, by the place of residence, which is run by appropriate institutions for homeless persons by accounting centres." So this is already included in another law.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-08-m0.u71	Thank you very much. Do you insist on voting? He insists. I'll bet you 15 votes. Whoever supports it has rejected it, please vote. [[11:18:34]] For-123 Thank you. The decision is not taken. 16th. Don't insist. Yes, this, colleagues, is the last amendment that the author insists on. In two minutes, we're going to vote. So I ask everyone to come to the hall and prepare for the decision. And now for the announcement of the amendment, Roman Semenicha. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-08-m0.u72	Semenha Roman, Self-help faction. Dear colleagues! Now, I want to draw your third attention, because this amendment is the crown, in fact, of this Jesuitism of this law right here in this part, the registration and the way. In fact, the law gives the authority not only to create local self - government institutions but also to consider non - state entities, or public organizations. In simple words, social institutions can form social institutions in any major community. Ten days before the voter lists are created, the update of voter lists will register a large number of people who will be able to vote, which can be decisive when counting votes in one-maned districts. Once again, we are unquestionably in favour of the idea of the bill, but the risks that this law contains in the part of the registration and the way in which individuals are clearly unacceptable and possibly created to falsify elections. Please don't uphold the law.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-08-m0.u73	Please, Mr. Valeria.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-08-m0.u74	Dear colleague, well, we can now lay down a law with you that is quite relevant to today's homeless people. You're deceiving the entire hall. This is reflected in another law. I'm going to read again: "Unscrupulous people, customers of accounting centres, vote in general polling stations according to the territorial principle of location." So no one is going to create any special voter registers. I ask you not to mislead me and I ask you to vote and support this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-08-m0.u75	Thank you. The discussion is over. I'm asking everyone to take up their jobs and invite the deputies into the hall. Please prepare to make your decision and please take your jobs. Don't leave the hall. Man! Let's get to work. So, colleagues, I'm voting on the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on Freedom of Movement and Free Choice of Residence in Ukraine (as regards granting shelter to homeless persons) (No.3833) on second reading and in general. Please vote, please support. Vote! [[11:21:52]] For 203 I'm going to make an offer to come back. Please, I'll put the committee head back on one minute. Please, Valérie, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-08-m0.u76	Friends, I beg you very much, there is no law in this law, and the law does not provide for the standards that our colleague Semenach of Self-Help says. Registration and voting will take place on a general basis. All we ask is that people who are homeless, people who don't have social protection right now, should be. had the opportunity to register with social institutions at their location. As far as the vote is concerned. They will be similarly included in the voter register and will likewise vote on the general basis. There are no schemes for Chernewsky, no adjectives, and there are no other schemes in this law, Mr. Semenich. The law does not provide for a part of the registration of voters and so on. Please support the bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-08-m0.u77	Please, we'll hear from the government a position, one minute, Mrs. Natal.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-08-m0.u78	Thank you very much. I want to speak to the MPs, especially from Self-Help, and with you are your colleagues, Oleg Barezuk, is Ljubomir Zubik. Ask about the great advantages that Lviv had when we created the center of accounting and talked about the right of homeless people to vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-08-m0.u79	Thank you. Colleagues, it's said when they hurt someone. I didn't hear any insults. I didn't hear any insults. Colleagues, I am now putting to the vote a motion to return to the vote. And now I ask to vote in favour of the return to draft Law 3833. Please vote, please support. Vote. [[11:24:19]] For a hundred and No votes. Re-reading, to the committee for re-reading. Is it supported? It's supported, yeah. I propose to return the draft Law 3833 to the committee for a second reading. Please vote, please support. Vote. The second reading again is 3833. Let's vote, colleagues. Please be supportive. Please vote that we don't lose the bill. Vote. Please be supportive. [[11:25:06]] For 217 No, colleagues. [[B in m in s a l in]] Colleagues, I'm going to ask you once more to come back. The discussion is over. All right, Kugel, 30 seconds, line, please. And if you'll excuse me, I'll be right back. Please. Cooge.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-08-m0.u80	Dear friends, I ask you to vote for the second reading again. Because there is a terrible problem: people who do not have a registration have neither pension nor social protection. And that's why it's a matter of state. Please vote for the second reading so that we can settle this and do it in a legitimate way to protect people.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-08-m0.u81	Thank you, colleagues. The committee will be able to take all the warnings into account. But the rejection of this bill will be a bad sign and a bad signal for society. And that's why I'm asking you to get ready. Once again, I propose draft Law 3833 for re-reading. And I'm asking you to vote and I'm asking you to support everyone. Let's vote, colleagues. Please be supportive. Please vote. Vote. [[11:26:30.]] For 229 Decision taken. And, colleagues, as I said, before this vote, we have, through several laws, a draft law amending article 115 of the Ukrainian Law, the protection of the families of the Heroes of the Heavenly Hundreds. By February 18, it is important that Parliament adopt this law. Now I'm going to make an offer to transfer it to the hearing right now. And I very much ask, colleagues, very carefully everyone to take part in the vote now, we didn't get to it on Tuesday, it stood next. And I very much ask everyone to vote carefully and responsibly. So I'm going to ask you to take up jobs. And I'm voting on the proposal that the draft law on the appointment of early retirement by age of family members who were killed as a result of injury, disability, injury or other health injuries that we have suffered during the Humanitarian Revolution (7429) has been moved and moved to its consideration now. Please vote and please support. Please vote, please support the family of the Heroes of the Celestial 100. Please vote. [[11:27:56]] For 232 We've moved on. And I invite the head of the Committee on Social Policy, Employment and Pensions of Denis's Ludmila Leontiyevna to report. Please, Mrs. Ludmila. Oh, I'm sorry. Please support the reduced procedure. Please support the reduced procedure, we vote. [[11:28:32]] For-188. Decision taken. Please, Sophia Leontievna.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-08-m0.u82	Dear Chairman, distinguished national MPs! On February 20, we will honor the feat of the members of the Dignity Revolution and perpetuate the memory of the Heroes of the Heavenly Hundreds. Four years ago, millions of Ukrainians came out to defend the ideals of democracy, to defend their rights and freedoms, the European future of Ukraine. The events that took place at that time remember each of us as well as the price our citizens paid: they gave up their lives. 108 persons died or died as a result of injuries or health injuries during the Divinity Revolution. 108 families lost their loved ones — children, parents, husbands, wives. We must care for the families of heroes, provide them with State support, including the guarantee of an adequate level of pension rights. To this end, I have developed a project, along with other National Deputies, which provides for the right to grant early retirement to family members who have died or died as a result of injuries, mutilation, injuries, and other health injuries that have occurred during the Divinity Revolution. This right is granted to wives, husbands, if they have not remarriage, children who have become disabled before they reach adulthood, and parents. They will be able to retire at the age of 55 at the age of 25 and at the age of 50 at the age of 20. Some government officials say it's money. I want to tell them that, first of all, it's 63 people, second of all, it's 1 million 800,000 a year. We remember.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-08-m0.u83	Please, 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-08-m0.u84	The head of Naftogazu, one and a half million a month. I think it's a small amount of money to pay tribute to our Celestial Stone Heroes and their families. So the committee supported it as a foundation. We support the authors and ask them to consider the issue. who has already entered into force of Law 2249, replace in paragraph 2 of Chapter I the word "disability" with the word "persons with disabilities". But to support the bill as a whole.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-08-m0.u85	So, colleagues, is there a need to discuss whether we can vote? Can we vote? No, colleagues, there is a requirement to discuss that we do not lose our votes. Two for, two for, please. Semenha Roman.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-08-m0.u86	Semenha Roman, Self-Help Unit. Without a doubt, we support this law, and the State must honor these people and those families. However, I take advantage of the opportunity that it is also about the social and pension security of the military, to raise, on the other hand, by taking advantage of the opportunity that, thanks to God, are representatives of the government, to turn to the problem of pension insurance for military pensioners. I will remind you of the entire session room that during the voting changes to pension legislation in the fourth quarter of last year, which the government so profanely called a pension reform, we made a commitment to creating a new law for all the forces, the military pensioners, who had to work since January 1. There's a bill. He's been transferred to the PNB, but he's still not registered to the Supreme Council. I have a question for the government representative. More than half a million citizens, who today refer to the category of military pensioners, are in fact inexperienced and unindexed. Where is justice? And it was during the war. Next. The government adopted a draft decree in December, which also applies. Why is the draft decision not being implemented? Next. The self-help faction during the budget review, including my colleague Tetjana Ostrkova, has repeatedly said that the budget is built on unrealistic macro-indicators. Please explain to the representatives of the Ministry of Social Policy why the Ukrainian Pension Fund had already applied for a loan of several billion dollars in January. Why do you miscalculate your pensions in budgeting on the next day? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-08-m0.u87	I thought there was a warning under the law, and I'm a little bit surprised because I remind you that this bill should be discussed in the speeches. And when he's not discussed, then the Head has the right to stop the speech. Please, Oleg Lazko, Radical Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-08-m0.u88	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. The best memory of the Heroes of the Celestial 100 is the decent life of Ukrainians in their home country. This is why people gave their lives — to be honest authorities, honest choices, economic growth, work, wealth in their home country. That's what people went out for, millions of people on Maidan, and that's why hundreds of people gave their lives. Do you remember this when instead of coming to work, God knows where you are going? Do you remember this when you adopt laws that force people who are Ukrainians to leave their home country to earn their living abroad and feed their family? Do you remember this, colleagues, about Majdan? Not just the mechanical click of buttons, but the spirit of Maidan, the atmosphere of Maidan, that we all felt at heart, that the country had changed, that the country was moving forward, that people would never stop? Unfortunately, people are moving forward – the authorities have stopped. It's not just stopping, it's blowing back. This is our mission, my team, all Ukrainians -- not a step back, just go! Too many victims, too many shocks, too many challenges! We cannot have the historic opportunity that the Lord God has given us to change and lead Ukraine with manners, as is done today. A decent life in a home country, worthy of income, worthy of life for our children, respect for Ukraine, love for Ukraine! Respect yourself! Because if we don't respect ourselves, who will respect the world? And stop demeaning Ukraine, getting married! Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-08-m0.u89	From the People's Front, Medunica Oleg.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-08-m0.u90	Oleg Medunica. May I give the floor to the leader of the national-liberal movement, deputy leader of the Maydan Self-Defense, Mikoli Velickovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-08-m0.u91	Ladies and gentlemen, let's not get too excited about those people who died on Maidan a few years ago. There's not much to talk about. We vote because we owe these people. We vote it's only 2 million a year, and that's why there's nothing to pry about. We vote all, regardless of the factions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-08-m0.u92	Thank you. You're arguing with Ivan.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-08-m0.u93	Ivan Sporish, Peter Dusty Block, Winniechkin. Honorable National Deputies, Your Honor! Of course, Bill 7429 is important enough. We have to show our face today. Today, we must show again, once again, by going to Midan, near all the memorials of the Celestial 100 should bow down to them. And it will be, indeed, even though a small amount of our help to those families who died during the Dignity Revolution. So I want us to really unite the hall right now and vote all of us in favor of the bill. Because he really is a unionist. Let us vote in favour of the bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-08-m0.u94	Thank you. Coogell, yes. No, it's not. Cool. Turn on Krulka's microphone. Colleagues, this is a closing statement, and so I ask everyone to come to the hall and prepare for the vote. Please, Ivan Krulko.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-08-m0.u95	Ivan Krulko, "The Fatherland" faction. Dear colleagues, you know, there are questions that need to be voted on, not tearing up embroidery or pouring out crocodile tears. There is our responsibility to those who have put their lives on the Dignity Revolution. Our job is to honor them, give them what Parliament and the authorities have to do. And those things need to be done quietly, quietly, without indignation. But most of all, it will be a tribute to them when the crimes of Maidan are revealed, when those who did the shootings on Midan will sit behind bars, this is what should be the greatest responsibility. Unfortunately, these questions have not been answered in all these years. And here is the great responsibility of all those who are now in power and who have come to power just because of the people who were standing on Maidan. So let us vote on this law and carry out a major mission: criminals have to sit behind bars. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-08-m0.u96	So, colleagues, and Irina Heratchenko. This is a closing statement, and then we go to the vote. Come into the hall. Please, Mrs. Irina.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-08-m0.u97	Dear colleagues, you know, it seems odd to me that we are discussing this issue with you in the hall. It seems to me that this is the time when everyone could remain silent because, in the memory of the dead. It is right that we should discuss this matter as our responsibility. I want to support the same words of Mrs. Krulk that. Mr. Krulk, who should be responsible, primarily for the murders. And what's important is that the previous anniversary of the death of the hundreds of Celestials, the force structures have come to some of the results of the investigation, and those who were involved in the orders will be judged in absentia, not just the berkutts, a few who managed to capture them, who were shot directly. But it is vital that each of us draw conclusions from our own mistakes, including those last year. Recall, please, how the families of the Celestial 100 were impressed when the memory of those who died in those days last year was sought by those who had established the Sabbath alive in Ukraine. I just want to remind everyone right now.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-08-m0.u98	Please, 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-08-m0.u99	I would like to remind all of us of the words of Vladimir Vátrovitch, who rightly said that on February 18-20, the memory of those who have died belongs to the memory of those who have died. I just want to look humanly at those who are trying to turn these days into Sabbaths again. Don't you dare do that, don't you dare! Usually, people who didn't have anything to do with Maidan, who weren't in Marianca on the 18th, weren't being dragged to the hospital by the boys who were dying, and who wasn't in Maidan on the 20th. Come on.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-08-m0.u100	Please, Ira, how much time will you give me? 30 more seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-08-m0.u101	Honey, I just want to say that we don't have to say "shush" and talk about memory, and let's pay tribute to the 18th to the 20th. No Sabbaths. These are the days of the dead. That's how it's supposed to be.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-08-m0.u102	Thank you. So let's move on to making a decision. And I'm voting on the draft Act amending article 115 of the Ukrainian Act "On the Compulsory State Pension Insurance" concerning the appointment of early retirement by age of family members of persons who have died as a result of injury, disability, injury or other health injuries suffered during the Divinity Revolution (No. 7429) on the proposal of a committee with those rights, which Dennisova Ludmila Leontiyevna from the Supreme Council's rostrum under the stenogram, on the basis and in general. Please vote and please support. Vote. [[11:42:46]] For 248 Decision taken. My colleagues, I have an offer for you, and I'd like to consult with the hall. Would it not be wise to use what is concentrated in the hall to allow us to accept ratifications that we did not reach yesterday? That would be wise, right? So, colleagues, I'm putting a motion to vote so that the three ratifications that we didn't get to yesterday, we'll go right to their consideration. And I have a request to support this offer, colleagues. So that we can look at our international block. I think we'll be able to look at them very quickly. Please vote and support the proposal that we now move on to the ratifications that were in order yesterday. Please vote, please support. Vote. Please be supportive. [[11:43:50]] For 213 So, colleagues, I'm going to put it again. I see that. Now, a second, a clarification. So I'm going to put it again. So I'm putting a motion to vote so that we can now move on to ratifications. And I'm sure we'll get through them very quickly. Please vote, please support. This is 072, 071 and 7434. Please vote, please support this proposal. Colleagues, please support. We'll get through them quickly and efficiently. Please vote. [[11:44:56]] For 231 Decision taken. And we're going into the sequence that was given to me. So first. Draft Act on the Ratification of the Protocol between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of the Republic of Moldova amending the Agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of the Republic of Moldova on mutual protection of classified information. Hanna, yes. Please support the consideration of the reduced procedure. Please. Colleagues, let's get through this quickly and briefly. Please support the reduced procedure. [[11:45:47.]] For 203 Thank you. I invite the chairman of the committee to report. And please, Mrs. Anna, briefly.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-08-m0.u103	Comrades, good afternoon. In order to improve our bilateral relations with the Republic of Moldova, it is very important for us to ratify the Protocol between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of the Republic of Moldova amending the Agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of the Republic of Moldova. At the beginning of March, there will be a visit especially by our speaker there. And I think it's very important. The committee's asking her to ratify it. And given the importance of the voices in the hall, I'm shortening my speech. Please vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-08-m0.u104	Colleagues, don't leave. Guys, don't leave! Colleagues, it's the vote! I'm asking you to come back to the hall! Please, come back to the hall, we're already voting. Colleagues, these are the country’s international obligations. Please be patient for a few minutes, come back to the hall, I beg of you all. I am voting on the draft Act ratifying the Protocol between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of the Republic of Moldova (0168) as a whole. Please vote and please support. Let's vote, colleagues. Please be supportive. Please vote. Please be supportive. [[11:47:13]] For 236 The law is passed. Next. Draft Law on Ratification of the Agreement between Ukraine and the Portuguese Republic on Mutual Protection of Information with Limited Access (No. 0172). And I ask you to support the consideration of the reduced procedure, please. [[11:47:45]] For 213 Decision taken. I invite you to report to Hannu Gopko. Vote. Colleagues, I am voting on the draft Law on the Ratification of the Agreement between Ukraine and the Portuguese Republic (0172) as a whole. Please vote and please support. Vote. Please be supportive. [[11:48:24]] For 238. Decision taken. Next. Draft Law 0171. Are Colleagues Supporting? Will you support me? [[B in m in s a l in]] Draft Law on the Ratification of the Treaty between Ukraine and the Kingdom of Thailand on Mutual Legal Assistance in Criminal Matters (0171). Please support the consideration of the reduced procedure. Please. Please be supportive. [[11:49:16]] For 219 Igopko. Vote, urges the committee head to vote. I'm putting in a draft Treaty Ratification Act (0171) as a whole. Please vote, please support. Let's vote, colleagues. Please vote, please support. Vote. [[11:49:47]] For 226 Decision taken. The law is passed. Colleagues, we have another international agreement -- this is the draft decree on the Supreme Council of Ukraine's declaration condemning the testing of weapons of mass destruction by the Democratic People's Republic of Korea. So the next one. This is the Bill of Order 7434. Please support the reduced procedure. Please vote. [[11:50:37]] For 193 Decision taken. I invite you to see the report of the German Leonid Alexandrovich. But it's very concise, if you don't mind.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-08-m0.u105	My fellow Members, let me thank Parliament that we have now come to consider this issue. It is a great honor for me and my colleagues to have made a statement of condemnation of North Korea’s nuclear tests. And we will now propose to Parliament to support this decision and to show the clear position of the Ukrainian Parliament, the only legislative body in the parliamentary-presidential republic, the position of our state. In this position, we condemn North Korea’s nuclear tests as being so entrenched in world order, such as those seeking world peace. And I now propose that our nation's unanimous position be expressed in support of this draft statement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-08-m0.u106	Thank you, colleagues. The committee supports, urges everyone to vote. Is he insisting on the discussion? Colleagues, pay attention, let's consult. There is an insistence on discussion, please: two in favour, two in opposition. Two in, two in. Please, from the Radical Party, Lozov gives the speech for the performance of the Lysek Oleg Valeriovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-08-m0.u107	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. The condemnation of nuclear tests in North Korea is certainly an important subject, and our team will support it. But let's go back to the subject of the Budapest Memorandum. In 1994, Ukraine voluntarily placed second nuclear potential in the world. Together, France, Britain, China, Germany, and other countries did not have as many nuclear weapons as little Ukraine, we voluntarily gave up. What are they telling us today? That the Budapest Memorandum on the basis of which we have renounced nuclear weapons is not a legally binding instrument. Let's mention the statements made by our ambassador in Britain when she's told about it, other statements, let's mention the statement by the vice president of the former Bayden administration, where in 50 minutes no mention was made of the Budapest Memorandum and the commitment of the United States to the Budapest Memorandum was confirmed. Who's the signal? This is a signal for those who are today developing nuclear weapons, motivated by the fact that this is the only way to protect their country. And when those who signed the Budapest Memorandum of Commitment to Ukraine today do not implement the Budapest Memorandum, this is the worst thing that can be an example today, not just of failure to fulfil obligations, but of all others who are not like Ukraine, do not give up your weapons, for tomorrow they will tell you that we do not owe you anything. So we have to send the world one signal that the only way to stop the proliferation of nuclear weapons is to fulfil our commitments to Ukraine under the Budapest Memorandum. Today, when we need this support, the guarantors to sign this memorandum must fulfil their obligations to Ukraine. It'll be the best signal for it.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-08-m0.u108	30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-08-m0.u109	This will be the best signal for the world and the best guarantee against the proliferation of nuclear weapons.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-08-m0.u110	From Self-Help, Danchenko Alexander Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-08-m0.u111	The "Unification Self-Help" faction will certainly support this decision. But what we want to say is that it is very important to fulfill the commitments that the world makes when nuclear weapons are used or not. And against the background of the Budapest Memorandum, we want to mark the country of Japan and its government, which continues to support our country. And we want to thank the Japanese Government once again for Ukraine’s consistent support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-08-m0.u112	Guilty, People's Front, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-08-m0.u113	Gennady Krivoshya, faction of the People's Front. In keeping with this position, I would like to convey the word to my colleague Oleg Medunica.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-08-m0.u114	Oleg Medunica, People's Front, Sumi. Dear colleagues, our duty today is to support the entire civilized world in the fight against a maniac who plays with nuclear weapons. And we urge everyone to vote in favour of this statement and thus determine the position of our nation. People's Front votes in favour.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-08-m0.u115	And, colleagues, the closing statement from the Opposition Block is Martovici. Then we go to the vote. Please, Arthur Volodymyrovich. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-08-m0.u116	Please pass the word to the national deputy Shurma. May I have a word with Shurma?
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-08-m0.u117	Igor Shurma, Opposition Block. Dear colleagues! Even if we did, you know, an interactive survey across the globe, you're not going to find any country and a person who is now inclined to support nuclear tests. I'm talking about something To what extent will we make our parliament a laughingstock? Tell me, please, where were you advocates and fighters against the nuclear test in September of 16th? In September of the 17th? The trials were six months ago. You know, you remind me of, you know, that. These actions remind me of a lady who first went to bed, and six months later she remembered that she was pregnant. Who needs this statement now? Just to show someone that we're doing this because we're such a nuclear-test fighter. But it had to be done at the right time and at the right time. Your statements have already been answered by the President of Poland, signing the law. We turned there, we looked at it, we showed it, and let's not make these empty statements, because it's a joke. Now, no one is going through those trials today. Four months ago, we had to do this. This is the first time. And second of all, I'm talking to the chairman. Andrew Volodymyrovich, well, you can't rape Parliament like that, nobody's against ratification. Well, people good, then let's take a new standard as far as "for" - 205, the decision is made. Let's not vote. Come at 10 o'clock, you won't find anyone after lunch, by the way, come in at 10 o'clock in the morning, read the laws, say "for," "for," "for" and close the Parliament meeting, and we'll go to people's work. Do not rape Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-08-m0.u118	Colleagues, discussion over. I'm asking you to take up jobs. My colleagues, I would like to emphasize that this statement is extremely and fundamentally important, including for our partners. Our great partner of Ukraine, Japan, and Japan last year was in Ukraine, is one of the largest allies of Ukraine and supports sanctions against Russia, and in all positions supports Ukraine in both economic and investment terms. And our partnership is also to be able to condemn the actions and nuclear tests that are taking place in a region that is very sensitive to Japan and other partners. So I ask everyone to unanimously support this statement, this motion for a ruling, and please take part in the vote. Please take up your jobs. So I'm putting to the vote the draft decree of the Supreme Council on condemning the testing of weapons of mass destruction by the Democratic People's Republic of Korea (7434), as amended by the Committee and by technical law in general. Please vote and please support. Vote, fellows! Please, everyone, back everyone up. Vote! [[12:00:22]] For 228 It's been decided. Thank you for your hard work, colleagues. Now, according to the Rules, 30 minutes of breaks, but after that, we will continue the social cluster -- extremely important issues. So I'm asking you to come to the hall and be disciplined to continue our work. Thank you. Break for 30 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-08-m0.u119	Colleagues, break time is over. I'm asking everyone to come into the hall. Heads of factions, please invite deputies to the Hall. So, colleagues, please come into the hall. We have the following day-to-day draft of the Act amending some Ukrainian legislation on the conduct of economic activity from intermediation in employment abroad. I'm asking you, colleagues, to invite everyone into the hall. My colleagues, I emphasize, we continue to block social policy issues. And I'm going to propose a simplified procedure. We've demonstrated enormous efficiency for the break, and we need to move on with the same dynamic. My colleagues, I would like to remind you once again that if there is room will at some point, I would like to suggest that we consider at least a part of the decision on temporary elections. They're standing in the living room. And when there's a congregation of people, when there's maximum mobilization, I'm going to propose that we at least part of the decisions that there are be can be considered. This requires a high level of discipline. And I'm asking you to invite a colleague to the hall as much as possible so that we can complete the social policy issue of the bloc. And then I'm going to propose to go through at least part of the provisional election. Please invite the deputies to the hall. So once again, please enter the hall, colleagues. And I would like to stress that I will be the first to put the motion to vote, so that the next one, which is the day-to-day draft of the Act amending some of the Ukrainian legislative acts on the conduct of economic activity from foreign employment mediation, so that we can consider it as a reduced procedure. And I'm asking for your support, colleagues. Everyone, please prepare for the vote. Please take up jobs. Next, we will have a very important Act on Social and Legal Protection of Soldiers and Members of Their Families. That's why I'm asking for a high level of discipline. I'm asking you to take up jobs. And please support my offer. Please consider draft Act 6275 of the Social Package, vote in favour of the reduced procedure. Please vote. Please be supportive. Vote. Please be supportive. [[12:39:35]] For the 180. I'll do it again. Colleagues, please take up jobs. I will once again make a proposal, with a reduced procedure, to colleagues, 6375: to amend some Ukrainian legislation on economic activity. So let's try again, colleagues. I ask you to support the proposal for a reduced procedure. Please vote and please support, colleagues. Everyone carefully participates in the vote. Please be supportive. Let's vote, colleagues. Please be supportive. [[12:40:38]] For 118 There is the will of the hall to be considered in full procedure. Please explain one more minute to Ludmila, and perhaps it will mobilize the hall. Please come in, come into the hall who is. Colleagues, there's a proposal from the chairman of the committee, and I'm going to ask you to consider the next bill. It has the full mobilization of all factions. Social. Colleagues, please come into the hall. We're having more consultations. Please take up jobs.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-08-m0.u120	Colleagues, I was asked by the committee's head to address the issue of the social bloc that is now standing to move it. And I think we need to listen to the committee and the committee head. And I think there's probably no warning here that we don't put the question at risk. And that's why the question is about social politics that stands. And we're moving on to the next day's agenda project. This is the draft decree on the 150th anniversary of the birth of the Forest of Ukraine (No. 5675). And I'm asking, colleagues, I'm asking you to support his consideration of the reduced procedure, colleagues. I'm asking you to mobilize, I'm asking everyone to take up their jobs and support them. So, colleagues, please support the consideration of the reduced procedure of the draft regulation. Please vote, please support. Vote. Please be supportive. [[12:45:21]] For-137 Not enough. Colleagues, why are they holding back, am I looking? This is a very short and simple determination. We didn't make it, did we? I'll do it again. I just see a lot of people holding back, I don't understand why they're holding back. Please take up jobs and support them. So, colleagues, I ask everyone to take up their jobs and please take part in the vote. I would like to support the proposal that we have considered the draft Order on the 150th anniversary of the birth of the Forest of Ukraine (No. 5675). Please vote and please support. Please vote, vote. Let's vote, colleagues. Please be supportive. Please support everyone. [[12:46:24]] For-157. Decision taken. And I invite the head of the Committee on Culture and Spirituality of the Princess Nikola Leonidovich to report. Mr. Mikolo, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-08-m0.u121	Thank you. Dear National Deputies! The Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Culture and Spirituality at its meeting on 7 December 2017 (Protocol of Committee No. 64) reviewed the draft Decree on the 150th anniversary of the birth of Ukrainian author and public official Lesi Ukraine (Laris Petrovna Kosacz-Kvetka) (Registration No. 5675), submitted by the Ukrainian National Deputies Konstankević, Kupri, Shevchenk, W. Shevchenk, Didić, Batenko, Dubininini. Most of the national deputies, members of the committee attending the meeting, supported the marking of a particular Jubilee, which is a sign to the Ukrainian public. At the same time, under the agreement and agreement with the authors of Bill No. 5675, the members of the committee proposed to extend and supplement the provisions of the draft regulation, in which connection the committee drafted a draft regulation entitled "To mark the 150th anniversary of the birth of the Forest of Ukraine". As a result of the Committee's consideration of culture and spirituality, it decided to submit to the Supreme Council of Ukraine a draft decision on the 150th anniversary of the birth of the Forest of Ukraine, and recommended that the Supreme Council of Ukraine adopt this draft decision on the basis and in general. Dear National Deputies! This is a decision in your hands. Unfortunately, not a lot of people are in the hall, and often those bills that we should have first and gather more people have to be considered when not so many of our colleagues are working, but I'm counting on your unanimous support. There are prominent figures in Ukrainian culture. You know, normally we're preparing a single decision, and that's what today is going to be about marking significant dates. But the correfies of Ukrainian culture that stood near the sources of the development of the Ukrainian nation, such as Ivan Franco, Lesia Ukraine, Mikhailo Gruszewski, certainly deserve us to make special decisions about their respect. Because these decrees should include more than just a mention.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-08-m0.u122	Please, 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-08-m0.u123	in a very long list of other names. For example, last year we celebrated the 150th anniversary of Mikhail Gruszewski, and this year we are still celebrating 100 years of the Ukrainian Revolution, and so far we have not issued a full collection of Gruszewski's works, only 25 volumes of 50 have been published and are not even prepared for publication. So I ask you very much to support this bill so that we honor the forest, honor its creativity, its legacy, and the publication of books, and the work of institutions of culture, and in every way possible. Because the geniuses of the Ukrainian people must be honored. We don't have to scream pianistly, sorry, condemn someone and pianize ourselves on some cheap stuff, namely, in such a vote, in support of such cases, and determine patriotism. I am very grateful to Irina Konstankevich, who stands here, to the other co-authors of this law for the attention of this great figure. And I very much ask you, colleagues, to support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-08-m0.u124	Thank you. Please record: two for, two for, please. And, colleagues, I want to inform you that there were enough deputies in the room before lunch. If it doesn't get contaminated, today I'm voting ratings and publishing in the Voice of Ukraine for everyone who's missing. So I encourage all those who were in the hall to return to the hall and take part in the work. Today I'm not going to do the same as yesterday, today I'm going to do the ratings vote and publish in the newspaper all the missing people, so that all of Ukraine knows who isn't coming to work at a time when Ukraine is protecting its borders, when all Ukrainians are at work, and in working hours it's not at work, I think, it's crime and irresponsibility. So, colleagues, I'm asking you to take part in the discussion. And I ask all my colleagues to come to the hall. Please, Binoculars of Oksana Volodymyr.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-08-m0.u125	Mr. Chairman, honourable national deputies, I would like to begin by thanking the Committee on Culture for its systematic approach to the global processes that are taking place today in the sense of our identity. The decision is extremely important because the array of the forest of Ukraine, which is part of the pantheon of the Ukrainian movement, is extremely large. She had 11 languages, she had translated ancient Greek, ancient Egyptian, and ancient Indian works, which would now become a cultural heritage of Ukraine and the Ukrainian State. In our time of hybrid warfare, it is vital that we form our national identity on the basis of the pillars of our Ukrainian nation. So I strongly suggest that we all concentrate, even though there are not many of us, but there are 226, for this determination to give. The faction of Peter Dustenk supports this decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-08-m0.u126	Thank you. And I invite you to speak from the People's Front of Terras Dmitrovitch. Please, Mr. Taras. And please invite the deputies to the hall, and the vote will take place in a few minutes. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-08-m0.u127	Dear colleagues! Taras Kremen, People's Front. We must support this decision for a number of reasons. First, because Lesia Ukraine is one of the most famous and influential Ukrainian writers in all the history of Ukrainian statehood, and is very often compared with Taras Shevchenk and with John Frank. The second most important thing. We need this determination to properly prepare for the 150th anniversary of her birth. This 16-cell phone will be a unique confirmation because the Ukrainian Parliament protects and supports Ukrainian culture. It's also a reprint, it's also a huge scientific research work to be carried out by the National Academy of Sciences of Ukraine and directly by the Taras Shevchenka Literature Institute. These are, of course, the local initiatives of the areas, the regions to which it was associated. This is also the direct activity of the East Ukrainian National University of Forest Ukraine. And most importantly, the validation of the authority of the Forest of Ukraine is the affirmation of the authority of the Ukrainian State in the world. It is one of the most translated Ukrainian writers in the world. So without language, without literature, without the proper support of the Ukrainian spirituality, the State will not be. I ask you to support this decision on the basis and in general. The People's Front is in.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-08-m0.u128	Thank you. From the Radical Party, Oleg Lazko, two minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-08-m0.u129	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Our faction supports the draft decree on the 150th anniversary of the birth of the Forest of Ukraine. I'd like to see people in this room who don't vote for this decision, and let all Ukrainians see it. Because what are we fighting for? If the issue of culture is the cornerstone of Ukrainian independence, unfortunately there is little interest in this room. But I would like to respond to the words of my esteemed colleague Mikola Knieżick. Who just said that out of 50 volumes of Gruszewski's work, only 25 were published, and he said it was very bad that everything had not yet been written and published. And what can they say: Gruszewski and everyone else? About how 100 years ago, the fighting caused the loss of Ukrainian statehood? How were positions shared and then apologized to one another in Paris to the thresholds of coffee shops? About how Petlura carried the Krapadsky, Krapadsky carried it. The Bolsheviks carried out the short walk, and they all carried Gruszewski out together? So, I don't want to be talked about in 100 years by our esteemed colleagues, as we talk about those who ruled the country 100 years ago, our own country. The Lord gave Ukraine a chance to gain independence, and what did they do with it? They've lost that chance in mutual chats. The result is famines, repressions, millions of Ukrainians who died from Bolshevik occupation. And 300 students who were protecting Ukraine under the Krauts because the army was standing here holding a Bolshevik uprising so as not to let it burn. Let us draw conclusions from the mistakes of centuries ago: do not hesitate to do things that will cause us to lose the country, but rather to do so.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-08-m0.u130	30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-08-m0.u131	and to unite for the national interests of Ukraine. We're different parties, different visions, but we can't help but protect Ukraine, because, as one of the same classics said, Winnichenko seems to have written that above all, it's a national interest, not a party. Thus, the national interest is to protect the Ukrainians and give them the right to live in their own country.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-08-m0.u132	Thank you. Vladimir Litwin, please. I'll let you finish the discussion, Mr. Mikolo. Yes! Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-08-m0.u133	Dear Head, dear colleagues! I represent the very country where Lesia Ukraine was born. And I have to tell you that to this day and today, the spirit of creativity of the soul, of takeoff, of pain for Ukraine is all present. And it is materialized that there are so many talented people who are followers of the forest of Ukraine. True, they are not asked, their works are not published, but believe me, they show examples of creativity and spirituality. I am grateful to my fellow Volina national deputies, all the national deputies who made their proposals for this draft decree, which was generalized by the committee. It would be a good thing, dear colleagues, if we were to anticipate the celebrations at the same time, it should be practical to do the Cabinet of Ministers and celebrate the Jubilee of Mikhail Dragomanov. To my profound conviction, these two historical figures are organically linked and are organically complementary, especially in matters of European choice, European perspective, and Europeanism. And I must say that Lesia Ukraine is our great contemporary. By reading her letters and associating with Michael Dragomanov, we will see that they had already noted the problems that hindered Ukraine’s normal progress today. I am convinced that every Ukrainian in the Forest Museum of Ukraine should visit every Ukrainian once in a lifetime, just as I did in Volina, in other memorable places where she lived, worked, suffered, and was confident in Ukraine. I suggest, if we don't have enough votes now, let's not burn this decree because it's on the conscience of those who are not in the Supreme.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-08-m0.u134	Thank you. But there is also the possibility of inviting colleagues who are next door to come into the hall and prepare for the decision. Because now there's going to be a closing statement from the Opposition Block of Igor Shurma. In two minutes, we're going to vote. That's why I'm asking you to invite everyone into the National Deputies Hall. Please, Igorshurma, two minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-08-m0.u135	IgorShurma, the Opposition Block. I want to tell everyone right now that the opposition block faction supports the draft of the decree that marked 150 years from the birth of Larissa Kosach-Flower, or the Forest of Ukraine. Ukraine has given the world many grandeurs in the world’s culture. And we should be proud of them. You know, dear colleagues, I would just like to ask us all in their speeches to remember that the same Forest Ukraine should be respected according to its contribution and level. It cannot be said that the forest of Ukraine is likened to the level of John Frank or Taras Shevchenk. It stands on the same position, on the same height, it's the same size that you have to be equal to. This is the first one. Nice to meet you. I am, in this case, very sorry for the chairman: for the forest of Ukraine, to whom everyone swears in love, he invites people to the hall. Well, come on, people are good, you don't have to ask for that anymore. Come and vote, do not be ashamed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-08-m0.u136	Thank you. So the discussion is over, we're moving on to making a decision. Please prepare yourself for making decisions, taking up jobs. Yes, colleagues, please take up jobs. And I'm voting on the draft decree on the 150th anniversary of the birth of the Forest of Ukraine (No. 5675-d) as a basis and as a whole. If you'll excuse me, I'd like to vote. Let's vote, colleagues, be careful. Please support, we vote. Please be supportive. [[13:01:55]] For 248 It's been decided. Next Order on Commemorative Dates and Jubilee in 2018 (No. 7274). And I would like to support the proposal for a reduced procedure. Please support me. [[13:02:26]] For 178. Decision taken. And I invite the head of the committee, Mikol Leonidovich. Please, Mr. Mikolo.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-08-m0.u137	Dear colleagues! At its meeting on November 8, 2017 (Protocol No. 62), the Committee considered the issue of the introduction to the Supreme Council of Ukraine of the Order on Commemorative Dates and Jubilees in 2018. The draft regulation sets out a list of the most important events in the social and political life of Ukraine and the Jubilee of eminent persons, which should be marked at the national level in 2018. A proper legal basis is created for the organization’s preparation of their identification. National deputies of Ukraine and members of the Committee on Culture and Spirituality have taken decisions in accordance with article 93 of the Constitution of Ukraine in the order of the legislative initiative to submit to the Supreme Council of Ukraine a draft decree on the marking of memorial dates and Jubilee in 2018 and to recommend to the Supreme Council that it be accepted as a basis and as a whole. I suggest that the committee complete the addition to the draft decision with the following paragraphs. In section I: "1125 years since the first written mention of the city of Uzhgrad; 370 years since the Battle of the Yellow Waters; 100 years after the founding of the National University of Dniprov, Olesia Potter; 100 years since the founding of the Odessa National Technical University; 80 years since the founding of the Central Republican Masters in Restoration of Valuable Museums (now the National Research Centre of Ukraine); 80 years since the founding of the Kiev State Institute of Decorative Art and the design of Michael Boychuk's name." In Chapter II: "80 years from the date of the birth of Michael Zubcz, a scientist in agrarian sciences, a civil and political actor, a national deputy of Ukraine IV-VI, 140 years from the date of the birth of John Kuchuguri-Kucherenko, cobzar, public figure; 100 years after the birth of EugenaStahiva, a public, political actor; 75 years since the birth of Andrew Antonyuk, a prominent Ukrainian artist." With such additions, I would like to vote on the draft regulation as a basis and as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-08-m0.u138	Thank you. Please, two for, two for. Please hold the recording. Thank you. From Peter Poshenko's Block, Savrasov Maksim Vitaliyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-08-m0.u139	Please pass the word Melnichenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-08-m0.u140	Vladimir Melnichenko, 193 constituency. Please add to the list, perhaps, the Kamyanec-Podile University of Firenka, which is 100 years old this year.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-08-m0.u141	Thank you. The People's Front is Yuri Bereza. Maximburbak, he's handing over to Maxim Burbak. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-08-m0.u142	Dear colleagues, the People's Front faction will support this decision in its entirety, because these are very important dates in the history of our Ukraine and should be marked at the national level. This decree also contains a date: 100th anniversary of the Bukovinska Evening. On November 3, 1918, the Bukovinska Evening in Cherniv, which resulted in the proclamation of the Zluka Act with the West Ukrainian People’s Republic and later with the Great Ukraine. I believe that such a powerful date in the history of Bukovina and Ukraine should be marked at the national level. By means of government funding, I am confident that a commemorative coin, a memorable mark, should be released. And all the other festivals that are listed in this decree should be celebrated by the state, because that is the historical date of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-08-m0.u143	Thank you. Colleagues, we're about to make a closing statement. There'll be a vote in two minutes. I'm asking everyone to come to the hall. From Self-Help is invited to the word of Danchenko Alexander Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-08-m0.u144	The Self-Help Group will support this decision. But we want to point out that it would be very good if all of these badges and events were not just on paper, but actually were in history, they were actually taught in schools, so that this decision wasn't just on paper. And that's how we're gonna do it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-08-m0.u145	So, colleagues, I would ask you not to delay the discussion, let's take 1 minute. There hasn't been a performance since Fatherland. Eutushka.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-08-m0.u146	Sergeyevtushka, the "Fatherland" faction. The Fatherland faction will also support this draft decision. I'll say there's a lot of important dates in the list, and that's good. Moreover, it is possible for local government administrations, that is, executive branch of government, and local self - government authorities, to take such measures on these memorable dates to enable amateurs, to allow local artists to organize festivals, to arrange measures that will bring our people back to memory, to events that are listed. So the "Fatherland" faction will support this project and urge the entire Parliament to do it unanimously. Please put to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-08-m0.u147	Thank you. The chairman of the committee stresses that more of these proposals, which are sounding, are taken into account. I'll give him a summary word, all the groups and factions are speaking. And, please, a minute's summary word is "Princess." And let's go to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-08-m0.u148	Dear colleagues, in answer to a number of your questions, I would like to assure you that in the general text, the decisions that you have raised are taken into account. Considered the situation with the Stone-Soil Higher Education Institute, with the other significant dates that you mentioned. Just now. Huh? No, I know. A colleague of Sevrukov drew attention to some editorial disagreement regarding one day of the celebration of the Day of Holodomor. So I would like to vote on the basis, and on the whole, with the editorial rights that will take away these differences. All other proposals are included. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-08-m0.u149	So let's move on to making a decision. All the suggestions are taken into account, with your proposal made by the Princess, he's already sounded it, and we're moving on to making a decision. And I'm voting on the draft Order on Commemorative Dates and Jubilee in 2018 (No. 7274) with those rights that the head of the committee, Princely Mikola Leonidovich, has written under the transcript, and with technical legal rights on the basis and in general. Please vote and please support. Vote! Please be supportive. Vote. [[13:10:25]] For 228 It's been decided. Colleagues, the next thing we do on a daily basis is from the block, from the social policy block. I've asked the committee to transpose this bill, but we're actually ready to consider it now. This is a draft law amending article 12 of the Ukrainian Act on Social and Legal Protection of Military Servants and Members of Their Families (5027). And I ask you to support the consideration of the reduced procedure. Please support me. [[13:11:18]] For 178. Decision taken. I invite the head of the National Security and Defence Committee of the Pashinsky Sergey Volodymyrovich to report. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-08-m0.u150	Good afternoon, dear friends! This year, more than 100 hostels are budgeted for this year. But this program is only being implemented right now and the deadlines for its implementation, at best, will be visible within a year. At the same time, we have another problem, we have a budget for compensation for the housing of officers and cadets, but there is no legal compensation for renting housing to the military, the sergeant and the senior staff. It's wrong, it's unfair. And this law provides for a very simple thing: this is the standard for housing compensation, when the Armed Forces cannot provide for service housing or barracks, to distribute, except for officers and trainees, to the military, the sergeant, and the senior warehouse. The law is very simple. The committee unanimously supported him. I'm asking the MPs to support it as a whole. The only thing was, there was a note of the Self-Help faction, and I'm asking the chairman to give it a date, and we're going to support it.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-08-m0.u151	Thank you. During the performances, I think you'll be able to make a sound. Please record: two for, two for, please. From the Fatherland faction of Odarchenko. Please welcome Odarchenko to the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-08-m0.u152	The Fatherland faction, Yuri Odarchenko. Honorary colleagues, a bill tabled by the government, must be adopted immediately and in general, and immediately, in order for it to be applied urgently. At present, the right to housing for military personnel is not working, since it is simply impossible to enforce the law in the absence of physical facilities. The bill foresees that the State should reimburse military personnel for renting housing if no housing was granted. However, it is not only the law that must be passed, but the money for its implementation must be provided. Regrettably, the government has repeatedly lied to the military, promising them to improve their social status, and later, giving up on their words, this example has taken place quite recently. On 30 August 2017, Decree No 704, which should have increased salaries and pensions for military personnel since 1 January 2018, was adopted. On December 28, however, the government decided to save money on behalf of Ukraine and postponed the introduction of the bill. Imagine, people were counting on these funds, they were expecting them, and all of a sudden the government says they gave the word, they took it. Thus, it is not possible for housing to do the same. Let us vote in favour of this bill as a whole. And it is imperative that the government, after lunch, submit a new bill to amend the state budget and provide for the financing of the law. Please vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-08-m0.u153	Thank you. From Self-Help, Markevich Jaroslav. The shepherd is given the word Markevich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-08-m0.u154	Taras Shepherd, Self Help Union, Ternopil. Dear colleagues, what was needed to adopt such a bill. Since formerly military personnel, soldiers, chiefs, sergeants were always stationed in barracks, duty homes, and officers had the opportunity to live on rented apartments or to be hired. But in view of the fact that most parts of the military were actually destroyed in eastern Ukraine, and considering that we finally realized that our threat and our enemy is not a West, it is not Europe, and not the entire civilized world, but Russia, it has made it possible to change the doctrine of our defense and move part of the military from the west to the eastern parts of Ukraine. Appropriately, there has been a shortage of living quarters, namely, barracks in military areas, for today’s day. Because we have finally allocated sufficient financial resources, the Ministry of Defense has begun to build these military towns, the barracks. But today this has led to the fact that the lack of accommodations has actually left large groups homeless, large units that do not have permanent locations today. And that's why we need to allow the Ministry of Defense today to make leases on living quarters for soldiers, sergeants, seniors or to pay for them. So the self-help faction advocates that this bill really needs to be supported on the basis and in general with only one technical legal remedy. That's what it's all about. The Ministry of Defence has passed a bill by adding the word "may be placed free of charge in barracks if there is no such possibility of renting or hiring." This led to a variety of interpretations. Free of charge, they may be placed in barracks or rented, or they may be housed for free. That is to say, it can actually lead to the possibility that the military may still face the issue of financial commitment to barracks. To clear up this different interpretation, we suggest the word "may" be taken away. The Ministry of Defense is backing up.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-08-m0.u155	Please, 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-08-m0.u156	The Ministry of Defense supports this proposal, the committee supports it. So asking for this proposal on the basis and generally supporting this bill, not sending it on second reading, because this problem has been there for three years. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-08-m0.u157	Thank you. So we finished the discussion. I'm asking everyone to take up jobs. Since the Radical Party, one minute. So in a minute there's going to be a vote. Radal Party Ruler, 1 minute. In one minute, colleagues, there will be a decision-making process. Please prepare, go into the hall and take your seats. Please, sir.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-08-m0.u158	DmitriLenco, the Radical Party. The Radical Party faction will certainly support this bill and vote it as quickly as possible, because the support and provision of military personnel is the basis for us to have a professional army, and for people to remain in service so that military personnel know that they are in their homes. Their families are where to live. And we're proposing to develop this program, and every year, we're going to increase government spending on support and housing for military personnel. This is the first time that we've made 100 million dollars spent on housing for our rescue workers. This is the first time in probably 10 years. But this is certainly not enough, and we will certainly insist that both military personnel and rescuers and law enforcement officers who are protecting our country today be provided with housing. Because there's not going to be a person working for a dollar salary if he doesn't have a place to live. And certainly, the problems of the military pensioners who were rallying yesterday are also a priority for our party and for the whole Council, we think we need to solve the problems of the military pensioners.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-08-m0.u159	Thank you. Colleagues, the chairman of the committee asks that the transcripts clearly indicate the amendments with which we will vote. But please, very briefly, a minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-08-m0.u160	I see the desire to vote for the floor as a whole. Then, Mr. Speaker, we're going to file another motion that the law will enter into force as soon as it is signed by the President, because it is now in force there as of January 1, 2019. So the law goes into effect immediately.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-08-m0.u161	Is it accepted? Everybody's in. Let's move on to making a decision. Colleagues, please prepare. I am voting on the draft Act amending article 12 of the Ukrainian Act on the Social and Legal Protection of Military Servants and Members of Their Families (No. 5027) with rights that have been issued under the stenogram of the Shepherd and the head of the Committee, Sergey Pashinski, on the basis of and in general. Please vote, please support. Vote! We support Ukrainian military personnel! Please vote, please support! [[13:20:50]] For 218. Not all of them made it. I, my colleagues, invite everyone to the hall, and I will now make an offer to return. I'm asking you to invite all the national deputies to the hall. I ask the factions to invite deputies to the hall. Discipline under the laws of such a level should be the highest. I ask the factions to show the vote, and please invite the deputies to the hall. So I'm going to now propose to go back to voting for this law. The law of security and defence is important to Ukrainian military personnel and we have to go back to it. So please, everyone, please prepare for the vote. And I'm voting on the proposal to go back to the draft Law 5027. Please vote, please support. Vote! Please be supportive. [[13:22:15]] For 227 We're back. Let's get out of here. And I'm stressing the draft Act amending article 12 of the Ukrainian Act on Social and Legal Protection of Military Servants and Members of Their Families (5027), as amended by the stenogram of Shepherd Ipasinski, on the basis of and in general. Carefully every vote, please vote, please support me, colleagues. Vote. Please be supportive. [[13:22:56]] For 230 The law is passed. Colleagues, now I want to. Don't leave, please go back to the hall. I'd like to make a request to you that I've already spoken to you in the morning, so that the hall will be willing to consider at least some of the election decisions. I've told all the factions, I've warned them several times. If everyone has identified, if this is a common position, I ask you now to support us to move on to the consideration of those regulations. I'll put it to a vote, colleagues, I'll put it to a proposal. I ask you to support the proposal that we now move on to the vote on the appointment of individual out-of-order and local elections, which await a huge number of Ukrainian communities. I ask you to vote and please support me, colleagues. Vote, please. [[13:24:11]] For 206 Perhaps not all of them have been informed, colleagues? One word, John Kirilenko, please. And I'm going to make that offer again. Please, Ivan Kirilenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-08-m0.u162	Dear Andrew Volodymyrovich, distinguished colleagues, surely needs to be resolved. It's local self-government, it's a lot of questions, it's delegated how many powers, budgets, and so on and so forth. Andrew Volodymyrovich, one mistake: On April 29, the government passed a four-day ruling. The election is going to be torn down on April 29th, or we're going to get an extremely low voter turnout, and we're not going to get the voter's will. So the proposal is to move the election to May 20th. We reconciled this with the committee and with individual factions. Let's spend it on May 20th, okay, that's it. There'll be voices for that in the hall. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-08-m0.u163	Colleagues, I'll do as the committee suggests. Now we've got to have the voices in the room. As far as I know, the committee supports this proposal. And so once again, colleagues, please assemble, take your jobs, come into the hall. And I'll bet again. Or come on, colleagues, colleagues, attention, attention! I'm re-voting the proposal, and I'm asking you to take it. Don't leave the hall, colleagues. And I'm once again proposing that we move to the vote for the appointment of individual out-of-order local elections. Please support everyone. It's not a matter of politics, it's a question of local communities. And I'm asking everyone to settle down and support each other. Please vote, please support. Vote. Please be supportive. Your offer is supported, supported. [[13:26:11]] For 208 I'll make that offer later, colleagues. I'm asking you to hold political consultations. We're running out of votes. Now let's go through another law, and then I'll put this proposal back on. Look, I have another offer that I've been approached with. We have a quota replacement when the Counting Commission was formed. There's a draft regulation amending the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Order on the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Counting Commission of the Eighth Council of Ukraine. It's a technical substitute, and there's a request for us to move it, consider it now. Here the Yevtushka is replaced, our brother Eutusek is taken to the Counting Commission. The question is completely technical, a question that is fully supported by all. And who's to move it. Oh, it's a work organization, you don't have to take it every day. But we'll run a rating on it. Krulko Ivanova! Ivan Krulko! So, colleagues, I'm asking you, 6620, please inform John Kulka. [[B in m in s a l in]] Why? So it's me. I know, let's have a rating vote under this law. [[B in m in s a l in]] Then explain, then please, Mr. Victor, explain what you're talking about. And then I'll run the ratings. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-08-m0.u164	Colleagues, good afternoon. May I have your attention, please? If you will recall, our colleague, Mr. Dmitry Vasilovich, has ceased his mandate. Dmitry Vasilovich, after giving up his parliamentary powers, also ceased to be a member of the Counting Commission. It's a Fatherland quota. There are no arguments or arguments on this issue, or any discussion positions, as far as I know. It is a great request to focus and fulfill our obligation to fill the quota of our colleagues in one of our factions on the Counting Commission. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-08-m0.u165	Thank you. So I'm going to run a rating on it to see the mobilisation. Who would like us to consider now the Bill of Amendments to the Counting Commission of the Supreme Council, a technical, non-complicated issue (6620), please vote. Please be supportive. Please vote. Please be supportive. Please be supportive. We'll support our colleagues. [[13:29:08]] For 208 Again, huh? Colleagues, once again, I'm putting 6620 to the vote. I'll bet again. Please back up, please, colleagues. This is a technical issue for the organization of the work of the Supreme Council. Please be supportive. Vote. [[13:29:48]] For 209 Don't come in, will you? All right, colleagues. [[B in m in s a l in]] The next question is the order of the day that we have. Colleagues, pay attention! The next issue that we have is the bill amending the Ukrainian Law on Protection of Cultural Heritage (to grant subjects an underwater cultural heritage of the status of the Maritime Memorial) (2129a). Colleagues, there's not much right here, it's a second reading. So I'm asking my colleagues not to break up, to stay in the workplace. And after that, I'm going to propose once again to vote on the next election after this law. So consult. I'll give the previous word to Mrs. Helen Leedowski to speak to the committee and we'll try to get back to those questions. I now invite you to the words of Mikoluk Knieżick. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-08-m0.u166	Thank you. It is proposed to consider in a second reading the draft Law on Amendments to the Law on Protection of Cultural Heritage, prepared by the Committee on Culture and Spirituality (No. 2129a). Prior to the second reading, the National Deputies of Ukraine submitted 7 suggestions and amendments, of which 6, unfortunately, were rejected because they did not meet the purpose of the proposed legislative changes. The bill thus defines the term Sea Memorial, which means an object of underwater cultural heritage, a place of mass destruction of people who are given special status, which provides for its exclusive integrity, except for scientific research and inventory. The procedure for determining and approving the boundaries of underwater cultural heritage objects with the status of the Maritime Memorial is determined by the relevant scientific and practical documentation. A list of underwater cultural heritage sites with the status of the Maritime Memorial is determined by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. Sea Memorial property is defined by the boundaries of national jurisdiction (in the exclusive (sea) economic zone, the territorial sea, and the internal waters of Ukraine). Subjects of an underwater cultural heritage with the status of the Maritime Memorial are prohibited from carrying out any form of activity, such as underwater tourism, except for scientific research or inventory. Thank you for your attention. Please support this law, especially in view of the importance of preserving the Ukrainian cultural heritage in temporarily occupied territories and in territorial waters close to temporarily occupied territories, is referred to as Crimea. I'd like your support, colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-08-m0.u167	Thank you. Dear colleagues, to this bill, we are surprised to have very few amendments, only nine. And as far as I can tell, there's no author of the amendments to Mr. Yuri Lewchenk, one of them. And I also don't see any demands on Mr. Dove's amendments. There is no such requirement. So in fact, we have to go to a second reading vote now because no one insists on these amendments. Colleagues, I'm asking you to come back to the session room. This is going to be a big vote right now. The chairman of the committee explained the importance of the bill. It's about us all using our weights to preserve our cultural heritage in occupied territories temporarily occupied, including in terms of marine memory. I'm asking my colleagues to come into the session room, go back to the session room, and in literally 30 seconds, there's going to be a vote. My colleagues, I'm announcing once again that we're not going to fix it, because they're just not here. On the contrary, we are now voting. I ask everyone to return to the session room, please. Now we're waiting, the colleagues are coming back, and we're voting. Dear colleagues, we are now moving on, in a few seconds literally, to this very important vote. I remind you that this is about the second reading of the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Cultural Heritage Act.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-08-m0.u168	So, are the colleagues ready to vote? Please take up your jobs. This is a question supported by all the factions, groups, all the national MPs, let's mobilize and support the Committee on Culture. And I'm voting on the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Cultural Heritage Act (2129a) on second reading and in general. Please vote and please support. Colleagues, pay attention! Take your seats. Please vote, please support. [[13:35:37]] For 214 We didn't make it. I'll be right back. Colleagues, please take your places of work. Let me show you through the factions. "Block of Peter Poshenko" – 90, "National Front" – 56, "Resistance Block" – 0, "self-help" – 17, "Radical Party" – 17, "Fathership" – 9, "Will of the People" – 1, "Resurrection Party" – 4. Colleagues, let's get mobile. I'm asking everyone to take up jobs. I'll be back in a moment. Please come in, let's go into the hall. So, colleagues. Mr. Oleg, return to the hall, please! If you don't mind, come back to the hall. Now, I'm going to put in a proposal for the same bill to be passed on to fire trucks. So we vote. Yeah? I'm voting on the proposal to go back to the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Cultural Heritage Act (2129a). Please vote. Please support the return. Every voice is important. Vote! Please be supportive. Vote. [[13:37:05]] For 221 Colleagues, please return to the hall, and do not leave the Chamber of Deputies. I'm asking you, colleagues, to come into the hall. Invite the deputies to the hall. Colleagues, please. Colleagues, I'll put it back up again, please. Five votes missing, each vote has meaning. I'm asking you guys to go back to work. I'm asking everyone to prepare for the vote. I'm asking you to take the job. And I'm voting for a return to the Cultural Heritage Project (2129a). Please vote and please support, please vote, vote, please support the return. Every voice, vote carefully. [[13:38:18]] For 226 Now we vote. Take up jobs, please, colleagues, take up jobs, invite everyone to the hall. And I'm voting on the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Cultural Heritage Protection Act (2129a) on second reading and generally, colleagues. So, please vote, please support, every vote. Nadia! Let's vote, colleagues, please back up, please back up. [[13:39:13]] For 232 Decision taken. Don't yell, I'll give you everything. Colleagues, the law is passed. Now I have a request that we know how to do our job, try to vote again on the election, and then I'll give it a break. So, my colleagues, I'm asking everyone to stay in the workplace. After the statement of the two factions, I will ask to speak on Olenu Ledovski. And we're going to try again to vote for the temporary election. In three minutes, there will be a vote, don't break up. Three minutes, this is a faction of the Radical Party and Self-Help is a statement.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-08-m0.u169	The Radical Party faction wants to make an important statement for all Ukrainians and those present. Dear colleagues, as you know, has become effective for days -- and our team voted for it -- a register of alimony payers. Nearly a million children in Ukraine live without parents, and the parents who abandoned them do not pay alimony. Now in this register, over 70,000 people who have given birth to children, but alimony doesn't pay, they don't have a conscience. They drive abroad, they buy their belongings, and they don't pay alimony by throwing the child away. Sadly, our fellow national deputies, former ministers, and acting national deputies appeared on this list. Nameing these deputies is not enough for the south. So I want to say one thing. Ask those deputies who are sitting in this room who are unable to pay alimony for their child: What can you do to children of Ukrainians if you cannot feed your own child if you abandoned your own child? So from our team, the demand for Ukrainian national deputies who abandoned their children did not feed them, did not pay alimony, did not collect them, did not live well, enjoyed them, and did not have money for their own child. We demand that these deputies put in place parliamentary mandates. It is immoral, dishonest, and hypocritical to keep a parliamentary mandate when you cannot feed your child. We demand that the head of parliament remove the salaries of these deputies and send alimony to the children they have vowed to hunger, cold, and miserable lives. We address women who were abandoned by their husbands and left their children behind. Which of the men doesn't pay alimony, write to me. We will find these hypocrite eunuchs and we will force them to pay you alimony so that your children will be warm and good. Clearly, the child will not be put on the table for alimony, but it is a matter of conscience and principle. If you abandoned your own child and can't feed it, what can you do for Ukrainian children? So put in your mandates, hypocrites! Do not lie to people if you cannot feed your child. You are likewise unable to do anything for the entire Ukrainian people. Get out of here, you liars!
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-08-m0.u170	So, colleagues, as I promised, now I am. One minute for Helen Ledowski, representative of the committee, by election. And once again, I'm going to put the matter of the Counting Commission to a rating vote, and it didn't get just a few votes. Please, Helen, one minute. And if you'd like to come into the hall right now, there's going to be a vote. Everyone, please come into the hall, take your jobs. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-08-m0.u171	Colleagues, I don't think I'm going to be as emotional as Oleg Valeriyovich's, but I want to continue the topic of shame and invite every national MP today to vote in favour of these decisions made by the State Building Committee. For the ninth time, we take up the Supreme Council’s rulings on local council elections, and for the ninth time, we do not get to vote in the session room today. I want to address every national MP again. We have 99 decrees today regarding the election of city heads or councils, village councils and city councils, so I repeat: during this year we have not once allowed any village council that needs elections to allow them to do so.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-08-m0.u172	30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-08-m0.u173	Thank you to every national MP who today will allow the local council authorities who need elections to vote in favour of this position.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-08-m0.u174	So, colleagues, I'm going to make another suggestion to get us to the election. I'm going to re-suppose a rating vote on the Counting Commission. I'm just asking you to take your seats, stay out of the hall. Colleagues, so I'm putting forward my first proposal for a rating vote on the draft Order amending the Supreme Council of Ukraine Order on the Counting Commission, as reported by Paul Pinzenik. And I ask everyone to prepare for the vote and take part in the vote, colleagues. Please vote, I would like to support who we are in favour of moving to its consideration. Vote! Please be supportive. The Counting Commission is the technical issue of the organization of the work of the Supreme Council. [[13:46:14]] For 209 No voices. And my colleagues, now I'm asking you to mobilize, mobilize and vote so that we can move on to the appointment of individual out-of-order elections. Colleagues, I beg you, every voice will now matter. This is the question of the local communities that are waiting for these elections, the question that we have passed on nine times, that is the responsibility of the state. And I ask you, colleagues, all to prepare for the vote and please vote. Colleagues, we are voting that we now postpone the appointment of individual out-of-order local elections. Please vote, please support. Take up jobs. On the spot, right? Voting, voting, colleagues. Please be supportive. [[13:47:19]] For 215 Eleven votes. Colleagues, once again, by factions, show by factions, please. Guys, let's try it again. Can we mobilize? Let's do it again. I have an announcement to make, but then I'll announce it. So, colleagues, I'm once again proposing that we move on to the question of assigning individual out-of-order local elections. Please vote, please support this proposal, please support. [[13:48:14]] For 206 Not enough voices. I, my colleagues, immediately before I moved on to the next issue of the agenda, came up with a statement about. from two factions of the announcement: from the faction of Peter Prashenko and the People's Front. And I'd like to invite Irina Lucenko. Please, three minutes, Mrs. Irina.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-08-m0.u175	Dear colleagues, I am very pleased to thank the Radical Party and the Radical Faction led by Oleg Lášk for taking such care of alimony payments to Ukrainian children. Today, more than 570,000 families with 1, 2, 3 single - parent children need this help, more than 2 billion dollars are in debt. But I would like to remind the honourable Parliament and the venerable society that the authors and initiators of this law were representatives of the coalition: the Peter Prashenko Block of Solidarity and the People's Front. I would like to congratulate our people's deputies. And also a radical faction that took an active part in this, as well as all the factions, and Self-help, who voted, and in Fatherland, the honorable. Thank you all very much. And this list, the list of vicious alimony payers, worked in Ukraine. Starting in March, with Justice Minister Paul Petrenko, I also want to thank him because justice has been very active in this work, and we go out in the field of service. with the executive service, where he will carry out the appropriate work for this purpose. At the same time, honourable national deputies, I would like to call on you. Today, the Human Trafficking Act, where most of the children, Ukrainian children are trafficked into human beings, have such a serious resonance and such assistance and support to Parliament, using the opportunity to thank you for the laws that we voted on domestic violence, where the Peter Prashenko Block and many other deputies were the authors of the Domestic Violence Criminalization Act, trafficking in human beings, sexual exploitation. And I would also like to take an active part in the vote after lunch. Thank you to all the people's deputies. There are no foreign children.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-08-m0.u176	Thank you. So, colleagues, please take up jobs. I did. There was another suggestion from WFP that we should move to the draft Law on Amendments to Article 2 of the Ukrainian Law on Certain Issues of Import into the Customs Territory of Ukraine and Registration of Means of Transport. It was reported that there was complete support for the hall. I'm going to move on now. And please, colleagues, take part in the vote, 5470, 5470. The head of the Southern Committee also returned. With the quick help of Andrew Antonishtak, he raised the question repeatedly on the Conciliation Council. So I ask everyone to take up jobs. He's all right. The offer is to move. So please support the proposal to move it to a quicker consideration, for consideration now. Please vote, please support. Please be supportive. [[13:52:00]] For a hundred and Let's put it first after the break, colleagues, let's vote. Let's mobilize. You'll be able to deal with him during lunchtime. So the proposal for us to put it first after lunch, my colleague, Bill 5470. Please mobilize. Please vote. Please be supportive. It's a request and a committee, it's a request and it's a national MP. Please vote in favour of this proposal. Please be supportive. Please vote. Vote. [[13:52:47]] For 193 Unfortunately, not enough voices. Colleagues, we now have three decisions in our agenda, very important decisions, about holding parliamentary hearings: and "Stan, problems and prospects for protecting cultural heritage."The National Innovation System."problems of creating a minimum of living in Ukraine." And it is vital that we accept these decisions today. And I, colleagues, obviously can't make it to lunch, we can't get to the point. There's only five minutes left. So I have a very big request, colleagues, at 16 o'clock to arrive in the hall so that we can move immediately into the consideration of these draft regulations. I also want to read important information. At the request of the committee, a transcript of the bill 5027: draft Act amending article 12 of the Ukrainian Act on Social and Legal Protection of Military Servants and Members of Their Families. "According to the validity of the law shall take place from the day following the date of its publication which corresponds to the Constitution of Ukraine." Note. It was just announced that after signing. And here's a clarification from the committee. It's an amendment that was made by Pashinsky, but it's made clear: "the next day after the day of its publication, which corresponds to the Constitution of Ukraine." So this is information to clarify the adoption of the law. We colleagues were able to make many important decisions by lunchtime. But I remind you, after lunch, there are equally important decisions: both the completion of the cultural chapter, and the Law on Amendments to the Criminal Code of Ukraine (to establish criminal responsibility for contributing to suicide), and the bill amending the Code of Administrative Offences and some other laws of Ukraine. These are laws that have important social significance. So I urge everyone to arrive at the hall at 4:00. And I remind you, in case of low discipline, I'm going to publish in the Voice of Ukraine that there are no national MPs. I hope that after lunch we will work as effectively as we did before lunch. Thank you all for your active and productive work. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is closed. I'll meet you in the hall at 4:00.
