ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-02-m0.u1	Good morning! Dear colleagues, please come into the hall and take your jobs. So, colleagues, please prepare for registration. So please register. Please enable the registration system. [[10:02:48]] A total of 357 national deputies were registered. The morning plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Colleagues, today is the birthday of our colleague of the national MP John Grigorovich Kirilenko. Let's welcome Mr. John. [[Applause]] I would also like to remind you that on Tuesday we have 30 minutes for the performances of the authorized representatives of the MP factions and groups. All factions and groups who intend to take part in the presentations are invited to participate. Please hold the recording. From the Rebirth Party, Bondar Victor Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-02-m0.u2	Dear Andrey Volodymyrovich! Dear Andrew Volodymyrovich! Dear colleagues! Of course, very important questions raised for the consideration of the Supreme Council this week: The law on language, the law on the status of Donbass and other matters. But in our view, the Rebirth Party Group is still the most pressing issue today is the current economic situation in the country. We still need to hear the government and to hear from the government a specific report, which is happening in the context of negotiations with the International Monetary Fund, how these negotiations ended and what the consequences will be for all Ukrainians with gas tariffs, electricity based on negotiations with the IMF, and in general what government policy on these tariffs for this year and next year, what do people expect? We want to hear from the government, which will be the currency market situation of the country, which is expected to be at the end of the year, next year, and how the government plans to contain the economic situation in Ukraine. We want to hear from the government how the government predicts an increase in pensions, whose sources and how this will happen during the last quarter of this year, and what the next year is to expect pensioners to do with the government. We want to hear the real economic recovery programme of Ukraine, which are the key economic instruments in the budget to boost Ukraine's economy, to enable Ukraine's businesses to breathe, which are the stimulating factors for creating new jobs, and what the economic agenda of this government is. We want to hear a report from every minister for his activities over the past few years that they have done useful to the country where the billions of dollars of the state budget have been spent, which were in their hands and which they should invest in raising the economy of Ukraine rather than eating. And to hear the summation that the minister has made useful for this country. And so that the hall is determined by the activities of each minister. And so that you and I can make a decision: leave this minister in government or resign immediately. There are many questions to this government. We have repeatedly raised questions about Suprun’s activities, namely, inactivity, and the breakdown of the health system. We raised questions about energy, transport, education programs. Unfortunately, we see that the government is avoiding a report in parliament, and we do not see from the government specifics on Ukraine's economic recovery. So, in our view, this should be a priority question that should be in the order of the day today. At the same time, we propose to devote a week to the next year's budget project to discuss in detail social programs, how wages will increase, how social income will increase, how will citizens' subsidies for tariffs that are not realistic today.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-02-m0.u3	30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-02-m0.u4	We don't see any proposals from the government to address these issues. We've repeatedly said that our offer -- instead of subsidies -- is to give people money for energy saving programs, to change windows in houses, to change doors, to warm houses, to change boiler equipment. And it's going to be a real program of getting out of energy dependence, not their policy. They raise tariffs, and subsidies reduce, and they clean up people's opportunities.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-02-m0.u5	Thank you. From the Opposition Block, Boyko Yuri Anatoliyovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-02-m0.u6	Dear Mr. Speaker, you know, this week as well as last week, Parliament is trying to force itself to participate in the electoral program, in the election race of the President-in-Office. Last week they were political declarations about NATO, about a change in military greetings. This week, it is proposed that the Language Act be adopted, which is a key element of the President’s electoral code. It is not enough that this law contradicts the European Charter for the Protection of Regional Languages, which our country has adopted, that it continues to split society apart. No step has been taken by this Parliament to end the conflict and to take steps to end the conflict and war in the east. Instead, the rhetoric of the incumbent president and the remnants of the ruling coalition shows that they do not reject and aim at a military solution to this conflict. We totally disagree with that position. Moreover, if someone in this room thinks that these matters are of concern to people, he is wrong. The first issue that concerns the people of Ukraine today is the beginning of the heating season and the price of gas. People with fear are waiting for new tariffs, especially when the number of grant recipients is declining under the new budget. There is also a problem of increasing the cost of gas for industrial enterprises, which means automatic reduction of jobs, because production becomes uncompetitive in the external market, and increasing the value of goods of primary importance inside the country, starting with bread, sugar, oil and finishing clothes, because there is always an energy component. The second question is the budget issue. We are firmly opposed to budgeting, with an increase of 15 billion power-generating structures and a de facto reduction in social pay. We believe that this budget continues to be a worse tradition of the previous years of building a police state with a poor population. The requirement of our faction: the government must come to Parliament and report on how the economic crisis will go through, and the Naftogazu leadership, which has allowed such disorder and tariff genocide, has to go out behind the gates with things, go out and leave its posts. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-02-m0.u7	Thank you. Please welcome the head of the Self-Help faction, Oleg Berezuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-02-m0.u8	Wherever we are, whether it's in Clothes or in Kharkishte or in Lviv, it's the same picture, when criminals who killed Ukrainian boys in war, who killed and persecuted Ukrainian fighters for independence, are cynically fired, others are persecuted, they're persecuted for fighting for truth and for people. When open - minded, malicious corrupters scoff at the cells when they are acquitted in court, teachers who fight for their jobs are encouraged, in ordinary Ukrainian villages, and especially in the Voightinian community, are persecuted or intimidated by a prosecutor who has nothing to do with them and is persecuted by the police. At the same time, teachers today begin to feel that they lack wages. The Prime Minister and the MoH, the Prime Minister and the MON cynically say that these are the problems of local authorities. These are problems of violating the Constitution by the government of the country when students are not subsidized by subsidies to a single student, wherever they live, in a village or in a city. It's a constitutional crime, optimizing the cost of medicine and education is a crime. While all the customs schemes are active, Düsseldorf is five pluses, Rotterdam is ten pluses, and no one's going to destroy them. It robs an average person, pulling out of his pockets the last cents on inflation and other important things. With Rotterdam Plus and Dusseldorf Plus, the Ukrainian oil and gas industry is collapsing. Cynically, despite all the protests and constructive protests of people from Borislav, the ancestry is being destroyed and the entire infrastructure is being destroyed. In order to become more dependent on Russian gas and oil needles? The country is more than just a police country, a state, and a state in which the crime took over. And so today, to address one, to the people and to the people, to teachers, including the Voitin community and millions in Ukraine: do not give up! Doctors: Don’t give up! Today, Ukraine needs strong pressure from below because the government is obsessed with oligarchs and crime that protects their interests.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-02-m0.u9	Thank you. Please welcome me now to the words of the People's Deputy Maxim Chicken Block, please, Mr. Maxime.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-02-m0.u10	Dear colleagues! In fact, a busy day’s schedule is a week’s work. And as soon as Thursday comes, Parliament must finally support President Peter Poshenko's initiative and legislatively change the military greeting to the patriotic slogan: "Glory to Ukraine," "Heroam of Fame." The chief commander's idea is to clear the updated Ukrainian army of Soviet traditions and destroy any related features with the army of the aggressor country. The slogan "Glory of Ukraine!" became sacral to all the Ukrainian people as a symbol of the struggle for freedom. It gives strength to our defenders on the front and burns both the outside enemy and the fifth column inside the country. By supporting the Presidential Drafting of Bill 9036, we will strengthen the identity of the Ukrainian nation and its Armed Forces, restoring historical justice. Next. We demand that the government of Ukraine speed up the deployment of a minister for veterans. We need to start working without delay with the formation and implementation of a clear state policy to support our veterans. This will be possible after the creation of the profile ministry. Our position on the future head of the Ministry remains unchanged, Irina Fries. It has the greatest potential for this work, it's capable of involving NATO countries' best practices. Irina Frez is working on a strategic program to help, rehabilitate, support, and protect veterans, including 350,000 who opposed the Russian invasion of Donbas. Next. The faction urges the Supreme Council to condemn the attempt by the pro-Russian lobby in PARJE, to withdraw restrictive measures regarding the Russian delegation. To that end, it is necessary to support 9089 appeals to the parliamentarians of the member states of the Council of Europe. It is unacceptable that an aggressor should discriminate among Europeans at the highest level and violate the fundamental norms of international law without penalty. Dear colleagues, we are looking forward to the adoption of the presidential edition of Bill 8265, which envisions a substantial improvement in the use of public funds through the electronic system of public procurement. First of all, changes are aimed at creating a level playing field. Small and medium-sized businesses will be able to work freely, freely, competitively with government orders. Finally, I will focus on the urgent need to join a fellow member of the Committee. We have chosen a committee from legal policy, where our faction has a free place and where Roman Mikhailovich will be able to reveal his potential. So I'd like to take a look at this and this is a technical question for the current sessional week. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-02-m0.u11	Thank you, Mr. Maxime. And from the "Fatherland" faction, Julia Timoshenko is invited. Please, Mrs. Julia Volodymyrna.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-02-m0.u12	My fellow Members, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the President and his environment are already in a demure mood, and that's why they want to leave power by taking with them everything they consider unnecessary for the Ukrainian people. And that's why I'm paying attention to all of my colleagues in Parliament that there is now enough dynamic preparations for privatization in the shadow sphere of Ukraine's gas transport system. They want to sell, well, a little less than 50 percent, and for $7 billion, which is just, well, hundreds of times less than it costs. And that's why I want to draw your attention to the fact that property like the gas transport system has to remain state property. Its cost, if you count the construction of a gas transport system from zero, is about $300 billion. Selling for 7 is almost half of what it means to have a corrupt device in front of the whole society. That is why we propose to immediately vote on Bill 8107, which has been tabled to Parliament, which prohibits any manipulation of the gas transport system. If that happens, I warn everyone who invests in this money or participates in this massive corruption that the new President of Ukraine will return, just like the Crevicestal, return the gas system to the State and no one will return the money that the offshores will be set up for the shadow privatization of the GTS, I also want to warn Peter Alexiyovich Dustyenko, we know very clearly that his offshores, active, affiliated with him, are involved in this equipment, and he's behind these machinations. I ask him to stop and no longer use his corruption plans against Ukraine. Let him leave in six months. The same applies to Ukraine's 2019 budget -- it's a full stagnation budget, it's a poverty budget, it's a budget for the destruction of Ukraine's future, and it's a budget for the centralisation of resources instead of decentralization. We've made proposals, our team that put people's wages and pensions at the table, put tariff policies in place, shut down all offshore areas that affect the budget, and we think that if the government and the President accept our proposals for the 2019 budget, we can stop the collapse of Ukraine's economy and stop the terrible poverty that happened today.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-02-m0.u13	30 seconds. Please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-02-m0.u14	I want to remind you that, according to the information agencies of the world, Ukraine is in the ten poorest countries of the world, and this budget is solidifying this situation. In addition, there are things in place that make the debt gap simply unacceptable for the country. We need to change all of that. And the sooner the better. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-02-m0.u15	Please make the next statement. Radical Party, Oleg Lazko. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-02-m0.u16	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. For most Ukrainians, medicine is an "unacceptable luxury" because of prices, cloudy prices for medicines. That is why all surveys show that every other Ukrainian refuses to be treated because there is no money for medicine. I went to the pharmacy this morning and bought the drugs that our people are using, and I want to show you. The average wage in Ukraine is 275 euros. Belarus has 400 euros and Poland has 1,150 euros per month. At the same time, Mildronate’s heart failure in Belarus cost 140 dollars, while in Ukraine it cost 250 dollars. The drug to reduce the pressure of Micardis in Poland costs 500 dollars, while in Ukraine it costs 650 dollars. The dicinone in Belarus costs 250 dollars, in Ukraine it costs 400 dollars. The antiepileptic Finlepsin in Belarus is 330 bracelets, in Ukraine is a third more expensive, 450 bracelets. Structum for the treatment of wrists for older people in Poland -- 400 grevens, 800 grivins in Ukraine. Once again, the wages in Poland are 10 times higher than in Ukraine, in Belarus, twice as much as in Belarus, with the medicine, and the value is lower in order than in Ukraine. Let the authorities continue to tell me that the requirements that we set for the restoration of drug prices are populism. And I'll tell you that if you don't meet these requirements, millions of people don't get help, they don't get treatment, they don't have the ability to buy medicine. So I repeat to President Prashenko, Prime Minister Groissman, the parliamentary coalition that is in power today, once again, I am telling you our absolutely realistic plan, which will allow you to reduce the cost of drugs by 25 percent and make them available to millions of Ukrainians. Cancellation of VAT on medicines, restrictions on profitability and external reference prices for medicines, demonolysis of the pharmacy market, so as in Poland: no more than one percent are owners. Not like today’s monopolistic trading networks in Ukraine, pharmacies are conspiring and lifting as they wish. An increase in the number of medicines available. Today, we beat up a billion of us to be, we insist that 2 billion dollars was for affordable drugs, especially oncology. The destruction of the monopoly of international pharmaceutical cartels, and so that our national producer can make cheaper, more accessible, yet better analogues. Criminal responsibility for the sale of fake drugs. These, the implementation of this plan, which our team is proposing, will allow for a 25 percent reduction in the cost of medicines.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-02-m0.u17	30 seconds, please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-02-m0.u18	will allow millions of Ukrainians who today refuse treatment because there is no money, tomorrow they will be able to heal, buy drugs, and that means that they will live longer, enjoy their family, loved ones, their children. Two days ago, I was in Zaporezsky's oncodyspenseer. Go there. I was in Odessa at the oncodyspensere in Zaporozhye. See how people are treated there, maybe then you'll find that you have to lower your meds and do everything you can to make them available.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-02-m0.u19	Thank you. Please welcome the leader of the Maksim Burbak faction from the People's Front. Mr. Maxime, please. I invite you to speak to Mr. Maxim Burbak. Dear Mr. Oleg, Mr. Oleg, your decorations, please don't leave Mr. Maxim. Please, Mr. Liege! Mr. Liege! We have Maxim Burbak a healthy person, he doesn't need pills, take it away, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-02-m0.u20	Congratulations, dear colleagues. One of the clear requirements of society is the closure of Kremlin holes in Ukraine: 112 channels and NewsOne. A petition with this requirement on the Supreme Council’s website has already received the required 25,000 votes. Ukrainian society now expects both the Parliament and the NACRADA on television and radio, and the special services of specific steps in the implementation of this request. We have before us the presidential elections to protect Ukraine's information space from the Kremlin, to prevent hostile propaganda from acting on our land under the cover of free speech. Parliament should respond legislatively to this requirement, and the BSC and other authorities should open up ways to finance the proputin media, which are not working in secret to captivate Ukraine to Russia. "The People's Front" will require that the draft legislation on media transparency, the ban on Russian media participation, the extension of Nacrada's powers on television and radio talk be put to the vote during this session. Criminal responsibility for denying Russian aggression must be imposed. The closer the elections, the tougher Russia will try to destabilize the situation in Ukraine. The People's Front supports the IMF's decision to increase Odessa's patrolling. We demand that the U.S.S.S.A. destroy Russia's terrorist underground, once and for all, to prevent the threat of anti - Ukrainian disturbances, military provocations, and terrorist acts. The People's Front continues to insist on extending sanctions against Russia for armed provocation and aggression in the Azov Sea, for blocking our trading ports. We must resist this and judge the aggressor on the line of law of the sea. Ukraine has a successful experience of national sanctions against the aggressor. In particular, due to the closure by the government of Arsenija Yatsenuk of transit air space in the 15th year, at least three Russian airlines were bankrupted. This summer, two large Russian airlines left the market in Moldova. Next. The People's Front faction will vote in favour of the amendments to Ukraine's legislation on the legal status of foreigners and stateless persons who participated in the protection of Ukraine's territorial integrity and integrity. We're finally going to bring order to the internal gas market. You don't have to go far. The reform of Arsenius Yatsenuk on the demonopolization of the internal gas market needs to be fully implemented. Reform is designed to strengthen energy independence and protect consumers in a fragmented market. As part of the Naftogaz reform, which is being attacked here, it is implementing a new gas supply scheme for the population and the heat utility. Private bribes should remain only transporters of gas, not sellers of gas, and finally return gas distribution networks to communities where they seem to have taken on a gift balance. At the same time, the NCRECR is unfortunately delaying the implementation of another reform mechanism, a system of long-term gas balance. This interest is in the owners of the frauds, the largest of which is the company Furtash. And finally.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-02-m0.u21	30 seconds to complete, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-02-m0.u22	And finally, the People's Front turns to all the democratic forces in this Parliament and beyond its walls. Stop the interpersonal activity and work to save our country. The electoral year is difficult and dangerous. There is a great threat to the rematch of Kremlin forces in the presidential and parliamentary elections. Therefore, as you try to be the strongest to please the electorate, do not forget the security of the country. So that after the victory, the election won't end up in a country that was once again the vassal of Russia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-02-m0.u23	Thank you. Dear colleagues, there was no button for writing in Jaroslav Moskalenko, who is now presenting a speech from the "Will of the People" group. Please, Mr. Jaroslav, give me your word.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-02-m0.u24	Dear presiding fellows, dear Ukrainian people! Last night, I watched an evening show, a talk show on Direct, with the head of the Naftogazu government, Andrija Koboljeva. I wanted to hear what was done to preserve the Ukrainian GTS and the status of Ukraine as a transiting state. Colleagues, I've never seen more manipulation in my life! NAC head Naftogazu said he doesn't set tariffs on gas or sell gas to the population. And I want to tell you that this is absolutely true. When it comes to setting tariffs, it's the government's mandate. Regarding the implementation of the gas to the population, NAC sells gas to the intermediary, industry, and heat - power companies. And if you look at the dry balance of reporting, there's actually nothing to do with it. But the devil, a respected colleague, lies in the details of transporting a branch, transporting a gas. And here Kobolev also on the talk show said the pure truth: "NAC earns exclusively for transportation." And I, my colleagues, have the NAQ report in my hands. In 2016, NAC Naftogaz earned 31 billion dollars in transportation. In 2017, NAC Naftogaz earned 36.5 billion dollars in transportation. What accounts for these profits? In 2016, your colleagues, a few figures, a loss of Ukratransgazu -5.6 billion, a loss of the 17th year of Ukratransgazu - 24.8 billion. The first half of this year's "Transgas" loss is 18.3 billion. A company that essentially has to do transportation and make money on it, today, bankruptcy, has led to total bankruptcy, and that's just the tip of the iceberg. During the last month, the executive service had blocked the accounts of Skrtransgasu and its branch, and they were used to pay salaries to the 19th-thousandth collective. Instead, the NAC’s leadership reports on its efficiency and profitability to the state and credits itself with millions of prizes and wages for these achievements. In doing so, the Naku is addressing the National Security and Defence Council with a question of what to do next with Ukratransgas with the hint of selling to a foreign investor. And yesterday, Kobolev confirmed it for us on the talk show. It calms down one thing, colleagues, that the creation of the so-called Koboljev consortium, more specifically, has to be decided on in this room. And I want to say to those who are behind these woe managers, "This decision will not pass! And this is our responsibility with you." However, how can we today, colleagues, at the beginning of the hot season protect the Ukrainians? Exit one is a moratorium on disengagement of consumers during a heating period. And I'm asking the committee to support the 8108 draft tomorrow, and if it's a positive decision, I'm asking you to back up the decision Thursday and protect the Ukrainian people from shutting down the power lines during the frost. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-02-m0.u25	Thank you, Mr. Jaroslav. Ladies and gentlemen, let me inform you that there have been two statements from factions for recess, but our colleagues are ready to replace it. The first one in turn came from two factions: Self-help and the Radical Party of Laszka. And, please, I now invite you to Mr. Semenich's word. Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-02-m0.u26	Semenha Roman, "The Self-Help Union" faction. Dear colleagues, dear Sir, the government has registered a draft state budget for 2019. And already the first analysis of this document speaks of a critically weak, low level of budgetary process, and the conclusion that the government has never made any systemic conclusions from previous budgetary processes. Government officials are often bragging that the next budget, in the 19th year, will increase to a trillion dollars. That's really more than 10 percent over the current year. But if you look at the inflation rate, about 9 percent of what the same government is betting on, it's obvious that the budget is going to increase to the highest possible level of inflation. It also raises many questions about the individual components of the income section. Now, notice, once again, Parliament is asked to invest 17 billion dollars in the proceeds of privatization. It's almost the same number given by the government of Yatsenuk and Groysman in previous years. But this year's figure is almost 50 million dollars for 21 billion dollars. The self-help faction also did not see tens of billions of dollars in the cash advance by Groisman from the fight against smuggling at Ukrainian customs. A small part of the government’s budget is also a surprise. First question. Why does the government propose to increase spending more than is proposed to increase the income? For what purpose does the government propose to increase the actual government budget deficit by double the electoral year? Secondly, the government, in the face of war, stubbornly continues to build a police state. How else are we going to treat the next one? IMF spending is proposed to increase by 25 percent to nearly a record 82 billion dollars. Expenses on the BSP are also proposed to increase by a quarter to a mark of 9.5 billion dollars. It's often about caring, about the army, about the soldier. But if you take real indicators that go to finance a soldier, it's the exact opposite. At least take an unethical question: Why does the government propose financing for the acquisition of housing for military personnel not simply to increase or even reduce compared to the current year? And now the key question is, whose account is this banquet? Of course, it's tax payers. Subsidies from 71 billion to 55 billion dollars are declining, with government officials already repeatedly anointing the increase in gas prices. In other words, the level of subsidy coverage should not at least be increased, but the government is doing the exact opposite. And the critical situation remains with wages in the medical and educational fields. Today, a medical representative’s salary is a demeaning and one of the smallest of all sectors. With the funding of education salaries, the critical situation is this year, if nothing is done and the government does not make any changes, already in November we can expect delays in paying salaries to the education community, because today the government is underfunded by 4.2 billion dollars. The Self-Help faction, according to the Rules, directed its proposals to the State Budget of Ukraine. We demand that the government hold.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-02-m0.u27	Please, 30 seconds, finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-02-m0.u28	We demand that the government bring into reality and match the income part of the budget, stop covering up war and reduce the expenditure on the police state on the internal army. To channel funds to stimulate and develop the economy, to channel funds to increase wages to doctors and educators, and to provide social guarantees to those who really need them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-02-m0.u29	Thank you. Dear colleagues! Another statement came to the fore from two factions of the People's Front and the Peter Prashenko Block for a recess. The factions are ready to replace the speech and give the floor to the representative of the President in the Parliament of Irina Lucenko. Mrs. Irina, please have a word with me.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-02-m0.u30	Dear voters, dear Ukrainians! From the mouth of the previous speakers, it was said that future presidents, if they came to power, if elected by the Ukrainian people, were to eliminate Naftogaz as the middleman who stood among the people when they sold them gas today. Dear voters, I want to make some adjustments to these formulations. The Devil is hiding in detail. The main activity of Naftogazu Ukraine is the transport of gas. I want to remind you that Russian gas is being transported to European territory. Every year, Ukraine will receive gas from transport, literally in these four years, when the President of Ukraine became Peter Alexiyovich Poshenko, Naftogaz came out of a bankrupt organization that accumulated about 50 billion debts per Ukrainian for previous governments that began working in 2008, 2009, 2010, 2011 and 2012. But the devil is not only in these details, but the devil is that 4.6 billion dollars is won in Stockholm Arbitration, the Naftogaz Ukraine has been sued for 12 billion dollars in favour of Ukraine for transit, which the Russian Federation has not paid for the previous contracts that have been made, and it will pay for it, because we are going to win this arbitration. Furthermore, if the Russian Federation, including Naftogaz, Gazprom, Russia, does not pay these 4.6 billion dollars to the Ukrainian people, stolen by the previous governments that were in Ukraine, then property will be arrested, particularly part of the corporate rights of North Stream-2. What is North Stream-2 for Ukraine? As long as Russian gas flows through Ukrainian territory, until Ukraine, Putin will not be allowed to bomb Ukrainian territory, there will be no Aleppo, there will be no Syria, there will be no refugees, there will be no deaths. That's why applications for the elimination of Naftogazu Ukraine are statements of the economic and security destruction of Ukraine, of a full-fledged war, of the poor. If Naftogaz is eliminated, we won't be able to raise the minimum wage, we won't be able to raise the wages by 37 percent to our employees, our officers, our boys in the east, we won't be able to support an army that stops Putina and doesn't give bombs, and other Ukrainian territories, and destroy them, there will be no free medicine, there will be no emergency medicine, there will be no extra funds allocated to.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-02-m0.u31	Please finish 30 seconds, please 30 seconds. I very much ask everyone to treat the speaker with respect, because for the first time we see the speaker breaking and shouting the front lines, this is all equal. Please respect the speaker. Please, 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-02-m0.u32	Dear voters! That's why applications for the elimination of Naftogazu Ukraine is an old-fashioned course. This is a return under the influence of the Russian Federation. It's the poor, it's the debt, it's the increase in the debt that the entire Ukrainian people have made today, depending on previous governments. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-02-m0.u33	Thank you, dear colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-02-m0.u34	Dear colleagues! We're moving on to the agenda. I want to warn you that we have a block of second reading first. And the first law is unifying, but there is only one rebuff. So I ask all the MPs to come into the hall, the heads of the factions to invite MPs into the hall, the vote will take place quickly, because there is only one rejection. I ask all the heads of factions to invite deputies to the hall. So we're starting a review of the draft Law amending article 1 of the Ukrainian Act on the Recovery and Rest of Children on the Recognition of Children of Journalists who Have Been Killed or Who Have Been Disabled 1 Group in relation to Professional Duty, Children Who Need Special Social Attention and Support, (No7537) is a second reading. And I invite you to the report of the first deputy head of the Committee on Family, Youth Policy, and Sport of Veliczkowicz Mikol Romanović. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-02-m0.u35	Dear colleagues! During the first reading of the bill in the sessional room, Ukrainian MPs suggested extending the list of categories of children in need of special social attention and support, i.e. the right to be healed at the expense of the budget. Members of the committee at their meeting supported the stated proposal made by their colleagues in the session hall, namely: We propose to complement the list of categories of children in need of special social attention and support, not just the children of journalists who have been killed in connection with their professional duties or who have been diagnosed with disability and the group in connection with their professional duties, as well as the category of children whose disability is 1 or 2 of the group. The State does not have the right to discriminate against children according to the circumstances in which their parents became disabled. The proposed proposal is supported by the Ministry of Social Policy and the Ministry of Finance of Ukraine. It is also proposed that, taking into account the rules of law, a new edition of section 14 of article 1 of the Ukrainian Law on Child Health and Recreation should be made, not amended. All changes to a valid editor are highlighted in bold color. This is so that you can get to know these projects that are on the site. There were eight amendments to the project. The committee proposes to take four amendments into account, to reject one amendment and to partially consider three amendments. Please be supportive. Dear colleagues, children. Children don't care what kind of political orientation we are or what parties or factions we belong to. So I ask all the factions and all the deputies to support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-02-m0.u36	Thank you, Mikola Romanovich. So once again, I urge all the national deputies to return to the hall, prepare for the vote. Do not leave the hall, but come in. And I'm going to count the adjustments that were rejected. There's only one change left: 5th. The authors do not insist. All the other amendments are taken into account by the committee, and we can move on to the decision-making process. So, colleagues, I'm asking you to take up jobs, we're moving on to making decisions. Colleagues in beds, return to the hall so that you do not have to be invited to the Chamber of Deputies on several occasions. Guys! Alexei! Vladya! So I'm voting on the draft Law amending article 1 of the Ukrainian Act on the Health and Rest of Children Act on the Recognition of Children of Journalists Who Have Been Killed or Who Have Got Disabled and Grouped With Professional Responsibilities, Children Who Need Special Social Attention and Support (No7537), at the Committee's suggestion, is proposed to be accepted in a second reading and in general. Please vote, please support me, colleagues. Vote, please support, vote. [[10:46:22]] For 222 We didn't make it. 222, I see. All we have to do is get to work on time. I'll be back. I ask everyone not to go to the hall while voting. So the first vote is to return, and then I'll re-establish the law. So I'm voting on the proposal to go back to draft Law No.7537. Please support the return of the law, please vote. Please support, we vote carefully every vote, we vote. [[10:47:22]] For 235 We're back. I now put draft Law 7537 in second reading and in general. Please vote, please support. Vote. [[10:47:51]] For 241 Decision taken.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-02-m0.u37	Dear colleagues, let me inform you that today is an extremely important session of the OSCE. And our colleagues: Herasimov Arthur, Ostrich Tetjana, Nestor Shufrich, and Sergey Kudlainko are on their way. [[B in m in s a l in]] She's on her way out, but she's going to leave today. [[B in m in s a l in]] I mean. [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear colleagues, from October 2 to 6th, there is a session of the OSCE, the Parliamentary Assembly in Bishkek, and our colleagues of Herasimov, Ostrikova, Shufric and Kudlainko, who have been delegated by Parliament before this expedition. That's the first story. The other one. I would very much like to remember that we are all equal and not to cry out to each other depending on our sympathy or antipathies toward one another. Thank you so much for understanding.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-02-m0.u38	So, colleagues, let's move on, Act 7537 adopted, let's move on to the next law. This is a draft law amending the Criminal Procedure Code of Ukraine in connection with the ratification of the Third Additional Protocol and the Fourth Additional Protocol to the European Convention on the Extradition of Offenders (No. 6149). And I invite you to report to the head of the Committee on the Law Enforcement of the Protective Activities of Kožemjakin Andrija Anatoliyovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-02-m0.u39	Dear Chairman! Dear colleagues! A committee on law enforcement prepared a draft Ukrainian law amending the Criminal Procedure Code in connection with the ratification of the Third Additional Protocol and the Fourth Additional Protocol to the European Convention on the Extradition of Offenders (No. 6149) in the second reading. The bill proposes to amend chapter 44 of the Criminal Offences Release, which is extradition, as well as article 208 of the Criminal Criminal Procedure Code, to read article 588 of the Simplified Order of Extradition of Persons from Ukraine. Amendments aimed at implementing Ukraine's legislation provisions of the Third and Fourth Additional Protocols to the European Convention on the Extradition of Offenders and Improving the existing extradition procedure from Ukraine for offenders sought by the competent authorities of a foreign State to investigate a criminal case or to execute a sentence. In the case of the adoption of the law, a person will be entitled to apply for a simplified procedure of extradition immediately after being held in connection with an international search without waiting for a formal request for extradition. This will allow you to shorten the duration of such a person's stay under guard in Ukraine for the purpose of extradition to another state and to bring the practice of applying extradition to a modern European level. During the preparation of the project, there were only eight rights to the second reading. They are all taken into account, the changes they have proposed have been implemented and agreed with the Ministry of Justice and the Administration of the President of Ukraine. The final text of the project before you in the right column of the table. The committee recommends the adoption of the draft in the second reading and generally as a law with further technical and legal rights. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-02-m0.u40	Thank you. So, colleagues, there's almost no deflected rights. We're about to go to the vote. And so I ask everyone to come into the hall, take jobs so that we don't go back to the polls. I'm going to read those changes that were rejected.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-02-m0.u41	And there are no rejected ones. Everybody, everybody.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-02-m0.u42	All the changes are accounted for. Thank you, Mr. Andrew. So all the corrections are taken into account, the committee has done quality system work. And so we have the ability to move on to the decision-making process. I'm asking everyone to take up jobs. Colleagues, we're about to go to the vote. Go back to the hall. You're ready, aren't you? Maria, Elena, Vladya, I'm going to the National Deputies in bed. I therefore put to the vote the draft Act amending the Criminal Procedure Code of Ukraine in connection with the ratification of the Third Additional Protocol and the Fourth Additional Protocol to the European Convention on the Extradition of Offenders (No.6149), which the Committee proposes to adopt in a second reading and in general with technical and legal rights. Please vote. Please be supportive. Vote, colleagues, carefully and responsibly. Vote. Vote. [[10:53:29]] For 199 We didn't make it. I'll be back. I'll read the factions. And I'm asking you to invite everyone into the hall. "Block of Peter Poshenko" – 87, "National Front" – 55, "Occupy Block" – 0, "self-help" – 15, Radical Party – 10, "Fatherhood" – 14, "will of the people" – 1, "Party of Rebirth" – 0, non-fractional – 17. So, look who's not in the hall, invite me to the hall, and I'll be back in a minute. Please take your jobs, come into the hall. Heads of factions, please invite deputies to the Hall. So I'm voting on the proposal to go back to voting for Bill 6149. Please vote. Please be supportive. We're voting for the return. Please be supportive. [[10:54:57]] For 208 Guys, I'll put it back on. If there are no votes, the bill will be rejected. So please invite the deputies to the hall. Do not leave the hall, but go into the hall. So, colleagues, I'm asking you to focus. This is the Presidential Bill. So I urge everyone to maximize their mobility. I ask everyone to take part in the vote. So I'm going to ask you again to come back, go back to the debate. Please support the proposal to return to draft Law 6149. Please vote and please support. Vote, colleagues, every voice. Please be supportive. We're voting for the return. [[10:56:52]] For 214 The factions. "Block of Peter Poshenko" – 89, "National Front" – 58, "Opposition Block" – 1, "self-help" – 16, "Radical Party" – 13, "Fathership" – 12, "Will of the People" – 4, "Party Rebirth" – 1, "non-fractional" – 20. So, colleagues, I'm going to put the final third time again. There will be no votes. The bill will be rejected. Please, head of the committee, 1 minute, Andrew Cosemyakin. And I ask this moment to use the factions' heads to invite MPs into the hall and prepare for the vote. Come into the hall, please don't come out, colleagues. This is the Presidential Bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-02-m0.u43	Dear colleagues, I'd like to explain. Maybe someone doesn't understand. On the other hand, it's not about what people don't want or where they're caught abroad, it's sitting. Maybe he's innocent, maybe he was guilty, maybe he was looking, maybe he was mistakenly looking. But this gives the right, this signature, this accession to this man's protocol, to the Ukrainian, being in any prison abroad, without waiting for the prosecutor's office to invite him, maybe they won't release him and they won't, he'll do it, he'll turn himself in and he'll come to Ukraine, and here he can be amnesty, and he'll be free. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-02-m0.u44	Thank you, head of the committee. He again explained the meaning and purpose of this law. And I'm sure we have to support him together. Colleagues, every voice is important right now. So I'm asking you to take up your jobs. Please prepare. So I'm voting on the proposal to go back to the consideration of draft Law 6149 and, I stress, every vote, every vote matters in the vote. Please vote and please support. Colleagues, we vote carefully and responsibly. Vote. Please be supportive. Colleagues, we support the return, we vote. Vote. [[10:59:16]] For 219 Fellows, I'm still being approached by two factions, but this is really going to be a final one. I can't understand why there are MPs who don't support this law. Show the factions, please. I don't understand. So, colleagues, take up jobs, this is the protection of Ukrainian citizens who are and may be abroad. This is the protection of Ukrainian citizens by the Ukrainian state. I don't understand the logic of those who don't vote. So take your jobs, come into the hall. Please take up jobs. There's Ivanchuk, there's Tretyakov, there's Musak. So, colleagues, they're getting ready. And, colleagues, in your beds, do you have time to vote? Yes, Alexi? And I'm voting on the proposal to go back to the draft Law (6149). I ask everyone to participate carefully in the vote and to support it. Please vote, please support. Colleagues, pay attention. Vote. If you'll excuse me, I'd like to vote. We're voting carefully. Vote. [[11:01:18]] For 229 229. We're back. I now put to the vote the law, the draft Law 6149 in the second reading and in general the technical law. And, colleagues, I'd like everyone to vote carefully. If you'll excuse me, I'd like to vote. We vote carefully, responsibly. Vote. Please be supportive. Vote. Colleagues, every voice. Take part in the vote. [[11:01:54]] For 230 The law is passed. Colleagues, don't break up. We have the laws of second reading very short laws. Stay in the hall. Next. Draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine to provide for official publication of laws of Ukraine and other legal acts (No. 6518). This is a request from the Supreme Council of Ukraine. If we don't adopt this law, we won't be able to publish legislation in the Voice of Ukraine, since it'll just stop functioning. The relevant legislative process in Ukraine will be halted and it will still have to be regulated by legislation. So I'm talking to everyone, this is out of politics, this is the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, and it's the decision-making of the state. And I would like to ask the rapporteur for the First Deputy Head of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure of Phinehas Pavel Vasilovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-02-m0.u45	Dear Head, dear colleagues! At its meeting on 19 September, the Committee considered the proposals of the Ukrainian National Deputies Ptašnik, Sümar, Sverka, Aleksiev, Levchenka, Nedava, which reached the adoption on 5 July by the Supreme Council on the basis of the draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine regarding the provision of official publication of laws of Ukraine and other legal acts (registration 6518). Sixteen suggestions were considered, six were taken into account, and one was taken into account in an editorial way, and the other, which was essentially repeated by the committee’s supported proposals. Taking into account the proposals supported by the committee, the bill sets out the concept of publishing and publishing laws and other legal acts. Official publication of laws, regulations, other acts adopted by the Supreme Council of Ukraine is carried out in accordance with this bill in the newspaper Voice of Ukraine and News of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, and acts of the Cabinet of Ministers in the newspaper Government Courier and the Official Gazette. The publication of such acts is carried out according to the official sites of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. The public awareness of the acts adopted after their official publication is brought to light by means of audiovisual media publishing on the official websites of public authorities and local self-government authorities, as well as otherwise defined by law. In addition, according to article 15, paragraph 4, of the Ukrainian Act on Committees of the Supreme Council, some editorial references to the text of the bill have been taken into account by the committee. A comparative table was set out by the Chief Legal Authority of the Supreme Council and the Editorial Department of the General Documentary Administration without notice. In accordance with article 123, part 1, paragraph 3, of the Rules, the Committee decided to recommend to the Supreme Council the outcome of the second reading of the draft Law to adopt it on second reading and in general. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-02-m0.u46	Thank you. So let's go to the right. Which is rejected, I'm going to read. 1st. Don't insist. Third. Don't insist. Four. He insists. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-02-m0.u47	Dear colleagues, I will not insist on supporting my amendments. I just wanted to draw the attention of the staff of the regulatory committee secretariat and the regulatory committee itself to the wrong reasoning that is currently in the table around my amendments. Because my amendments were aimed exclusively at dividing the procedures for the official publication of acts and bringing them to the knowledge of their own population. And I wanted to introduce with my amendments a clear stage in this bill so that there was no such thing as a different interpretation, which was first made known, and then official publication of the acts. But I've looked at it, and given that the amendments made by other people's deputies are taken into account, I think this risk is already inconvenient, so I also propose to support this bill as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-02-m0.u48	Thank you. Mr. Paul, will you comment?
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-02-m0.u49	There's no need.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-02-m0.u50	There's no need. Next. 7th. Victoria Sumar, turn on the microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-02-m0.u51	Dear colleagues, I'm not going to insist on amendments either, I just want us to be aware of this bill. Nothing threatens the official publication of acts of the Supreme Council. If we had created a newsletter, as required by reform, we would have printed our acts and adopted drafts there, and we would have even written our articles. We actually want to keep the labor teams, the 70-80 journalists who work today in the Voice of Ukraine, in the Government courier. A noble goal, I suppose, but I am asking you, dear colleagues, to use this Voice of Ukraine to publish articles on parliamentary work. Because if you're reading it, you're going to see that they write about everything, except the analysis of the bills that we're looking at here, or the laws that we're considering, or the laws that we passed, or a lot of important things. T I say to him: if we leave the Voice of Ukraine in the paper, let's work on it as a quality edition, so it doesn't be embarrassing, please, to read. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-02-m0.u52	Thank you. 9th. Don't insist. 10th. Don't insist. 13th. Don't insist. Colleagues, that's how we're done discussing rights and we can move on to making decisions. I stress again because I was approached by the legal authorities. And they actually told me about these warnings that I made from the rostrum, about what might be the overthrown legislative process -- the process of promulgating laws. And I'm simply repeating their position, the rule of law of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, which for decades has ensured the uninterrupted functioning of the legislative process. And so I am convinced that there is a need for support. I thank Mr. Paul. And we're moving on to making a decision. I ask everyone to take up their jobs and prepare for the vote. Colleagues, I'm asking everyone to come into the hall and ask the factions to invite the deputies into the hall. And we're moving on to making a decision. I am voting on the draft Act amending some of the Ukrainian laws on the provision of official publication of Ukrainian laws and other legal acts (No. 6518) on second reading and in general. Please vote, please support. Let's stand by, colleagues, let's vote. Vote! [[11:09:28]] For 235 235-yes. The law is passed. My colleagues, I would like to remind you that at the Conciliation Council, on the proposal of factions and committees, we have made a decision not Wednesday, but today's draft regulation on the application of the Supreme Council of Ukraine in connection with the situation that took place at the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe. To consider it today, we need to include it in the order of the day session. So I'm asking everyone to prepare for the day-to-day session. Two draft decrees were proposed to include them in the agenda of the day session, and I will now put them to the vote. I ask that you carefully participate in the vote. And I am voting on the proposal to include in the agenda of the day’s session for decision today a draft Decision on a Statement by the Supreme Council of Ukraine in connection with the situation at the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe (No. 9089). And colleagues, I ask everyone to support the inclusion in the agenda of the day session for decision-making. Please vote and please support. Vote, fellows! Careful! Vote. [[11:10:56]] For 219 Obviously, not all of them were orientated, colleagues. According to factions: "Block of Petra Poshenko" – 80, "National Front" – 63, "Block of Opposition" – 1, "Help" – 15, Radical Party – 16, "Fathership" – 14, "Will of the People" – 5, "Party of Rebirth" – 3. Colleagues, our delegation, our professional delegation, need the support of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. A number of countries have already expressed their support for the situation in South Africa. The decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is necessary. During such a vote, I ask to be in place and to vote responsibly and in agreement. Please take your seats, don't leave the hall! So once again, I am putting to the vote the draft Decree on the application of the Supreme Council of Ukraine in connection with the situation at the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe (No. 9089) to include in the agenda of the day session for decision-making today. Please vote and please support. Let's vote, colleagues. Vote! [[11:12:23]] For 229 Decision taken. Now I'm going to make the next decision and let's move on to this one. The next one is just inclusion, Lord, just inclusion. Next. This request was made by Spiowakovsky, the head of the Education Committee, to include in the agenda of the day session a draft regulation amending the Supreme Council Regulation on the establishment of named scholarships of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to students of higher education institutions" to increase the number of named scholarships for students (9101). Colleagues, it's just inclusion in the agenda, just inclusion. Please vote and please support: Decree 9101 is the support of talented students. Please vote, please support the inclusion in the agenda of the session and the week. Vote, support, please. [[11:13:30.]] For 237 Decision taken. We'll make arrangements when we're done. And now we're moving on to. We are moving on to the draft Decree on a Statement by the Supreme Council of Ukraine in connection with the situation at the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe (No. 9089). And I ask you to support the consideration of the reduced procedure. Please vote and please support. Vote. [[11:14:16]] For-174 Decision taken. And I invite you to the report of the Ukrainian national deputy Ariev Vladimir Igorevich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-02-m0.u53	In 96, Ukraine joined the Council of Europe and committed itself to upholding the principles of this organization. In order for the countries that join this organization and they comply with these principles in the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, well, and so on in the Committee of Ministers, they have set up supervisory bodies to ensure that the country meets the criteria. But today we find ourselves in a situation where we need to save the Council of Europe from going against our own principles. I am talking about trying to return to the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe a Russian delegation without fulfilling any conditions, no resolutions, no more than 10 resolutions, which have been adopted in South Africa for the past four years. Russia has resorted to outright blackmail by the Council of Europe, halting its funding of 7 percent of the organization. Sadly, though, all attempts to arrange for us to make up for these expenses. All the other countries have failed because Russia has a very powerful friend in the person of the Secretary-General of PARJE, Secretary-General of the Council of Europe of Turbjorn Yagland, who is working hard to get Russia back. Honorary colleagues, five factions signed the decree, unanimously on the Committee on Foreign Affairs, it was supported, and the Lithuanian Parliament, the Lithuanian Seim, had already voted on a similar document last week. I urge you not to let sanctions against Russia be returned, and the Council of Europe does not become the weak place to start.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-02-m0.u54	Please, just a minute. Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-02-m0.u55	So that the Council of Europe doesn't become the weakest place from which the sanctions against the Russian Federation will start to break down, I think we need to show our firm stand. We have to say clearly that the Council of Europe should not change money into its principles and go against its own documents, against its own principles, or else it would lose the power and respect that has helped Ukraine, other countries to develop, reform and move forward on the path of the three whales on which the Council of Europe stands: democracy, the rule of law and human rights. I think we have a responsibility today, and I am grateful to all the factions and non-fractionals who supported the draft of this decision. This is five factions. It's Peter Poshenko's Block, the People's Front, the Laska Radical Party, Fatherland and Self-Help. And it's a screw-up.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-02-m0.u56	Thank you, Mr. Volodymyr. And we invite you to the words of the co-rapporteur, head of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Anna Hopko. I will remind you that Vladimir Ariev is with us and the head of our delegation to the Parliamentary Assembly, not just the coauthor of the law.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-02-m0.u57	Good afternoon, dear colleagues. Please support the decision of the committee that, at its meeting on September 18, this year, reviewed the draft Decision on the application of the Supreme Council of Ukraine in connection with the situation at the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe and unanimously recommended it for adoption by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The proposed decision of the Supreme Council is aimed at drawing the attention of the Heads of State and Members of Parliament of the Council of Europe to the situation that has arisen in the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe in connection with the failure to implement one of the members of the resolutions adopted by PARJ and the efforts to amend the rules of procedure of the PARJE. In fact, Russia, without any resolution, wants to return to the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe. The proposed changes are unacceptable because they contain positions that generally allow Member States not to fulfil the commitments made when they join the Council of Europe without consequences for their national delegations in the Parliamentary Assembly. It is clear that such changes to the rules of procedure of PARJE will open the door of the Parliamentary Assembly to the permanent delegation of the Russian Federation and will testify to the fact that PARJE makes it possible for one of the members of the Council of Europe to fail to implement its decisions. It is therefore quite true that these amendments to the Paris Rules and Procedures of the 70 - year - old organization may challenge the Assembly’s authority and demonstrate its willingness to close its eyes on human rights violations in Russia, Russia’s failure to fulfil its obligations, such as those of the Council of Europe. So please support the committee's decision to approve the statement of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and make every effort not to. in order to express the position of the Ukrainian Parliament on the inadmissibility of making such changes to the rules of procedure of the PARJE. And I would like to thank all the representatives of the various factions who are non-fractional because they are doing a great deal in parliamentary diplomacy to defend our interests. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-02-m0.u58	Thank you, Mrs. Anna. Dear colleagues, I ask you to sign up for the ruling of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, our statement in connection with the situation at the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe. Please, Mr. Oleg Lazko, who is also not only the leader of the Radical Party and the faction, but also a delegate of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-02-m0.u59	September 30 was 80 years old when the leaders, then leaders of Britain, France, Germany dismembered Czechoslovakia, and the Germans annexed Sudet. At that time, Czechoslovakian President Benesh was sitting in the reception room, in Hitler's lobby, waiting for the powerful of this world to decide the fate of his country. Then those who had the opportunity to stop the war, namely the dismemberment of Czechoslovakia, became the beginning of the Munich Conspiracy, the beginning of the collapse of peace in Europe and the beginning of the great war, for which the Ukrainians paid 10 million lives of their grandparents, our unborn children. Because when it was possible to stop Hitler at 38, they made a deal with him. Today, the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe and the Council of Europe, this important organization, actually on the threshold of a valuable and civilisational collapse, when, in exchange for a contribution, in fact, to bribe, from Russia, they want to trample on the principles on which the Council of Europe was established and bring the aggressor back to the circle of civilized countries. Donbas is occupied, Crimea is occupied, our civilians, military personnel are killed every day, and old Europe is closing its eyes like 80 years ago because it needs money, it needs nooks, it needs gas, it needs Jakot diamonds or whatever else they need. So I'm saying that the genetic disease of the Munich conspiracy isn't only overcome, but we're on the verge of a relapse. And on October 8th, in the Paris session, this disgraceful decision can be made -- the return of Russia to Europe, the return of Russia to Paris -- is the collapse of the Paris itself and the Council of Europe, the collapse of the values on which this important organization was founded. We have to stop our colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-02-m0.u60	30 seconds to complete.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-02-m0.u61	We must stop our respectable European colleagues from this reckless, shameful, humiliating step, which will cost a great deal — peace in Europe, integrity in Europe, respect for human rights, international law, and public borders.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-02-m0.u62	Thank you. Please, from the People's Front faction, Sergey Visoecki, no, gives the floor to his colleague Leonid Hamc, who is also a delegate of the Ukrainian Parliament to the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe. Please, Mr. Leonid.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-02-m0.u63	Dear colleagues! Leonid Jemetz, People's Front faction, delegate of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, of the Ukrainian people. In its time, the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, based on the principle of the rule of law, where no subject has more rights than any other, no matter how large a country this subject is, how many weapons he has, including nuclear weapons, cannot be higher in rights than any other subject of this very important organization of the Council of Europe. And on the basis of these principles, the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, including at the suggestion of our delegation, has proposed a number of sanctions against the Russian Federation in connection with violations of the principles and values on which the Council of Europe is based, including the occupation of Crimea, including military activities that take place on Donbasa today. It is the resolution of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe that Russia is responsible for the destruction of the rights and freedoms of people in occupied territories, for the inability of Ukraine to protect those people who are Ukrainian citizens and who are in the territory of the Ukrainian State. As a result, Russia was severely sanctioned against itself. They are not allowed to be in the governing bodies, nor are they allowed to vote. They are prohibited from taking part in the election of executive positions, including the European Court of Human Rights. Of course, after that, Russia did its best, and it had sufficient financial resources to convince not delegates, but the Council of Europe's leadership that sanctions from Russia should be lifted. The Secretary-General of the Council of Europe, Mr. Yagland, has repeatedly stated that the Council of Europe is losing serious financial support from the Russian Federation, but we and other delegates of the Parliamentary Assembly have claimed and claim that there can be no money, there can be no financial support for the rule of law, and there can be no financial support for the civil values that shape the Council of Europe.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-02-m0.u64	30 seconds, finish, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-02-m0.u65	A number of states have already made serious statements in this regard, and Ukraine as the most interested party must immediately accept the appropriate decision that I am calling on you, your fellow Members of State, to do so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-02-m0.u66	Thank you, Your Honor. Please, Peter Dustock's Block. Mary Jonah presents the position of the faction. Ms. Maria is also a coauthor of the law and a member of the delegation to Paris.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-02-m0.u67	Dear colleagues, our delegation must constantly remind us of the fundamental principles of all the members of the Council of Europe. We have to keep reminding ourselves that a dozen resolutions of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe have been adopted, where the Russian Federation violates the borders of a member of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, where the Russian Federation keeps hostages and hostages where it annexed Crimea. We're constantly talking about the disappearances that, like humans, disappear into the Crimea, how UNESCO's Crimean Tatar legacy is being destroyed. So we keep reminding ourselves of the crimes that the Russian Federation is committing in Ukraine. Regrettably, the Secretary-General is constantly feeding and looking for ways to bring the Russian Federation back to the Council of Europe. We got them through the door, they're out the window. That is, every time there is a struggle for the fundamental values of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe. And so we ask you to support this bill in order for other members of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe to understand how much time there is now, and to define whether they are behind the principles or whether they are behind the funding. And if this funding -- 10 million euros -- is the price of those human lives that we're losing now, our soldiers and our civilian population in Ukraine's temporarily occupied territories, then really, then the basic value of Europe is not human life. I would also like to say that every time we talk to Yagland about journalists who are recruits, and in Crimea they're gone, and in Donetsk. So we're going to talk again about the crimes that the Russian Federation is doing, how it's acting as a terrorist, and we're going to remind it all of the world. I'm asking for your support. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-02-m0.u68	Thank you. Please, from the Self-Help faction, present the position of Olena Sotnik, also a member of our delegation in the Assembly. Please, Mrs. Helena.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-02-m0.u69	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Olena Sotnik, Self-Help faction. For everyone, Russia is obviously very irritated by the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe. For 4 years, this international organization, the first to call war, war. The first to call the aggressor an aggressor. And they obviously don't like it very much. Obviously, they have activated the maximum resources to undermine the authority of this organization and to break it from the inside. For 4 years, the delegation, the Ukrainian delegation, the minimum resources parliamentarians, with minimal capacity, held this coalition together with our partners from the Baltic countries, from northern countries, Germany, France and others. Today, unfortunately, this coalition has broken apart. It's not stable, and Russia is very actively using it. Colleagues, we're asking you to support this statement not for the Ukrainian delegation. The Ukrainian delegation will do its utmost to maintain these positions. To convince our colleagues that this is a completely wrong decision. But sometimes Europe has helped Ukraine, and today Ukraine has to help Europe. It should open its eyes and explain that this shortsighted decision can destroy the entire human rights system in the future. And I remind Russia that it is very convenient to destroy not only the Parliamentary Assembly but also the European Court of Human Rights, which constantly reminds Russia and the Russian Federation that it is undemocratic, that it violates human rights, that it ignores all possible international standards. And they don't need that either. And Europe, unfortunately, does not take this into account and wants to bring this country back into a dialogue that is impossible with an aggressor who solved the war.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-02-m0.u70	Thank you. From Fatherland, Sergey Sobolev, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-02-m0.u71	Sobolje, Fatherland. The "Paternity" position is consistent, and it is consistent throughout the years with the participation of our representatives in the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe. But the moment has come when, in fact, the fate of our Parliament will depend on the fate of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe. And the commission that the Ukrainian Parliament will give to the Ukrainian delegation will in fact be the position of the country alongside the position of other countries that actively support us. For us, the most important moment in the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe is the preservation of the sanctions that the Council of Europe introduced against the Russian Federation, when in protest, think about it, the aggressor country has left the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe and is now trying to bring it back in any way. But we're worried about something else, everything that's happening right now in the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe is happening in the background of sanctions that are also introduced.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-02-m0.u72	Please add a minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-02-m0.u73	including the European Union, including the United States of America, and other countries holding a single front. And for us, delegations to the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, there must be a very clear position for our country, where sanctions should do the same for the aggressor country. There can be no trade with the aggressor country, the more the country that suffers the most from this aggression. It is not possible to support any banking and entrepreneurial institutions in any way, especially in the country that is most affected by this aggression. And for us, it's the principle of this vote, this vote is going to show the real order of power in the Ukrainian Parliament, and who really wants to continue the sanctions against the Russian Federation and end it.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-02-m0.u74	Thank you. Colleagues, I'm asking everyone to come into the hall, in one minute we're going to the vote, and I'm asking all the factions' heads to invite deputies into the hall. From now on, it's one minute away from the non-fractional Borislav Bereza. And after a minute of voting. Everyone, please come into the hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-02-m0.u75	On September 17, this year, a decree was registered in the Supreme Council for which we will vote today, and in that week, the Seima of the Republic of Lithuania has already voted in favour of a similar decision. So we are very grateful to our Lithuanian brothers, who are really like brothers, who are helping us to stop the return of the Russian Federation, which has been deprived of voting rights in South Africa for four years. For four years, they tell us how they do not want to go back to Paris and how they do not need it. But for four years they, their satellites and their agents are doing everything they can to get the Russian delegation back. That is why the Ukrainian delegation today calls on the session room to make sure that everyone understands the importance of voting today and supporting this decision. Today, we must demonstrate in a consolidated manner that the Ukrainian Parliament understands the importance of the sanctions imposed by the Parliamentary Assembly on the Russian delegation today.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-02-m0.u76	30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-02-m0.u77	Today, we must vote and show that if a country that is an invader and an aggressor who is a violator of a peace law that has in general violated everything that is possible to be returned to Africa, this body will be destroyed as a democratic institution. That's why we all have to vote in favour today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-02-m0.u78	So let's move on to making a decision. Colleagues, please take up your jobs. And I put to the vote a draft decree on a statement by the Supreme Council of Ukraine in connection with the situation at the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe (No. 9089). The committee's proposal is to support the decision as a whole. Please vote, please support. Vote! [[11:35:42]] For 242 242-yes. It's been decided. Colleagues, we move on to the next issue of the agenda: this is the draft Act amending some of Ukraine's legislative acts (for the legal status of foreigners and stateless persons who participated in the protection of Ukraine's territorial integrity and integrity) (No 3433 and 3433-1). I ask you to support the proposal for a reduced procedure, please vote, please support the cut. [[11:36:30.]] For-160. 160-yes. Decision taken. And I invite you to the report, we have two co-rapporteurs, the first co-reporter, the National Deputy of Ukraine, Andry Bielecki. And I'd like you to prepare for your co-report, Celebrity Natalia Vasilovna. Please, Mr. Andrew. Mr. Andrey, please, I invited you to the report.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-02-m0.u79	I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-02-m0.u80	We've moved on to the law. Please, Mr. Andrew.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-02-m0.u81	I'm sorry, I have a question about volunteers. Dear Ukrainians, good afternoon! During 2014-2015, about 500 foreigners came to protect our country, to participate in the war against Russia in the East. Hundreds of these people have become disabled, injured, and dozens have died. Only Azova lost four foreign volunteers in their time: two Russians, Georgians, Swede. We all have a responsibility to these people. Now these people are facing a huge legal problem. First of all, most of them are from Russia and Belarus, which means that returning to their countries actually means years of imprisonment and death. The other one. In these people, their national passports are virtually complete, and in the near future, they will become fundamentally illegal migrants in Ukraine. Third. The procedure for obtaining citizenship -- what was promised to them by the Ukrainian authorities in 2014 -- has not changed since 2012. They require foreign volunteers to travel to, for example, Russia's aggressor country and get an indiscretion certificate. It also requires foreign volunteers to provide information about the minister, the entire minister of defense, or internal affairs. about their outstanding credits to Ukraine. Hundreds of these people are faced with constant horrors that will be sent from Ukraine to Russia or Belarus. The situation with Timur Tumgoev showed that it was absolutely real, that they could be issued by the FSB, that they could be taken to the border and transferred to the Russian side. To solve this problem, we developed Law 3433. What is he talking about? He's talking about simple things. The first is a moratorium on the deportation and extradition of foreign volunteers.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-02-m0.u82	30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-02-m0.u83	or countries that do not recognize the territorial integrity and sovereignty of Ukraine. The second is to recognize foreigners and stateless persons who have participated in the protection of Ukraine's territorial integrity, who are legally based in Ukraine. The third is a simplified procedure for the admission of volunteers to Ukrainian citizenship. These people are forbidden to ask for information about the indiscretions to be received in the Russian Federation or Belarus.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-02-m0.u84	Please give me another 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-02-m0.u85	The five - year period of residence in Ukraine is cancelled as a basis for applications. Next. A statement from the Ministry of Defence, the Ministry of Defense or the direct warlords, confirmed in court, will be sufficient for these people to obtain Ukrainian citizenship in the shortest possible period of time. Ladies and gentlemen, we have a duty to these people. These people aren't the last of them.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-02-m0.u86	Thank you. The National Deputy of Ukraine, Weselova Natalija Vasilovna, is invited to the report. Please, Mrs. Natala.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-02-m0.u87	Good afternoon, distinguished presiding officers, distinguished national deputies! Your attention is drawn to the draft Act amending some of Ukraine’s legislative acts (as regards the legal status of foreigners and stateless persons who have participated in the protection of Ukraine’s territorial integrity and integrity). I propose not only to amend the Ukrainian Citizenship Act 3433-1, which proposes to provide for a simplified procedure for the adoption of Ukrainian citizenship by foreigners and stateless persons who have provided practical assistance in the protection of Ukraine's territorial integrity and integrity, but also to set a deadline for the consideration of such persons for no more than two months. Indeed, under the terms of military aggression against Ukraine, the issue of protecting the rights and legitimate interests of those foreigners and those without citizenship who defended Ukraine with weapons in their hands is of particular importance. Today, a large number of foreigners who have taken part in the protection of Ukraine’s territorial integrity are forced to seek refuge in our country because they face aggressive treatment in their countries of origin because of their activities in Ukraine aimed at strengthening its security. These people have been unable to obtain a temporary residence certificate for years or are awaiting the acquisition of Ukrainian citizenship. It is also unacceptable when these people find no protection in Ukraine and seek refuge in the countries of the European Union. I personally took the lead on two Belarusians, the Donbas battalion volunteers, who were forced to flee to Poland, and for four months it was simply spent setting up their personality. I believe that the settlement of the issue of the recognition of foreigners and stateless persons who have participated in the protection of territorial integrity.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-02-m0.u88	30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-02-m0.u89	I think that this issue should be resolved in a simplified order, and it should not be prolonged. I know that many volunteer battalions have foreign volunteers, and they have been waiting four years for this issue to be resolved. People who shed their blood on the land of Ukraine should have the right to get a passport with tridents. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-02-m0.u90	Thank you. So let's do the recording: two in, two in, two in. Please. From "Peter Prashenko's Block" by Chicken Maksim Pavlovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-02-m0.u91	Dear Andrew Volodymyrovich and distinguished colleagues! The faction generally supports this progressive idea in the bill. We think Bill 3433 is the best. But at the same time, we consider it necessary, given that this law amends the Ukrainian Citizenship Act, the legal status of non-citizens and temporary residents, some changes and adjustments to the definition of terms. So I'm going to read the faction's position on this and I'm going to take this into account. In the amendments to article 1, paragraph 10, of the Ukrainian Civility Act, on the term "residence in Ukraine on legal grounds", the words "or take part in the protection of Ukraine's territorial value and inviolability and apply for a temporary residence permit in Ukraine, filed or filed an application for the acquisition of Ukrainian citizenship by territory of origin, or an application for admission to Ukrainian citizenship" shall be deleted. To complete the term by saying: "a military ticket issued by a foreigner or a stateless person who has made a contract in the established order for the conduct of military service in the Armed Forces of Ukraine." I'm asking you to count before the first reading of this fractional statement. We support the idea, we need to strengthen the legal and social protection of those people who have come to Ukraine's aid and have come to fight the territorial integrity of Ukraine. We're voting in favour of these rights. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-02-m0.u92	Thank you. From Self-Help Soboljev Igor Viktorovich is handing over the Shepherd. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-02-m0.u93	Taras Shepherd, Self Help Union, Ternopil. Dear colleagues, obviously, the Self-Help faction supports this legislative initiative, and we really should protect those people who, at the risk of their lives, of their health, have helped us protect our country. Very often they had no problems with the legislation of those countries where they came from, but Russia began to persecute them just because they had shown solidarity with our country and came to us, and along with our volunteers, along with our Armed Forces, they took up arms and began to protect our country from the aggressors. What's more, they've helped keep at least that line of separation on the front line that we have today. So really, there's a number of comments made by the MPs, expressed by the Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration, that we're going to need to get rid of in order for this law to work and help, in fact, these friends of ours, our heroes. But I have a second question, and it even applies to some of the co-authors of the bill. Because today we're talking about volunteers who came from other countries, but we have Ukrainian volunteers, Ukrainian citizens who weren't looking at anything, they took arms and went to defend Ukraine in the 14-15s, and today they're sitting in Ukrainian prisons. And today there is part of the MPs who write their letters in the name of the judges who deal with criminal conduct on our volunteers, in our military with concern, so that, God forbid, these judges do not commit, change the precautions against our military personnel, our heroes, our volunteers, and do not do the right justice in relation to them, in terms of which criminal conduct is manufactured. And today they're starting to be forgotten by society, and they're starting to forget about MPs. So we need to protect the aliens, but we need to remember our heroes. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-02-m0.u94	Thank you. Korchinska Oksana Anatoliyevna
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-02-m0.u95	Hello. Most veterans support this bill. Please pass the word to Oleg Petrenko, author of this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-02-m0.u96	Dear colleagues, I ask you to support this bill in the first reading without any right now at this stage of editorial law, without reservation, and for the second reading, and for the second reading, of course, it has to work. We understand that ourselves because for over a year the bill, being within the walls of the Supreme Council without getting into the voting room, has changed a lot even this year. No more ATOs, no more OOSs, and so on. So we understand that we need to work on it for the second reading. The request is not to be broken now in the hall by any editorial requirements. Also, a request to support the vote in favour of a reduced procedure for second reading. You can't pull at all, every week is the lives of these people. These people, everyone knows that after returning from the front, there are severe diseases in veterans, there, diabetes, dialysis, and cancer. The boys of the eye are now simply surviving the war, guarding their brothers, now just dying quietly without being able to get basic medical care from the state without being able to be involved in medical programs that support, for example, the same dialysis or diabetes patients. Therefore, the request to support us in our first reading and to work on our perfect appearance is already being made available on the committee for the second reading. Thank you, colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-02-m0.u97	Thank you. From the People's Front, Igor Lapin, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-02-m0.u98	Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-02-m0.u99	Dear colleagues! I ask everyone to join this bill by their vote. Because it was the volunteers in the 14th year that became one of the first to defend our nation. Just like in the "Azow" battalion, in "Idara", in "Donbassa", in other departments, the "Right Sector" and other volunteer associations that have protected their bodies and are still protecting our state. There are many examples of crimes being committed in Russia or Belarus today against those who help us defend the state. We must make a commitment to help and protect these people. We have to do it today, in the first reading, by voting in favour of this bill and in favour of a reduced procedure. I think we can handle it and put in some fuses so we don't get any tins in here using our legislation. Today, we are not just talking about the more than 400 people who are already protecting our borders and our independence. We are talking about those who, seeing their own protection in the future, will be able to come to us and sign contracts with the Ukrainian Armed Forces to defend our sovereignty. We see passports being distributed to other states in our country. We can see how we can help today. And these paths need to be used. Let me stress again, let's look at the reduced procedure for preparing the second reading. There won't be much right there. There we need to clarify some questions by volunteers, by instructors. We're going to have to clear up the questions about the people who are directly involved in the fighting so that we don't have military tourists here again. All these questions can be corrected for second reading. We've been working with the drafters of the bill, in fact, the revisions have even been done, which we'll be ready to make, because the bill has been passed a long time, and today there is no ATO. Once again, you have to put that in there.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-02-m0.u100	30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-02-m0.u101	Once again, dear colleagues, there won't be much law enforcement and there are no fundamental warnings about the bill. I'm asking you very much, let's now vote on the first reading, let's now support the initiative for a reduced procedure, and our brothers will be protected. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-02-m0.u102	Thank you. It's from Fatherland. Give it a minute or we won't be able to make it to the break. Helen Schrum, one minute. Kishkar, one minute. Okay. Please, Mrs. Olena.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-02-m0.u103	Alona's splinter, Fatherland faction. Colleagues, it's a very simple but extremely important question that was to be solved more than four years ago. This is about 400-450 foreigners who volunteered in 2014 and set their shoulders for Ukrainians to protect us with you. There were both Belarusians and Americans and other nationalities and Russians. And four years ago, the President publicly promised to give them quick Ukrainian citizenship. To this day they are all still in the status of illegal migrants, sent to the state, to the aggressor country of the Russian Federation. The GPU cooperates with the FSB and sends them out, requires some help from the country of the Russian Federation, from the aggressor country they fought against. We realize that this is actually going to kill them. So instead, we just need the President to do his job -- give them Ukrainian citizenship. Since this does not happen, instead it simplifies citizenship to 300 Afghans, 300 Syrians, over 100 Iraqis, and these three years. We are forced to solve this problem in the Council. And I'm asking you not to kill this bill with amendments.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-02-m0.u104	30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-02-m0.u105	I'm asking you not to kill this bill with amendments, to accept it in the first reading, and to pay any little tribute to those people who have protected us with you four years ago, and for today, they have no rights and they're sending us out of this country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-02-m0.u106	Thank you. One minute, Paul Kishkar.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-02-m0.u107	Paul Kishkar, National Movement of Ukraine. In fact, we need to go to the vote and support this bill and continue to work on it on the committee. I personally made 11 calls to the President's Administration. I got the terrible 11 answers that the question is being considered, and it's still not being considered. I mean, for 4.5 years, even if you're a national MP, you can't help your boys any way you want. Yes, more than 400 people are involved. And I agree with my colleagues that the practice of giving, the semi-closed practice of giving to other Ukrainian nationalities, is sometimes annoying. It is annoying, including those who are now defending with weapons in Ukraine’s hands against the Russian Federation. Please rejoin, return to the hall and support your vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-02-m0.u108	Thank you. So, colleagues, in a minute we're going to make a decision. I ask all the heads of factions to invite deputies to the hall. I ask the Secretary of the Supreme Council to inform the deputies that in a minute we are moving on to the decision-making process. Just a minute, please. And I'm asking everyone to take up jobs.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-02-m0.u109	Dmitry Linko, Oleg Lachka Radical Party. On February 10, 2015, Kirilo Haynz, a battalion fighter, died in the Volnowsky region. He was a Russian for citizenship, but three months before he died, he wrote a statement that "I want to get Ukrainian citizenship." And these are the laws we had to adopt back in the 14th year to allow those who wanted to protect our country to be Ukrainian citizens, and to have all the rights they had, just like all Ukrainian citizens. Because they willingly came to protect our country in a difficult time. When we ask for help around the world, there are people who come and help, and we refuse them, we can't give them citizenship for the fourth year. I know two members of the Shakhtarsk battalion, physically and physically, we kept them from being released to the Russian Federation, where they would be arrested and put to death. So we've been trying for four years to get these people citizenship and not have Ukraine send them to Russia for a faithful death. Let's take it as quickly as we can. Our faction votes.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-02-m0.u110	Thank you. So, colleagues, one minute is the head of the committee, and we're moving on to making a decision. I can see not everyone in the hall yet, please come into the hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-02-m0.u111	Colleagues, I'm asking you to listen to this is not just a bill. The state of Ukraine owed, owed to those who were not citizens of Ukraine. But when there was a danger to the state of Ukraine, as volunteers, they came and protected Ukraine, laid down their lives, sacrificed their health. The Human Rights Committee discussed these bills nearly two and a half years ago in May 2016 and recommended that the Supreme Council accept and support them. For almost two and a half years, this day was not considered. I don't understand the position of some colleagues who make their voting conditional on positive additional amendments. There is a procedure, the drafters support the first reading of the bill, and the committee also.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-02-m0.u112	30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-02-m0.u113	And I want the practice of forcing the country to stop the aggressors of those volunteers who were protecting Ukraine. So the committee urges everyone to support Bill 3433 in the first reading on the basis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-02-m0.u114	Thank you, colleagues. So we're moving on to making a decision. I'm asking you, colleagues, to take up jobs. The discussion is over. We have a key discussion that has arisen, a revision, a committee against whether this amendment should be included and the authors against whether this amendment should be included. I'm saying it right, aren't I? One more minute, Chicken, we'll give you an explanation so we can go to a consolidated position. Colleagues, one minute! Chicken, please, I'm going to put the first vote without amendment, I'm going to warn both the authors and the committee. Please, Chicken, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-02-m0.u115	Dear colleagues! We had a constructive, fruitful discussion with both the members of the profiling committee and the drafters. We emphasize that the corrections that I just heard are important, but we're ready to process them for second reading, and now, in order to reach agreement, to get the maximum number of votes in the room, we're going to propose that we vote the entire room without this amendment, and we're going to work in the working order. Thank you. We're voting for it in unanimity.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-02-m0.u116	Thank you for your constructive position and we are moving on to making a decision. So I am voting on the draft Act amending some Ukrainian legislation on the legal status of foreigners and stateless persons who have participated in the protection of Ukraine's territorial integrity and integrity. The committee's proposal is to vote on draft Law 3433 as a basis. Colleagues, if you'll excuse me, I'd like to ask you to vote carefully, please. We support the volunteers, we support the bill. We vote on the basis, please support, vote. [[12:01:33]] For 252 Decision taken. Don't leave. Now I'm putting in a brief preparation for the second reading. I'm voting for a motion to draft Law 3433. We'll consider a reduced procedure for preparing for second reading. Please vote and please support. Vote, colleagues, please. [[12:02:07]] For 206 There's no will, but it doesn't take too long. I think we have taken a very important responsibility by supporting this bill to help these volunteers who came to Ukraine to help Ukraine defend Ukrainian territory, Ukrainian sovereignty, take an important step in supporting them, with which I welcome the Hall of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. And according to the Rules, I now announce a break of 30 minutes, until 12:30. At 12:30, everyone please return to the hall to continue our work.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-02-m0.u117	So the colleagues, the time spent for the break, is over. Everyone please return to the hall to continue our work. The next law before us is the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on Reforming Public and Municipal Printed Media (8441 and 8441-1). First, I put to the vote a motion for a reduced procedure. Whoever supports this, I ask you to vote. [[12:36:22]] For-63 The hall is set to work constructively under full procedure. And I respectfully announce the move towards a review of the draft Law amending the Ukrainian Law on Reforming State and Municipal Printed Media. And I invite the head of the Committee on Freedom of Speech and Information Policy of Sumar Victoria Petrovna to report. Please, Mrs. Victoria.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-02-m0.u118	Thank you, Mr. Head. Colleagues, well, it's a simple enough question to look at it in a long way, I think, but maybe it won't be too much that we're doing it, because it's one of the basic reforms and it's going to end on December 31st of this year, and since January 1st we have to work in new conditions. We were looking at our own bill, which we adopted at the time, on reforming the print media, yet Mikli Tomenka and many nuances were not included, unfortunately, in that document. As practice has shown, this reform is not so easy. In particular, local authorities do not always want to leave the founders and want to stay there, and there is a blackmail of virtually labor groups associated with the property of the editors, with the rental of premises. Because an editorial who wanted to go swimming on her own was comfortable evicting her from such a place. Main editors are being released, and these newspapers are not allowed to register with the same names that people are accustomed to, and many other things. This bill, it actually solves these issues, it allows the labour community to go and register publications with the same name, if the founder in the form of a local self-government body failed to comply with the law and did not become the founders. The bill also provides for the possibility of leaving the lease on property, the lands where the premises are located, so that these media that have undergone this complex reform process can continue to function. And that's why we can't draw now with the approval of this document, because once again, I repeat, the reform is due to end in December and then the unreformed media are left out of the legal field as such. And that's why we have to take this first step -- take it in the first reading. For the second reading, we're obviously going to work together, we're going to take into account the proposals of the national MPs, we're going to work with the public organizations, and we're going to work with the authors of the alternative bill. In principle, the committee is ready to work, but the key task now is to make it clear that this momentum of reform is not going to be solved, that the issues of editing are going to be resolved, and that these newspapers can, in fact, continue to exist, as they are independent. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-02-m0.u119	Thank you. Stay in the rostrum. I'm asking you to record a question to the reporter. Three minutes to ask. Pisarenko Valerius, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-02-m0.u120	Regarding reform, what you just said. What it's going to look like to finance these changes, because we don't have the funding right now and we shut down the National Television. How this is going to happen to the utilities that we're talking about right now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-02-m0.u121	The issue of financing is, indeed, a sharp one. We predicted that the authorities would pay for the publication of their decisions, particularly the local self-government authorities, they would enter into contracts, and so this would be an opportunity. such contracts exist by such a publication. And of course, there's a form like overpayment left, they're actually going into market conditions, but still they're going to have this priority right to print local government decisions for the corresponding budget fee.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-02-m0.u122	Thank you. Capplin Sergey, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-02-m0.u123	Don't you think the decision on dispossession has been taken too early, and it's actually chronicling our entire decentralization policy? For example, in Poltava after changing the city’s leadership (you know. That my assistant, Alexander Shamota, now headed the city council, we decided in the first week to cut the fares by up to 30 percent. And then we're going to continue to create a communal farm, a utility farm in transport. And we don't actually have the tools to bring the basic ideas to our compatriots today, the basic principles of infrastructure upgrading. And do you not feel that individual exceptions should be made and that the policies of local self - government should be changed? And newspapers should be a powerful tool for information, propaganda, and clarification for citizens of local self - government policies.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-02-m0.u124	Mr. Sergei, I'm sure this decision was taken too late for twenty years before it was too early. And with regard to information policy, let's finally understand that there are no official issues of local government, and they're only going to be official editions. So you can print your position as a faction in this official edition. Reformation is that they don't exist as newspapers. What does that mean? This means that the creative work of journalists is not used there. What is the creative work of journalists? We were talking about the Voice of Ukraine today. Read what they say. Everything is written there, but not primarily about Parliament. That's not gonna happen. And the fact that you're explaining your decision, and the authorities in the newsletters that aren't newspapers, but they're ballot papers, and they're printing special decisions, except for factions, MPs, articles like the mayor, that's all that's left. And you can publish a newsletter like that, but then it's uncompetitive in the market for the creative work of journalists that it is.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-02-m0.u125	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we're running out of time to ask Mrs. Sumar. Please, Mrs. Victoria, you can go to your workplace. And an alternative bill. I'm asking the rapporteur, Andrew Dennisenck, to the rostrum to present your bill to us, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-02-m0.u126	Ladies and gentlemen, I fully share the concern expressed by Mrs. Sumar's previous report on the reform of public and municipal printed media. However, an alternative bill developed by the National Association of Ukrainian Media, the text of which I now present in this Chamber, has a slightly different approach and has significant differences from the basic bill, on which I would now like to stop in detail. And once again, I would like to stress that the text of the alternative bill is developed by the media, by the newspapers that are in the process of reforming, about what. is supported by an absolute majority of these media, which are relevant to both the MPs' corps and the Supreme Council's leadership. First, the basic bill does not contain a simplification of the reform procedure and without this bill the local councils can pass on their editorial property to the editors, but they do not want to. It is the issue of the property and the premises of the editors from which they want to be evicted, which is the basis and the apple of discord, and the obstacles to reforming local media. Instead, the alternative bill simplifies the reform procedure itself, taking into account the legal practice already in place, so that newspaper editors do not go to the courts, but get it in the form of a bill, the rules that would strongly protect the basic bill of law. Then the main bill does not simplify the re-registration of the newspaper. And the problem is that labor groups can register a new newspaper on January 1, 19th, without this bill, but the 19th-year prepaid campaign starts in October and ends in December 18th. So the editors won't be able to produce a newspaper because they just don't have the money for its release. Instead, the alternative bill simplifies the procedures for re-registration of the reformed newspapers that passed the procedure. By the way, I want to say that by now half of the reformed editions, only half of the reformed editions have reregistered their newspapers. Only an alternative bill contains a rule on the extension of the exit and the budget funding of the Minobran newspaper, and also establishes that it is monitored by an independent editorial board. For the time being, the budget for the newspaper should be suspended in connection with the legal conflict, namely, with the completion of an antiterrorist operation. The alternative bill also harmonizes with three laws: reform of state and municipal media, public media support, and moratoriums on media editorials. These laws now contain a variety of interpretations and create chaos in local council decisions. Editorial rooms should be equipped with newspaper editions. Against the backdrop of rising prices for paper, which is monopolized from Russia, the constant increase in postal tariffs left the local newspaper editors with one benefit – they can stay in their own premises, which were built specifically for them in the 1960s and 1980s, with rents as for budgetary organizations. In general, in three years of reform, the government has not developed, unfortunately, an order to provide targeted state support to the reformed media. The law provides one-time address support to newspapers, but no newspaper, none, I repeat, has been given such support. In fact, the government is sabotaging this point in the law. Our alternative bill clearly and specifically requires the provision of one - time financial support. So there's no such elevators, no room for maneuvering in our government officials who don't want to put up some kind of budget. And there are two other important points in the alternative bill. Allowing reformed newspapers to change the language of the publication from Russian to Ukrainian. We have had a certain coalition that has for 15 years banned reformed editions from changing the language of the newspaper’s output. So it happened that many of them were registered in the old Soviet times and published a newspaper in Russian. I think we can and must allow our printed media to go into Ukrainian. And where one very important moment. The main text of the bill does not take into account the fact that the occupied territories will sooner or later become freed territories, and, accordingly, the media, municipal and state media contained in their territories should also be subject to reform procedures. These are the moments that I'm considering an alternative bill. Thank you very much, dear friends.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-02-m0.u127	Thank you. Please stay in the rostrum. Dear colleagues, I'm asking you to sign up for Mr. Andrew's question. Please. Sergey Kaplin, your question. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-02-m0.u128	I want to give you an example of one issue that's been dismantled. And I want to say to that that I'm a firm opponent in disposing of anything in principle, because I think the state might be in the case of proper, adequate, modern management under those conditions to be a good owner, an effective manager of any asset. One newspaper in the Chernigiv region, a statutory fund after decommissioning -- 1 thousand 600 dollars. Within these limits, the newspaper will be responsible for any slander and all that. 90 percent owned 90 percent by the editor - general. Such precedents throughout the country are mass. And what's more, we've got statistics that after the dissipation, part of the journalists who make up the elite of the region, in the "district" read by ordinary people, they go from working from the newspaper to some market to trading and somewhere else through this optimisation system. So I think it's a big mistake, just like dissipating, privatizing large strategic Ukrainian enterprises. And the results will be like that.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-02-m0.u129	Please respond.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-02-m0.u130	Dismantling the media and getting them out of the direct administrative influence of both the state bureaucrat and the local feudal princes, this, Sir Sergio, has nothing to do with managing state assets, we're just eliminating an old Soviet propaganda machine that worked on local princes and goddesses. And I understand very well that there are a lot of people in this room who wanted everything to be the same. We need to move. No law, by the way, Mr. Sergei, will give us an ideal model. Now you're talking about private property of the editor-in-chief. But believe me, it's better than privatizing these media by government officials.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-02-m0.u131	Please, national deputy Eutuszek, your question.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-02-m0.u132	Sergey Eutuszek, "The Fatherland" faction. You know, the fact that we are now considering and adopting such a law, and not one, is a huge plus, because we are often faced with the appointment of those key editors from the local councils that depend on it, and a number of other issues. But we have a few bills. You said that your bill, Mr. Reporter, provides for mandatory funding. First question I'd like to ask. What is the exact size? And the second question. Would this work weaken the journalistic team, since I understand exactly what the content contained in the newspaper depends on the number of subscribers and the number of copies? Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-02-m0.u133	The size, of course, must be determined by a government decision. I don't think we can do that in this bill. As far as the whole is concerned, the two alternative bills are beautiful. I'm sorry, your question's over. I'm convinced that the dissipation of the media will create a space of creative freedom, greatly increase the space of creative freedom for the newsgroups.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-02-m0.u134	Last question, please, Yuri Pavlovenko. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-02-m0.u135	Dear reporter, indeed, the committee has for two years repeatedly considered addressing appropriate associations, the media that are being reformed, the problems of reform. This has not always been because of the pressure or unwillingness of local or state authorities. Sadly, there is a problem in the law itself. Dear reporter, you've talked about your bill being better than the main bill. Do you see the possibility of bringing these bills together in preparation for second reading and approval as a whole? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-02-m0.u136	Please, Mr. Andrey, your answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-02-m0.u137	I think that this bill really needs support and deserves support. As for the method of unification, this is a matter of legal and legal engineering. I still hope to adopt an alternative bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-02-m0.u138	Thank you, Your Honor, Mr. Andrey. I'm asking you to come to your workplace. Dear colleagues, we will now discuss two bills: both Mrs. Sumar and Mr. Denisenko. I'm asking you to sign up for factions now. It's a faction statement. Please, Mrs. Cervakova, the national MP, Olga Cervakova, is invited. Sure. Mrs. Ola will be speaking. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-02-m0.u139	Dear colleagues, I definitely don't take rhetoric about the speed of reform and the fact that newspapers are supposed to be in communal property is a return in the time of the CPD. Our faction has decided to support both bills. Because I want to remind you that last session as well as now, these bills could fail, and then the dissipation bill failed because there were no people in the hall. I now call on the people's deputies to return to the session room and vote for these bills, because it's very important for those texts that really want to be reformed and they don't want to be some kind of battle list of mayors who use municipal editions for their own pierar and post their photos from the first to the last table of these newspapers. We've actually declared the decentralization course, we've talked about the area having to go to authority and finance, and increase budgets, but I'm sorry, tax payers can't keep the city mayor's pierres at their expense, so we have to put an end to it. We have also declared a course for Euro-Association, by the way, dissuasion is our commitment to the Council of Europe. So let's go to Europe instead of using the rhetoric of red sympolitans. I am very much asking everyone to show the civilized face of Parliament and vote in favour of these bills. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-02-m0.u140	Thank you, Mrs. Olga. And I now invite you to present the position of the Fatherland of the People's Deputies, Sergio Eutuska, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-02-m0.u141	Sergey Eutuszek, "The Fatherland" faction. Madam Chairman, thank you for your word. I want to say right away, my dear colleagues, that we should have done this a long time ago, and we have actually voted on this bill, this reform, but we still have to improve. And as one of the authors of the law said that there can be no perfect law that brings innovation, there are new steps. We definitely have to face the problems and obstacles that we need to correct, especially in this area, with regard to the dissuasion of printed media. What is happening today in our country with newspapers? In fact, every authority that doesn't come to places wants to get acquainted with the editor-in-chief of a newspaper, of course, with a better rating to influence editorial policy. And this, I'm confirming Ollie Chervakovy's words, which clearly said that this is the past, this is the Soviets' past. It cannot be that the head of state executive power comes, for example, the head of the regime or the government, and subordinates all printed media. Nor can there be local authorities, city heads, and other officials of local self - government authorities, who also realize that they are money managers and allocate funds, hold these newspapers, and try to finance editorial policies. And that's why we have to give up these stories once and for all not good stories. I want to say that there are a lot of cases today, especially with the appointment of the editors-in-chief, in the courts. Because both the newsgroups and the labor teams have one idea, but in fact, the heads of local authorities, I'm talking about an administration that happens to be somehow in line with the statutes of the co-founder and the authorities of the local authorities, they have a different opinion, so things are in court. The Fatherland faction will in principle support both bills, but we would like to say that our distinguished journalists, journalists, only a good, quality content can increase your circulation and may increase your wages and revenues. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-02-m0.u142	Thank you, Your Honor. And welcome to Mrs. Zarzyrko's words, which represents the position of the Radical Party, please. Yes, please, Mrs. Valeria, give me your word.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-02-m0.u143	Valeria Zarzko, faction of the Radical Party of Oleg Lašek. Good afternoon, dear Ukrainians! Good afternoon, dear fellows! The topic of newspapers is very important, but today I want to talk about something that, unfortunately, doesn't write newspapers, because in every civilized country, it has to be a scandal that will be shown in every newspaper, every magazine, every TV channel. Because what's going on? A genocide of Ukrainians is taking place because of the inactivity of the MOH. A few days ago, Vladimir Skripov died, Vladimir Skripov, a man who was waiting in turn, a very sick person, to receive treatment from a state abroad, which unfortunately cannot be done in Ukraine, his entire family: his wife, his two young children, lived under the MOH, but unfortunately the officials of MOHO did not find a conscience to help him. The money was in the accounts at the Turkish clinic. This money may have been used for the treatment of Vladimir Scripov, but unfortunately this has not happened. Today, a cynical statement by a MOH employee, Mrs. Stefanisin, that you should go and look for money from those deputies you spoke to when you were talking to mothers, oncological parents, how can you say that? Why doesn't anyone respond, why don't we see it in the newspapers today, why does everyone care what's going on? These people demand immediate assistance from the State. We have repeatedly said that we have not left these people and will help. The whole faction of the Radical Party stands in the defense of oncological people. 100,000 Ukrainians are added each year to those who are ill, and this can be each of you, your friends, your relatives. Today we need to mobilize society, we need to expand the "Available Drugs" program that was offered by the Radical Party faction. We demand that there be 2 billion in the budget next year for this program, so that every Ukrainian can get affordable and quality treatment, they can buy these drugs, which are unfortunately too expensive for an average person. We want the state to finally fulfill its responsibility to every Ukrainian citizen and to provide quality and timely treatment. And we also need to consider finally in the Supreme Council Hall the decision we initiated to resign Mrs. Suprun because she failed to deal with medical reform, failed to deal with reform. And now what's happening is the real genocide of the Ukrainians. And this is true without excluding each of us. Newspapers, please pay attention. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-02-m0.u144	Thank you. Please, Yuri Pavlovenko, who from the place represents the position of the Opoblak faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-02-m0.u145	Dear Chairman, dear colleagues! In fact, the consideration of the bill is another confirmation when the beautiful declarations, statements, reform stories are revealed as a result of failure. So three years of reform in this area have actually led to a failure, and today we are forced to make changes to legislation so as not to stop the work of a lot of editors. In general, out of 550 local newspapers that should be reformed, they were able to carry out this reform, well, no more than 300, to change the name – no more than 200, i.e. only half of the print media were able to be reformed within the framework of the law in force, and this is mainly the inaction of local authorities and central authorities. Yes, it has been said that local authorities who want to control one or more media outlets are often hindered from reforming their so - called success stories. Instead, there are a number of other problems, such as the law itself, which blocked the actual implementation of this process because we have also considered turning local authorities to clarify and help them reform their media media according to the law. There is also the problem of the government that the rapporteur for the alternative bill spoke of when, in fact, the law provides for one-off financial targeted support in the editorials for technical resupply, but in three years nothing has ever happened, even the order has not been established. In fact, the very government that described this reform has become the main brake for the implementation of this reform on printed media, and in fact the majority, as is in Parliament, which has defined this reform as one of the priorities, have not actually been able to ensure its full implementation. That is why we stress the need for a very serious review and continuation of this bill. And another important moment. Regrettably, the number of attacks on journalists is increasing, especially as central and local media. Journalists became dangerous, and every day a journalist who begins to tell the truth faces a danger to his life and health. I therefore believe that Parliament must respond to this new challenge for the journalist and carry out the necessary.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-02-m0.u146	Are you done? Thank you, Mr. Yuri. And please, Valery Pisarenko, present the position of the Rebirth Group. Please, Mr. Valeria. They'll come out of the place, too.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-02-m0.u147	Thank you. You know, maybe it's a very good reform, but in fact, reform today has already led to a handle on many issues. We have just heard my colleagues talking about the health system that our reforms have been, and in the media. Judicial reform is ongoing. We want to impose a new Law on Lawyers, which I want to be able to defend in court in general. And it seems to me that maybe we should call on the majority already, maybe stop reforming. Now, let's maybe see what you've already adopted and cleared up the reforms you've already done. Because, for example, the media, in the media system, when the reform took place on social television, all of this ended by leaving the National Television unfunded and actually closing the national television channel. What's going to happen after this reform is that I can't imagine that we're closing down regional television channels and the media. But anyway. Why did I ask about funding? Anyway, we need to watch if we're talking about the media, so that we can see in every reform that they remain independent. Or we give them more independence than we used to. But if we don't talk about where the funding is for these processes, we hang up and we don't answer. Therefore, reform is good when you have calculated a few steps ahead that this reform will not eventually reach one area or another. In fact, today all of our reforms are coming together -- we have big problems. So before you vote, see if that's what's going to make the situation better. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-02-m0.u148	Thank you so much for the talk. And I want to thank all the colleagues who follow the rules during the speech, they're focusing on the bill under discussion. Colleagues, the factions are over. Please sign up from the Ukrainian National Deputies. I remind you, it gives us nine minutes of time to debate the national MPs of Ukraine. Please, Your Honor's colleague Sugonako is transferring the right to speak. Don't you? Assigns the right to speak to Sergey Kaplin, who will speak from the rostrum. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-02-m0.u149	Dear fellow countrymen, there is this practice in the Supreme Council of Ukraine, when the title of the bill is completely inconsistent with his mission, with his philosophy, with his methodology. In fact, I would call one and the other bills the law on killing those "districts" that you loved all your 25-50 years of life. As long as you lived, you had contact with the district administration, the district council, with the mayor of the city exclusively through these tools. The city’s heads, their deputies, their performances, have informed you of the course of the corresponding city, the appropriate district, the appropriate community. And today, when it is alleged that individual media outlets are pocket - size and run by city heads, it is only because we have made incredible mistakes over the past few years, choosing inadequate urban heads. But we're working in this direction. And the first of the corruptionists in Ukraine, the icon of political prostitution, the icon of political corruption, Alexander Mamaev has already left his post. He was replaced by an adequate young energetic city manager with a new performance, with a new majority. And today, in one week’s work in Poltava, we have reduced the roadblocks for all categories of citizens by 30 percent, and our pensioners drive free of charge in the morning. These are just the first steps, and in advance the system's infrastructure work to modernize the transport system, the utilities and so on. Next. This law, which you're offered, is actually the Land of Property, the Land of Areas, which are usually in the best places near district, district government. These are absolutely expensive areas that will be passed on to agrobarons in places, large businesses in places, and by the killing of the relevant printed bodies, you'll be deprived of the ability to know what the area is, or how it lives, or the region as a whole. I'd like to say it's a law on the murder of jobs. Who is a journalist in the district? Who's a journalist in town? This is a person who forms the basis of the intellectual elite of the region, of the community. These are the people who are the proponents of local self-government, of promoting ideas of decentralization. Well, and besides, I want to point out that this law is actually a law that destroys the key instrument of promoting decentralization in the country. It's because of "districts," because of these printed organs that we have to explain to people the benefits of decentralization, the benefits that ordinary Ukrainians get, the common citizens. We're going to vote against this bill with firm conviction, and we think that after a while all these newspapers have to be renationalized. They should not be in the hands of the barriers; they should be in the hands of the communities, the honestly chosen mayors, the honestly elected deputies.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-02-m0.u150	Thank you. Please, Sevrukov gets the next right to speak. National MP Sevrukov, please. I'm sorry, National Deputy Dehtyarchuk. I was just told that he would have the word Sevrukov. Mr. Dekhtyarchuk has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-02-m0.u151	Dear colleagues, Cosma Prutkov used to say that we should always look at the root. At the root of the issue of dissipation, it is very often in practice that the privatization of state or municipal property is generally a business or a place in which the newspaper is located. I will support and vote with both hands in favour of both bills, but I clearly believe that we need to work out in the law the possibility of ineffectiveness of such a scheme as a ransom by entrepreneurial individuals of particles in the founders of this paper. There are many examples in the district. When businessmen buy out newspapers often at the expense of their portions, not caring for the future fate of the newspaper, but only interested in the former municipal institution. So I urge all my colleagues to support both of these bills, as we need to continue the dissuasion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-02-m0.u152	Thank you. I apologize again for not giving you my word at once. People's deputy Kaplin is now handing over the right to speak to Mr. Sugonits, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-02-m0.u153	Dear colleagues, I'm sorry, it's a distorted logic that's at the root of this bill. That is, the elected bodies of the united territorial communities, the heads of the elected communities, all the voters, all the inhabitants of the communities, will have a negative impact on the media. And as if the reorganized media would make some other quality content. Friends, I think they're going to be influenced by a lot of money from oligarchs, agrobarons, and they're going to print a lot of stupid stuff for a lot of money. No quality content, without the influence of civil society and the ability of those who do not have money, can provide objective information about what is going on in the territory, in the city, in the community, we unfortunately will not get anything of quality. So we're going to vote against it.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-02-m0.u154	Thank you. Hope Anna Mikolayevna. Colleagues, we're coming to the conclusion of the discussion. That's why I'm asking the factions to invite MPs into the hall. In a few minutes, we'll move on to making a decision. Please, Mrs. Hanna.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-02-m0.u155	Good afternoon, dear fellows! Now we've heard a discussion among other colleagues about how much the bill on amending the Ukrainian Law on reforming public and municipal print media is causing some debate, some need for further development. But at the same time, we need to understand that the reform of the media, and of the municipal media, has to be continued somehow. And that's why I think it's possible to work out, between the first and the second readings, by making amendments. But I can say that, really, it's very important for us to have independent media, especially in the fields. Last week, I visited Ternopolishka, Lvivščina. And for example, in Ternopolis, if you ask what are really independent media, we can hear that one media is the mayor, the other media is controlled, there, the law enforcement authorities. And in fact, where do you get true, objective information for the inhabitants of the districts, and which relates directly to their region or region? And so it's obvious that the issue, especially the preceding presidential and parliamentary elections, the existence and activities of independent media in regions, areas, is an important one. And I can also say that there's a lot of media making advertising, including newspapers, that we can see how many pages of publishing have turned into propaganda ads. So, in principle, the key task for us is to enable once-state public print media to become, in fact, financially independent, to implement better practices of professional media, but at the same time to provide objective information to people in places they all need. And I think that by ridding the oligarchic influence of the local people of some authority, some business representatives, and especially if they're agrarian regions and media owners, they're usually local oligarchs. So, colleagues, I think that the first reading might discuss this bill, but it's clear that we need to talk about the need for truly independent media in areas. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-02-m0.u156	Thank you. So, colleagues, the discussion is over. We're moving on to making a decision. The final word will now be given to the committee's head, and in three minutes we will move on to the decision-making process. I strongly urge everyone to invite the deputies into the hall. In three minutes, we make a decision. And I now invite Victoria Sumar to the floor. Three minutes. And I'd like everyone to come into the hall. Turn on the microphone, Mrs. Victoria will be speaking. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-02-m0.u157	Dear colleagues, I don't want to delay the discussion right now. I am very much asking you to approach the national MPs and not leave the media out of the legal field that have already been dismantled and who want to continue to do so. Let's not provoke further legislative chaos, because we can actually get a situation where part of it has been reformed, and part of it will not be reformed, because they don't have this possibility because of the problems that have now been discussed. The committee's proposal is to support the first bill, but if there's support and two bills, we won't deny it. Because then we're going to work out, we're going to take into account the proposals that are in the second, alternative, drafts, and we're going to make some consensus decisions accordingly. But this dilemma must be solved. So in the first reading, it is a very big request to support it now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-02-m0.u158	Thank you. So let's move on to making a decision. Please take up jobs. Colleagues, please come back from bed. You don't always arrive, and then you have to come back. I'll put to the vote first a basic, then an alternative law. Guys, don't leave. Igor! I therefore put to the vote the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on Reforming State and Municipal Printed Media (No. 8441). The committee proposes to accept it as a basis. Please vote, please support 8441 as a basis. Vote. Please be supportive. [[13:21:12]] For-200 I bet it's an alternative now. I am voting on the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on Reforming Public and Municipal Printed Media (8441-1). Please vote. [[13:21:44]] For 199 So the first law, colleagues, gained more votes. Now I'm going to propose that I go back and vote. I'm asking you to show me the first faction law. The first law of factions, not the second, but the first. Turn on the electronic system. It's on, isn't it? All right. Impossible, isn't it? Then, colleagues, I invite everyone to take up jobs now. We have actual support for all factions, we just need to mobilize. Please come to the hall and take your jobs. Colleagues, don't come out of the hall. I'll call you who comes out of the hall. Please take up jobs. So the first vote is going to be the return to the vote in favour of Law 8441. I would stress that he has gained more votes, and we will be able to unite around him. Please take up jobs. So I'm voting on the proposal to go back to voting for the draft Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on Reforming State and Municipal Printed Media (8441). This is a continuation of our reform, let's vote and support our reform, every vote matters. I'd like everyone to vote carefully. Vote, colleagues, support. We're voting carefully. [[13:23:40]] For 207 I see you came up during the vote. Please invite me to the hall. Show the factions, please. Peter Poshenko's Block – 79, People's Front – 59, Opposition Block – 1, Self-Help – 17, Radical Party – 18, Father's Party – 10, Will of the People – 0, Rebirth Party – 2, non-fractional – 21. Don't come out, Mr. Ivan. Now I'm going to put another one on the way back. I'm asking everyone to maximize their mobility. So take up jobs. Mrs. Svetlana, don't leave. Excuse me, but Ola must walk with a broken leg and return you to the hall, have respect and conscience for the committee, to her colleagues and brothers. Please take up jobs. So I'm voting on the proposal to go back to the draft Law on Reforming Public and Municipal Printed Media (8441). Please support everyone, colleagues. Please back up and please. Stop, they're going into the hall, stop. Take your seats. Please come in. So please support the return and please vote, please vote, please support, vote. [[13:25:40]] For 215 I'll put it again, but when I vote, I see how the MPs don't vote. So, colleagues. Take up jobs. During the vote, do not hold political debates and debates. Eleven votes is not enough to make a decision. I ask members of the committee to help mobilize MPs, just when they vote, MPs move away from their cards, from their jobs. Everyone please come into the hall and take part in the vote. So, everybody in place, can we put it? We can, right? I would stress that the law is just the basis. We will be able to make adjustments to the second reading. You're ready, aren't you? I, my colleagues, once again propose to return to the draft Law on Reforming Public and Municipal Printed Media (8441). Colleagues, everyone please take part in the vote and support. Vote. If you'll excuse me, I'd like to vote. Vote, fellows! Please be supportive. Vote! [[13:27:53]] For 227 We're back. Please don't go out. Stop. Stop, turn back, we count each voice. I put the draft Law 8441 to the vote on the basis of a committee proposal. Colleagues, every voice. Please vote, please support, based, vote, colleagues. Please stand by, we vote! Carefully, responsibly, we vote! [[13:28:33]] For 222 What kind of games are they, colleagues? The factions, please. According to factions: "Block of Petra Poshenko" – 77, "National Front" – 67, "Block of Opposition" – 1, "Help" – 17, Radical Party – 19, "Papačovščina" – 11, "Will of the People" – 2, joined "Will of the People", "Party of Rebirth" – 4, non-fractional – 24. Colleagues, I'll return to the committee once more. But look, the heads of factions, first, the discipline during the vote. Mrs. Ola, you have to convince your colleagues. Please take your seats. I'll put it back again. Everyone, please prepare and take part in the vote. I emphasize once again that the law is passed, that you have respect for your fellow members of the committee. So I'm proposing to go back to draft Law 8441 on reforming public and municipal print media. And I ask everyone to vote. So we vote. Please vote and please support. We vote carefully and responsibly. Vote! Alexi, we're voting! [[13:30:10]] For 218. Less votes. Victoria! Victoria! Victoria, I'll put it again, if I don't, I'll reject the law. I'll do it again. You see who doesn't vote. If there are no votes, the law will be rejected, colleagues. Olya, you have a chance to convince your colleagues. So I'm putting it to a final vote. If there are no votes, the bill will be rejected. Please take all jobs. Please prepare for the vote, please take your seats. Every voice will matter now, every voice, I emphasize. And I'm voting on the proposal to go back to voting for the draft Law on Reforming Public, Communicated Press (8441). Please support our reform, support the committee and please vote. Let's vote, colleagues. Committee members, please help. We vote, every vote, please support, vote. [[13:31:34]] For 226 We're back. Colleagues, I ask you to stop playing with the vote. Everyone please take up their jobs. Now I'm going to put the law on the ground, and I'm going to stress, it's just a foundation. Every voice. I'm asking you to take up your jobs, Hennaday. So every vote, 226 votes, I ask everyone to vote carefully. And I'm voting on the draft Act amending the Law on Reforming Public and Municipal Printed Media (8441) as a basis. Colleagues, we support committee members, we support reform. Every vote, based on the vote, colleagues, we vote, we vote, we vote. Please support, we vote. [[13:32:42]] For 223 It's a committee for work, colleagues. All right, I'm quitting, colleagues. It's a committee to work on. Colleagues, I'm asking you to back up the offer: send it to the committee for a second reading. Please vote, please support, vote: to the committee for re-reading. Please vote, please support. [[13:33:17]] For-183 The next is to return the subject to the legislative initiative for further work. If you'll excuse me, I'd like to vote. [[13:33:43]] For 204 [[B in m in s a l in]] So, colleagues, at the request of the factions -- the Radical Party and the People's Front -- I'm going back to the base. So, colleagues, I'm going to put "back on the ground" once again on the demand of two factions of Parliament, and I'm asking everyone to take up jobs right now. Colleagues, when it comes to reforms, should be united and united. So, colleagues, I'm putting a motion to vote: go back to voting on the basis of draft Law 8441. Please vote and please support. Vote. Please be supportive. Vote. [[13:34:41]] For 224 Draft Law 8441. [[B in m in s a l in]] Okay. My colleagues, I'll put it back together. Okay. Factions, look for your people in the hall. So I'm voting on the proposal to go back to draft Law 8441. Please vote. Please support the return to 8441. Please vote. [[13:35:30]] For 211 Law 8441 was rejected. Let's move on to the next question of order of the day. Draft Act amending certain Ukrainian legislation on the use of the term "person with disabilities" and derived from it (No. 8358). Colleagues, I ask you to vote in favour of this bill for a reduced procedure. Please be supportive. Please vote. [[13:36:14]] For-152. And I invite you to report to the head of the Committee on Veterans, participants in the hostilities of Trelyaków Alexander Yuriovich. Please, Mr. Alexander.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-02-m0.u159	Dear colleagues, the committee is constantly working to ensure that Ukrainian legislation is in line with the International Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities of December 13, 2006, which Ukraine ratified in December 2009. In accordance with the Act of 7 September 2016 (No. 1490) in the title of the Law on the Ratification of the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities and the Optional Protocol thereto, the word “disabled” was replaced by the word “person with disabilities”. That's why the committee drafted this bill, which amends 77 laws to replace the word "disability" with the word "disability child" and the word "disability child". Changes are also made to the name of my committee, which is proposed as the Committee on Veterans and Persons with Disabilities. The bill is technical. I repeat that it was designed to bring the terminology of Ukrainian legislation to the International Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities. The main scientific and expert office supports the adoption of this bill. The committee's decision: to adopt a bill as a whole as a law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-02-m0.u160	Thank you. Please record: two in, two in. Chicken Maxim Pavlovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-02-m0.u161	Dear colleagues, first of all, I would like to thank the head of the committee of profile and all members of the committee, and the many deputies who have become the authors of this very necessary, technical but extremely necessary bill. Titanic work, titaniumic, 77 laws need to be revised and brought into line with the convention. We can't stand away from this job and call on the entire room to vote in favour. We support it.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-02-m0.u162	Thank you. From the Radical Party of Igor Mosiychuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-02-m0.u163	Igor Mosiyczuk, Oleg Lachka Radical Party Now essentially, the bill is being considered, which is technical. Why? Because the name changes. Of course, we support him, and this is not the question. Questions to the government, questions to those who sat there seem to have a brain disability, because people who are disabled who need help are viewed as secondary. They look like something that, well, it is, but it's not. And that's a crime. This is a crime against Ukrainian society. First of all, this crime comes from the MOH leadership, which simply produces disabled people in a country that simply produces murder in Ukraine, because "doctor of death" and its accelerants, who claim that you, honourable colleagues, pay for the treatment of Ukrainians abroad, they commit a criminal crime and should be held accountable. And every death of a person who has no medical care is on the conscience of both the "doctor of death" and those who hold it in the government, holding it in that position and allowing it to kill Ukrainians. Most of the brain’s disabilities that work in both the M.O. and the government must be stopped.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-02-m0.u164	Colleagues, we're about to make a closing statement. From the Opposition Block, Yuri Pavlenko. Then I'll give you my word, yes. And I'll give it to you, yes. Please, Pauline.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-02-m0.u165	Dear Head! Dear colleagues! The Opposition Block supports the bill and will vote. It's a technical change that's important to make. Unfortunately, we have a lot of discriminatory names in our legislation. Another example is that of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, relevant ministries, and departments. We have to date, for example, in the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child, which is part of national legislation, in article 23 of the official translation, such a concept as "inadequate child" in the sense of a child with disabilities. Because both this and much needs to be changed to make our legislation and deadlines something that does not discriminate against a child a person. At the same time, I would like to draw the attention of the government to their basic work of protecting children, people with special needs. Sadly, many talk about what has been called reform — inclusive education. But have many schools this year received children with special needs? Are there many trained teachers? Are the prepared parental committees, or are the prepared children’s environment today, for inclusive education? Unfortunately, as is done today, it creates more problems in the child’s environment than really protects a child with special needs. Regrettably, many examples can be called when the inaction of MOH, MONU, the Minsocpolytics is more damaging to children with special needs than fulfilling the responsibilities of legislation and the Constitution to protect them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-02-m0.u166	Please, Rybchin, two minutes. And in two minutes we're going to the vote, please all come into the room.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-02-m0.u167	Alexy Rybchin, "Fatherland" faction, Donetsk. We are now considering a technical issue related to social policy. Unfortunately, for this government, for this power, the issue of social policy is not a priority, it's final, it's funded in the rest of the way, and we see a huge social dissatisfaction of a large number of people. We know that there will now be major protests by educators, major protests by scientists in connection with the adoption of the budget. And we promise that when Julia Timoshenko comes to power, in her "New Economic Course" programme, the issue of social support for the population, the question of social market economy will be a priority. With regard to this bill, I want to say that we will support it and insist that it be voted on as a basis and as a whole. However, there are warnings to colleagues who work on many committees, including here, that it is already, there, some bill, which is technical, where the name of persons with disabilities simply changes. "disability" is replaced by "person with disabilities." That's right, that's European rhetoric. But we're spending a lot of time looking at technical bills, just by changing the name. I have a question: and it wasn't possible from the very beginning when changes are being made to legislation, there are 77 bills, there are still changes. The same thing, when we adopted amendments to the Law on Reintegration or Depopulation so-called and replaced the ATO with the OOS, then went a few, a bunch of bills where we complement them to work, because somewhere there were benefits for the ATO veterans and they haven't changed, and people can't get the benefit because the ATO wasn't changed to the POS. Please pay more attention to the quality of the bill so that such technical bills do not waste much time. We suggest voting on the basis and in general not to waste any more time on second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-02-m0.u168	Thank you. And we're moving on to making a decision. I'm asking the factions to invite deputies into the hall. Fellows, look who's gone, come to the hall. So I would also like to point out that the committee's proposal is to vote on the basis as a whole. Everyone please take up their jobs. And I'm voting on the draft Act amending some Ukrainian legislation on the use of the term "person with disabilities" and its derived (No. 8358). At the suggestion of the committee, it is also proposed that it be accepted as a whole. Please vote and please support. Vote. Please be supportive. [[13:46:31]] For 223 We didn't make it. I'll be back. Take up jobs. So the first vote. And I ask you not to go to the hall during the vote, but to be in your workplace. First vote: go back to draft Law 8358. Please vote, please support. Vote. Please be supportive. [[13:47:10]] For 234 234. We're back. And now I'm putting the bill of Law 8358 on the ground as a whole. Please vote and please support. Vote. [[13:47:34]] For 238. The law is passed. And, colleagues, we're moving on to the next draft of the Act amending some of the Ukrainian legislation on resistance to bulling (No. 8584). Colleagues, please support his consideration of the reduced procedure so that we can consider it by noon. Please vote, please support. Vote. [[13:48:08]] For a hundred and 150. Decision taken. And I'd like to invite you to the report of the National Deputy of Ukraine, Biozr Oksana Volodymyrovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-02-m0.u169	Honorable Presidium, fellow believers, I think this bill will unite everyone in this room today. According to the UN General Assembly, it is October 2nd that the world celebrates the International Day of Combating Violence. And the bill that we're going to be considering with you right now, and I'm sure we're going to accept in this room, it's against violence against our children in our educational process. You know that the plague of the 21st century touched Ukraine, and the bulling today is the most important problem and a terrible catastrophe for the educational institutions of Ukraine. Today, according to the UN, about 67 percent of children, 67 percent of children, face bullings in Ukraine. 44 percent of the children themselves were impressed by the bulling process. Therefore, we must do so today. I think you've all seen a year ago when all the media raided a teenage girl in Chernigiv County who was beaten almost to death. A year later, I received a letter from her mother. And she says to me, "Listen, why hasn't anyone been punished, where's the responsibility? My child barely survived and no one was punished." I sent letters to the Ministry of Internal Affairs, the Ministry of Education. And I got the answer: I'm sorry, but the laws of Ukraine don't regulate this issue, we don't even have terminology in our bill that applies to bulling. Thus, two laws have been amended, the Education Act and the Code of Laws on Administrative Offences have been amended. In order to make this process transparent, public, so that it is not hidden, and in order to be held accountable, those who have missed it hide the facts of the bullion in our Ukrainian schools. And the responsibility lies in the fact that a police officer is necessarily a protocol and a man who is.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-02-m0.u170	Please finish the minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-02-m0.u171	A person, either a teacher, or a principal, or a school principal, or a student who touches the bulling process, is criminalized. Administrative criminal. responsibility in the courts. And financially, of course, 340 dollars to 3,000 400. It's said to be very small. But I'll tell you, Dad and Mom's march to court, where a decision will be made, will probably secure, and this is the preventive measure that regulates our bill, too. The only thing I want to read, in the absence of time, is the definition of a bulling. Because at the extended meeting of the ministry and the committee, we discussed exactly what would be the formulation of the bulling. And we came to a unanimous agreement that formulation would be exclusively what Wikipedia is in Ukrainian, that's what it is.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-02-m0.u172	Please, 30 seconds to read.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-02-m0.u173	"Bulling is a manifestation of aggression with further intimidation of personality, harassment and threats, moral humiliation." Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-02-m0.u174	Yes, I ask you not to comment on our legislative initiatives, but to discuss them. And the word for the report is given to Alexander Spiowakovsky, the first deputy head of the Committee on Science and Education. Thank you. I'm asking everyone to calm down, not get excited, please, and discuss the bill. Please, Mr. Spiowakovsky, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-02-m0.u175	Dear colleagues! Oleg Valeriyovich, I also address you. The committee considered this question, Oleg Valeriyovich, there was an extended committee meeting, we were looking at this question, you know, by Mrs. Oksana Bilozer's project. In general, the discussion was about what? Around the definition. But what I'm trying to say is that this is a disgraceful phenomenon, which unfortunately exists in schools. 40 percent of students believe that they are being harassed, bulling, and both physical, physical, and spiritual. We have to solve for the first time at the legislative level the simple question of what it is, we define it, by definition the law defines these things, and then we form the responsibility of parents, we form the responsibility of school administration, we form the responsibility of teachers, because silence or, on the contrary, coercion to this shameful phenomenon is simply impossible. So, dear colleagues, I'm just asking you not to pay attention to these things, because Wikipedia's bulling is clearly defined -- it's really psychological, physical and so on, the pressure on the child. We must now vote and resolve forever the question of what bulling, harassment is impossible in schools. The committee proposed to do so, to vote first on the basis, but if the deputies were ready to support this philosophy to vote in general. And today, put a dot in this story. If that doesn't work, then there'll be a proposal, and I'll read the stenographer's comments that are, including from the Radicals.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-02-m0.u176	Please finish for one minute. Dear colleagues, one minute! And now it's about the problem that arose during the discussion, it's about terminology. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-02-m0.u177	Dear colleagues! I hope we're consensus on what we call "buling" or "torture," so let's say that's not the main thing right now. What's important is that there's a phenomenon where there's pressure on children where there's violence. So I ask, despite these things, to find the strength and vote in the Committee on Science and Education. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-02-m0.u178	Thank you, Your Honor. I'm asking you to go back to work. Colleagues, please sign up for a bill that really has such a great deal of relevance and social significance. Please, Mr. Brichenko, present the position of the People's Front.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-02-m0.u179	Please give me the word of Bennady.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-02-m0.u180	Please pass on the word to Hennadia Crimson. And I ask his fellowmen to depart a little from the place of Crimsons, so that he may.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-02-m0.u181	Thank you, Igor Brichenko, for your word. Dear colleagues, the People's Front faction, I think it will support this bill. But I'd like to turn to some of the things that all the deputies, and perhaps, first of all, to the education community: school management, heads of management, departments. Now in schools quite often, and it's written just in Facebook, parents complain that there's violence between children. This may be one of the biggest problems, for example, when a child simply picks up a child at a school in the area of Mironovo and wants to strangle another child in an accident, while at another school someone simply picks up and deliberately slaps a child on the back in order to avoid the scar on his head. So these things, they're just amazing and they're just, well, actually harmful to the whole and the education sector, and in general to raise children. That is why we need to pay close attention. At the same time, for example, there are such problems when, for example, in the same area of Kiev in the Boguslav region, the head of the administration simply eliminated the sports department, which was also involved in child rearing. And for today, there's just no such thing. Not the department, but the sector. So if we're talking in a complex, we need to understand that today's problem of raising children, including the problem that is in this bill today, is a global problem, and we need to approach it globally and with a comprehensive solution. So once again, I suggest that we all take a closer look at the problem and pay attention to it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-02-m0.u182	Thank you. We're continuing the sessions for the consideration of the bill on the nature of the bill. Oh, I'm sorry, bulling, bulling. And I would like to ask you to speak to the People's Deputy Barna. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-02-m0.u183	Thank you. A very good bill, which is essential for us not to finally think in word, but in deed to think about the future of our nation. The problem with our society is that no one wanted or wanted to take responsibility for raising children. And what's strange is that even parents sometimes give up that responsibility, and more than that, they blame someone: teachers, the state, the street, society. And that is why this bill commits all involved structures and parents to the responsibility of raising our children and preventing the cruelty among them, which has resulted in very tragic cases and results in our society, the cruelty of children. Therefore, responsibility, not just administrative responsibility, but the criminal responsibility of parents for the improper upbringing of their children should be a principle of accountability for crimes committed against their children, the administrative responsibility of officials, teachers who conceal these crimes of cruelty among children, should be an example of how the State and the school should combat them, and other structures. So I call on everyone as a teacher and as a father to support this bill, because the fate of the children is the fate of our future, if we don't end the cruelty of the children and the irresponsibleness of the parents now, it will return to us all in the future. Let's vote for our future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-02-m0.u184	Thank you. But, colleagues, I want to point out that we have a limited time, I'm going to continue the session for 15 minutes. But I urge all law-abiding people to make the most of it. Now, two final performances: The Thunder of the Games, from the Opposition Block, then Evtushek. Turn on Igor Shurmi's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-02-m0.u185	Igor Shurma, Opposition Block. Dear colleagues, I think the initiative is very timely. We each have children, we each have grandchildren, at least in many, and we all understand perfectly what is done in schools and in organized groups. Regrettably, the legislative initiative would be a mistake, if it were to be adopted in general at the moment, it should be voted on as a basis. Why? Because if we're talking about bulling in general, we're looking at punishment. But who are we punishing? We punish the same child. A child may be in two iposas: an aggressor child and a child as a victim. We're not talking about a child victim, we're talking about an aggressor child. Now let's see what the reasons are, because the aggressor child is already the result of what happened in her mind. We can talk about parents moving abroad today in search of a better destiny and a better job, and no one is raising their children. We can talk about violence on television. Even the same cartoons, they carry in themselves aggression and power. We can talk about the fact that it's not the teacher or any teacher-teacher, we can talk about that very often we're alone in this room, MPs, in relation to each other, we're manifesting this aggression, which then translates to the level of childhood. So, from my point of view, if we want this bill to be accepted as an effective norm, we today have to take it as a basis, work out the maximum of all the factors and make this bill effective. And one more thing. Let's live with Ukrainian terminology. Bulling, puling, umulin, schmulling. We've turned into some kind of antcla. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-02-m0.u186	My colleagues, I would like to stress once again that the longer the discussion takes, the less chance there will be for the law. It's from Fatherland, Eutuszek. Oh, Rybchin. Eutusek passes to Rybchin. Excuse me.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-02-m0.u187	I thank my colleague Eutuska for taking the floor. Dear colleagues, by such a funny word, "boiling," in fact, there is a very unorthodox phenomenon: the harassment of our children. I have only two children who are studying in school and kindergarten, and I realize that this is a very urgent problem, not just for me, but for many of us. I'm going to advocate supporting this bill and supporting it in a second reading, because it's a big signal to our society that the Supreme Council recognizes this as a big problem. And the big problem, I can say, is that according to what I have, Ukraine in the first ten countries of Europe was spread out among 11-15-year-old schoolchildren, and last year 67 percent of Ukrainian children were either victims, or perpetrators, or witnesses were bullings. And according to UNICEF, a quarter of them were harassed directly. 48 percent of these children did not tell anyone about the survivors. The big question that we raise is a very important social issue. By the way, I want to say that there are very good Internet resources and programs like Stopbullying.com.ua, where parents and schoolchildren can learn what to do, what to do, what psychological help to their children, or what to do with schoolchildren, what to do, what to do and where to go. That is why we support this legislation. It's very important, even though some funny name is there, and my colleagues are talking about it. That's a funny name, but it's not funny. Vote!
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-02-m0.u188	Thank you. So now there's going to be a closing statement. In a minute, we're going to vote. I'm asking the factions to invite deputies into the hall, and I'm asking the secretariat to report. Don't leave the hall. When we talk about violence against children, and people come out of the hall, it is wrong and unfair. Please, Olena Sotnik, one minute and we're voting.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-02-m0.u189	Thank you for the opportunity. Olena Sotnik, Self-Help faction. I'm not going to be very popular, but I still have to pay attention to you. Now we're deciding the outcome, but we're not deciding the cause. The first reason for the aggression of children is that we don't have a value-based education today, we have an education based on formal knowledge. And the second is the lack of systematic policies for dealing with teenagers. No one works with children, no one works with complicated children, they stay one at a time, no one actually works with them, neither teachers nor today, our Ministry of Education nor young people. So please, colleagues, I understand that you're trying to punish the outcome, but the first reason is that you won't solve it. Because we need a systemic solution here, and it's definitely not a parental administrative decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-02-m0.u190	Thank you. So let's move on to making a decision. I'm asking everyone to take up jobs. Colleagues, I ask you to stop this discussion and get back to work. I can call by name. So I'm voting on the draft Act amending some of the Ukrainian legislation on resistance to bulling (No. 8584) on the basis of a committee proposal. Please vote. Please be supportive. Colleagues, we vote. Please be supportive. Vote. [[14:06:20]] For 202 I'll be right back. No, mate, there's no other way. Now we need to get the deputies together, now we need to vote. And please invite the deputies to the hall. No, I can give you 10 more minutes to talk. Please walk on the towers, we're about to pass the law. And I ask the factions to invite everyone back to the hall. I'm asking you to get ready to take up your jobs. So now I'm going to put the first vote on the return. And I'd like everyone to take their jobs and invite MPs. If the MPs do not enter, the bill will be rejected and will be personally responsible for those who have left the hall who are not in the workplace. So I'm voting on the proposal to go back to draft Law 8584, and I ask everyone to vote, to vote. Vote. [[14:07:45]] For 218. I'm asking you to invite the deputies into the hall. I'll read the factions. Don't leave the hall now, colleagues. Perhaps each of us saw these videos when we saw the terrible moments of violence against children. And now it's up to us, everyone, to settle this matter in law. I can't imagine anyone getting out of the room during that time of the vote. On the contrary, invite people, look who's gone. Now we're going back and we're going to adopt this law. The factions. Peter Poshenko Block 81, People's Front 51, Opposition Block 19, Self-help 11, Radical Party 13, Father's Party 10, People's Will 0, Rebirth Party 8, non-fractional 25. So, colleagues, now I'm going to put another one on the way back. And I ask everyone to take part in the vote at the time of the adoption of this law. And once again, it's just a base. We'll be able to make corrections to the second reading. So I'm voting on the proposal to go back to the draft Law 8584. Please vote and ask everyone to support this proposal. Vote, please. Vote. [[14:09:23]] For 228 We're back: 228. I now put to the vote the draft Act amending some Ukrainian legislation on resistance to bulling (No. 8584) on the basis of a committee proposal. On the ground, please vote. And please support the base of 8584. Vote. Support me, please vote. [[14:10:03]] For 235 Decision taken. I would like to thank Mr. Krivenkov for his support in voting, for helping to mobilize the national MPs. Thank you very much. My colleagues, we had a very successful, difficult, working time before lunch. After lunch, there are no less important laws. I now declare the morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine closed. At 4: 00 p.m., I invite everyone into the conference room to continue our work. At 4:00, I'll have everyone in the hall.
