ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-19-m1.u1	So, your honors, please come into the hall and prepare for registration. Colleagues ready for registration? Everyone in the hall? Please take your jobs, come into the hall. So please register and participate in the registration. [[16:05:32]] 358 national deputies registered. I declare the evening plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine open. Let me remind you that by noon we had passed the cultural development block. And now we're moving on to security and defense. And the first issue in this block is the draft Law amending certain laws of Ukraine (8293). An extremely important bill, so I ask the heads of factions, MPs to invite us into the hall so that we can get through the laws quickly and effectively, a few of them. But before I begin my consideration of the law, I would like to give the floor to the First Deputy Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Irina Heratchenko. By noon, when we had our session, I asked Mrs. Irina to meet with the rallyers. She went out to them, and she also met with an initiative group on behalf of the leadership of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. And after the meeting, she will report to the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Please, Mrs. Irina.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-19-m1.u2	Thank you, Mr. Head! Dear colleagues! Let me inform you that, as instructed by the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, I met with the rallyers both in the area before the Supreme Council of Ukraine, so we met with the initiative group in my office. Regrettably, I went to the rallyers after the first fights, involving eight law enforcement officers from Nazgardia. And with the opportunity, I want to go to the rallyers as well, but all the politicians and politicians who bring this very often to the rallying council, to think about what our children in Nazgwardia are protecting under Parliament. That's the first one. The other one. Of course, many of the demands that have been made by miners, Afghans, Chernobyl, military pensioners, and ATOs to the Supreme Council can be accepted and supported. In particular, this is their call to government representatives and the Supreme Council of Ukraine for openness and communication. And one of the deals is that I'm going to tell you about their demands to Parliament, in particular, the rallyers are calling on the government to report on its activities to the Supreme Council of Ukraine, in particular on the implementation of the socio-economic and humanitarian bloc. We also agreed that there would be a committee meeting in the near future, including the Committee on Veterans, the Committee on Social Affairs, to which profile ministers would be invited, and that representatives of public organizations would be invited there to discuss social issues, at the same time that were bothering people who had gone to the square. But I also want to point out that, you know, there was a lot of populism there, which today is just going to collapse, including politics. And while I was talking to the rallyers, some of my colleagues and colleagues were standing here in a press conference room, not going out there with people, calling for payments on billions of scales and stuff. I think we should all learn together: (a) and solve questions, but also (b) be honest with our citizens, talk about what we also have to raise the economy, and, by answering economic questions, form the answer to social questions. But in summary, honourable colleagues, it is very important that we support the following: both government and parliament must be open to communication. At the same time, we have to go to all the rallyers so that this communication takes place without provocation, normally to solve matters. There's going to be a profile committee tomorrow, a meeting, this is the Committee on Veterans, a social policy, where ministers are going to be invited to give answers, in particular, and the question of how they see the solution to the monetaryization of benefits, social benefits, where we can now move forward, where we have to think about the decisions in 2019, and where we can honestly say that there are no such funds in the country today for those populist laws that we have adopted here, and no one was going to implement them. This too will be true. And lastly, I want to thank the National Guard of Ukraine, who abstained from provocations and managed to maintain peace at the Supreme Council of Ukraine, and thank those public organizations and organizations for this action, that everything happened without the provocations that some politicians and politicians had been looking forward to. And as the First Deputy Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, and I'm still open to this conversation, I'm going to visit the committee's profile sessions so that we can move forward on these issues. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-19-m1.u3	Thank you, Mrs. Irina. Thank you for being able to meet and conduct the necessary dialogue during the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. And now, colleagues, we're moving on to the next issue of the agenda. This is a draft law amending certain laws of Ukraine in connection with the adoption of the Ukrainian Law on the Specialities of State Policy for the Protection of Ukrainian State Sovereignty in Interimly Occupied Areas in the Donetsk and Lugansk Areas. (No 8293) And first of all, I'm putting to the vote the proposal to consider this law with a reduced procedure. Please vote and please support, we vote. [[16:11:45]] For-95 The decision is not taken. And we're going into full procedure. And I invite the head of the committee to report on the issues of veterans, participants in combat, ATO participants and people with disabilities from Trelyaków Alexander Yuriovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-19-m1.u4	Dear colleagues, on April 30th, 18th, the ATO was completed and the operation of the United Forces of National Security and Defence was launched, the interception and deterrence of the Russian Federation's armed aggression in Donetsk, Lugansk. According to Law 2268 we have adopted, participants are granted UBD status (participant of hostilities) and corresponding social guarantees. However, in order for our advocates to fully implement social guarantees, technical changes to other laws must be made, particularly in the areas of employment, rehabilitation, humanitarian aid, one - time financial assistance, treatment, and so forth. This is it. This is precisely what this Bill 8293 provides, which amends 19 legislative acts. I would like to point out that we are not giving new benefits to the bill. We only extend to participants the social guarantees that are provided for participants in the ATO. This, once again, is strictly a technical law. The law is supported by Minfin, the Ministry of Defence, and other ministries. The main scientific and expert office recommends that the bill be adopted on the basis of and on the basis of. The Committee on Veterans recommends the adoption of Bill 8293 as a law as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-19-m1.u5	Thank you, Your Honor. Please remain in the rostrum. Dear colleagues, I ask you to sign up for Mr. Alexander's question right now. Please. [[B in m in s a l in]] Lightness is the sister of talent. So let us not criticize the fine - tunedness but register on the question. Please, John Sporish. Your question.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-19-m1.u6	Ivan Sporish, Peter Dusty Block, 15th District. I'd love to. I'd like to know, however, what is the solution to the issues of this social protection of citizens who are going to be involved in these measures of national security, and what exactly, and what it will give the people of Donetsk, Luhansk, from those territories. That's what I'd like. What makes the bill possible for the first time? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-19-m1.u7	This is not a bill for people in the Lugansk and Donetsk regions. It's a draft for the military. We're just introducing a new terminology, replacing the words "ATO" with "participants of action" according to the current legislation. No new benefits are being paid by this law.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-19-m1.u8	Thank you for your clarification. Please, Mr. Lensky, your question. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-19-m1.u9	Please pass the word to Cooper.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-19-m1.u10	Please, Cooper. Please, Mr. Kuprienka.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-19-m1.u11	Oleg Kuprienko, faction of the Radical Party of Oleg Lašek. Mr. Reporter, please tell me, do you not intend to make further amendments to the Constitution, including? That when people who are fighting protect our country or fight for the direction of the country in which they live, the state does not have to demand benefits, social guarantees, and then, in order to obtain these benefits, it turns out, do not have to be demanded from the state, but swear. And it's populism, it turns out, not the State-guaranteed rights and freedoms of citizens, as our distinguished first speaker, Heratchenko, said. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-19-m1.u12	It's not about the Constitution or the laws, it's about these people who work in the executive branch and do nothing about what they're supposed to do. Then we just have to change these people.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-19-m1.u13	Please, the next question. I leave my right to a replica because my last name has been mentioned. Next, we ran out of questions. [[B in m in s a l in]] Oh, I'm sorry, it's simple. I don't have any more questions written down. All right, but I've got a computer, and the computer's off. If you had your next question, please use your microphone again. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-19-m1.u14	I'll draw your attention to the chairman's three names on the screen. The second is Lensky, the third. And if you conscientiously carry out your duties rather than making populist statements and engaging in politics, it will be right. What we're talking about right now is that we need to change legislation to ensure social protection for the people, our citizens who are fighting for us. Do I get it right? So what I'm pointing out is that there are representatives of the ruling coalition sitting on the rostrum and in the Presidium, the authorities who said four years ago, "The war will be over in a week." And she's going, and she's going, just like they did in the war, and they're making money! And we're told from the high rostrum about the populism of those who come here and demand, demand social protection, demand the return of what the state has promised them. So let us not be populists, first of all, sitting in powerful chairs.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-19-m1.u15	Please answer that question.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-19-m1.u16	Do I have a question? Let's just talk specifically about every person who works, not everyone at all. If I have any questions, please, I can answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-19-m1.u17	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I'll allow it. Mr. Alexander, please return to your workplace. My last name was mentioned. I'm taking a minute to do a lineup. You know, the faction and the hat is on fire. In my speech, I didn't mention any name, which is such a populist faction-party that tried to radicalize today's mood in Parliament, and at this time it didn't go out with people. Notice that the First Vice Speaker went out to the people, and the faction that now accuses the First Vice-Speaker of populism was at this time giving out interviews with 20 security guards. So what I'm saying is, please, the next time the protest takes place, let's go out with people and communicate. I didn't call any last names or factions. And please, now, dear colleagues. [[B in m in s a l in]] I followed the Rules, and I didn't call them factions or names. So please, right now we're going to write down statements from factions. Please sign up, your honors. Please, Mr. Danchenko, give me your word. Alexander Danchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-19-m1.u18	Please give it to Roman Semensi.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-19-m1.u19	Please, Roman Semenicha will be speaking out of place.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-19-m1.u20	Semenha Roman, "The Self-Help Union" faction. Respectful colleagues certainly need the law because it is important in terms of ensuring the social rights of our military personnel. But let's face it, it's purely technical. Unfortunately, although it is also necessary, we do not see in the Supreme Council complex decisions to establish real social protection for our military. With your permission, colleagues, I'd like to read out the privileges that our army of the Ukrainian army is now affording, even though it feels like they're the privileges of the Soviet army. Think about it! First. First-line entry into residential and garage cooperatives. First-line phone setup. Annual assistance by May 5 in the size of 920 bracelets. And it's hard, you know, to call it social protection for our military personnel today. What's more, despite all our common promises that these people will have no problems with employment or going back to work after returning from the army, and there are actually problems like that. And unfortunately, we've done little of the motivational things that would encourage business to take on the work of such people. Moreover, to date, a former military official needs to be released, registered, and released to gain his own business. Get unemployment status, go through the employment center. Then a person has to make a business plan and then the state thinks or gives or doesn't give credit for their own business. And the sum, you know, for your own business? Between 20,000 and 40,000 dollars. Is it possible for even a small business today to start a 20-40,000 business? Next up, the housing problem. A total of 1,300 apartments are scheduled to be given to the families of military personnel in the current year, but 46,000 military personnel have been in line for several years. At this rate, we're going to be giving people housing for 50 years. Today, this is one of the problems that people do not always want to go and serve. As a result, respected colleagues, many today have offered to attach a certain percentage of GDP to the financing of the army. We believe that financing should be linked, not to mythical defenses, but to specific needs, particularly social protection, because building a real army and bringing NATO standards closer is, first of all, respect for the general, but respect for the soldier. And it would be both right and right in all respects to tie a certain percentage if we were talking about GDP today, for example, directly to the social protection of a Ukrainian soldier. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-19-m1.u21	Thank you for the talk. Please, Opposition Block, National Deputy Alexander Doubenkov. Let's have a word with you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-19-m1.u22	Respectable Ukrainian citizens! Dear colleagues! The Opposition Block faction won't support the bill, not because we think that military personnel don't need social protection. Of course, all categories of the population need increased social protection, but that bill and that bill, which has been enacted in violation of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules on the so-called occupation, does not create any conditions for real peace in Ukraine. We are constantly talking about the return of territories, with no statements from the coalition echoing the support of the Ukrainian citizens who are in the controlled territory who want to return to Ukraine, the Ukrainian family. We show in our own examples how we do not perceive the problems of those people, how we conduct procedures that make it even more difficult for them to obtain social protection. For example, this is about the verification of pensioners. More than 1.5 million pensioners from temporarily uncontrollable areas of Donetsk, Lugansk regions, who have the status of internally displaced persons, have been deprived of the possibility of a greater part of them, some 900,000, deprived of the possibility of adequate pension insurance through the establishment of the Groysman government in 16 years of verification. Just think about it, we're talking about the economy of Ukraine's 17 billion-dollar pension fund, but unfortunately it's not the economy of Ukraine's Pension Fund, it's the underpayment and failure by the State to fulfil its constitutional obligations to ensure proper pensions for the relevant category of citizens. So we suggest we look at this problem in the complex. Increase in social security as a result of the armed conflict in eastern Ukraine. Increase in the social security of internally displaced persons, as a minimum, at least grant the right to a tax reduction on rented housing, at least granting the right to purchase housing credits on premium terms compared to those of ATO participants. Because one category is given these guarantees, the other category is not guaranteed at all. Although this category has left its homes in the eastern part of the country and is now forced to live in a rented home in another controlled territory of Ukraine. That's why we're suggesting that we don't develop populism, that we don't throw the marked guilt at each other in terms of factions, that there was a big coalition in 2014, and I want to remind some of the people who forgot, "European Ukraine." And here, with these smiling faces on TV, they were talking about building a country.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-19-m1.u23	Thank you. From the Radical Party of Oleg Lazko.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-19-m1.u24	Oleg Lazko Radical Party. I regret that, knowing that we are about to perform, our distinguished colleague Irina Heratschenko came out, came out, softly put. The first Vice Speaker calls us a faction of populists. The First Vice Speaker calls people who come to Parliament to demand the implementation of the Constitution and laws, populists. I don't see anything populistic about 250 coal miners coming and asking for basics to pay for their hard work. I don't see anything populistic about stopping buying imported coal, like the authorities did last year -- $3 billion was bought into imported coal. Instead, they cannot find a billion dollars to launch a new mine in the Volin region. They can't find one and a half billion dollars in investments in the Redwater Coal Mine. They can't find the money to pay the miners from Selidewwogil and other state associations. If populism is for Ukrainians to have a job and a decent salary in their home country rather than to be collected abroad on the poles of Poland, or pots behind the Europeans in Portugal have been paid. Yeah, I'm the biggest populist because I want Ukrainians to live in their country, because I want millions of people who haven't seen their children in years, once on Christmas or Easter to send messages, send money, I want them to see their children every day. And we're proposing a policy that allows them to work and live in their own country. And we're told that populism is for peasants to have farming in the village instead of trading grain. Last year 43 million tons of grains were sold and they say let's sell the land once the peasants have finished. Here we are, laughing at Vice Speaker and everyone else when we're talking to cows in this Parliament, because they grew up on asphalt, and they don't know that the country family lives on cow, milk, cream, vegetables, potatoes that cost 3 kips. And these are all eaten up in their knee-to-fee dresses and heels, funny to them and the cow, funny to them from the miners, funny to what we say about the land we can't sell, so we're surprised that we live like this. Because the whole world is fighting for jobs for its people, for its place in the global economy, for its market, for its external markets, and we're giving it all away, but we're showing that we in Europe have once a year had an unconventional parade. The parade should be one in Sevastopol, in Donetsk and Lugansk, a triumphant parade.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-19-m1.u25	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say, first of all, that Irina Heraszczenko did not mention any faction in her speech, and, at the same time, I want to remind you that at the time we were holding the session, and there were tough events on the street, Irina Heraszczenko went out with an initiative group and held negotiations. When we have a debate, when we have a question to solve, we have to decide here in the room by discussion and by voting, that's how it's supposed to happen. And Irina Heratschenko needs to thank you for helping her set up a dialogue with people who were on the street during the session. Thank you. From the People's Front, Berez Yuri Mikolaiovich gives Burbak his word, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-19-m1.u26	Dear colleagues! I appeal to all the deputies to return to the Hall and vote in favour of the bill. Well, maybe it's very technical for someone, but for us, for the People's Front, it's very principled. Because for our faction, what's really important is the adoption of those bills that relate to national security and defence and the social protection of our soldiers who are now protecting our country. Instead, I have heard statements today from a faction that feeds all Ukraine with political garbage and not just political garbage, that it is not necessary to bind the financing of our security and defense to a percentage of the gross domestic product. That might remind you, dear colleagues who are not coming out of Washington that all NATO countries should finance their national security and defence at least 2 percent of GDP. And we in Ukraine are making more than 5 percent of the decisions that have been made, the Yatsenuk government, more than three years ago. And we're in every budget -- this is the People's Front -- financing national security and defense at least 5 percent of gross domestic product. And as long as we represent the interests of our participants in combat in the ATO area, as long as we protect them, this rule will work. So, my fellow Members, once again I ask you to vote in favour of this bill and to re-adopt it, because there are now a number of national security and defence bills. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-19-m1.u27	Thank you. From Peter Prashenko's Block, Arthur Gerasimov is invited to the floor. Please, three minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-19-m1.u28	Dear Andrey Volodymyrovich! Dear colleagues! You know, you've just been surprised to hear the performance where we heard the attacks on First Vice Speaker Irina Heratschenko. Because when she was really tense in front of Parliament this morning, and this is still a mild situation, it was Irina Heratschenko who went out to the rallyers. I talked to them, I took a completely constructive position, and then, you know, the Supreme Council had negotiations with the rallyers. When, really, thanks to Irina Heratchenko and the representatives of the Peter Prashenko Block, among other things, and other factions, because Alexander Tretlyakov, the committee leader of our faction, was present, there was a constructive, I emphasize, constructive position regarding those requirements, as these people demanded. So I would like that in this room, when we are united in order to adopt very important laws for the state, we respect those who do not just the right things, and sometimes things that very many deputies in this room do not do something about it: somehow they don't go to rallyers, somehow they don't want to communicate with them, and somehow they don't go to the front of a lot of people from this room, you know, we've said it over and over and over again. And I want to remind you that Irina Heratschenko not only went out to the rallyers today, but she's on the front page almost every week. So, your honorary colleagues, unity in this room is successful and effective when we work for the state, and when there are speeches that aren't good enough, I would like to finally just apologize to Irina Herashchenko for the performances that have been heard today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-19-m1.u29	So, colleagues, the factions are finished. Now, nine minutes from the people's deputies, and then we're going to vote, which is an extremely important law. And I'm asking the factions in nine minutes to invite MPs into the hall. And those national deputies who wish to participate in the discussion, please record and sign up for the presentation. Korchinska Oksana Anatolovna, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-19-m1.u30	Praise Jesus Christ! It was very embarrassing for yesterday's events when the National Police, in order to protect a very narrow environment that was really necessary for the West and for the picture, beat our patriot children, beat our Christian children and beat our ATO veterans. What's going on in this room is no doubt important to us. It's a technical law that just changes all of ours. adds that this is already being done by the United Nations operation and that we are no doubt all of us supporting it. There is one flaw that we as parliament have not yet accepted. We haven't passed a law that supports and gives status to our volunteers, those heroic boys and girls who are four years of war -- especially the 14th, the 15th, the 16th, who died along with our Armed Forces, who took the wounded along with our Armed Forces, border guards and special forces, the IMF and still their status has not been decided on for four years. There are three bills and we need to resolve this situation as a parliament. There's a bill of a profile committee, there's two alternate bills that also represent war veterans. We need to figure out the fate of our boys. It is not possible for them to continue to be deprived of our protection and the ability to protect their Fatherland on the front. We've got volunteers today helping us with medicine, they're helping us today, we've got two seriously injured people: one guy's limbs, legs, another serious wound, a sniper to the head. Volunteers are helping us today, military medics are saving their lives. Military helicopters are evacuating them today, receiving our brothers from the civilian hospitals of our boys. We are the only team, this room should help as the Armed Forces of Ukraine, like all our heroes from other structures, including volunteers. We have to put a dot to legalize our boys and girls in order to make them official to us and we are protected, especially the families of those who have died or are seriously injured. It can't be that we can't handle four years. And the painful question for us is this article in the Criminal Code, which we are now a few days from now, we can't take away the bodies of our boys who died because they died during the fight. If a volunteer died, it was a disaster. So I'm very much asking Parliament on Thursday to vote on the relevant laws so as not to torture our families of our dead body-bearing heroes, because now it's a terrible situation. Even if.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-19-m1.u31	30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-19-m1.u32	I very much ask my fellow parliamentarians to uphold any law and remove this flaw from the Criminal Code, which does not allow us to treat with respect our heroes who died in war. We all blamed them. We blamed all the fighters of the Ukrainian Armed Forces. We blamed the National Guard fighters for helping us. We blamed the volunteers. Glory to Ukraine and glory to our boys on the front!
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-19-m1.u33	Litvin Volodymyr Mihajlovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-19-m1.u34	Dear National Deputies! It is clear that this law should be adopted, but apparently the discussion of this law shows that the problem of social security, including military personnel, needs to be addressed more widely. I hear there's a lot of tears coming out of the negotiations, and they're going to make the right decisions. The question is: And you voted and stopped all the benefits, and you canceled them with one moss, one law. So turn back, cancel this law, and then talk. [[B in m in s a l in]] Today. How you love me. So demonstrate this love of yours. That's the first one. And the second. I can see he's giving up. is given as a huge feat that came out to the people. So now we have to go out to people all over the country. I say we've blocked the Kiev-Chop route because they killed ecology. Nobody's going out with people. For two years, this epoch lasts, covers up the owners of this business, the "Ponninkow Paper Factory". But I'll tell you, dear colleagues, they do what they do right, and in the way they know they should defend and defend their rights. And it's about principle. Today, I was surprised to see some of the laws that should be taken care of by 20 people in the country, by operatic virgins. Maybe you should. I'm not shooting, I'm not throwing pearls. Obviously, these people need to be cared for. But notice, by April 26, on the first reading, two laws on the status of the Chernobylites had been passed. They noticed, reported that they had taken into account the problems of the Chernobyl family and immediately forgot! The moon has two laws that have been prepared that would allow at least some of the losses suffered by the black people to be compensated. Instead of talking, I suggest you take it and put it on the schedule. And we're going to consider, we're going to vote for this. And I want to tell some colleagues, you don't have to tell them what we're up to. Go to the Emylczyn region of the Žitomir region, 80 percent of those affected by Chernobyl, and tell them what you are doing and what you are doing in this regard. I'm simply proposing and demanding that we today, after considering this package of national security bills, consider two laws: Registration Number 6656 and Law 6230 and make a decision. And then you'll be yelling, yelling and shoving about something. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-19-m1.u35	Melniczuk Sergey Petrovich, please. And, colleagues, this is a closing statement. I'm asking everyone to come to the hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-19-m1.u36	Good afternoon, colleagues! Indeed, the war that is taking place in our territory has divided society, united society, and then some try to break it up again. People who have gone from the first days to defend our territorial integrity should receive appropriate benefits. And you and I have to be on guard to get people as fighters, as volunteers, like, for example, those who help, the locals, all have to get their own. And what happened today under the walls of Parliament shows that those who did their duty in their own time remained unprotected just as they would remain unprotected volunteers who now stand up for the country, just as these officers, like the police, would all remain unprotected. And there is the Constitution of Ukraine, which guarantees their protection. And we have to do everything we can to protect, every political force that started the elections, she guaranteed them, she said that we would fight for it. But what we see is, even before the last budget -- people, the same people who were here today, the person who came out here and read the protestors' troubles, he misled them, he led the choirs and wouldn't let them go to parliament and still stand up for their rights, duties to include a decent pension, worthy of benefits. Like others, one declaration goes and another vote for another. Today, the fourth day of the Idar Volunteers, there's no information, there's four missing in the Odessa Association. Four days neither family nor close, nor lawyers can reach where the boys are missing. Chief of Security, I'm calling you from this rostrum. Count this to my MP question, where did the boys go? Give me an answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-19-m1.u37	Thank you. So the discussion is over. We're moving on to making a decision. I'm asking everyone to come into the hall. Colleagues in the matter of social benefits for ATO soldiers Mr. Alexander, will you speak the closing word? A closing word? Instead of the closing word, Alexander passes it on to John Krulka. Please, Mr. Ivan, one minute. And I'd like everyone to come into the hall and invite the deputies into the hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-19-m1.u38	Ivan Krulko, "The Fatherland" faction. Dear colleagues, under this bill, the "Fatherland" faction has determined to support it. But this bill provides for, among other things, permission to import unregistered medical supplies from foreign states in Ukraine and on "for the purpose of health care and national security and defence." We think that this point is questionable and may contain corruptive factors. We know how to import unregistered medical devices. So a request from the faction. In order for this bill to be voted on as a whole, we are ready for such a vote, to withdraw this paragraph from the bill and then to vote on the basis and as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-19-m1.u39	Mr. Alexander, do you mind? Please, 30 seconds of replica.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-19-m1.u40	I don't deny it, don't let that happen. I just don't know where he is. But if it is, it's some kind of technical error.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-19-m1.u41	What's the point number?
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-19-m1.u42	I'm definitely against that point.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-19-m1.u43	Let's move on to making a decision. Everyone please come into the hall. Everyone, please prepare for the vote. All right. [[B in m in s a l in]] Tell me the number, I'll give her a call right away. Tell me the number. So I'm voting on the draft Act amending some of Ukraine's laws in connection with the adoption of the Ukrainian Law on the Specialities of State Policy, which provides for the State Sovereignty of Ukraine and temporarily occupied territories in the Donetsk and Lugansk areas. (No. 8293) Please vote, please support. Colleagues, we vote. We're backing it up. Please be supportive. Vote. [[16:48:08]] For 221 I'll put it back, but I'm asking the heads of factions and members of the committee to invite deputies into the hall. Please stop the discussion during the vote. Take up jobs. Members of the committee, help us to bring the national MPs. So I'm going to put the return first, and then I'm going to put the law back in place. I am voting on the proposal to return to the vote in favour of draft Law 8293. Every voice is important, so I ask you to come back from bed and vote for the return. Please vote, please support. Vote. Please be supportive. [[16:49:13]] For 231 We're back. Everyone, please remain seated. And I'm voting on the draft Law 8293 with Krulka's bill, which he has written under the transcript, on the basis of and in general with technical legal rights. Please vote, please support. Every voice. Please vote. We're backing it up. Vote. [[16:49:45.]] For 236 236. The law is passed. The next Act 8349 is a bill amending Chapter XX of the Code of Taxation of Ukraine. And I'm asking you to support the proposal for a reduced procedure. These are very short and technical laws. I ask you to support the consideration of the reduced procedure. Vote. Please be supportive. [[16:50:23]] For-151 Decision taken. And I invite you to the report of the Ukrainian national deputy Vinnik Ivan Juliusovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-19-m1.u44	Good afternoon, dear fellows! All of you remember that the operation, the antiterrorist operation, was halted and the operation of the United Nations was initiated in the order prescribed by the Law on Decupation. Our contingent is taking steps to ensure national security, to deter and counter the Russian Federation's armed aggression in the east of the country. The legislators, i.e. we, at the time of the anti-terrorist operation in the Tax and Customs Codes, introduced a whole range of benefits, starting with the exemption from the taxation of certain goods, are about helmets, armoured vests, destroyers, cartridges, shells, and so forth, by continuing, in fact, that the military officers who are serving in the course of the anti-terror operation have been relieved of the payment of the military assembly. In view of the fact that the antiterrorist operation had ceased, the benefits were automatically lost. Today, there is a very unpleasant situation where military personnel who protect the country from the Russian Federation, from the Russian Federation's armed aggression, pay the military assembly out of their money, and we have to stop this situation immediately. In this regard, it is a technical project to amend the Ukrainian Tax Code, which will organize the same benefits that existed during the anti-terrorist operation in the areas of clearance and taxation of wage insurance. And they will be extended to a period of national security and defence measures, the interception and deterrence of the Russian Federation’s armed aggression in the Donetsk and Lugansk areas carried out through the United Nations operation. The same thing, the next bill refers to changes to the Customs Code, it's derivative. Please now support this on the basis and in general. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-19-m1.u45	Thank you. The co-report invites the head of the Committee on Tax and Customs Policy, Nina Petrovna, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-19-m1.u46	Dear colleagues! Dear Lord Chairman! In support of the whole idea of the bill, the Ukrainian National Deputies drew attention to the need to address the issue of the application of legislative norms, which have been supplemented by the bill since the beginning of the national security measures, and to the defence, repression and deterrence of the armed aggression of the Russian Federation in the Donetsk and Lugansk areas and to the taking of effect of the changes made to the Tax Code. In view of what was suggested in the bill to provide for a transitional rule that would recognize the rules of application during the specified period of legislative rules that the bill provides for amendments to the transcript. The committee proposes chapter III of the bill after paragraph 1 to add a new paragraph to the following content: "The provisions of section I of this Act amending section XX "Transitional positions" of the Ukrainian Tax Code apply to tax periods starting on May 1, 2018." Taking into account what has been said, the Committee decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine a draft Act amending Chapter XX "Transitional positions" of the Tax Code, submitted by the People's Deputies, to be adopted as a basis and, as a whole, as a law, with the proposal of the Committee, please support the position of the Committee. And I also ask the Head of the Supreme Council to entrust the Chief Legal Authority of the Supreme Council and the Committee on Tax and Customs Policy to prepare the text of the law for signature by the Head of the Supreme Council, taking into account technical and legal rights.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-19-m1.u47	Thank you. So, colleagues, technical but extremely important law, and I'm asking you to have a discussion right now, and support it. Please record: two in, two in. Vinnik, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-19-m1.u48	I would like to thank the committee, indeed, it is a very important amendment that the tax period starts on May 1, that is the date when the operation of the United Nations began and the actual financial security that is to be paid by the Ukrainian military does not have to be subject to taxation by the military congregation itself. This will resolve the coalitions that are now facing the financial department of the Ministry of Defence and other military formations, which today provide a deterrent and deterrence of Russian aggression against our state. Please support the committee as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-19-m1.u49	Thank you. Danchenko Alexander Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-19-m1.u50	In our faction there is a reference to this bill. That's why we won't support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-19-m1.u51	Husak Vladimir Georgievicz, "The Opposition Block". He's handing over Natalia to the Queen. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-19-m1.u52	Dear colleagues! The Opposition Block does not support this technical bill. Because we think today is a day we've lost when we're looking at purely technical and not prime drafts. We address you, today Parliament allows the government to make decisions that destroy people's wishes in our country. Every day, the number of people leaving our country is increasing. Why? And because the government is making decisions every day that are against Ukrainian citizens today. The first example is subsidies. They immediately made a decision obliging all who received the grants to go and go through the re-delegation procedure. But first of all, I want to draw your attention to the displaced. By this decree, all displaced persons in our country are required by the government to re-assign subsidies. The next step the government takes. They take the 335 Order that they now require pensioners, resettled persons to undergo a separate identification and to freeze the full payment of pensions not paid in the previous months or years. 365 By decree today, the government is conducting checks on all displaced persons in their homes. Ladies and gentlemen, why do we today apply such genocide to people who are Ukrainian citizens and who have come to their country? I would like to ask you immediately to consider Bill 6692 on Resettlement Pensions and Residents in Unsupervised Territory and Bill 6240 on the right to vote. But to the government, it is urgent to review decrees 365 and 335, which are now being abused by Ukrainian citizens into an anti-constitutional one.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-19-m1.u53	Thank you. So, colleagues, now we're going to have a closing statement. I particularly appeal to coalition factions to maximize the mobilization of all national MPs, an extremely important law. There will be two more speeches from the Radical Party, please invite everyone to the hall. First from Fatherland, Alexander Kugel, and then from the Radical Party. Please, Mrs. Alexandro.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-19-m1.u54	Alexander Kugel, "The Fatherland" faction. First of all, it's a shame to say it's a technical bill. It's just that when we accepted these benefits for those who will fight and defend the sovereignty and independence of the country, we heard the President speak that the war will be over in three months. We gave three years, it's been four years. And it's not a technical decision, it's a verdict for the President-in-Office -- that the war isn't over. Second, since May 1st, we have been supporting part of the military's failure to pay the military. But the question is, I'm very surprised that they call it the introduction of VAT benefits. If you'll excuse me, then I'd like to ask you a question. If you're buying armored vests in Ukraine, there's a VAT paid from the budget, who's not paying VAT on the supply of the Mino-Defense premium? Is that what we leave for individual commercial operations? We'll hold back for adopting this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-19-m1.u55	The Radical Party is Oleg Lazko.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-19-m1.u56	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Me and my team, we were the authors of the Law on the Cancellation of a Half - Percent Congregation from the Wages of Soldiers. I remember the history of this law. Sergey Skuratowski and me and Dmitr Link went to the front and stopped in Kharkiv district at the gas station. There the woman made coffee, and we met her, and she told us that her husband was serving the front, and her husband's salary was calculated by the military congregation, and she wasn't given a subsidy because the income she had with her husband's salary didn't allow her to charge subsidies, so the idea of the law came up. And I thank my colleague Sergio Pashinsky, everyone from the Security Committee who supported this bill. The questions of protecting Ukrainian military personnel, people who risk their lives every day, health are not technical questions, it's a question of responsibility, it's a question of conscience and it's a question of morality. Because thanks to our heroes, our protectors give us the opportunity to live and work today. Therefore, it is the duty of the Ukrainian Parliament to enact maximum laws designed to have a social army, a strong defence, strong national security, and strong social protection. The key to all of this is economics, economic development. There'll be money, there'll be jobs, there'll be high salaries in Ukrainian citizens -- there'll be money for the army, there'll be diplomacy, there'll be defense, there'll be national security. That's why I'm calling on Parliament to support all laws aimed at protecting, supporting the army, the military and supporting all the laws proposed by the Radical Party's team to restore the country's economy, support the national producer, increase wages and pensions, on.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-19-m1.u57	Thank you. So let's move on to making a decision. I'm asking everyone to take up jobs. I ask you to prepare for the vote and invite all the deputies to the hall. And I'm voting on the draft Act amending Chapter XX of the Tax Code of Ukraine (relationships related to the implementation of national security and defence measures, the secession and deterrence of the Russian Federation's armed aggression in the Donetsk and Lugansk areas) (No 8349), on the proposal of the committee, on the basis and overall, of the Committee's proposals and with technical and legal rights. Please vote. Please be supportive. Colleagues, every voice! Vote! Then you make a deal. Vote, then make a deal. Please vote, please support. Vote. [[17:03:17]] For 229 The law is passed. Colleagues, there'll be another law now, don't split. But before that, I'll give you my word. Two factions applied for a break, but they were ready to change the break for the performance. Please, Roman Semenach, three minutes, and then we go to the next law, identical to the previous one. Please, Roman Semenich, three minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-19-m1.u58	Semenha Roman, "The Self-Help Union" faction. Dear colleagues! Dear Mr. Head! During the days, the National Bank of Ukraine acknowledged that the government's plans this year after coming into the state budget from privatization are unfortunately unrealistic, there is a huge risk that this will not happen. Let me remind you that there are 22 billion dollars planned in this year's budget. This is, by the way, four times more than in the last four years, privatized by the governments of Yatsenuk and Groysman. Self-help in considering budgets in this room insisted, colleagues, that these were unrealistic macroeconomic indicators coming from privatization. We asked the Prime Minister the structure of 22 billion dollars, instead of the conscious answer we didn't hear. But the Prime Minister's public assurance was that critical infrastructure and strategic objects would not be privatized. Now it's very important to understand what's going on. During the "hours of questions to the government," the Self-Help faction asks the Prime Minister why a unique Kharkiv state-owned company called Turboat was placed before the privatisation. To which Vladimir Borisovich publicly replied that it had been sold. Only 25 percent will be put on sale in such a way that the state retains the controlling stock. I have in my hands an order from the State Property Fund to execute a decree of the Cabinet of Ministers, where 75 percent is put on sale, that is, the state wants to sell fully with Turboat. I'm pointing out, colleagues, that it's not just a unique enterprise, it's a profitable enterprise that pays off several hundred million dividends regularly to the state budget. This is a stable job paid by three and a half thousand Harkians. So you need to know what Turbot is today. Turboat produces unique quiet turbines, supplies to hydro, heat and nuclear power plants. This is a strategic object not only of Ukrainian energy but also of the Ukrainian economy. The plant has fourth place in the world among worry companies and covers 13 percent of the supply of turbines to the AES. We believe that it is unacceptable to fill the national budget by privatizing strategic objects. Moreover, it resembles the dembel chord of the current power before the next presidential and parliamentary elections. The Self-Help faction has drafted a bill and calls on all colleagues to join us where we have drawn up a list and a list of objects, including Turboatom and other critical infrastructure objects, which are absolutely unacceptable to privatize in the current and the following years. We also address the President of the country, within our powers, to suspend the Cabinet of Ministers' decision, to appeal to the Constitutional Court to assess the conformity of the Constitution. I am, by the way, pointing out to you, my fellow honors, that in 2008 such an application regarding Turboatom was already made by President of Ukraine, Victor Yushchenko. Nope.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-19-m1.u59	30 seconds to complete.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-19-m1.u60	The sale of strategic objects during war cannot be allowed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-19-m1.u61	Thank you. So, colleagues, I'm asking everyone to come into the hall. I want to tell you right now, the next one is Bill 8350, which is actually identical to the previous law. And after that, the daytime session will be in order. So after the next bill, there's going to be a chapter about getting into the agenda of the day session. That's about 20 questions, and we can't get past them. So I'm going to ask everyone to mobilize so we can have the maximum presence in the room. And now I'm asking you to support the proposal that we consider draft Law 8350 as a reduced procedure. Please vote and please support. Support me, colleagues, short-circuited procedure. [[17:07:51]] For a hundred and Decision taken. And I invite you to the report of the Ukrainian national deputy Vinnik Ivan Juliusovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-19-m1.u62	Dear colleagues, thank you all for supporting the changes to the Tax Code that we just voted on. The military forces of the Ukrainian Armed Forces and other military formations will not pay the military assembly for the period of the operation of the United Nations in accordance with the national security arrangements that are being carried out today during the secession and deterrence of Russian aggression against our nation. In addition, we cancelled VAT on imports of certain goods or components of defence supplies. This project that we're looking at right now, registration number 8350, is a derivative. This is about lifting the benefits of certain categories of goods that are now used to produce vests, helmets, or special categories of defenses in Ukraine. Please support it on the basis and in general, there's no need to go back to the beginning of the tax period, because it's about the goods that will be imported now and in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-19-m1.u63	Thank you, Your Honor. And I invite you to report to the head of the Tax Committee, Nina Yuzanin. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-19-m1.u64	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that in the two bills, we have chosen exactly the benefits that we need to consider and accept as to their extension. And as you've noted, it's the preservation of existing benefits from the payment of military revenues in the form of cash collateral, VAT tax benefits for import operations into customs territory, and the provision of a number of special means on customs territory. And that's all. Now there's a working group on the committee that's looking at all the other benefits, and there's a lot of them that involved either the ATOs or the ATOs. We want to go through everyone carefully and only then take them to the hall. So now there are only three benefits. Therefore, the bill, which has just been reported, refers to the exemption from import duty, and when considered by the Committee on Tax and Customs Policy, recommends Bill 8350 to accept as a basis and in general, taking into account the following rights. With a view to taking into account the proposals contained in the Bill of Registration No. 8383 of the People's Deputies of Ukraine, Tretlyakiv and others, on persons with disabilities, we propose that the Bill of Registration No. 8350 be supplemented by a new paragraph 1 of this content: paragraph 18 of the first section of Article 380 of the Customs Code of Ukraine should be drafted as follows: "One wheelchair for persons with disabilities.".. It's a technical correction, we have to fix it immediately. "For every person with disabilities who crosses the customs border of Ukraine, and in the absence of such a person, there is no more than one thing." The other one. To supplement the bill with a new paragraph 4 of the following content: "The provisions of paragraph 2 of the Act concerning amendments to paragraph 4 p.m. Chapter XXI of the Customs Code applies from May 1, 2018. Third. The title of the bill in connection with the proposed amendments is: "To amend the Ukrainian Customs Code for the clarification of individual provisions." Four. For.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-19-m1.u65	Please finish the minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-19-m1.u66	In view of the soundings of paragraphs 1, 2, 3 of Bill 8350, consider paragraphs 2, 3, 5 accordingly. Please, with these sound rights and with technical legal proceedings, adopt Law 8350 as a basis and as a whole.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-19-m1.u67	Thank you, Mrs. Nina. Colleagues, I'm asking you to sign up for a discussion right now from the factions. Please. Please, Sergey Pashinsky. They'll come out of the place. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-19-m1.u68	I want to thank everyone for supporting the previous bill. It's practically a mirror bill, and it solves very specific problems in three ways. At the moment, we're blocked from purchasing 120 million dollars of armor because there was no VAT in the budget. I address every deputy, it's not even a weapon, it's the protection of our soldiers. Support this bill, and let's unlock this disgraceful page for us that we can't settle this issue in the next month. Thank you all.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-19-m1.u69	Thank you for your position. Please, Alexandra Kugel invites me to the word "Fatherland" faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-19-m1.u70	Alexander Kugel, Fatherland. Madam Chairman, I'd like to propose a very short cut in time, this is really a repetition of the first bill, but it's already part of the customs forms. And that's why this bill needs to be supported. And thank you, Mrs. Jujanini, for making a major adjustment to some people with disabilities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-19-m1.u71	And thank you so much for the design. Please, Oleg Lazko of the Radical Party. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-19-m1.u72	Our team will support this bill aimed at strengthening the protection of our military personnel. But at the same time, I want to draw the attention of the society and the Ukrainian Parliament to another equally important problem -- 2 million displaced people, Ukrainian citizens, Donbassians, Luhanščina, Donetskina, Crimea, who, through Russian occupation, lost their homes, jobs, their benefits, their roots actually lost on their homeland and were forced to leave through the Russian occupation. Does the Ukrainian State, the Ukrainian authorities, pay attention to the problems of displaced persons, address these problems, protect the families of displaced persons, children, employment, housing? I can answer that question. No, it's not. Regrettably, in many cities, local authorities view displaced persons as almost strangers. God does not allow anyone to be displaced. God does not let anyone in the land of their homeland hang around without a house of their own. The city of Mariupol and the city authorities of Mariupol, who invest in housing construction, employment, and housing, are examples. I address all the city and village heads, don't take the movers as enemies, they're our Ukrainian brothers and sisters who need our support and our help. I'm calling on the government to provide for the reconstruction of former abandoned hospitals, schools, kindergartens. Before winter, set up windows, doors, batteries, and give people the opportunity to come and live. Children's kindergartens so they can give their children away. They can't give up without the mud. Voting rights for displaced persons. When 2 million people are deprived of their voting rights. We demand the right to vote for these people. Above all, it is the restoration of peace.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-19-m1.u73	We're done. Thank you for the talk. Please, Mrs. Natalia Královska invites you to her word.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-19-m1.u74	Dear colleagues, we are considering a very important issue. But I want to support the previous speech in that there are questions today that are the most painful and need to be considered first. In a few weeks, Parliament will take a break, but the issue of protecting peaceful citizens affected today from war will remain open. And according to UNICEF, more than 500,000 children from the Lugansk and Donetsk regions need immediate humanitarian assistance, and 200,000 live right next to the collision line. But unfortunately, for four years we haven't accepted you, really, for protection, for support, and just haven't taken care of these kids. The Social Policy Committee last week had a field meeting in the city of Audiavku, and we prepared draft decisions. There is a draft ruling, which is unfortunately not considered by Parliament, but which is unanimously supported by the professional committees is 8255. Three more years ago, we prepared and representatives of various factions signed Bill 4794 on the status and social protection of civilians affected by the East War and 6,510 on amending certain laws on the protection and support of children affected. Dear colleagues, every day we see the government making decisions that are even more problematic for these people today. And once again, I want to remind you, this is the 365th draft where they today demand people and abuse them by their own checks. The government's decree 335 is a decree when people are now being deprived of their debts. We demand an immediate report from the government on the issues of subsidies and on the issues they are constantly asking.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-19-m1.u75	30 seconds, please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-19-m1.u76	We now demand a government report on migration issues and subsidies, because this policy is now creating a social collapse in the country. Why do they do it, you might understand it better, but today they are artificially making their unprofessional decisions to want people to go out on the street. And today’s examples were evidence of that today. That's why we're talking to the chairman, urgent.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-19-m1.u77	Thank you, your time is up. Colleagues, please, prior to Sergey Shahov's statement, ask for the floor from his group, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-19-m1.u78	Sergey Shahov, the political power of Our End. Dear colleagues, I myself am a migrant, today the settlers are begging under the offices of officials and cannot reach them, not only can they not see them, they can't hear them. On every side of the problem, the Ministry of Social Policy has decided, at the expense of the people of Lugansk and Donetsk, Crimea to solve and fill the budget, the lack of 200 billion dollars of the Pension Fund at the expense of those areas. To date, people in the Pension Fund cannot really reach and hear when they are paid their pensions. The movers are thrown away on their own, the kids aren't taking the kids to school today, and it's not like all the first-class kids, all the first-class girls, aren't going to go to first-class. Next. To what time is the Ministry of Social Policy going to be bullying the movers, running them around the houses, and they're going to have to put hand-held electronics on their feet today, aren't they Ukrainians? Your Honor, you can't let that happen. "Our country" against today's genocide of immigrants who are Ukrainians. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-19-m1.u79	Colleagues, I think, all the factions that signed up for the discussion and those groups that were added to this letter, the speakers used their right to speak, to discuss the bill. We have a consolidating position on this bill. I'm asking everyone to go back to work, literally in 30 seconds, there's going to be a vote for this bill. I'm asking you very much to go back to the workplace now, and we're going to go to the vote for Bill 8350. This is a draft law amending section XXI, paragraph 4-1, of the Customs Code of Ukraine on relations related to national security and defence measures, repression and deterrence of armed aggression by the Russian Federation in the Donetsk and Lugansk areas.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-19-m1.u80	Please vote, please support. Take your seats, I'll wait 30 seconds, please. Get to your seats. And, fellows, out of bed, that's the right law, boys. Lord, Andrew, back up, it's the right law. So, colleagues, 8,350 at the suggestion of a committee on the basis and in general, taking into account the committee's proposals. Please vote and please support. Vote! Please be supportive. Vote. [[17:21:22]] For the 220. We didn't make it. I'll put it back, but please take all your jobs. Show by factions: "Block of Petra Poshenko" – 95, "National Front" – 59, "Block of Opposition" – 0, "Help" – 16, "Pradical Party – 14, "Fathership" – 7, "Will of the People" – 5, "Party of Rebirth" – 1. Colleagues, please mobilize, please, I'm going to make an offer to return now, and you're going to have to pay attention if everyone is in their seats. So that when we vote, we don't go on the floor. We vote. So I'm putting the vote back to the vote for bill 8350, and I'm asking everyone to support and participate carefully in the vote. We vote, we vote, we vote, we vote, we vote, we vote, we vote, we vote, Please be supportive. [[17:22:32]] For 227 We're back, but there's a minimum number of votes, so I'm asking you not to leave the room, get ready for the vote. And I'm putting Bill 8350 on the ground and in general taking into account the committee's proposals. Please vote and ask everyone to vote, do not leave the hall, Oksano. If you'll excuse me, I'd like to vote. Vote. Oksana, we vote. [[17:23:20]] For 229 The law is passed. Colleagues, it's a day-to-day session block. On the Conciliation Board, dozens of deputies turn to the issue of getting the day’s session into order. Now I'm going to call the numbers and the names and suggest that we put in the order of the day session, the session. So the first is the draft Act amending article 12 of the Ukrainian Act on Social and Legal Protection of Military Servants and Members of Their Families. Please support the inclusion in the agenda of the day session. Please vote, please support. Vote. All these laws were long ago posted on the site, and everyone was able to get to know them. [[17:24:18]] For 210 Next is the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Terrorism Act (No. 8337). Please vote in favour of the inclusion of the day session, please support. Vote. [[17:24:56]] For 208 Next is a draft Act amending some Ukrainian legislation to address national security threats in the information field (No. 6688). Include in the agenda of the day session. Please vote, please support, please support. [[17:25:33]] For 172 The decision is not taken. Colleagues, we are now dealing with cultural issues, perhaps they will unite us. I ask that you carefully and enter the hall and take part in the vote. Do not divorce when the voting is done. Next is the draft Law on Movement across the State Border of Ukraine of Cultural Values (8021). Include in the agenda of the day session. Please vote, please support. Vote, please. [[17:26:13]] For-191 The decision is not taken. Next is a draft Act amending the Ukrainian Code of Taxation in connection with the adoption of the Ukrainian Law on Movement across the State Border of Cultural Values (8022).
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-19-m1.u81	I know. May I vote in favour of the 8022 agenda, please support. [[17:26:48]] For 172 The next is a draft law amending the Ukrainian Customs Code in connection with the adoption of the Ukrainian Law on Movement across the State Border of Cultural Values (8023) is a binding law. Anyone who supports the inclusion of the day session, please vote. [[17:27:19]] For-163 Colleagues, what's going on? Let's do it again. Attention! There will now be a draft decree to perpetuate the memory of the First cosmonaut of Ukraine, Leonid Cadenuk, a hero of Ukraine (8310). Perhaps this will unite the hall, and we will be able to vote. Colleagues, I'm asking you to support the inclusion in the agenda of the day session. [[B in m in s a l in]] So we can make a decision this week. 8310. And making a decision. Please vote. Please be supportive. Entry into the agenda of the day session for decision-making. Vote. Please be supportive. [[17:28:09]] For 248 148, you see. [[B in m in s a l in]] 248. The hall is united. There's potential. Next. In fact, it's identical. Colleagues, pay attention! Draft Decision on Preparation and Celebration 200 years after the birthday of Pantelemón Alexanderovich Kulish (August 7, 2019). Colleagues, let's join together. Entry into the agenda of the day session for decision-making. Please vote. Let's support it, colleagues. Please be supportive. Vote. Please be supportive. We can be united. [[17:28:52]] For 240 Decision taken. Colleagues, two decisions taken, that's important. Next, I propose a bill amending some Ukrainian legislation to improve the enforcement of the rights of participants in criminal conduct and other persons by law enforcement authorities in the course of a pretrial investigation (8490). Include in the agenda of the day session. Please vote. Please be supportive. [[17:29:32]] For 210 The decision is not made. Next is a bill amending the Ukrainian National Police Act (8339). Please support the inclusion in the agenda of the day session. Please support the inclusion in the agenda of the day session. Please vote [[17:30:02]] For 168 Next is a draft Act amending some Ukrainian legislative acts to improve the procedure for conducting expert studies (8249). Include in the agenda of the day session. Please vote. Please be supportive. [[17:30:32]] For-163 The decision is not taken. Next is a draft Act amending some Ukrainian legislation on strengthening the guarantees of judicial independence and ensuring the proper conduct of judicial and expert activities (8336). Please vote. Please be supportive. Vote. [[17:31:06]] For 223 I'll put it again, we're out of time. I'm putting Bill 8336 in the agenda again. Please vote, please support. We didn't have three votes. Let's vote, colleagues. Please be supportive. Vote. [[17:31:36]] For 229 Decision taken. Next is the draft Act amending article 12-2 of the Ukrainian Nuclear Energy and Radiation Security Act to provide socio-economic compensation for the risk to the population living in observation zones in the united territorial communities (8323). Please support the inclusion in the agenda of the day session. Please vote. [[17:32:17]] For 234 Decision taken. Next is a draft Act amending the Ukrainian Tax Code on Excise Taxation of Light Vehicles (No. 8487). Please support the inclusion in the agenda of the day session. Please vote, please support. [[17:32:55]] For 212 The decision is not taken. Next is a draft law amending the Ukrainian Customs Code and some Ukrainian legislation on the import of means of transport into the customs territory of Ukraine (8488). Include in the agenda of the day session. Please vote, please support. [[17:33:27]] For 216 The decision is not taken. Draft Act amending certain Ukrainian legislative acts in connection with the adoption of the Ukrainian Law on Electronic Trust Services (8462). Please vote, please support the inclusion in the agenda of the session. Please be supportive. Include in the agenda of the day session. [[17:33:58]] For 197 The decision is not taken. The next is the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Higher Education Act to change the system of higher education institutions (8385). Please support the inclusion in the agenda of the day session. Please vote and please support. Please be supportive. [[17:34:34]] For 216 I'll do it again. Calm down, I'll set it up again. And don't leave the room when the vote is off! Well, Peter Dustock's Block, return the MP! So I'm voting on the day-to-day session of the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Higher Education Act (8385), including the day-to-day session. Please vote and please support. Please be supportive. [[17:35:16]] For 223 223. Okay. I'll put the third time in. I'm going to put a final draft of Law 8385 into the agenda of the day session, except for the inclusion in the agenda of the day session. Please vote and please support. Please be supportive. [[17:35:52]] For 215 215. Next is the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on Service in Local Self-Government (8369). Please support the inclusion in the agenda of the day session. Please vote and please support. Vote. [[17:36:22]] For 197 197. The decision is not made. Next. Draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on Public Procurement and certain other legislative acts of Ukraine (8265). Please support the inclusion in the agenda of the day session. Please be supportive. [[17:36:55]] For 175 175. The decision is not made. Next is a draft Act amending some Ukrainian legislation on improving the administration of public property (8225). Please support the inclusion in the agenda of the day session. Please vote, please support. [[17:37:24]] For-143 143. The decision is not made. Next is a bill amending some Ukrainian legislation on improving the financial sector in Ukraine (8331 and 8331-1). Please vote, please support the inclusion in the agenda of the session. [[17:37:55]] For 184 184. The decision is not made. Next is the draft Anti-Corruption Strategy Act for the 18th to 20th years (8324). Please support the inclusion in the agenda of the day session. Please be supportive. [[17:38:23]] For 193 The decision is not made. Next is the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on the State Budget for Ukraine for 2018 (8363). Please support the inclusion in the agenda of the day session. [[17:38:54]] For 190 The decision is not made. Next is the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on the State Budget for Ukraine 2018 on adequate financial security for the State Coal sector (8362). Include in the agenda of the day session. Please be supportive. [[17:39:25]] For 238. Decision taken. The next one is 4521, a draft law amending the Civil Code of Ukraine (for the latter). 4521. Include in the agenda of the day session. Please vote. Please be supportive. Vote. [[17:39:59]] For-143 The decision is not made. Colleagues, now pay attention! Come into the hall! Sergei, come into the hall! We have introduced today the draft Law on the Establishment of a Higher Anticorruption Court (8497). I plan to put it into the agenda of the day session, I look at the committee on Wednesday, and so that we can make a decision on Thursday. I'm asking you to invite everyone into the hall now, so I don't put them at risk, and I'm going to run a rating vote. I'm asking you to notify everyone and now come into the hall. After voting for the order of the day session, as I promised, I'll give you a minute. So, colleagues, here's the bill for the creation of the Higher Anti-Corruption Court. Include in the agenda of the day session. But, colleagues, I don't want to put this vote at risk, I'm going to put the rating vote first. We have no other way than to launch a higher anti-corruption court this week. I understand there aren't many people in the room, so I'll put them on the ratings. The committee, I think, will look into it anyway. I ask everyone to prepare for the vote now, please prepare for the vote. And I'm betting on a rating vote, on a rating! - the issue of the inclusion in the agenda of this week's session of the draft Act on the Establishment of a Higher Anti-Corruption Court (8497). I ask everyone, colleagues, to support and vote for the inclusion in the agenda of the session. Colleagues, every voice, every vote, please vote, please support, please support. The Anti-Corruption Court is a day-to-day session. [[17:42:13]] For 202 Not all of them have made it, I'll put it again. By factions, please: "Clock of Petra Poshenko" – 86, "National Front" – 60, "Occupy Block" – 0, "self-help" – 18, Radical Party – 1, "Fatherhood" – 7, "Will of the People" – 4, "Party of Rebirth" – 2. Colleagues, we've all voted, I'm asking everyone to come into the hall now, call the national MPs, mobilize every voice. The Anti-Corruption Court is the same thing as coalitions and opposition. Because as soon as I start asking, where is it, Mr. Alexander, you won't be very happy when I ask by name where, who is. Okay? And I can ask you where, who is. Thank you. So, colleagues, please prepare, I'm betting on a day-to-day vote for inclusion in the agenda of the draft Act on the Establishment of a High Anti-Corruption Court (8497). Colleagues, I'm asking everyone to vote now. All those who voted in favour of the law itself, vote now. Support me, colleagues, vote. Please vote, please support. Please be supportive. Vote. The rating vote. [[17:43:43]] For 212 I'll put it again, invite you to the hall. Please come to the hall. Colleagues, by factions, let's not fight right now, but everyone sees who's not here, maybe we can pull someone up. Look who's gone, just call me back, go to the towers, please call someone who's not in the hall. So I'm going to vote again, give me 10 seconds, call from the towers. We're voting, aren't we? Please, Hennaday. I'm putting the ratings vote on the inclusion of the draft Anti-Corruption Court Act into the agenda of the day session so that we can look at it this week. And, colleagues, please, with your agreement and care, please support me, please vote. The ratings vote, please take part, please support. Vote. Please be supportive. [[17:44:51]] For 211 Colleagues, then I'll put a day-to-day session in order to make a decision on Thursday. So I ask the committee to consider this question tomorrow on the committee, Thursday, after the issue of national security and defence, I propose to include in the agenda of the day's session for decision-making. And to be balanced, I'm going to now propose to accept about Kadenuk as well, and this is going to be the right balance, then for. and Kulisha. Colleagues, so, colleagues, I'm going to put the inclusion in the agenda on Thursday for decision-making, and I'm sure we'll adopt this law on Thursday. And now I'm asking for two decisions that have been taken and brought together the hall, so let's take a look at them, let's go through them. But before that, one minute under the transcript, John Krulko. One minute under the stenogram. And, colleagues, after that, I'm two decisions that we've made. Introduce the day - to - day session to make decisions that brought together the hall, let us consider them. Please, Ivan Krulko, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-19-m1.u82	Dear colleagues, we have considered a bill that represented Mr. Tretlyakov's committee to amend certain laws No. 8293. And in this bill, there was talk about medicine. Because the committee and I have consulted and it turns out that these are medical devices that are registered in our countries -- our partners -- and they're providing them for use, where measures are being taken to ensure national security and defence, to dissipate and deter aggression, so request: the law that we've adopted in general, in the Committee, because this is the norm of the already in force Law on Medical Devices. Thank you. Please note from the transcript that the drafting of the committee is absolutely agreed upon, including by our faction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-19-m1.u83	Thank you. I'm asking the Apparatus in technical law to point out that, with technical legal rights, John Krulk's proposal should be taken into account. So, colleagues, let us move on to the two decrees that brought the hall together. The first is the draft Decision on the preparation and marking of the 200th anniversary of Pantelemón Alexandrovich Kulish (8303). And I ask you to support the review of the reduced procedure, please vote, please support. Today is the day of culture, let's make it well established. Please support the abbreviated procedure of Kulish and then Kadenyuka. [[17:47:43]] For 180. Decision taken. I invite you to report to the head of the Committee on Culture and Spirituality of the Prince Nikola Leonidovich. Please, Mr. Mikola, let's do it quickly, because time is running out. Please, Mr. Mikolo. It's Kulisch's, it's Kulisch's now.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-19-m1.u84	Dear colleagues, I don't think there's anything to be saying. Everyone knows that we honor prominent figures in the general decree, but the corfues of Ukrainian culture, like the Forest of Ukraine, as now Pantelemona Kulish, because this requires further action, we honor individual decrees. The committee recommended that this decision be supported on a general basis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-19-m1.u85	Thank you. Colleagues, is there a need to discuss? [[B in m in s a l in]] None. Vote. So, colleagues, I'm putting it to a vote. And please come into the hall, colleagues. As soon as a few deputies have left, I ask everyone to return to the hall. We will now be able to make a decision on Kulish and Kadenyuk. Please invite the deputies to the hall. Please take up your jobs. And I'm voting on the draft Decision on the preparation and marking of the 200th anniversary of Pantelemón Alexanderovich Kulish (No. 8303) as a basis and as a whole for the proposal of the committee. Mr. Mikolo, we're voting now. Please, colleagues, back up. Please vote. Let's vote, colleagues. This united the hall, let us reunite the hall. Stop! Wait till we get back. We're back, aren't we? Please vote. Please be supportive. Vote. 8303. Vote. [[17:50:01]] For 217 Colleagues, I ask you to return to the hall again. I'll be right back. Please don't leave the hall, colleagues. These are our outstanding figures, and we have our vote to honor their creative work for Ukraine. I'm asking everyone to take up jobs. Please invite everyone to the hall. Don't joke when we ask these questions, colleagues. I ask everyone to take up their jobs, come into the hall and vote carefully. Each voice has a weight. And I'm voting on the proposal to go back to Project Order 8303. And I ask everyone to take part in the vote and support the return. Colleagues, let's unify the hall, please. Please vote. Every vote, we vote. Please be supportive. Vote. [[17:51:02]] For 228 We're back. All factions thank you for your support. Now I'm putting 8303 of the Bill as a basis and generally, colleagues. Every voice, we were weak. If you'll excuse me, I'd like to vote. Let's vote, colleagues. Please be supportive. Please be supportive. Careful! [[17:51:29]] For 232 It's been decided. Next is the First Astronaut of Ukraine, Leonid Kadenyuk's Hero of Ukraine (8310). I ask you to support the consideration of the reduced procedure. Please vote and please support. Vote. [[5:51:59]] For 211 Decision taken. I invite the head of the Committee on Culture and Spirituality of the Princely Nikola Leonidovich to report. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-19-m1.u86	Our committee recommends the adoption of a decree that honors the memory of the First cosmonaut of Ukraine, our former colleague, Leonid Kadenyuk. Please vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-19-m1.u87	Thank you. Colleagues who don't want to speak? Then let us move on to making a decision. I'm asking everyone to come into the hall and take jobs. Yes, yes. Please record: two in, two in. Halasuk Victor gives the floor to Oleg Laszko.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-19-m1.u88	The Radical Party team will support the draft Order on the Emancipation of the Memory of the Hero of Ukraine, the First Astronaut Leonid Cadenuk. But the best way to perpetuate this person's memory is to restore Ukraine's fame as a space state, to operate factories, a military-industrial complex, so that we don't trade raw materials, but to have missiles flying under the flag of Ukraine flying into space, orbiting the world's oceans, and that Ukraine is a space, aviation, developed state. That policy that we have today is a policy of less value, it's a policy of trade in raw materials and cheap labor to then follow credits, pick up like bums, and ask for every crossroad. We're proposing, me and my team, we're proposing another policy -- the restoration of the national economy, the support of national production, the return of Ukrainians to their homes so that they can make money in Ukraine and realize their most ambitious dreams. We're proposing a policy that will give Ukraine the glory around the world to read us on the front pages of newspapers, not as a corrupt, very poor and very needy state, but to let the whole world know that Ukraine is the most powerful, powerful, worthy of a thousand-year-old nation, with great science, with great achievements, with enormous creative potential, with enormous capital, people, our capital is not raw materials, not humiliation, not collecting, our capital is people, it's development, it's innovation, modernization, the development of creativity and personality from what we have to go around the world, from what we have to present ourselves to Ukraine, and not forever we're going to cry about how poor, unhappy. No, we are neither unhappy nor poor, we are a worthy nation with disgraceful rulers.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-19-m1.u89	From the People's Front, Solarar Volodymyr gives the floor to the head of the Maxim Burbak faction. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-19-m1.u90	Dear colleagues, Maxim Burbak, 204 constituency, the village of Kliskovci is the home of our famous countryman, Leonid Kadenyuk's First cosmonaut. Recently, in the room of the current Kliškovetsek High School, this former school, which our cosmonaut completed, opened a memorial board. Very many warm words were heard by his classmates, his colleagues, and his fellow countrymen, astonishing their respect for this great man. I think I'm talking to everyone, and I think we should all support this decision and celebrate at the national level these glorious victories of this Hero of Ukraine. And with the opportunity, I would like to turn from the Cliskovetsk United Territorial Society to the Ukrainian government, to Mr. Zubka, who attended the funerals, with what he has provided from the government (has been given) a send of assistance to repair the school in which the First Astronaut of Ukraine studied. I would also like to address Kyiv’s city head, Mr. Klick, of the Kiev City Council, to support the petition and appeal of the deputies of Matios, Fedoruk and Burbak regarding the naming of one of the streets in Kiev as the famous Ukrainian. So I ask you once again to support this decision and vote, and to celebrate the glory of our cosmonaut at the state level. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-19-m1.u91	Colleagues, but I'm talking to everyone, we have four minutes to finish, we can just lose votes. If the speakers are supportive, speak as briefly as possible. So, from Peter Prashenko's Block, smoking Maksim Pavlovich. Because we're going to be so supportive that we're going to fail the decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-19-m1.u92	Dear colleagues! Indeed, the name Leonidas Kadenyuk is inscribed in gold letters in the modern history of Ukraine. As well as the gold letters in the modern history of an independent Ukraine, our glorious, powerful and powerful state, written down and surnamed by our countrymen from Dnipropetrovsk, the deniprovocs are Alexander Makarov, Mikhailo Youngel and many. ‘ Stanislaw Konyuhov. And many other outstanding Ukrainians who have glorified Ukraine beyond it. Sergey the Kings of Winterfell, this is also our acquisition, these are our people. But, colleagues, I want to support my colleagues and partners not only by word of mouth, but also by work we need to glorify our people. And the best memory and memory of Leonid Kadenyuk's memory will be a government order for the South, a government order for the South. We have a lot to be proud of, Ukraine can not only preserve the status of the space state, but we have with us an ambitious task to increase our space potential because of this future. And I know that a huge number of national deputies today are assembled in this room around the support of these flags of our domestic missile building. And in the near future, you and I will bring together a series of extended anti-crisis bills to this session hall, which will add to this field. The Radical Party is helping, and the flagman is the Peter Prashenko Block and the People's Front of Ukraine and many others, including the opposition factions. Colleagues, together to victory. And the decision to perpetuate Leonid Kanyuk's memory is also supported, we vote in favour.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-19-m1.u93	Thank you. Colleagues, I'm stressing again, a few more minutes, and we just won't have votes to vote on. I'm talking to everyone who's speaking, and I'm asking very concisely if you really support this decision. Eutuszek gives the floor to Krivenkov, and I continue the session until the end of this matter. Please, Krivenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-19-m1.u94	Victor Krivenko, National Movement of Ukraine. Thank you to the Fatherland factions who have given the word, they will vote in favour of this decree. I wanted to speak briefly, but it's just that the heart really can't stand to hear how beautiful we are in the space field. The space sector is being destroyed, destroyed by this Prime Minister and what is happening now when the Uzmash falls, if not for this Supreme Council, which has allocated 400 million dollars to electricity and about 50 million dollars to pay, this plant would have stopped. So the best memory of Kadenyuk is the working field. And when we're showing the materials, how we broke into the Brazilian project by creating the alkantar missile. When we show how money was deposited on November 29th, 150 million dollars in 2004 are coming and they're going to go to a bank that belongs to the South Bank under 6 percent of the year old and they're holding back the production of missiles that still don't exist. We didn't make a cosmodrome, but we had to do the rockets ourselves, we didn't do it, even though we promised to fly in 2006. And there are dozens of such abuses, and there are huge problems in the whole field. And the South and the South and the South that aren't being considered. And for today, what's going on there, I agree with my colleague Teteruck on the observations that are before this job. Therefore, the proposal is to vote and honor our outstanding fellow countryman. I don't see with this government policy that someone dreamed of flying space, that someone knew at all that we were losing, what technology we were losing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-19-m1.u95	Colleagues, 30 seconds - Romanova, 30 seconds - "The will of the people" and we vote. We're voting in a minute. Everyone, please come into the hall. Please, Romanova, 30 seconds. Romanova, turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-19-m1.u96	Dear colleagues! This year, Ukraine lost its unique personality, Leonidas Kadenyuk. It's a man -- a symbol, a man -- a legend. These people are truly to be proud of our country. "The Self-Help Union, of course, will support all the bills not only about honouring memory, but also about allowing such people to continue to work in Ukraine. So that people like Kadenuk Leonid can stay in Ukraine and the state can guarantee them the right to develop their talents. So while there are voices while there are still people in the room, "The Self-Help Union calls, in fact, to vote for this person -- a symbol of the success of our state.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-19-m1.u97	30 seconds, Ribczynski, and we vote. Please, a line from "The will of the people." Ribczynski, turn on the microphone. Your card is missing. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-19-m1.u98	The point is that Kadenuk is not the first Ukrainian cosmonaut in space, as early as 1962, Paul Romanovich Popovic was in space, he was Ukrainian, and he was not afraid in Soviet times of Ukrainian, from orbit to sing "Look at the sky." Let us also remember him. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-19-m1.u99	Thank you. So let's move on to making a decision. And I'm putting to the vote the draft Order on the Eminence of the First Astronaut of Ukraine, the Hero of Ukraine, Leonid Kadenyuk (No. 8310) as a whole, as a result of the drafting of the Committee on Technical Law. Please vote and please support. Please be supportive. Please be supportive. [[18:03:28]] For 235 It's been decided. According to factions: "Clock of Peter Poshenko" – 76, "National Front" – 58, "Opposition Block" – 19, "self-help" – 16, Radical Party – 16, "Fatherhood" – 7, "Will of the People" – 9, "Party of Rebirth" – 7. And on this positive note, we have concluded the evening meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, not easy but effective. I declare the evening session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine closed. And tomorrow at 10 a.m., I'm inviting everyone into the conference room to continue our work. I would like to remind you that today the National Security and Defence Committee has reviewed and decided on the National Security and Defence Act. This enables us to start a review of the National Security and Defence Act tomorrow. In our practice, on Wednesday we will begin our consideration of it to go through the amendments so that we can go to the polls on Thursday. So tomorrow I warn you that in the morning after the ratifications, we will enter the National Security and Defence Act, and I am convinced that tomorrow we will work as effectively as we do today. Thank you. Good-bye.
