ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-01-m1.u1	Dear colleagues, the time for recess is over. I'm asking everyone to come into the hall, please prepare for registration. I want to remind you that the next law in the daytime is the draft Law on the Effective Management of Property Rights of Copyrighters. And I'm asking everyone to mobilize to continue our work. And I'm asking everyone to come into the hall and get ready for registration. So, colleagues, can we register? Please register for the evening session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. I'd like you to sign up. [[16:03:02]] There are 364 national deputies registered. I declare the evening plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine open. So, colleagues, the draft Law on the effective management of property rights of copyright holders is a law that is also important for our cooperation is the EU. It is in a package of 57 road map laws in cooperation with the EU. And so I ask you to maximize your mobility during its consideration. And I'm going to vote on the motion to consider it as a reduced procedure. Please vote, please support. Please support the consideration of the reduced procedure. [[16:03:58]] For-74. 74. Insufficient number of votes. So we're going to start with a full procedure. And I invite you to the report of Deputy Minister of Economic Development and Trade of Titarczuk Mikhail Ivanovich. Please, Mikhail Ivanovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-01-m1.u2	Dear Head, honourable members of the national parliament, today there is a government bill on the effective administration of property rights in copyright and adjacent rights. The adoption of this project will ensure that Ukraine fulfils its obligations under the EU Association Agreement to deal with the activities of organisations that collect royalty for authors and performers in Ukraine. We hope to do this because the system in Ukraine today is opaque, not understood by the authors and is extremely ineffective. Today, if you're a musician, you probably don't know who's collecting royalty on your behalf. And you probably won't get the Royalties. And the organization that did this will not be held accountable because of the shortcomings of existing old - fashioned legislation. You may also have heard of millions of dollars of stolen copyright that have disappeared from the accounts of a government organization. It is time to begin the work of this congregation system of things by means of a clean letter. We offer a transparent system in which there will be no more than seven collective management organizations instead of twenty, each of which will be responsible for its own direction. The Creator will know what organization is responsible for a particular direction of activity and what categories of artists are cared for. For these organizations, strict selection criteria will be introduced. Only organizations with the largest repertoire, international recognition and real ownership support will be able to be accredited. These organizations will constantly report on their activities, keep the artist informed about the use of his works, the proper reward. The online owners' offices are detailed annual reports that will be publicly available on these organizations' websites. Legal owners have real mechanisms to influence the activities of collective management organizations until the leader is released. In turn, convenient user-friendly systems will increase congregations that will come to the rightful owners. Finally, we're putting at risk the activities of the Public Organisation of Collective Governance, which had a history in Soviet times, but in today's country, it also has to work in a new way. For this organization, we provide for separate positions, periods of dissuasion to ensure the gradual transition of authors to a modern-day organization. Let me inform the People's Deputies that the draft Law implements the basics and requirements of the EU Directive, the European Parliament and the Council on the activities of the collective management organisation since 2014. The draft law was developed on the basis of proposals made by international experts under the EU Twinning technical assistance project. In addition, the importance of the speediest adoption of this draft law is due to the fact that the U.S. Trade Representative Office in Special Report 301 on the state of intellectual property rights protection in Ukraine has seen little progress in improving legislation on the activities and organization of collective management in the Royalty Congregation. Ukraine was given 120 days before the end of April 26, 2018, to address the warnings made by the American side, primarily on improving the activities of the collective management organization. In the absence of any positive developments, Ukrainian exporters will be limited in access to the generalised preferential system, and Ukraine risks lowering the rating in the updated Special Report 301. Let me also point out that this bill is supported by the European Union, the United States, as well as by international organizations in the field of copyright and adjacent rights. The bill is supported and recommended for first reading by the Main Committee, but we have received a number of good suggestions from the people's deputies who will in principle improve this bill and benefit the collective rights management system. I ask the Ukrainian National Deputies to support this very important draft law on the basis of the first reading and on the platform of the Supreme Council's Preparatory Committee to work on it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-01-m1.u3	Thank you, Mikhail Ivanovich. It's three minutes for a question to the reporter. Stay in the rostrum. Please record the question, please. Please, Kostenko Pavlov Petrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-01-m1.u4	Hand over the word to the bride.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-01-m1.u5	Mr. Deputy Minister! The interesting question is, if you look at the timeline, in general, the Twinning process started since the end of 2015, it's clear that this wasn't the moment they were in office. But the most powerful meeting took place, the big round tables took place in March last year, when representatives from all Europeans actually came, too, CISAC and made clear recommendations to this bill. But the Ministry of Profiles was waiting until we got feedback from our American partners and registered this bill only at the end of December, which did not fully meet the recommendations made by Europeans. Would you please explain such inaction to the minister's deputy minister for eight months after that round table? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-01-m1.u6	Thank you for asking. In fact, you have rightly noticed that in 2015, the Twinning EU programme developed a comprehensive bill along with representatives of the World Intellectual Property Organization with an expert such as Fischer, and the difference was that, unfortunately, the bill was, somehow, left in the walls of the Ministry. Now, as you've already pointed out, for lack of activity, I'll tell you that at the time, there was a decision that was made that there was a redrafting of the same World Intellectual Property Organization as Fisher, but those were exact changes, they weren't complex changes as expected. So when the situation occurred that we had four bills in the Council and there was no consensus of honourable national deputies, we had to raise this bill and adopt it, and it was in line with the EU directive, and it was developed with them, and we supported the confirmation of all experts.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-01-m1.u7	Thank you. Tarasyuk gives the floor to Victoria the Birdman, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-01-m1.u8	Thank you. My question will relate to a few aspects. First of all, I completely share the need to regulate the activities of a collective management organization. And as for me, this question has already matured, so I am also surprised and overcome by the inaction of the Ministry of Economics, which is profiled in relation to these issues, regarding the submission of the relevant bill. It seems like you've been waiting for a specific date from the United States of America when you're told that trade preferences will be cancelled and that it's only then that they start to work. My question, however, is why in this bill do you foresee such unlimited powers to the Ministry of Economics? Why would the Ministry of Economics control the creation of all collective management organizations? Why does the Ministry of Economics want to allow one another to enter the market separately and not allow others to do so? Please answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-01-m1.u9	Look, it's been a historic day since we had permission to sign up for collective management. As far as the bill is concerned, there's actually registration accreditation, so it's clear that there's got to be a government authority that has to do the accreditation. But it is clearly defined that there will be no more than seven organizations, that is, not a monopoly, but one organization will be clearly responsible for its rights -- that is all. So let me tell you this, what was before and understood is just now an opportunity to adopt a bill for our creators.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-01-m1.u10	Thank you. One more question, Eutusek passes on to the bird. Last question, Mrs. Victoria, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-01-m1.u11	Thank you. I will also call on my colleague to support this project in the first reading, although I will amend the second reading. But I wanted to raise one more question, which concerns the concept of reforming the state system, the legal protection of intellectual property that you have adopted. 2016 The Cabinet of Ministers approves the concept, according to the concept you eliminate the Intellectual Property Service. You're still talking about you temporarily. As the Ministry of Economics, you get proper powers. Next. And according to this concept, you have to create a national body of intellectual property. Moreover, the concept was foreseen in 2016, and the quarter of 2017. Today in Parliament, we have not received a bill on national intellectual property. The Ministry of Economics doesn't want to share them and create this national authority.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-01-m1.u12	I report that there are six bills on intellectual property reform in the Supreme Council today. [[B in m in s a l in]] As for the National Intellectual Property Authority, I just signed you up for your request. We're together, you can check with the PwC, who are speaking with international experts on technical assistance in drafting a bill on the creation of a national intellectual property body. And we're looking forward to it. We're looking forward to it. Yes, indeed! You know that legislation can't always be done quickly without making mistakes. So this year, I promise you, this bill will be submitted to the Supreme Council.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-01-m1.u13	Thank you, thank you for your report. And to my co-report, I invite the first Vice-Chairman of the Committee on Science and Education of Sperm Alexander Volodymyrovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-01-m1.u14	Good afternoon, Your Honor, Andrew Volodymyrovich! The Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Science and Education at its meeting on February 7, 2018, reviewed the draft Ukrainian Law on the Effective Management of Property Rights of Owners in Copyright or Neighbouring Rights (Registration No. 7466 of 28.12.2017), submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. The purpose of the bill is to reform the collective management system of property rights of copyright subjects and adjacent rights and to make illegal activities of collective management organizations impossible. I've already talked to the Conciliation Council about the fact that today we have a legal vacuum on copyright protection in Ukraine. The draft Ukrainian Law on the Effective Management of Property Rights of Owners in Copyright, as stated in the explanatory note, corresponds to the objectives of the said agreement and enables the implementation of the basic Directives 2014/26/EU. There is also an urgent need for urgent legislative regulation in relation to Ukraine's reference to the First Watch List in Special Report 301 due to the problem of protection and protection of intellectual property rights in Ukraine. Further braking the issue of collective management involves the risk of the loss of State access to the United States’ generalized preference system and economic damage to our nation. The US Embassy, the U.S. Office of Trade Representative, the European Union representative in Ukraine expressed their support for the bill, by the way, they were present at our committee meeting. The corresponding letters came to the Ministry of Economic Development and Trade of Ukraine. The committee also drew conclusions from a bill by the Ministry of Culture of Ukraine, three National Academy of Sciences of Ukraine, a series of creative associations, public organizations, the Reanimation Package of Reforms. Our committee had a solid joint effort with First Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Economic Development, Trade of Ukraine by Stepan Kubi, National Deputies of Ukraine, Victoria Sumar, Maria Ionova and Olena Kondratuk, to prepare for Parliament's consideration by the Cabinet of Ministers, the Bill on the Effective Management of Property Rights and Owner's Rights in Copyright, Mutual Rights. As a result of our work, I would like to emphasize that these were difficult discussions, but we received unanimous support from the members of the committee for the proposal to accept as a basis, just on the basis of Bill 7466. In order to rule out any speculation around it, we promise on the basis of a committee to create a positive working group after the vote, which will be composed of all intellectual property experts, over the course of the month to finalize this bill for second reading, to remove all existing differences, and to continue to issue a final draft law for consideration by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. In the light of the above, the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Science and Education recommends to the Supreme Council of Ukraine a draft law on the effective administration of property rights of owners in the field of copyright and (or) related rights (registration No.7466) dated 28.12.2017, submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, based on the first reading, to be accepted as a basis and – this is important – we have agreed with our colleagues – and to entrust the Committee on Science and Education to create a working group and to develop this draft law into a second reading, taking into account the proposals of the national deputies of Ukraine: the Victoria of Sümar, the Mary of Ion and the Helen of Kondratuk – the Chief Scientific Laws of the Supreme Council. I promise that this consideration and the work of the working group will be completely open, transparent, and we will get to the second reading only after we find a consensus solution. So, honourable colleagues, I ask you to support this in order to give our colleagues from the United States and Europe a positive presidency that the Supreme Council of Ukraine is ready to have a legal vacuum, which has arisen with regard to intellectual property management, to decide positively. Thank you for your attention. And I'm asking you to back me up.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-01-m1.u15	Please remain in the rostrum. Dear colleagues, I'd like to ask you to sign up for a question with a distinguished co-conspirator. And I would also like to point out that this is a bill that belongs to the implementation of the Association Agreement, in fact, to our intellectual property obligations in the context of the implementation of the Agreement. So we just don't have the right to roll over like that. Please, Mr. Danchenko, Alexander Danchenko, your question.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-01-m1.u16	I have a question for the drafters. Are not only the wishes of our Western partners fully taken into account -- we know that there are two systems: the United States of America and the European Union -- but still, is there an adaptation of the bill to our Ukrainian realities? So there's no way that we're just copying the requirements again and not taking into account our specialty, the Ukrainian realities. Because you can't just copy it. Is this included in the bill?
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-01-m1.u17	So let's say the landscape that exists in Ukraine is practically accounted for. Next, all positions. When we looked at the committee, in some cases we had different points of view, but we agreed, and it's quite clear that it's a working group that's going to get completely all the parties interested in the positive decision that are going to get into it, and the text is being developed just as we can get into the second reading. So Ukrainian positions are counted here, but there's still going to be, really, a lot of work in the working group. I just promise you we'll get this job, because it's not on the Kabmin site, it's on the committee site.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-01-m1.u18	Next question from Alona Babak. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-01-m1.u19	Danchenk.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-01-m1.u20	Another question from Mr. Danchenk. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-01-m1.u21	Dear colleague, please tell us whether the draft bill took into account the economic impact on Ukraine, which will be counted in the additional budget receipts or in general. Well, what's more, it'll give the budget the right rules for regulating intellectual property.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-01-m1.u22	Thank you for asking. According to the data we have from the department of profile, today we have $2.5 million in legal traffic in fact. According to the estimates made by the Ministry of Economic Development and Trade, we have to go from 8 billion to 10 billion, respectively. Accordingly, if this market becomes legal, the corresponding taxes will be paid as well. There's the Royalty, the dividends, and so on.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-01-m1.u23	Last question from the National Deputy Bondar.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-01-m1.u24	Bondar Mikhailo.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-01-m1.u25	He's handing it over to the Prince. I see.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-01-m1.u26	Yes, Princely. Yes.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-01-m1.u27	Yes. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-01-m1.u28	Thank you. Dear Mr. Spiowakovsky, I, among other things, have rightly noted Mrs. Irina Herashchenko as co-chair of the Ukrainian Parliamentary Committee of the Association, and I call for support in the first reading of this bill. But I would like to point out immediately that it is itself in contravention of European Union Directive No 2014 of 26 February 2016. He caused a very negative evaluation of the Ministry of Culture, he caused a lot of complaints from the Filmographers' Association, from other Ukrainian creative personalities. And my question is, are you ready to include in your working group the representatives of our Committee on Culture and Spirituality who would write to you about this at their meeting, because we are the second committee to consider this bill, calling for another vote for it in the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-01-m1.u29	Thank you for asking. I want to say it again. The Science and Education Committee is working absolutely transparently and no one, absolutely no one, is going to have all the applications that we have today and we're going to have, all the specialists, the experts are going to be included in this working group. I publicly declare that no one will be refused. We're in favour of getting a consensus document. We understand perfectly that if we don't find agreement on the working group, this document, the bill, will not be voted on in the second reading. So I promise you a completely honest and transparent job. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-01-m1.u30	Thank you for the totally constructive position of the committee. Because it is important that the bill is not lost, but that it is further developed into the second reading. Colleagues, I'm asking the factions to sign up for a discussion right now, please. And then it's from the deputies. Please, from the Opposition Block, People's MP Skorik. Microphone from the scene, please, People's MP, Scorch.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-01-m1.u31	Our faction has decided to support the bill. He settles many questions about copyright in this area, and we propose to support the bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-01-m1.u32	Thank you for your constructive position in your faction. Please, Alona Shkrum, to whom Boris Tarasyuk gives the word, and she presents the position of Fatherland.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-01-m1.u33	Alona's splinter, Fatherland faction. Colleagues, of course, have long overlooked this bill, and it is certainly important and necessary. But the next time I can't talk about the quality of the bills that come out of the Cabinet of Ministers, unfortunately, and which we have to correct for a few months, sometimes for almost a year we work for the second reading and correct the things that should have been corrected in preparation for the first reading. Madam Vice-President Irina Heratschenko rightly pointed out that this is a bill which is one of our obligations in association with the European Union, but at the same time contradicts the basic position of the European Directive 2014/26/EU. Well, as it may be, the colleagues who are now looking at us with professional associations and professional organizations are saying that even the basic principles of the directive are in conflict with some of the provisions of the bill. Well, I'm sorry, as a national MP, I have a couple of assistants and the possibility of just a few lawyers and assistants working on amendments to the bill and writing them. The Ministry of Economics and Mr. Deputy Minister of Economy, who introduced this bill, has a whole state of civil servants, a whole state of lawyers, who are supposed to work perfectly and perfectly on bills. And then we can literally make amendments in a week, one committee meeting to consider them, we don't have to create working groups, we don't have to involve three different committees, we don't have to adopt imperfect bills. I am frankly tired of any submission and preparation of such a bill from the Cabinet of Ministers, not from a specific national MP, being very, very low. Experts in the Reanimation Package of Reforms today point out that the bill is generally groundless, contains a number of major contradictions that conflict with one another, and unfortunately little has been discussed with the expert environment. Perhaps we should work on it and bring it in later, but we accepted it literally in two weeks. Unfortunately, the list of spheres of collective management does not contain the audiovisual sphere and other spheres, there is no difference between registration and accreditation, which I understand is what I have already asked Victoria the Birds. Contradictive criteria have been proposed to provide such clear reading for the organization of collective management. They don't answer, as I said, the position of the European directive, which we will be asked on the International Committee of Associations by our European colleagues who believe are perfectly aware of and read European directives. And also the size of the reward will be determined individually by the organization of collective management with each user. These are the things that, in principle, would give us a better chance to bring this bill back to work and to demand a good quality of the bill and to submit these bills. But the "Paternity" faction, regardless of the importance of the issue, decided to support it in the first reading, although my personal opinion was to turn it back to work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-01-m1.u34	Thank you for your position. Please, from the Self-Help faction, Alexander Danchenko. Please, Mr. Alexander.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-01-m1.u35	I want to remind Mark Twain's famous phrase, which is a strong state. A strong state is a strong army plus a strong patent office. A strong army protects a physical, patented office that protects most of all this intellectual property of the state. This is very important. Ours. Our nation is highly intelligent with enormous potential. And I want to say that this law needs to be supported in the first reading. My committee, both IT and telecommunications, has a lot of comments. So I would like to support my colleague Alona Skrum's proposal for this bill should be included on the basis and the working group also by the Committee on Information and Communication. And between the first and the second readings, we have to make the law important to the country. 11 suggestions from our field to be included in this bill. Therefore, the first reading should support the bill and the second reading, bringing together the efforts of the 3-4 committees, to make a fine bill. On the first reading, please support this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-01-m1.u36	Thank you for your position. Please, we have a rebirth group now, Mr. Yatzenko. I take it they're gonna come out of the place. And then you, Mr. Victor.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-01-m1.u37	Dear colleagues, indeed, on the one hand, we have intellectual property in the country protected by the Constitution of Ukraine, there are certain international Bernska conventions, for example, that protect, there are laws. But actually two problems that exist today: one is not an effective mechanism to protect the real and the other -- are mentally perceived, like, pirate stuff like, well, it's kind of normal. And this distinguishes Ukraine from civilized countries. So, of course, the Rebirth Group will support this bill and we will vote for it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-01-m1.u38	Thank you for your position. Please, Victor Halasyuk will take the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-01-m1.u39	Victor Halasyuk, Oleg Lachka Radical Party. Dear colleagues, our team stands for maximum intellectual property protection. For the development of the Ukrainian economy, this is extremely important because we want to build, not a raw economy, but a modern high-tech economy. This is not possible without the protection of copyright and adjacent rights. [[Applause]] Ukrainian authors, artists, content manufacturers have to get fair money for their creativity, but this can be regulated in a completely different way. In that bill, which has been tabled today, there are a number of completely flawed models that clearly do not set us up and that we will insist on correcting. It is a matter of priority in the European Union states to national collective governance organizations. It's those who represent exactly the national original authors, performers, artists, that they get the right money to do it in a fair way. At the same time, in this law, this national priority is completely eliminated, a model of the bill being built so that most of the funds will be received by foreign entities rather than by Ukraine. This is done consciously, systematically, and this is a major problem that the Ministry of Economics has put into this bill. Of course, we have a huge claim to the fact that it was submitted late, that Ukraine is actually being subjected to sanctions. But there are even greater claims to ignore the principle of national priority. We have to make the rules of the game fair so they're marketable, but to give the law a very clear priority to Ukrainian artists, the author, the performers. That means they're going to be amazed at more money than the model that the Ministry of Economics put into today's room. So this can only be supported in the first reading in order to use it as a basis for very substantial reprocessing. I absolutely agree with Mr. Knieżicki, but today he has voiced that criticism, which is completely destructive, from the Chief Scientific and Experimental Authority. I quote, "The extreme positions of the project allow the Ministry of Economics to make opaque decisions, create some corruption risks in making the MERT decisions and so on." They criticise the Ministry of Culture, the National Academy of Sciences, the National Academy of Arts of Ukraine, the National All-Ukrainian Music Association, the All-Ukrainian Agency of Authors, criticises the National Association of Ukrainian Cinematographers. Can we accept that? No, it's not. Therefore, it is only in the first reading that we accept. And we also insist on the involvement of our representatives, the Radical Party teams, in the working group of the Committee on Professional Processing. The national priority should be set: buy Ukrainian, pay Ukrainians.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-01-m1.u40	Please, Taras Kremen is invited to speak from the People's Front. He passes the word to Mrs. Victoria Sumar, please. And then the last statement from the factions is from Peter Dustenk's Block. Mrs. Victoria, may I have a word with you?
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-01-m1.u41	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Dear colleagues, the factions of the factions in this rostrum are speaking very rightly today, and they make absolutely fair remarks at the address of the bill that we are considering. Frankly, it is a shame to have such quality documents from the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. Because in this document, even I don't think Kabin has figured out how he's going to distinguish accreditation from registration. Whether he is going to gather these organizations of collective management and to credit, and to register, a double congregation to gather. I don't know, maybe that's the idea that was put here. But it looks like it's at least absurd. Indeed, the bill is not, surprisingly, clearly not in the interests of the rightful owners that he should regulate. It is written in the interests of the Ministry of Economic Policy, which becomes a regulatory body in this matter. And he wants to determine exactly how and who will be more loyal, who will understandably, the companies they have assigned, collect and distribute the royals. There are no basic answers to basic questions in this bill. And how do we ensure that this congregation is justly copyrighted from. for copyright and how it's fair to distribute them. There's no tariff grid in this bill, how much does one twisted song cost? There, I don't know, there's a lot of people here in the hall, in the Oksana, on Ukrainian radio or on Ukrainian television. And that's what's fundamentally important to be a transparent system if we saw what works are being used and what, according to the tariffs, did we calculate how much the author can get to the Royalty? And then we're going to achieve the key goal, we're going to be able to monetaryize the sphere of Ukrainian culture, and the intellectual sphere, and the patent sphere. And that was to be done, frankly, 25 years ago, and we would have a completely different country today. This bill does not answer these questions, unfortunately. Nevertheless, we realize that this is our international obligation and realize that we need to start working on it. And the very right decision was taken by the Committee on Education, the Committee on Education, and I thank his head, Mr. Spiowakovsky, for the absolutely constructive approach that can give rise to real reform, the system of collective copyright management in Ukraine and do very progressive things. So the People's Front faction will support this bill in the first reading. And then we're going to work very seriously on it and take into account the position that Ukrainian authors will be able to receive fair money and continue to develop both intellectual property and Ukrainian culture. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-01-m1.u42	Thank you. And, please, the last statement by the MPs and groups on this block, the discussion by Arthur Gerasimov, the leader of the Peter Prashenko Block, the faction. Please, Mr. Arthur.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-01-m1.u43	Dear Madam Chairman, distinguished colleagues, distinguished voters! Is there a problem in intellectual property? Of course, there is a very large one. Should it be resolved systematically? Yes, of course, it has taken a long time, how much things have not been done in this country for 20 years. So the faction of the Party of Peter Prashenko welcomes the initiative of the Cabinet of Ministers to bring about a detailed harmonization of this important sphere of social relations, because the situation in Ukraine is unacceptable. During all their years of independence, the authors were not properly rewarded. This situation does not stimulate the internal cultural market at all, for some create and perform wonderful films, plays, songs, but still receive no reward when their creations become popular. There are also problems in the world scene, because with this attitude towards intellectual property rights, you know about the problem that has already been reported today and even in Special Report 301. So as the leader of the Peter Prashenko faction, I ask the entire room to gather and support this bill in a second reading. First reading, I'm sorry. At the same time, it cannot be ignored that the text of the bill is quite raw and requires further work. Because the public discussion that has taken place, the opinions of experts and the opinions of so many experts on this issue in the hall say that it needs substantial work. But it's real between first and second reading. So, honourable colleagues, I would like to point out that our faction supports this bill in the first reading, given its substantial refinement in the second, taking into account our proposals and observations, including the proposals made by members of our faction during the consideration of the project by the Main Committee. Thank you. Please be supportive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-01-m1.u44	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I am now asking you to sign up for a discussion of the Ukrainian National Deputies. Please sign up. Victor Halasyuk, you're on.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-01-m1.u45	Victor Halasyuk, Oleg Lachka Radical Party. While the Ministry of Economics simulates activities in the field of industrial policy and other directions, we hear that there have already been a number of criticisms by the Ambassador of the European Union and some European high-ranking people on the Ukrainian Buy-Aid Bill, paid to the Ukrainians, which we have adopted in this Parliament -- 241 votes in favour -- a number of times, there have been extremely harsh criticisms about the Ukrainian Law on the Moratorium on Exportation of the Forest Round, which we have adopted with you in the Chamber, and today he is working for the Ukrainian economy very, very much, many times, critical statements about the "metallurgical law" that keeps tens of thousands of jobs and billions of dollars in trade balance. We, a group of national deputies (over 50 authors) signed a letter of appeal to the Ambassador of the European Union Hugo Mingarelli, in which we note that we find it unacceptable to practice public unappealable criticisms and to hang political labels by foreign diplomats on Ukrainian legislation and the activities of the national parliament, because this is contrary, in particular, to article 41 of the Vienna Convention on Diplomatic Relations of 1961, which establishes the duty of diplomats to respect the laws, regulations of the State of residence and not to intervene in the internal affairs of that State. I want to stress that we are certainly in favour of European integration, but we understand that European integration is about raising the income of Ukrainians to European level, it's about bringing the standard of living of Ukrainians to European level, it's about development, not about the decline of Ukrainian economy and industry, it's about creating jobs, not destroying jobs in Ukraine. And it is because of this prism that the Ukrainian Parliament should consider European integration. We also stress that the Ukrainian bill "Buy Ukrainians, Pays Ukrainians", which has been adopted as a basis, and the law on the ban on the export of roundwood and the "metallurgical law" are fully in line with international law and our obligations under the International Trade Organization, as well as the EU Treaty on Free Trade, as it falls within the permitted exceptions provided for for the protection of national security for reasons of protection of national ecology. We made all the arguments to the Ambassador's Honourable Lord, and yesterday at a meeting held by Mr. Parobius, the Chief of the Supreme Council, together with Prime Minister Volodymyr Groissman, in the presence of the Vice Prime Minister, the ministers and all the heads of the committees, I handed this letter to the honourable Mr. Ambassador. We are counting on real cooperation, partnership and mutual development, not the conversion of Ukraine into a raw colony of industrialized countries. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-01-m1.u46	Dear colleagues, with all due respect to all the speakers, I, as presiding officer at this session, would like to draw your attention to the following. There's no Ambassador Mingarelli in the session room right now. I'd like that very much. I ask not to interrupt the chairman, and I ask you very much with respect, to be correct, politically correct, to our European and international partners, and this will be fair, when you speak, to discuss the bill, not the person. [[Noise Nodes]] Not a person, these are the rules of the Rules that I now insist on as chairman. Please give the floor to our esteemed colleague, Mrs. Victoria Pteshnik. And I ask you to listen very carefully, to honor our colleague.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-01-m1.u47	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I would like to point out that, unfortunately, in the mind of our seniors, they still view intellectual property as just scientific property, and they think that patents, in particular, are some kind of literacy that they're not supposed to bring, in fact, economic. which is not an economic component and do not raise funds. I want to give up this wrong thought at last. I want this bill to get the authors of songs, books, musicians, writers, directors to get their money for their cultural acquisition, so that we can finally understand that it's not just artists who are spiritually raising our country, that they are people who are entitled to a decent compensation for their creative work. So I think the subject of regulating the activities of collective management organizations that are going to be involved in the collection of these funds is very mature. And I would very much like this bill to appear in our session room not now, but at least three years ago. So I want to urge you to vote him in the first reading. But of course, I agree with my colleagues who say that he needs substantial work. Moreover, given that this is an economic issue, I am also proposing to Mr. Spiowakovsky to involve members of the Economic Policy Committee, for whom the Ministry of Economics is, in fact, the Ministry of Economic Affairs, in order to work together on this bill and to adopt it in an adequate manner. At the same time, my colleagues said that today's intellectual property is not sufficiently protected. I want to inform you that over the last few years, unfortunately, nothing has been done to make this sphere a priority in Ukraine. Moreover, destructive proposals were made, such as the elimination of the intellectual property service and the creation of an organ that would have been created by the Ministry of Economics in the 16th year or early 17th year. Instead, the Ministry of Economics was given the authority of the dispossessed body, received the new state-owned enterprise -- the Crucifixor -- and somehow refused to create the national authority they were talking about. Moreover, today the Ministry of Economics has approved a decree on the substantial increase in registration congregations for intellectual property and has been transferred to the Cabinet of Ministers. Please see how this decision protects our authors. The congregations are going up two or eight times. The Ministry of Economics does not want to communicate with public organizations, with the professional organizations that have contacted them, and to discuss this decision. I'm begging you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-01-m1.u48	15 seconds, please, 15 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-01-m1.u49	I'm asking you very much to make this situation impossible when a silence is made and when our inventors, instead of paying 3,000 dollars, will pay 30,000,400 dollars, as foreseen for today by the Ministry's Order.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-01-m1.u50	Thank you very much, dear colleague. Mary Ionova, Ukrainian national deputy and deputy head of the Committee on European Integration, is now invited to the floor. Please, Mrs. Maria. Out of place, out of place.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-01-m1.u51	Thank you, Madam Chairman. I would like to point out that, in fact, we're all talking here about the fact that the bill is really important and relevant, although it has a lot of flaws. And I would like to say that, really, the situation that is in reality, it doesn't stimulate the internal cultural market, because some create, some perform great songs, but they don't get any rewards in the future. And when their creation becomes popular, others take advantage of this unincentived work and have no bearing on it. So I would like to say here exactly about the directive that is regulated in the area of European Union law relations, Directive 2014/26, which deals precisely with the matter. But there really is a problem. It is the standards of a project that can monopolize this market for the benefit of one or two organizations, and they will narrow down, significantly reduce the rights of right-holders and limit their ability to receive a fair reward. That's why we're proposing to actually finalize this bill, and we're grateful to the Education and Science Committee, the head of this committee, Mr. Spiowakovsky, for taking our comments into account, because we are co-authors of another bill of 7029, as well as alternative ones, so let's say we've made concessions, taking into account the national interests, and we'll support this bill, but, indeed, with the conditions of development, and to take into account the interests of all authors and owners, in order to take it as a basis in the first reading, and to work on the second reading, taking into account all the observations that have been sent by me and our other co-authors to the Main Committee. So I ask you to support and work on the second reading. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-01-m1.u52	Thank you, dear colleagues. The final statement in this block of discussion of the national MPs is more faithful to the last. Mrs. Ptašnik is now giving the word to Mr. Knežicki. Thank you. Mr. Mikolo. Briefly, yes.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-01-m1.u53	Dear colleagues! You realize that it needs to be supported because if we don't support it in the first reading, our manufacturers will be subject to sanctions in the United States. But what did the government do? He passed a bill that created real monopolies, or one body of collective government that controlled only music. It's only about music, it's about nothing else. He's going to raise money, for example, from all cable providers, and the Cabinet of Ministers is going to be setting bets on how many of them to raise money. There is no guarantee that the funds will reach Ukrainian contractors and actors. So this is absolutely, and there is no control of the Antimonopoly Committee over these monopolies. So this bill, which I once again urge you to support in the first reading, really, in the second reading, needs very serious attention and work to finally protect the Ukrainian performers who share this position heard on our committee. It's also a joint of cinematographers, and creative associations, and the Ministry of Culture. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-01-m1.u54	Thank you. So we finished the speeches by the national deputies. There will now be a closing statement by Irina Heratschenko, First Deputy Head of the Supreme Council, and three minutes from now. I ask all the national deputies to invite the heads and heads of factions and the secretariat of the Supreme Council. And Irina Heratchenko is invited to the floor, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-01-m1.u55	Thank you, Your Honor. I'm going to be like a non-fractional one that doesn't have the ability to sign up for the performance right now, and I'm going to take three minutes to make the speech and I want to make a note of the next. The discussion of this important bill, which relates to the implementation of the Association Agreement, very vividly highlights everything that is going on in the government and in Parliament in the context of the implementation of the Association Agreement. Perhaps not everyone in this room knows, but yesterday a very important event took place, a presentation of the road map on the implementation of the agreement with the participation of the Prime Minister and the Chief of the Supreme Council. And it's great that the leadership of the state recognizes, the President, the Prime Minister, the speaker, that the key task for us this year is to implement the agreement. But in fact, we see that it often turns into a proponent, as colleagues, many of the speakers, have said right now, that, first of all, we're looking at some kind of innocuous laws. This is an abnormal situation when a bill has been tabled by the government, which is not in line with the key EU directives, and when three key ministries take different positions: the economies of one, of the latter, of the Minustu, of the third, of the Minustu. Excuse me, we have an office now for the vice-premier of Euro-integration. But what's not in the office? There is no expertise in government bills on their compliance with European law. It is not normal that the Committee on European Integration does not have the authority to give its mandatory expert assessment of the drafts that apply to the Association Agreement. And so obviously we're doing the propaganda now, not the work, we really have to adopt this bill in the first reading, but the only argument is because our obligations are wrong. That's why I call on the House to make it clear to the government that there must be a more faithful, reinvigorated Department of Law Analysis that destroyed Janukovic in 2010 so that all the bills of expertise can be passed. We now have an expert on Mineconomy, and where is the expertise to conform to this bill to the EU directive? We need to reinforce with you the functions of the Committee on European Integration, because we're making a campaign with you. This is now part of the internal policy on Euro-Integration and all the laws have to go through this expertise, so we're going to do a real job with you in implementing the agreement, not calling it beautiful words. And if we have 57 of these laws this year, we have to do it urgently. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-01-m1.u56	Thank you. So the discussion is over. Let's move on to making a decision. Colleagues, I would like to point out that on the basis of a bill and this is important for our and international commitments, and indeed our vote will be a sign, and it is very important that we maximize ourselves. I'm asking everyone to take up jobs, we're moving on to making decisions. I'm asking everyone, colleagues, to take up jobs. And I'm voting on the draft Law on the Effective Management of Property Rights of Owners in Copyright and (or) Neighbouring Rights (7466) on the basis that we can work out. Therefore, it is suggested that the committee vote only as a basis. I'm asking you to vote, I'm asking you to support me. Everyone, please support, colleagues. Vote. Vote. [[16:56:13]] For 244 244-yes. Decision taken. Colleagues, we have the next block of the fuel-energy complex. But I was asked by the drafters of the bill to conduct a rating vote before going to the hearing. So I'm asking everyone to stay put. First. I'm asking you to stay put right now. And I'm voting for the next draft of the Amendment Act to some Ukrainian legislation on simplifying certain aspects of the oil and gas sector (3096-d). Ratings for support. Please vote, please support. It's also a European integration law. I'd like your support, colleagues. Vote. The rating vote. [[16:57:15]] For 232 232. We can go in. So I'm asking you to support the proposal to review the draft Law 3096-d with a reduced procedure. Second reading, I'm sorry. Second reading. My protégé. So I invite you to a report by the deputy head of the Committee on Fuel Energy in the Nuclear Policy and Nuclear Security Complex, Bilkov Olga Valentinovna. Please. There's not much change, colleagues, not much, so don't break up. There's not much repair there. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-01-m1.u57	Dear Mr. Head, honourable colleagues, the draft Ukrainian Act amending some Ukrainian legislation on simplification of certain aspects of the oil and gas sector was adopted at the first reading on December 19, 2017. I would like to remind you that the proposed draft changes are aimed at improving the procedures for the provision of land for exploration and construction of technical services for pipelines and other permitting oil and gas treatments, which will help to optimize the cost of the industry in carrying out such work and increase the actual volume of oil and gas of its own production. The draft law provides for amendments to Ukraine's following laws: the Ukraine Nadra Code, the Ukraine Land Code, the Ukrainian Mining Act, the Ukraine Oil and Gas Act, the Ukraine Land Administration Act, the Ukraine City Activities Regulation Act. In the drafting of the bill, only 32 amendments were made by 9 national deputies, 11 of whom were counted, 2 were taken into account, and 19 were rejected. Please go to the amendments. And at the end of the minister of ecology, he made another very important amendment that we would like to support.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-01-m1.u58	Thank you. Let's do it effectively and quickly. I'll read each one, you raise your hand. 1st. Don't insist. 2nd. Don't insist. Third. Don't insist. 5th. Don't insist. 6th. Don't insist. 8th. Don't insist. 9th. Don't insist. 12th. Don't insist. 18th. Don't insist. 19th. Don't insist. 23rd. Don't insist. 26th. Don't insist. 28th, Kulinich. He insists. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-01-m1.u59	Dear colleagues! I'm not going to insist on 28 lines that are edited, but I would like to point out that when this bill was considered in the first reading, many of the members of the agrarian committee made comments to it. Then a working group was formed, and together we worked out and went out for quality editing, for quality legislation, for second reading. The bill is very important for local budgets. We hope that an increase in gas production will provide additional revenue just for local budgets that can be directed towards financing the social sphere and developing infrastructure that is completely destroyed in most areas. So I ask my colleagues to support this bill in second reading and in general. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-01-m1.u60	Thank you. 30th. Don't insist. 32nd. Don't insist. Colleagues, we've finished the discussion. I'm asking you to invite all the national deputies into the hall. I ask the heads of the factions and the Supreme Council apparatus to invite the deputies into the hall, and we'll move on to the vote in a minute. And now, under Belkova Olga Valentinovna's transcript, she's going to read from the Ministry of Ecology and we're going to be able to count her as a stenogram. Please, let's all go into the hall. Mrs. Ola, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-01-m1.u61	Thank you very much, Mr. Head. This amendment refers to two very important aspects, namely the impact of the Sanctions Act and the State Secret and the regime for the use of geological information. And that's how I read it. Subparagraph 4, paragraph 1, of Section I of the bill shall be drafted in such an order. Article 39 should be supplemented by parts four and five of the following content: "The user of the nadr has the right to dispose of, including, sell and transfer to the residents and non-residents of Ukraine the geological information created, purchased at his own expense, taking into account the requirements laid down in the Ukrainian State Secret and Sanctions Act, the transfer of ownership rights or the right to use geological information. The owner of geological information reports to the central executive authority that implements state policy in the field of geological study and rational use of nadrs."
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-01-m1.u62	Could you give me a minute, please?
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-01-m1.u63	Actually, I'm done. It is proposed that this law be adopted in general, taking into account the transcription, addition and technical legal drafting of the bill for signature. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-01-m1.u64	Thank you. Let's move on to making a decision. Please take up jobs, this bill is also critical for our cooperation with the European Union, for European integration. And I ask everyone to take this vote very carefully, to take up jobs, we move on to making a decision. And I'm voting on the draft Law amending some of the Ukrainian legislation on simplifying certain aspects of the oil and gas sector (No. 3096-d), as amended by Bilkova Olga Valentinovna, second reading and generally with technical law. Please vote, please support. Vote, colleagues, please. Vote. [[17:03:41]] For 256 256-yes. Decision taken. Hello. We move on to the next draft of the Extractive Industries Transparency Act (6229). I ask the rating vote to express support for this bill, 6229, for the rating vote. Please vote, please support. Vote. [[17:04:12]] For 196 Let's get to it. So I'm looking at the draft of the Extractive Industries Transparency Act (No.6229). And I'm asking you to support the proposal for a reduced procedure. Please vote. [[17:04:48]] For 165 165 – a.k.a. Decision taken. First the author of the committee? That's what I'm supposed to do. So I'd like to invite the National Deputy of Ukraine, Bilkovo Olga Valentinovna, please. And then there's the committee head.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-01-m1.u65	Dear colleagues! Thank you very much for supporting the previous bill, and we have actually completed all our promises in the oil and gas sector, in which we created a regime that will encourage them to increase their gas production in Ukraine. At the same time, they also have their expectations about their relationship with us both with authority, openness, and transparency. You will be mindful of the draft Ukrainian Law on Transparency in Extractive Areas (No. 6229). This bill has been tabled by many deputies, and I am grateful to each of them. It's also the BP, the People's Front, the Self-Help, the Fatherland, the Non-Fraking, the Omoblok, the Radical Party. The bill is designed for the introduction in Ukraine of the Transparency Initiative in extractive industries, which is a universally recognized international standard of transparency. This standard is in place in 48 resource countries around the world. The reporting mechanism is called on to paint a real picture: which companies have been given special permits, who owns them, these companies, what activities are being carried out, how those areas are being used, which were issued by the Deriveonadrem. Standard for the Transparency of Extractive Areas Initiative, it actually aligns our activities with EU directives on transparency and accountability. This will, first of all, contribute to the elimination of corruption, which is as important as the Anti-Corruption Court today. It must also be realized that the mining industries are budgeting, as my colleague Kulinic stressed. It's about a very large amount of money, and communities need to understand where the rent is actually going and all the other payments that are paid for using the nadrama. The full knowledge of this field will allow the government, parliament, you, colleagues, to pursue politics, an adequate state of affairs, to make informed, factual and decision-making decisions at the right time.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-01-m1.u66	Thank you. Mrs. Ola, let's be brief, then more chances will be accepted. The shorter the chances. So I invite you to speak to the first deputy head of the Committee on Fuel and Energy in the Dombrovsky Alexander Georgievic complex.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-01-m1.u67	Dear colleagues, a venerable Presidium! From this high rostrum, in fact, at each session, we hear a strong call to fight corruption, and I think today is an important day, because we adopted a very important Anti-Corruption Court Bill on the basis of the first reading, but that's a lot. It's a need to respond to the problems that today are in society and how to fight corruption. But tools that provide preventive, preventive methods are needed to prevent corruption from occurring in principle and to ensure that there is no basis for these frightening phenomena to occur. The law that we now propose to adopt in the first reading -- on transparency, it gives organizational legal forms to reveal information. And where there's open information, where every consumer, where every national MP, where every citizen of Ukraine can get any information: how much oil, how much gas is consumed, what companies, how much taxes are paid, what budgetary levels are allowed to essentially minimize. I want to remind you that we were looking at this bill exactly a year ago. And in order to accept it in the first reading, we didn't have enough with you just three votes because, well, unfortunately, our work with you was organized on our behalf. The committee considered the bill. We ask for his support in the first reading. Several committees also considered and supported the bill. Furthermore, I want to say that our international donor partners, which help Ukraine change, reform the Ukrainian economy and fight corruption, also support the adoption of this bill in the first reading. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-01-m1.u68	Thank you. Please record: two in, two in. Capplin Sergey. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-01-m1.u69	Sergey Kaplan is the head of the Socialist Party of Ukraine. Of course, similar bills that make a transparent sector, and I would adopt a bill like that that regulates relations in the agricultural sector, are the right novels and a completely new course in order to regulate the current legislation, the relationship of large tax companies with the power and the people of Ukraine. But at the same time, I would like to point out that a simple grandmother in a village or a grandfather, a doctor, and a teacher who thinks about how to feed her family or a worker does not need to study how much oil and gas has been extracted. There's only one way to sort these relationships, the way that social-democratic countries in Europe, Scandinavia is to nationalize the oil and gas complex. I want to give you an example of a state company in Norway, a major player in the European international oil and gas market, Statoil. This company is state-owned and has never been claimed by the state, the fiscal authorities, the European fiscal authorities. At the same time, it has made Norway a completely self - sufficient, independent, energetic, sovereign country. I believe that this civilized, progressive practice, which has been applied for a long time in Europe, should form the basis for reforming our oil and gas complex. Of course, we can vote on this bill, but I assure you, it will hardly change anything about the complete, necessary, sufficient transparency of these companies to the Ukrainian people and the Ukrainian state. I'm just stressing once more: one way, and we have to take decisive, cardinal measures and measures here, the path of nationalization, deligarchization, demonopolization. To the sector. The monopoly, if possible, is only in the state. These enterprises should have state ownership. And we need to learn how these businesses ended up in the hands of an oligarhat. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-01-m1.u70	From the Radical Party is Ljasko Oleg Valeriyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-01-m1.u71	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Today our team has made demands and proposals to use the $2.6 billion that Ukraine will receive from the Stockholm Arbitration Prize for calling Gazprom. Now I'm reading a message from Mr. Koboljev's head of Naftogazu, where he said that the funds would go towards increasing the production of Ukrainian gas. This is the right decision, and we welcome the efforts of Naftogazu, which they have made to win the Stockholm Arbitration case, and that these funds will be directed towards increasing the production of their own gas. We are absolutely convinced that this is an opportunity to lower tariffs for people. Because the cost of producing Ukrainian gas is 2,000 dollars, today, according to government decisions, we pay 8,000 dollars for gas. In addition, Ukraine will win the Stockholm Arbitration and receive nearly $3 billion. This is not a possibility to raise tariffs. Because today, the International Monetary Fund, offering another loan, requires a higher price for gas and, as a result, an increase in tariffs. Following the victory of Ukraine in Stockholm, there is an opportunity to give up the International Monetary Fund loan and not comply with the gas price requirement. In addition, I turn to the government to cancel my decision that the price of Ukrainian gas is artificially linked to the price of import parity, since the conditions of gas production, gas pay, are completely different from those of Germany or Ukraine. In addition, the state-owned Crushing Company is 250 percent of last year's profitability. This is the profitability of millions of Ukrainians who last pay for space tariffs, gas, and after paying the utility bills, they have no money left. We demand lower prices for gas, utilities, more to extract their own gas, and there are all sorts of possibilities for that.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-01-m1.u72	Thank you. And, fellows, we're about to make a closing statement. So in two or three minutes, we'll move on to making a decision. I ask all the heads of the factions to invite the deputies into the hall, and I ask the Chamber of the Council to invite the deputies to the Hall as well. The word is from "Fatherland" Rybczyn Aleksei Mihajlovich. Out of the way, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-01-m1.u73	Alexei Rybchin, Fatherland, Doñecina. The Fatherland faction will support this important bill. I and my colleague Skrum are co-authors with other signatories of almost all political powers. And this is a really important bill that will make our manufacturing sector even more transparent. But I do have a question. What else does the Supreme Council have to take to make sure that those areas that have to be distributed among the best investors in transparent competitions are simply not listed among its business partners in power, in order to be approached by investors with the best world technologies that we now don't have as countries, and not so that these "watchers" and "schematologists" who are now in power are now in possession of the best gas fields? In addition, we have a very big question with colleagues from different factions about the Yushua so-called nadir competition, when there are both counterfeit documents, and one of the largest gas fields goes unknowingly to whom. So we support this bill, but the rhetorical question is, what else does the Supreme Council have to take in order for us to develop gas production, and we didn't report there about 0.5 or 1 percent of those things that we've improved our production just because we've purchased compressors and we're getting better gas from existing wells, and we're not developing those wells that we have? It is critical that our energy does not depend on the production of our own gas and energy efficiency. Let's vote, colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-01-m1.u74	Thank you. The discussion is over, let's move on to the decision-making process. I'm asking everyone to come into the hall, get ready to vote, get jobs. A few members of the B.P.P. have just come out. If possible, go out and just call. And they're coming in. Yes, yes, please, we are taking up jobs and moving on to making decisions. And I'm voting on the draft Law on Transparency in Extractive Sectors (No. 6229) as a basis. Please vote. Please be supportive. It's not just Euro-integration, it's also anti-corruption law, and so I'm sure we're going to be very supportive. Let's vote, colleagues, on the ground. Please be supportive. [[17:17:23]] For 218. Not all of them made it. I see they're all here. Please show by factions. and invite the deputies to the hall. Please, colleagues. I see. Please invite the deputies into the hall, heads of factions. The factions. Peter Poshenko's Block – 86, People's Front – 63, Opposition Block – 0, Self-help – 16, Radical Party – 15, Father's Party – 11, Will of the People – 0, Rebirth Party – 4. We just need to mobilize, guys. Please invite the deputies to the Chamber. Please take all jobs. Colleagues, this is a Euro-Integration Law, which is ours and ours. I very much ask everyone to take part in the vote very carefully. So I'm voting on the proposal to go back to voting for the draft Law on Transparency in Extractive Areas (6229). I ask very carefully, every voice, to support the offer to return. Let's vote, colleagues. Please be supportive. Please vote. Vote. [[17:18:36]] For 223 Three votes. Colleagues, please. Colleagues, don't give up on me. Invite the deputies to the Chamber. Three votes. Call me, colleagues, everyone who's in the towers, call me. Please don't leave the hall, people's deputies, don't leave the hall, come into the hall. We're short three votes, colleagues, three votes, please, please. Please come in. Hanna Hopko, very good. So, colleagues, please mobilize. And I'm putting the vote back to 6229. I ask everyone to vote carefully for the return. I ask you to go back to work, yes, and vote. So we vote for the return. I'd like your support, colleagues. Vote. Vote, please support every voice, carefully. [[17:19:58]] For 222 Please. Please, I ask everyone to take part in this vote. Everyone please take up their jobs. And once again, this is our mutual commitment. I'm asking you, colleagues, to support me. Please, 30 seconds, Belkova. 30 seconds, Belkova. And I'm asking you to invite the deputies into the hall. Please, I'm asking everyone to come into the voting room and prepare for the vote. Please, 30 seconds, Belkov's line.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-01-m1.u75	Thank you very much. I think there's a little bit of a problem in this room that some people haven't figured out what this bill is about. It is known that this country has the largest assets and the largest corruption schemes around gas production and gas issues. I noticed there was one faction that didn't vote so shyly for some reason. Please explain why you do not want to make it impossible for you to do so, to do so, to find out who owns it, and then to present as an opposition all claims to power and to everyone.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-01-m1.u76	Colleagues, please unite. Please unite. And I ask, colleagues, to support the return to the draft Law 6229. I ask everyone to take part in the vote carefully. And I'm asking you to support all anti-corruption laws. Please vote. I'd like your support, colleagues. Careful, every voice. Vote. Please be supportive. Vote. Careful! Vote carefully, colleagues. [[17:21:44]] For 230 230. We're back. And now I'm putting Bill 6229 on the ground. Colleagues, vote, take your places. Please support me as a base. Don't leave the hall. On the contrary, come into the hall. Please support me as a base. Vote. Please be supportive. Please be supportive. Colleagues, carefully, every voice. [[17:22:13]] For 231 Decision taken, colleagues. Colleagues, colleagues, there are two intermission applications. Can we go after the bill or are you demanding now? Now you're asking. Okay. First break. [[B in m in s a l in]] Find out, and then I'll take a break. Okay? It's a deal. Next draft of the Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on the Provision of Commercial Accounting for Natural Gas (6391, 6391-1). Please support the consideration of the reduced procedure. Please vote, please support. [[17:23:02]] For 158. 158 – a.k.a. Decision taken. And I invite two reporters: the first is the National Deputy Rybczyn Aleksei Mihajlovich, then the Blackwolf Tetjana Mikolayevna to prepare. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-01-m1.u77	Alexy Rybchin, "Fatherland" faction, Donetsk. Colleagues of the past two governments have raised gas prices, motivated by the fact that they are fighting corruption, with so-called two prices, one of the industries when the population's gas was sold at industrial prices and vice versa. So the government has now chosen such a method of shock. Instead of saving energy, instead of setting up counters to pay people for what they've consumed, instead of regulating people's ability to regulate, and not just to tax them with extra taxes, they've made a fight against price corruption. So people are paying twice now: taxes to anti-corruption workers to fight corruption and high gas prices so that there is no corruption. Yet, is there no such corruption? Yes. Because, according to the news of the WAT "Kirovogradgaz", 51 percent of the shares owned by Naftogaz Ukraine were changed in June 2017 and audited. And it was established that 384 fake subscribers had been entered into the billing system. And over a period of time, almost 10 million cubic feet [80 million gravel] of gas were imported into fictitious personal accounts. So at these high prices, you have these manipulations. Why are they? And that's what this is all about, and this is where my, there's an alternative bill for the state to see what the subscribers are, and now they're just looking at fakes. We suggest that we pass this right on to the state so that the state can see this subscriber base. These subscriber bases are now full of fakes and they're out there in the Ayclauds somewhere, and the state can't see it. The difference between our two bills is that I have a prescribed thing that's a little out of date. Because when we consulted with the government that planned to transfer the payment of gas distribution networks, it was planned that these networks would be transferred to the balance sheet of the roadways of Ukraine. And now the networks are on the balance sheet of Ukratransgazu and polygamy. 30 seconds, please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-01-m1.u78	30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-01-m1.u79	So the government has changed its concept of so-called banding and the cost of using gas distribution networks. That is why I propose to concentrate and vote in favour of the bill of alternate colleague Blackwall. And on behalf of the copyright team, I want to drop voting on my bill so that I don't scatter the votes. This is a very important bill. Please support the alternative bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-01-m1.u80	Thank you. Now the same is being said in 2.5 minutes by our esteemed colleague, Tetjana Czarnovol, who presents 6391 — quietly, please — 1 — an alternative bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-01-m1.u81	I'm going to be very brief, but essentially. This bill creates a single gas consumer base. It's a bill on transparency of the gas market. It's kind of a blur. And it's still very blurry. Let me put it in numbers. Over the course of two years, Naftogazu owed 35 billion dollars, almost one and a half billion dollars. In which case lies say it doesn't pay the population. And there's no way we can verify that. Not at all. No one in this country who acts as a state can verify how our population consumes gas, how it is calculated, whether there is actually debt. Is it really 35 billion dollars that didn't pay the population, or did it steal Ukraine's fraud system? We cannot establish these facts. That's why we need this transparency. If we have the only base of gas consumers, it's the very foundation that will enable us to know the real state of things in the country in the gas market and respond accordingly. So I'm very much asking you to support this bill. I'll also say that this bill insists on Naftogaz. Naftogaz today is actually a noun, they've won a very big victory. And notice, they won the gas war with the Russian aggressor, with the Kremlin. But they still can't win, they can't restore justice in the internal market in opposition to some Fertash. I mean, with the Kremlin, they've already won, and with the fraud system, they haven't. Why?Oh, my God! Because government structures don't help them enough, the Ministry of Fuel doesn't help enough, NCRE. And we, MPs, have to put all our efforts into this right now to help. And that, by the way, is the basis for calculating fair tariffs for the population. If Naftogaz has shown that he can gain state interests, let's give him a tool and help. Thank you for your attention. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-01-m1.u82	Thank you, Mrs. Tetjana. And please refer to the co-report as the first vice-chairman of the committee on TeC matters, Alexander Dombrowski, to present the committee's position on these bills.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-01-m1.u83	Dear Madam Chairman! Dear colleagues! If we're talking to you about gas right now, I might, on behalf of the Ukrainian Parliament, on behalf of the Ukrainian people's deputies, recall yesterday's victory. Because it's not just one Naftogazu victory, which has done a great deal for this success. This is the victory and the Ukrainian Parliament, this is the Ukraine of the President and the victory of the Ukrainian government. And it is very important that, in such a complex Stockholm process, Ukraine spoke and fought with one voice and one such weighted and strong punch. I think that if we carried out such energy and economic reforms, we would be much easier to move them in the country today, and people would be much easier to live today. I'd like to point out and point out that this is a very important law. I will not go into the details that my predecessors from this rostrum spoke of. But the problem is, we have to have a single subscriber database. And when we talk about gas subscribers today, which is actually a private database of any private gas distribution company, by the way, we have the same problem with private databases for privatized and private Oblenergo. This is a big job that we need to do within our country, social benefits, subsidies, pensions, social accounts, and we need to unify everything. Today's bill is very important, it needs to be supported in the first reading, but it's only the first serious step towards combating corruption and solving those problems, so that people can be protected and feel that they are affected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-01-m1.u84	Thank you, Mr. Alexander. I'm asking you to sign up for these bills. Ivan Rybak, please, from the spot.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-01-m1.u85	Ivan Ribak, 202 constituency, Cherniewec district. Dear colleagues, this is a very important bill, because it's not just the transparency of the work of liars that a state registers users of gas services. This is also an opportunity to fill the state budget with what the budget is not actually filling today. Let me give you an example of the situation in the Chernobyl area. Today, the environmental tax on emissions is paid by some 2,000 companies, just 2,000 users of gas. At the same time, when there are 16,000 such operators, but environmental inspection information, there is no tax inspection of these gas users. So today we have to support this bill, sort out the gas market and make this market transparent. I urge everyone to vote in favour.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-01-m1.u86	Thank you for the position expressed at the Peter Dusty Block. And now the Fatherland faction's position is presented by Sergey Sobolev, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-01-m1.u87	Dear colleagues! This is the bill that Parliament has repeatedly tried to implement through the government's mandate, namely the transfer of counterfeits to the only vertically integrated enterprise that the state should manage. And as long as we don't get as a state the entire payee database in lieu, we will never be able to transfer this property to the government, the real government of the state. I want to remind you how this property came into the hands of nine owners who are citizens of the Russian Federation. How did this property get into Fertash's hands? How was this property embezzled? In fact, special leases when they were transferred without any obligation, but just to take down the peaks, we got what we now have in the end. When consumers, whether they're citizens or they're legal persons, they're actually being brought to the pen today. By this decision, we are actually disclosing data that has somehow become the acquisition of private Russian and non - Russian companies. I think that whoever doesn't vote for this decision is actually going to break the whole plan for the transfer of those district gases that somehow ended up in the administration of non-state companies to the state itself. I urge you, our faction has therefore withdrawn its bill, which is an identical bill that we are currently considering, we urge you to vote for it. We'll vote for it.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-01-m1.u88	Thank you for the constructive position of the Fatherland faction. And, please, a self-help speech. Mrs. Wojcietzka, please. Out of the way, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-01-m1.u89	Victoria Vojticka, Self-Help Unit. I want to support my colleagues from Homeland and the People's Front, and I look forward to supporting the alternative Bill 6391-1. And I want to say that this is really the step that will allow us to finally implement those principles, the reforms in the gas market that we promised people. You need to open consumer bases, you need to be able to figure out who's getting gas, who's consuming gas, so that we have control over consumption, so that people actually pay for what they're paying, not in the yoke of Monopolis, as it is now. So I would very much like to ask the entire room to now consolidate and support Bill 6391-1. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-01-m1.u90	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we are about to go to the vote in a minute. I'm asking all my colleagues very much. Now, Mr. Mikhailo, we'll give you a word of summation from non-fractionals. But I very much ask all my colleagues to return to the session room. And I also point out that Alexy Rybchin, who is the National MP of Ukraine, who is the author of Bill 6391, stresses that in this case he is asking to support 6391-1 colleagues of Tetjana Crnowol and then to second reading this bill will be finalized, taking into account Mr. Rybkin's important novels presented in his bill. Please, Mr. Michael's last speech. Do you have enough minutes? One minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-01-m1.u91	Mikhail Golovko, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. Dear colleagues, this is a truly important law and today we will support it. Because we think there's got to be a really transparent market, and the main thing is that we have to get rid of the fictitious payments and the credits that the state is going to make today. We understand that it is difficult for Ukrainians to pay such a price for gas, which is, by the way, 3.5 times higher than their worth, as stated by Deputy Prime Minister, I'm sorry, Vice Minister Kistion. And it just proves that today's price for gas, it's uncompetitive and it's killing the Ukrainian economy. And today, by driving ordinary Ukrainians into the shadows that are growing in debt at the expense of this price that is being imposed on us today. We have to look first at the price of gas, and then on the other hand, of course, we have to enter this transparent market so that we don't fictitiously add up the debt. Because then both the archergo and the oatmeals put these artificial debts to the state and the state to them.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-01-m1.u92	Colleagues, we haven't heard from the factions of the performance yet, it's going to be a closing act. Please, two minutes. And I'd like everyone to come into the hall and prepare for the decision. Please, everyone, please come into the hall. Please come into the hall, we can't talk anymore. Please, from the faction, Oleg Lazko. Turn on the microphone from the spot.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-01-m1.u93	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Our team knows how to lower prices and tariffs on residential services. Unlike the authorities that are robbing Ukrainians today, we are proposing a plan that will allow less tariffs to be paid so that people can have money to feed their families in order to meet their needs. One, and the key is reducing gas consumption, energy upgrading. In this year’s budget, $70 billion in grants. It's actually a conservation of poverty and energy dependence. We've registered a bill, and we demand that it be adopted in Parliament, in order to channel billions of funds into energy-generating, large-scale programs: the reconstruction of livestock, housing and utilities, the warming of the housing fund, individual energy billing machines for each apartment, not on a stand in a general building. And this will double the cost of gas consumption and, as a result, reduce the cost of tariffs so that people do not pay the space price for a utility, so that the cost of a Ukrainian family on a utility is not more than 20 percent of the total income of the family. There's a cost for that. Last night's Stockholm Arbitration decision is one of the sources of energy-generating software funding. The following is the increase in production and consumption of own gas. Our team has managed to install a six - percent rent on gas from new wells over a mile [5 km] deep. The more we extract our own gas, the less we need to buy imported gas. And the key. The government has to cancel its decision, which has an artificially overpriced gas price, and as a result, Ukraine pays its poverty for the use of oligarchs. We're proposing a plan.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-01-m1.u94	So let's move on to decision-making, colleagues. And I'm voting on a bill amending the Ukrainian Natural Gas Commercial Accounting Act. And I'm voting on the committee's first proposal to accept 6391-1 as a basis. I'm asking you to support everyone. Please vote. Let's vote, colleagues. Please be supportive. Vote. Please vote. [[17:40:36]] For 206 Maybe they all didn't. The factions, please. [[B in m in s a l in]] Colleagues, I'll be back in a minute. I'm asking you, colleagues, to concentrate as much as possible right now. I now propose to return to the vote for the proposal of Committee 6391-1. I ask you to concentrate, colleagues, and please support, vote. Please vote. Please be supportive. We're voting for the return. Please be supportive. Vote. Please be supportive. [[17:41:25]] For 209 Colleagues, right now, I'm going to put in a second bill on the Rules. Now I'm betting 6391. Please support 6391. Let's put 6391, yeah. Come into the hall, please. Invite the deputies to the hall. 6391. Invite the deputies to the hall. [[17:42:08]] For 214 Or shall we vote on it? What do you say, authors? Tanya? Then this one, that's all, colleagues. Then I ask you to concentrate and I ask you to return to the 6391 vote now. And I'm asking you to vote, and I'm asking you to support the return to 6391. Please vote. I'd like your support, colleagues. Each voice has a weight. Let's vote, colleagues. Please be supportive. Please be supportive. [[17:42:50]] For 218. Colleagues, please come into the hall. We're missing a few votes. Come into the hall. One minute, Pinzenik. And I'll put it on return, please. And you'll invite the deputies into the hall. One minute, Pinzenic.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-01-m1.u95	Dear colleagues, the national MPs spoke about openness and access to information. This is a very important part of this bill. But there's a second important part: we have to destroy the monopolies of deception in the areas. This has to be a competitive market, and for this, the database has to be open to new gas suppliers. This is very important and should be reflected in the second reading of the bill. But I would like to support the text of Auntie Blackwall's law. Why? Because the first bill has a problem: it provides for a balance sheet. And we know very well who the balance sheet is, so we can't let that happen. I ask my colleagues to go back to the bill and vote on Tetjana Blackwall's first reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-01-m1.u96	Colleagues, I'll put you back. Please take up jobs. Colleagues, please, there will be a vote now. Don't leave the hall, take your jobs. I'm asking everyone to come into the hall right now, take their jobs. Colleagues, very careful, very responsible. It's not a rally to shout, it's a specific decision to fight corruption that we have to make in this room. Please, everyone, concentrate. And I'm proposing to go back to voting for Bill 6391-1, as proposed by Victor Pinzenik. And I ask everyone to concentrate and vote. Please vote for the return. And I ask everyone to vote and support. Let's vote, colleagues. Please be supportive. Vote. Please be supportive. [[17:45:05]] For 225 One voice. One voice. I will. I see it's not working. Vote, colleagues, return 6391-1. Please vote, please support. Be careful with your vote, keep the pressure simple in time. I would like everyone to vote carefully. We're voting for the return. Please be supportive. We're voting carefully. Careful! [[17:45:35]] For 222 What are you doing? In my eyes, when you vote, you hold a debate, not a vote. Colleagues, I see they're here. I ask, colleagues, when I announce the vote, to stop any discussion, and to vote. I ask everyone to vote carefully when making a decision. So I'm asking you to support the return to 6391-1 and ask everyone to vote carefully. Please be supportive. Vote. Vote. Please vote carefully. Please be supportive. We vote, every vote. [[17:46:21]] For 223 Three votes. Well, it's kind of like that. Colleagues, I see the card didn't work. Please, colleagues. Andrew! Please vote. I'm asking you, colleagues, three votes. I'm asking everyone to be in the workplace three votes is not enough for the bill. I'm asking everyone to mobilize. So I'm voting on the proposal. Come in, Kishkar, please take the job. Paul, Paul Kishkar, lacks three votes. Please vote. Return to 6391-1. Please vote, please support. Please vote. Careful. Seventh, get back in the hall. Please be supportive. [[17:47:15.]] For 218. 218. That's impossible. First-reading committee. I'm betting, colleagues, a committee on re-reading. Please all support proposal 6391-1 to the committee for re-reading. Please vote, please support. Vote. Please be supportive. Please vote that we don't lose the bill. [[17:47:46]] For 224 Colleagues, the author of the legislative initiative for further development. Two votes. I'm asking you to focus, colleagues. Two votes. 6391-1 is the author of the legislative initiative for further development. Please vote, please support. Vote. Please be supportive. Vote. [[17:48:19]] For 226 226. Decision taken. Colleagues, colleagues, I'm going to ask you a hundred questions about fighting corruption. A hundred times! To destroy corruption in this country. [[Applause]] And don't make any remarks to me, but you better be in the room and vote when we're fighting corruption, not with the tongue, but with concrete decisions. Ballabols. [[B in m in s a l in]] Colleagues! Colleagues! I'm asking for a compromise decision right now. We have two recess applications. First one, then BlackMornaphtogas, then the second break. I now declare, as promised, to break from the two factions of the People's Front and the Radical Party. Andrea Teteruka 3 minutes, and then there'll be an important vote. I'm doing 15 minutes of work, and I'm asking everyone to be there. Please, Andrew Teteruk.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-01-m1.u97	Dear Mr. Head! Dear fellow national MPs! Dear Ukrainian people! On January 5, this year, a report appeared on the official website of the United Nations in Russian and on their Facebook and Twitter pages that UNESCO had updated the list of endangered languages in the world. And this information is accompanied by a graphic representation of the languages of the world in their relationships, and the origins of each other. The Ukrainian language seems to have been given as a late branch from Russian, which began to form much later than Russian and Belarusian. We cannot ignore this false fact, for this statement is made in a series of targeted steps with regard to the assessment of Ukrainian language, but according to the Ukrainian people who were taken into arms in the Kremlin and were repeatedly bugged by Putinim. These fairy tales are constantly repeated by the Russian and, unfortunately, by the Ukrainian media. We are now seeing a new stage in the attack using the United Nations. The strategy of Russian ideology is to take such steps. One: Ukrainian language is a kind of secondary form from Russian, so it can't be considered independent and ancient. The other one. And if there is no single language, the Kremlin does not have a separate nation, but there is one Russian people. And if there is only one language and there is only one nation, in their Russian opinion, Moscow believes it is necessary to stop experimenting on the independence of the state of Ukraine. Moscow makes the view that Ukraine is a political project that proved to be a failure and they seem to need to correct this historic mistake, which is the Kremlin's strategic goal, and it's a transparent design. The world community is invited to accept, thus justifying Russia’s takeover war against Ukraine, not noticing the crimes committed on our land. And this process of justifying Russian aggression in Ukraine, the annexation of Crimea and the destruction of Donbas, and the widespread destruction of Ukraine's own state, Russia is trying to get into the world community, make the UN a tool to ignore the rule of international law. This anti-Ukrainian information strike requires the response of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, our permanent representative to the UN, and the Miniformopolitics. We cannot fail to appreciate the issue of language in Russia's hybrid war against Ukraine, because it is a powerful factor in the preservation of Ukraine as a state, and it must therefore become one of the priorities of the Supreme Council. Yesterday, the Constitutional Court of Ukraine repealed the disgraceful law of the three K's, the Kremlin, Kiwalov and the Chariot, it is a pleasure. But we have a more important task ahead of us -- the adoption of the Law on the Functioning of the Ukrainian Language as a State Language (5670-d). I am confident that the successive state position in the protection of the Ukrainian language of the Head of the Supreme Council of Andria Paruba, the authors of this bill, will set an example for other deputies. I must point out that without immediate action this important question is what we are.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-01-m1.u98	Please give him a minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-01-m1.u99	We will face the threat of losing our identity and our statehood. I remind you that just four years ago, the State thought of the Russian Federation made a criminal decision and allowed President Putin to bring troops into the territory of the sovereign state of Ukraine. Once again, I would like to point out that the Kremlin is involved in information attacks involving such authoritative representations as the UN and UNESCO. This enables our enemies to continue their open attack not only on our earth but on the ideological field that is more important in today’s conditions. Because war is won first in people's heads and then in territories. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-01-m1.u100	Thank you, colleagues. My colleagues, I have it now. I give my word, I have a huge request, today the delegation of the Ukrainian Parliament is going to Chisinau for a joint conference with the countries of the Balto Black Sea Zone on a secure issue. We have one ratification, a simple, simple ratification between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of the Republic of Moldova. I have a big request after this speech right now, recesses, vote for this ratification, and I am very much asking you to support everyone. Please. to vote immediately after the performance, right now? So, colleagues, I ask you now to go to the draft Law on the Ratification of the Agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of the Republic of Moldova on joint control of persons, means of transport, goods and objects at joint points of entry across the Ukrainian-Moldov State border. Colleagues, please support the consideration of the reduced procedure. Please stand by, we vote! Please be supportive. And then it's just Hannah Hopko's speech and the vote. Out of the way! Yes, out of the way! [[17:54:20]] For-151 Decision taken. Anna Hopko, one minute, and we vote. I'm asking everyone to come into the hall. I'm asking everyone to come to the hall, please. Anna Gopko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-01-m1.u101	Dear colleagues, we very much request the ratification of the Agreement between the Cabinet of Ukraine and the Government of the Republic of Moldova on joint control of persons of transport, goods and objects at joint crossing points across the Ukrainian-Moldaw State border, done in Chisinau on 6 October 2017. Yesterday our Foreign Affairs Committee was considering this ratification and the outcome of the review could be ratified. I think that before a visit where the speaker of our parliament, Georgia, Moldova, will be extremely important if we can ratify this agreement prepared by our government, given the importance of Moldova, with which we have one of the largest common borders since Russia -- over a thousand kilometers away. Parliamentary elections in Moldova this year, and it is important for us to develop our partnership with Moldova in general. Please support and return to the hall. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-01-m1.u102	Colleagues, please come into the hall, take your jobs. I very much ask everyone now responsible for this vote to come forward. This is an interstate agreement and agreement with an important state partner and the support of European forces there in Moldova. I ask everyone to take part in the vote. And I am voting on the draft Law on the Ratification of the Agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of the Republic of Moldova on joint control of persons, means of transport, goods and items at joint points of entry across the Ukrainian-Moldov State border. At the suggestion of the committee - in general, please all, colleagues, take part in the vote. If you'll excuse me, I'd like to vote. If you'll excuse me, I'd like to vote. Vote. Please be supportive. [[17:56:22]] For 199 Everyone, please return to the hall. I'm asking you to invite the deputies into the hall who have left. Please announce and invite the deputies to the hall. The factions. "Block of Petra Poroshenko" – 70, "National Front" – 59, "Resistance Block" – 0, "self-help" – 16, Radical Party – 14, "Fathership" – 11, "will of the people" – 1. Concentrate, boys. Bye. Colleagues, colleagues, I ask you to concentrate. Arthur, during the vote. Vote, colleagues? Arthur, if you have to tell me, I'll give it now if it adds up. Okay, colleagues, I give the floor to Arthur Gerasimov and then to the vote. Colleagues, we'll get the votes. I'm asking everyone to stay put. I invite you to Arthur Gerasimov's speech, it's a faction statement, three minutes, and then a vote. Please, everyone, I'm asking you to stay put. The vote will be in three minutes. Please, Arthur Gerasimov.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-01-m1.u103	Dear Mr. Head, distinguished colleagues, respected Ukrainians! Events under the Supreme Council, which injured at least 14 law enforcement officers, went beyond the democratic right to peaceful meetings and became terrorist. The use of grenades, unmotivated aggression against police and military officers of the National Guard is an attempt to establish the rule of power in the state, to cause turmoil, to sow terror and chaos. And in view of this, by the way, and the so-called pie under the Attorney General's private apartment is nothing more than a direct threat to someone who is not in words, I emphasize, not in words, but in fact, returns the stolen money to the state and fights for its independence. The so - called guardians impose illegal requirements: release a person suspected of treason and organization of coup d’état in favor of the enemy. And we've all seen these images here in our Parliament Hall. In doing so, they use psychological pressure, a demonstration of the fear of the Attorney General. Such actions pose a threat to the unbiased activity of his authority in accordance with the laws in force. Powerful scenarios and provocations written in Moscow cannot be allowed to develop. The Ukrainians made their choice in favor of democratic values, which envisions equality before the law. Powerful action against law enforcement officials should be given a strong response to the relevant structures, and provocateurs should be held accountable. I want to remind you, on August 31st, 15th, when the four Nazis were killed by Parliament, they should no longer be repeated in peaceful Ukrainian cities. The faction of the Party of Peter Prashenka calls for immediate action to protect the rule of law in the country, to ensure public order, especially in situations related to our opposition to Russian aggression and to protect those who, I stress again, do not speak, but in practice help to return stolen money to Ukraine and protect our independence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-01-m1.u104	Thank you, colleagues. Let's go to the vote. I'm asking you all to come to the hall. I'm asking everyone from the towers to come to the hall, and we're moving on to the vote. Please, colleagues, I ask you to maximize your mobility, and I ask you to take part in the vote. I'm asking you, colleagues, to invite everyone who's in the towers into the hall. I am asking to prepare for the vote, and I am putting to the vote the draft Law on the Ratification of the Agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of the Republic of Moldova on joint control of persons, means of transport, goods and objects at joint points of the pass. Please vote and please support the interstate agreement. Please vote. I'd like your support, colleagues. Vote. Please be supportive. Careful! Every voice! [[18:00:52]] For 207 Once again, please take part in the vote. I'm proposing to go back to the draft law. I'm asking you to support everyone. And I, indeed, friends, sincerely ask you to support everyone who is in the hall. I ask you to take part in the vote and support, this is the interstate authority of the country. I ask you to vote, please support. To return to 0175. Please support, we vote. [[18:01:36]] For 214 Again, colleagues. I'll do it again. I'll do it one last time. Only I don't understand how you can walk around the hall and not vote on such important issues. Colleagues, stand by, please. This is not right and wrong at all. I'm asking you to maximize your mobility. Colleagues, please come in and take up your jobs. I'm asking you, colleagues, to concentrate, I'm asking you to do my best. So I'm asking you to come back, 0175, to ratify the Agreement. Please vote, colleagues, in agreement and in common. If you'll excuse me, I'd like to vote. Ruslan, please vote. Vote. [[18:02:32]] For 219 6 votes, 7 votes. Yes. I see we haven't been able to vote. Colleagues, I see. I'm gonna do it again. Take a careful part in the vote, and take a careful part in the vote. All right. I've got it, I've got it. So take up jobs. We're missing a few votes. Careful, my friends. Return to 0175, ratification of the Agreement. Please be very careful, everyone, please take part in the vote. And please vote. Vote. Please be supportive. I'd like your support, colleagues. Very carefully, every voice. Please be supportive. Please support, we vote. [[18:03:29]] For 226 We're back, colleagues. Please, everyone, take your seats. I'm voting 0175 as a whole on the committee's proposal. And I ask everyone, everyone, to participate carefully in the vote. I'd like your support, colleagues. Be careful with each vote, we're voting. Please be supportive. Very careful. Each voice please support and vote. Vote, please support the international agreement, carefully. [[18:04:04]] For 225 Colleagues, I'll put 0175 again. One vote didn't work on the card. Bet, vote, please support. Let's vote, colleagues. Every voice, we support. Please vote 0175 in general. Vote, please. Please be careful with every voice. Vote. Hold the card carefully. Vote. Please be supportive. Don't joke, vote carefully now. [[18:04:40]] For 234 Ratification accepted. Congratulations, colleagues. Thank you for your support. I did today. [[B in m in s a l in]] It was already a vote, we've come back before. [[B in m in s a l in]] I'm asked, we still have the next draft of the law on Black Mornaftegas. I only run ratings so we can see the picture. So this is just a rating of 5370. Anyone who supports it, please vote. Please vote. Please be supportive. These are ratings. Please be supportive. Please be supportive. [[6:05:29]] For 181 But 181. We're not getting out, Mr. Alexander. All right, one minute, please. Dombrowski, one minute. Dombrowski, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-01-m1.u105	Ladies and gentlemen, may I have your attention? We have not now reached the very important Act on the Support and Conservation of the National Shareholder Company BlackMornaftogaz. We talk a lot about the annexation of Crimea, the need for the return of Crimea to Ukraine. It's a state company that owns all the energy assets, licenses, rights, legal rights that have to be restored and protected in Ukraine. The president brought his papers. We cannot, in our second reading with the President's permission, adopt legislation to protect Ukraine's Crimea and Energy Security. Have a conscience!
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-01-m1.u106	Put the ratings back on? I'm betting again on rating 5370, rating vote. Please vote. The rating vote. Please be supportive. [[18:06:55]] For-187 187. We can't put a bill like that at risk. And that's why, colleagues, I'm finishing my consideration of today's issues. It was an important day, it was a powerful day for fighting corruption, and the Anti-Corruption Court, it was just an age-old decision for the Ukrainian Parliament, for the Ukrainian State. We've adopted three bills from our road map of the joint parliament and the government for European integration. And I'm sure today we've demonstrated the effective, effective work of the Ukrainian Parliament, which I welcome. I also want to say that on the road to Moldova, I'm in charge of the Ukrainian delegation, so tomorrow I won't be able to be on the Year of Questions to the Government. The meeting will be chaired by Irina Lucenko, Irina Heratchenko, the first deputy to the head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Please be kind to all of you. I want a productive job. And I declare the evening session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine closed. Congratulations, fellows!
