ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-15-m0.u1	Good morning! Everyone, please come into the hall, get ready for registration. Ready? So, colleagues, please conduct the registration of the Ukrainian National Deputies, please. [[10:04:31]] 344 national deputies registered. The morning plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Dear colleagues, today is the birthday of the National Deputy of Ukraine, First Deputy Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Irina Volodymyrovna Heratshenko. Let's welcome Mrs. Irina on her birthday. [[Applause]] Also today is the birthday of the Ukrainian national deputy Andrija Anatoliyovich Teteruk, our battle brothers. Welcome, my friend Andrew, to your birthday! [[Applause]] Colleagues, today in accordance with the UN General Assembly Resolution, were proclaimed the International Family Day on May 15. And I want all Ukrainian families to be happy. And then our entire large Ukrainian family, the Ukrainian people, will be happy. I welcome everyone to the International Family Day. And according to the Rules on Tuesday, we have 30 minutes of speeches by political factions and groups. And I'm asking all the factions and groups to record for the discussion. Please prepare and record. Please. From the Opposition Block to the word, Wilkul is invited from the rostrum. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-15-m0.u2	The people of Ukraine, the celebration of Victory Day May 9 throughout Ukraine, have clearly demonstrated, today in our country, millions of people against the politics of power aimed at distorting our glorious history. The vast majority of people disagree that Ukraine today is artificially trying to turn into a radical nationalist enclave. People opposed vandalism to the monuments to the heroes of the Great Homeland War, attempts by the authorities to cancel the festivals, and ban films and books. Systematic work is being done to destroy our true national memory. There is even a person who can identify this destructive work. I want to point out that humanitarian issues, such as history, religion, international relations, language issues, are even more sensitive and painful than even social and economic ones. Speculation on these issues can break society apart more than anything else. In fact, this has been the work of some of the so - called heads of the Institute of National Memory in recent years. I have had many conversations with people in various fields. People demand that this Mr. Vitatrovitch be immediately removed from the formation of a policy of national memory that he has transformed into a radical scandal not only within the country but even with our European neighbours. For four years this character has been trying hard to brainwash Ukrainian citizens and rewrite history. Even in the United States, members of the Congress signed a corresponding letter condemning Vitarwicz. Another darkobis that society has learned quite recently is the Consulate of Ukraine in Hamburg, Vasil Marusinetz, who did not hide his Nazi and anti-Semitic views. He is now removed from his duties. But it is not a fact that this person will be released with shame and will remain in power. The time will come, and their feats will be handled by law enforcement authorities. Today, I propose and demand that Parliament give a political assessment of the activities of Váterović and send him away. I have submitted the relevant draft decree and registered it in Parliament. People don't cheat, and history doesn't overwhelm. Millions of people throughout the country who left on May 9 showed their true attitude toward the Winds, the Marasians, and their destructive actions. These ladies are the ideal descendants of those who lost in the Great Motherland. And we are the descendants of the victors. And that's why victory will follow us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-15-m0.u3	From the Radical Party to the word Lazko Oleg Valeriyovich is invited.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-15-m0.u4	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Ukrainians with fear await June 1st. According to the media, from June 1st, the government is going to raise the price of gas for citizens to 11,000 dollars per 1,000 cubes. I just have a simple question: who can pay this cosmic price for gas? When the state-owned Naftogaz companies, Crushing, are worth 200 per cent, 300 per cent, the drug barons don't make as much money as they make for selling gas to Ukrainians. With each person in his pocket, the last money that people have to pay for the utility station is no longer available to feed the family. And the authorities tell us what we have to do to get another loan from the International Monetary Fund. Gas prices go up - for the IMF's loan. Selling the property left over in Ukraine is for the IMF's loan. The Ukrainian land to sell, the peasant to leave the land for the sake of the IMF's loan. I have a question for President Dusty and the government. And when will you start working for the Ukrainians and not for the IMF's loan? Who elected you to these positions? The Ukrainians you've been hanging on your ears, or the International Monetary Fund? Therefore, the Radical Party team is demanding the end of its bonding with the International Monetary Fund, which has resulted in Ukrainians taking the future, turning Ukraine into a raw colony when we export cheap labour and raw materials. Millions of Ukrainians are going abroad through low wages, and the IMF is giving us a task that is impossible to raise wages for people. Gas prices can be raised, pensionable age can be raised, land can be sold, and wages for people to live decently in their country cannot be raised. It's a policy of defeat, it's a policy that condemns Ukrainians to poverty and to a lack of perspective. The Radical Party team and I propose another policy: halting migration, raising wages, increasing own gas production, reducing tariffs, lowering the cost of medicines, raising wages and increasing pensions, restoring their own economy, rate and support of a national producer, selling, not raw materials, but ready products, firmly protecting Ukraine's national interests. This is a policy that will give the country a future. And not a word about the sale of Ukrainian land. We initiated changes to the Constitution so that the land belonged to Ukrainian farmers, Ukrainian peasants, so that people would have support and subsidies from the state to have a cow in every farmyard. We propose to parliament to support our initiatives, to give the future to the Ukrainians and to our home country.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-15-m0.u5	From the faction of the "Universal Union of Fatherland" Timoshenko Yulia Volodymyrina, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-15-m0.u6	Dear colleagues, good morning! I think that Parliament, whatever it may be, is obliged to carry out its primary function of protecting people's interests and protecting Ukraine's national interests. And what we know with you now is that NAC Naftogaz has just transferred a financial plan to the government to approve all the money that is actually being taken out of all of Ukraine's consumers, including people, in the form of gas payments. And we learned from this report, from this financial plan, that from June 1st or July 1st, it's going to be 65 percent of the price of gas for the population-- 11,000 dollars, but that's just one side of the question. And I want to address the deputies who are sitting in this room right now. Besides raising 65 percent of the price of gas for people who are just being bullied, it's just some sort of madness, and they're also all the money that came from the gas trade, they focused on NAC Naftogazi, which doesn't transport anything and that doesn't extract anything. 40 billion dollars of net NAC Naftogazu income, and they essentially went bankrupt with Ukrattransgaz. And, imagine, NAC Naftogaz's profit is 39, 33, or 39 billion 330 million. And the loss of Ukratransgazu, which makes $3 billion a year, has made almost a billion dollars. Do you have any idea how they treat the property of the country? Right now, they're talking about the fact that the bankrupt Ukratransgaz enterprise needs to be transferred to the management of the frauds that are now being set up by the President of Ukraine and Mr. Kobolev, the head of NAC Naftogazu. And in fact, there's a shadow privatization of Ukrattransgas. At the same time as the Crushing, which reduced the production of Ukrainian gas in five months, each month gradually falls. This means that 40 billion are essentially taken from the system where they went. It's not just corruption, it's vachanalia. Because 40 billion is half of the country's defence budget. And that is why we are calling on Parliament today and from the standpoint of the unacceptable.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-15-m0.u7	30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-15-m0.u8	And from the point of view of the unacceptable increase in tariffs, and based on this massive mega-corruption that is being done at NAC Naftogaza, they have, by the way, paid themselves 1 billion dollars for five people a salary and a bonus for 2018. Open the temporary commission of inquiry immediately! We have a registered decision by all the leaders of the opposition factions. I ask you to put it to a vote and vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-15-m0.u9	From the "Rebirth Party" faction, Barwinenko Vitaly. Passing Victor Bondar, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-15-m0.u10	Dear Andrew Volodymyrovich, distinguished colleagues! I wanted to be the first to raise the issue of tariffs, of course, that the government wants to raise the tariffs for the people of Ukraine, for the Ukrainian industry, on behalf of the IMF's loans. It's a thoughtless step, and it doesn't make any sense at all. And in fact, the government today is acting like a drug addict who, for the next dose, is willing to do everything: give up Ukrainian land, lose the Ukrainian industry, and, in fact, make the country a raw material asset to the largest countries in the world. We are proposing a review of this policy, and the last year has repeatedly turned to the government to change industrial policy, investment and support our initiatives to support the Ukrainian industry. It is necessary to make money at the expense of loans, not to eat out the credits that the state is acquiring today. If the government were to invest in road construction, airport construction, support for the Ukrainian industry, so that it could buy new equipment, build new businesses and create new jobs, it would be a completely different, intelligent European economy. And what we're seeing today is a completely different one: we've accumulated an extra 1.5 trillion dollars of debt over the course of three years, and it's only this year that we have to pay back 300 billion dollars for previous loans. Over the next three years, you have to return 25 billion dollars, that's almost 4. 25 billion dollars, that's almost 4 trillion dollars. Tell me, what has changed in the country over the acquisition of these loans? Nothing's changed. That's why we're talking to the government again. Let's listen to the economic block that works in the government today. Let's hear the block that's responsible for transport, for energy. Where is the energy conservation program? Where are the powerful road construction programs? If you get trillions of dollars of credit, put them in industry, in roads, in infrastructure, is the only way out for Ukraine. Instead of spending money through subsidy programs, and this is a way to go, you have to invest money in energy conservation. And it's the gas economy, it's electricity, it's the ability to populate buildings, change windows, doors, change boiler equipment, roofs, it's an opportunity for utilities to upgrade heat grids, equipment and so on. This economy, this is jobs, this is the future of Ukraine, not the path that the government is offering us today. So we need to listen to the government's economic bloc, listen to energy, listen to the Ministry of Infrastructure about what they've done over the last three years, and what's the program for the next few years. And most importantly, I want to listen to the government, how they plan to pay their debts over the next two years. Give me 10 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-15-m0.u11	30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-15-m0.u12	We ask the government to give a clear programme as Ukraine will make money, which investment projects will appear in Ukraine, which will create an investment climate that will create tax benefits for the largest locomotive manufacturers, other equipment and equipment to come to Ukraine, and then this will be a promising Ukraine. We're proposing to the government to review the terms of licensing for gas production, the licenses to create conditions for large companies to enter here.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-15-m0.u13	Thank you. From the "Will of the People" group, Eugene Ribczynski. Please, it's Eugene Ribczynski from the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-15-m0.u14	Dear Chairman, dear Ukrainian people! I'll start with international issues. For the fourth year, there is a hybrid war with the Russian occupation, and we still have not broken the SND contracts. These are double standards that have long been stuck by our authorities and are unfortunately being used not only by them but also by others, more loyally, by our Normandy allies. One ally, despite all the warnings of Ukraine and the United States, gives permission to the aggressor country to build the North Stream-2, which actually kills Ukrainian gas transit, and another on its government websites marks Ukrainian Crimea as hostile territory. And what can we show them when the EU is tired of total Ukrainian corruption and pseudo-reforming on the ground? A recent Euroworking and a zero evaluation of a Ukrainian jury member is another signal for us. We have to get Ukraine out of the corruption swamp, clean the oligarchs, and return to the path of effective reforms. The European consciousness of Ukrainians must be transformed into European roads, European wages and European education, and, God forbid, European medicine. The second year is fought, and on the field of intellectual property, intellectual rights, battalions between the authors and the users of their works have already reached their climax, and the U.S. has warned the government without jest that if copyrights do not finally begin to protect themselves, Ukraine will be on the notorious 301st list. And here, instead of the four MPs that were long registered in the Council, there was government law number 7466, which will be passed today, you know. It was soon accepted in the first reading to cloud the eyes of the Americans, and the Committee of Education and Science made an attempt to unify the ununited, namely, those desiring to receive fees from those who did not want to pay them. Finally, a text appeared on the site of the Supreme Council, which fully meets the requirements of, not surprisingly, speakers, i.e. oligarchs, and which are totally unacceptable to the copyright community and owners of copyright and adjacent rights. Why? Because the law cunningly provides for the authors of the copyright not from the income of the users obtained from the use of television, the radio stations of copyright objects, but from the end consumers, that is, from the people of Ukraine, and the audiences, or us, with you. It's not just a legal colossal. Gentlemen, this is a deliberate provocation that can end in awe, not only for Ukrainian artists, but also for Ukrainian producers in general, because such a bill will inevitably involve European and American sanctions. So, as Lesia Ukrainiana said, "Contra spam cave!"I hope without hope I have common sense, respect for the Ukrainian authors and understanding our historical, gentlemen, mission with you. Now for bread and spectacles. Because of their media, the oligarchs are killing people with artificial spectacles, and the bread is getting smaller and smaller. In fact, Ukrainians are faced with rising prices for gas and other utilities.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-15-m0.u15	30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-15-m0.u16	Thank you. Thank you, I'm done. The monopolistic energy companies are already threatening the consumer with a penny, and the millions of Ukrainian families that the government has deliberately deprived of subsidies will actually be dumped on the sidelines. Instead, the Parliamentary Group "The Will of the People" is working on bills that are not called for complications, but for improving the lives of Ukrainian citizens, and let us adopt them this week. We need to work with you! Bless us, Lord! Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-15-m0.u17	Thank you. From the Self-Help faction, Barezuk Oleg, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-15-m0.u18	Ladies and gentlemen! It is undeniable that during the past 20 years the country has been ruled by an oligarchic clan, an oligarchic clan with an oligarchic consensus on the maintenance of power. Faces change, and power remains the same. A government that aims to use Ukrainian man and Ukrainian economy to enrich a few people. And there are concrete examples even today. The failure of the Ukrainian Government to use the gas transport system strategically for Ukraine not only as a source of revenue, but as a military shield, cooperation with the West or its absence allows the implementation of the project "North Stream 2" of Russia and its business partners in Europe, which is equivalent to the Molotov-Ribbentrop Pact, and the promises of guarantees and gas implementation through Ukrainian GTS are nothing more than Budapest-2. This is the inaction of the Ukrainian government. The other one. The Ukrainian government has put on sale a critical infrastructure facility called Turboat, a hoax, to fill the Ukrainian budget? No, it's not. Who will buy these strategic objects? The pro-Russian oligarchs, who will continue to govern the Ukrainian economy and drain the Ukrainian people. Since May 1, the Ukrainian government is preparing to reintroduce tariffs, and since May 1, it has launched processes that deprive the same subsidies of 20 to 40 percent of the people who receive subsidies in Ukraine today. What, they got rich in two years to get rid of it? No, to be charged with new tariffs. Decentralization. Perhaps the only reform that works today. What did the mayor of the small town of Zolocheva do today in Lviv? He went on extraordinary steps and announced an untimely hunger – a protest against the pressure of law enforcement authorities and the State Buildingspection, which physically abuses the city. Is this the pro-Ukrainian politics of Ukrainian power? What do you want to do? Resist. Today, there is pressure on the U.S. government in Ukraine for the Supreme Council, along with an oligarchic click, to adopt the Electoral Law to the Supreme Council on a proportionate basis with open lists. This may not be the only way to democratically change and consolidate Ukrainian democracy today, and tomorrow, Thursday, near the Supreme Council, Ukrainian peace protest will show that Ukrainian people, apart from the election law to the Supreme Council, want an anti-corruption court law, which is not the only instrument that can level the Ukrainian politician.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-15-m0.u19	30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-15-m0.u20	which will change or have a chance to change the landscape of Ukrainian politics from absolutely prooligarchy to democratic. In saying that, I see a lot of smiles in the room, because you don't believe, because there are those among you who serve this consensus of oligarchs who are robbing the Ukrainian state. That's why we have to resist.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-15-m0.u21	Lucenko Irina, from Peter Dustenk's Block. Mrs. Irina. My colleagues, I announce once again, this is a performance from Peter Dustock's Block. And I'd like to invite Lucenko Irina Stepanovna to the address, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-15-m0.u22	Dear colleagues, distinguished voters! We have not seen ourselves in this large hall for about half a month, and during this time the situation in the country has changed quite a bit. In the first place, an antiterrorist operation was completed and a United Nations operation began. Did you notice how the merger and the information from the front line changed? We are no longer complaining of enemy attacks, but we are told only about the enemy’s loss. And that's just the beginning. Because the changes made by the President as Commander-in-Chief in the security and defence sector to reconcile the enemy's counter-attack to protect the country go beyond days, not hours, but minutes. Let's welcome our protectors so that we can gather here and discuss in this room. Both the President of Ukraine and the commander of the United Nations operation unanimously claim that the liberation of Donbas will take place in a political and diplomatic manner. I have no right to speak out loud, but, my colleague, it is not excluded that we are on the verge of serious changes. Last week the leaders of three countries gathered in Aachen: Ukraine, Germany and France, but without the President of Russia. The negotiations of such an informal pro-Ukrainian group in Normandy are capable of giving impetus not only to the resuscitation of the format itself but also to the major changes in Donbassa. What decision will be made this time depends on many factors, but any expectations for the better are now very appropriate. It is important that strategic European allies support Ukraine’s proposed scenario of deployment of peacekeepers to the Donbasa regime, which will ensure the maintenance of the silence regime and stop the supply of arms and living force by Russia to occupied territories. As a decisive and practical support for the United States of America's independence and territorial integrity, "Javelins" arrived in Ukraine. From now on we have what we can do to stop the tanks of the opponent, and this is not artillery over 100 millimeters away from the tens of kilometers line, it's portable mobile rocket complexes that are easily and rapidly unfolding at any point of a possible breakthrough and every shot that hits exactly the target. This will be an additional argument for Russia from active fighting. Ukraine’s achievements in the international arena should serve as an example for the Supreme Council of the State’s persistent progress in protecting the interests of the State. Therefore, in internal politics, our faction also calls for serious results: to vote in favour of the renewal of the CVA, finally to resolve the issue with the NAB auditor, to support the President's bill on amendments to the Public Procurement Act, which is expected by entrepreneurs, the business of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-15-m0.u23	30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-15-m0.u24	create a Financial Security Bureau, liberalize monetary regulations, support the currency bill, continue the reform of the security and defence sector through the adoption of the Ukrainian National Security Bill. Dear colleagues, we have Ukraine alone, regardless of the party of MPs, so let's get to work, gentlemen. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-15-m0.u25	Thank you. And the closing word from the faction has the representative of the People's Front, the head of the Burbak faction, Maksim Yuriovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-15-m0.u26	Congratulations, colleagues. I'll start with labor migration abroad. This question is now in the focus of social attention. This problem is far from new, but today it gets worse. Now a few million of our citizens are working outside Ukraine. Experts speak of 10 percent of Ukraine’s economically active population. Our immediate neighbors from Poland, Romania, and the Baltic region faced the same challenge. The globalized world has greatly expanded its employment opportunities abroad. But Ukraine now needs its citizens in particular. Reformed by the government of Arsenius Yatsenuk for only four years. Our Polish, Baltic friends started this journey in the '90s, went to join the European Union in 10-15 years. We are rebuilding the economy into a new economy for Ukraine, a free trade zone with the European Union. That's where you need your hands and your brains. At the same time, we hold back the Russian aggressor and fight for full economic dependence on him. So we need to slow down the process of labour migration abroad and create conditions for the return of fellow countrymen. Otherwise, Ukraine will lose its workforce for economic growth, lose its chance. At the same time, our labour migrants have invested billions of dollars in the economy each year and are the main investors of our economy. Using this money, Ukraine should spend, including on providing families of Ukrainian migrant workers in the homeland, here at home. Many issues and problems of migrant workers remain unresolved. The whole state policy on these citizens is virtually gone. The Law on External Labour Migration is a framework and generally does not work. The People's Front faction urges Parliament and the government to return face to labour migrants. I asked the Prime Minister to set up a single centre for the implementation of State policy on labour migration, the only place in the executive power where ideas, demands, complaints, and feedback were available, wherever labour migrants and their relatives were, could turn to a centre with which parliamentarians, consuls, foreign diplomats and international organizations could communicate. On the other hand, the People's Front faction launches such a centre in the Supreme Council. We are initiating interfractional mergers to begin to form a legislative basis for real state policy in the field of external labour migration. I'd like a colleague to join us in this matter. We have to raise all the bills on this subject, and no less than a dozen, unify them, update them to be approved this year. And now, with regard to the elections to the united territorial communities that have recently taken place. Colleagues, the Greek did not just come down; she flourished in these elections. New schemes for bribery and voter bribery have emerged, and the price of bribes for vote has increased. And I'm afraid to imagine who's behind this, who's finding that kind of money in a warring country for electoral fraud. I stress the lowest level of elections: to rural united communities. Can I finish?
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-15-m0.u27	30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-15-m0.u28	That is why we need to support the initiative of the Minister of Internal Affairs of Arsen Awakov and finally to initiate real mechanisms for punishment for election violations, and to assume the real responsibility of those who are buying votes and those who are selling their children's future and our nation's. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-15-m0.u29	Thank you. So the factions are finished. Colleagues, I remind you that last week we started a review of the draft Law on the Effective Management of Property Rights of Owners in Copyright and (or) Neighbouring Rights (7466). And I have a big request to the right-wing authors that we can do as fast and efficiently as possible. I know how extensive the committee's work has been, and I know that representatives of all factions have been involved in the drafting of this bill. I believe and I hope that we can make a positive decision. The law has several hundred, several hundred rights. And I have a request from the right-wing authors so that we can go through the issue of order of the day, effectively and quickly go through the stage of discussion. And now we're moving on to a direct discussion of the rights. And I invite you to report to the First Vice-Chairman of the Committee on Science and Education of Spiowakovsky Alexander Volodymirovich. And ask the right-wing authors to prepare themselves for discussion. Please. Just one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-15-m0.u30	Dear colleagues, as we agreed, there have been three weeks in the National Deputies to consider the relevant text of the law published on the Supreme Council website, and we have also held appropriate consultations with the National Deputies, with our colleagues from the European Union from the United States, and have found the necessary final compromises that I will read further under the transcript after we have considered the amendments, and I think we will come up with a joint consolidated solution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-15-m0.u31	Thank you. So let's move on to the discussion. I remind you, I'm going to read those amendments that were rejected by the committee, if anyone wants to make an amendment supported by the committee, to confirm, by raising their hand, let them just know me or the presidency. And so 7th, Opanasenko. Declined. Don't insist. 12th. Don't insist. 16th. Don't insist. 25th. Don't insist. 27th. Don't insist. 30th. Don't insist. 31st. 32nd. 42nd. 47th. 53rd. 54th. 55th. 56th. 57th. 58th. I'll call the number, and whoever insists, you just let me know. I only call the amendments rejected. We've got good dynamics. 77th. Don't insist. 78th. 79th. 81st. 82nd. 83rd. 99th. Don't insist. 102nd. 103rd. The authors do not insist. 116th. Don't insist. 117th. 118th. Don't insist. 126th. 132nd. 133rd. 138th. 146th. 147th. 148th. 153rd. 154th. 160th. Colleagues, how about we take a path that insists on repairs? Should I count what you say? Count it, good, good. I'll count it. 178th. 179th. 180th. 181. 181. Please, Danchenko. 181 law.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-15-m0.u32	Amendment 181 is unfortunately rejected. Let's write it this way. In paragraph 7 of the first part of article 14, the draft law after the words "cable retranslation" should be supplemented by the words "organization of speech" and should be worded as follows: "cable retranslation, organisation of language of objects of copyright and (or) adjacent rights other than the rights of the organization of speech in relation to their transmissions (interpretation programme)". Period. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-15-m0.u33	Thank you, Mr. Alexander. The committee rejected the amendment, he partly counted it. The author insists on taking full account of the amendment. Dear colleagues, I ask you to put to the vote the amendment of 181 of the distinguished national MP of Danchenk. The committee counted it in part. Please vote. [[10:43:59]] For-86 Eighty-six votes in favour, the amendment is rejected, it stays in the committee's office. 183 Amendment of the People's Deputies of Morocco. Don't insist. Now, colleagues, this is such a big amendment that it takes up a lot of pages. We went through the first volume of our amendments with you. Let's move on. Amendment number 195, People’s Deputy Spiowakovsky, Ionova. Don't insist. Okay. Thank you, colleagues. Amendment 199, National Deputy Condratiuk, Spiowakovsky 199th. Don't insist. 200th, same copyright team: Singerkowski, Condratiuk, Ionova. 200 repairs. Don't insist. 2001 amendment, Spiowakovsky, Condratjuk Don't insist.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-15-m0.u34	201th.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-15-m0.u35	201th, yeah, I'm sorry, 201th, not 2001 yet, but 201th. But they don't insist on 201 corrections. 202 Amendment, Spiowakovsky, Condratjuk. Don't insist. 203 Amendment, Jonova, Singerkowski. Don't insist. We haven't done it before the 2000s. It's true. I'm sorry. The authors ’ team worked very hard on the amendments, and quite a lot has been taken into account. 207 Amendment, Spiowakovsky, Condratjuk Don't insist. 208 Amendment, Spiowakovsky, Condratjuk, Ionova Don't insist. 209, same copyright team. Don't insist. 219, Opanasenko. Let's move on to the amendments, colleagues, and here's enough big articles, that's why. Now we're at the 219, who's watching the amendments. Next, 244, Opanasenko. Opanasenko doesn't insist on 244, doesn't insist. If you insist, I don't see much of you, Mr. Opanasenko, raise your hand. 249, Chicken. The chicken doesn't insist. 250th, Morocco. Don't insist. 252, Opanasenko. Don't insist. Let's move on. 269 Irina's Amendment Over. Mrs. Irina Podowak, 269th. Don't insist. Thank you very much. Scrum Olenna, 270th Amendment. Don't insist. 271, Korchinska. 271. Mrs. Corchinska, 271. Don't you insist? 271. Mrs. Corchinsky, turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-15-m0.u36	Good afternoon!
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-15-m0.u37	Good afternoon!
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-15-m0.u38	Good afternoon. I insist on a full vote of 258. This is true of those who have not found their authors and their distribution. We insisted with the working group, discussed that 50 percent of all the awards that were not found by the authors would be directed, apart from the Culture Fund, to social advertising, to social projects. Sadly, the working group did not count. I insist that we vote in full for this amendment because today we don't popularize our heroes on the canals, nobody sees them, and it's this money that's directly focused on creating exactly new social projects, primarily about war veterans, the Ukrainian-Russian war. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-15-m0.u39	Thank you. This is Amendment 258. She was part of the committee. Mr. Spiowakovsky wants an explanation. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-15-m0.u40	I want to say that the unallocated costs, they can actually be on the O.K. account for three years. This means that even with the percentage base that exists today, for example, if there's a million dollars left there, it's about 25 percent in three years; that means that you can make 250,000 in three years, which is exactly what the honourable National MP of Corchinska says. That's why we've taken the committee into account that three years is enough time to accumulate the right funds.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-15-m0.u41	The explanation is clear. Dear colleagues, please identify yourself for 258 amendments. The committee counted it in part. Mrs. Corchinska insists that she be put to the vote in her version. Please. [[10:50:11]] For-50 50 votes. You're not going through with this. 271 People's Deputies of Korchinsky. Don't you insist? You also insist. Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-15-m0.u42	Once again, they are linked precisely to the fact that I am firmly opposed to making the rewards look forward to three years when they can work on social projects. It will also support those authors who already have social projects. Four years of war, our country has not implemented social projects to support war veterans. Please, I insist on voting again. I hope that at this point everyone in the country will be able to create and encourage social projects.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-15-m0.u43	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, please proceed with the amendment of the 271 People's Deputies of Corchinsky. The committee turned her down. [[10:51:14]] For-59 Correction not counted. Next 272, People's Deputy. Don't insist. 273, People's Deputy Skrum. Don't insist. 274th, Korchinska. Don't insist. Thank you, Mrs. Oksana. Kiwalov, 282nd. There's no insistence on a national MP. Yelensky, 285 amendment. Don't insist. 288, Over. Don't insist. Scram, 289. Don't insist. Korchinska, 290. 290 revisions. Don't insist. Yelensky, 294th. Don't insist. 300 amendments, Yelensky. Nor does he insist. Yelensky, 301st. Don't insist. 302, Morocco. Don't insist. Chervakova, 303rd. Don't insist. Down, 304. Don't insist. Schrum, 305th. Don't insist. Korchinsky, 306th. Don't insist. Danchenko, 307th. Don't insist. 308th, Danchenko. Don't insist. 309th, Singerkowski, Condratuk, Ionova. Don't insist. 310, Over. Don't insist. Scram, 311. Don't insist. Corchinsky, 312. Don't insist. Thank you. Over, 313. Don't insist. Scram, 314. Don't insist. Corchinsky, 315. Please, Mrs. Corchinsky's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-15-m0.u44	I'm sorry, colleagues. I remind you once again that war is coming. This is the same with regard to the distribution of rewards and with respect to 12.5 percent. Please, once again I insist, we must address you. The warring country must do social projects. We should encourage social projects. Our channels are now the most anti-Ukrainian orientation, in fact the leading pro-Ukrainian. We must now create incentives for authors to insist on creating social projects primarily in order to promote today's real, living heroes on our channels. There's no project on any channel where there's no publicity, no hero service, no volunteers, no volunteers today! We must create encouragement! This is one of the mechanisms, including the distribution of copyright awards. I'm asking you very much to support, to give the last chance to anyone who would like to.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-15-m0.u45	Thank you for your clarification. The committee rejected the amendment and gave an explanation in principle of the previous amendments, which also had a meaningful fulfillment. I'm asking you to identify yourself for the 315th correction of the session room. [[10:54:50]] Z-62 62 national deputies supported her, Mrs. Oksano. The correction is being rejected. Next up, 318th Opanasenka People's Deputies. He doesn't insist. Let's move on. And you and I, your respectable colleagues, have already gone through two thirds of the amendments quickly enough because of the concerted work of the group that worked on these amendments and the profile committee. 329 revisions. The national deputy Condratiuk, Ionov, and Singerakovsky do not insist. Kiwalov, 333rd. Don't insist. 334th, Sümar, Knieżicki, Heratchenko does not insist. Dear colleagues, let's move on. By Irina, 337. Don't insist. Alona's splinter, 338. Don't insist. Corchin Oksana, 339 amendment. Don't insist. Thank you, Mrs. Oksana. By Irina, 342nd. Don't insist. Schrum, 343rd. Don't insist. Corchinsky, 344. Don't insist. 346th, Over. Don't insist. 347th, Schrum. 348, Oksana Korczynska. Don't insist. 349, the author's team of Spiowakovsky, Ionova. Don't insist. Opanasenko, 350. Don't insist. Korchinska. Schrom, 352. Don't insist. 351, Over. Don't insist. Korchinsky, 353rd. Don't insist. Don't insist. Then it's 356. He doesn't insist. Schrome, 357s. Don't insist. Corchinsky, 358. Don't insist. 359th, Over. Don't insist. My colleagues, in principle, we move very quickly. 360th, Scrum. Don't insist. No, you don't have to insist. This, on the other hand, shows what is going on, what is going on, what is going on, what is going on, what is going on, what is going on, what is the very serious work of the profiling committee, and what is the team of the copyrighted working group. That's just a good example. 361th, Korchinska. Don't insist. Don't insist. 362, Over. Don't insist. Now, colleagues, we're moving on to the amendments, and there are plenty of amendments now that have both been made by the working group, and by the professional committee in the drafting of this important bill, including in the context of Ukraine's international commitments to second reading. 363 amendment, national deputy Shkrum. Don't insist. Wait a minute. 340 repairs. Colleagues are asked to return to 340 repairs. Now. She was counted, I think. Now, just a minute. Up to 340 revisions ask colleagues to return. We'll do it now. 334. Dear colleagues, 340 amendments were partially taken into account. Colleagues are asked to return to 340 revisions. This is the amendment of the national deputies of Spiowakovsky, Jonah. It was partially accounted for. At the same time, Mrs. Jonah, as one of the authors of the amendment, insists on including this amendment in its entirety. 340 repairs. Please, Mrs. Ionova. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-15-m0.u46	Dear colleagues, thank you so much for the opportunity. We also have, in fact, letters of support to the community, what they are proposing to support in full the 340 amendment and to present section 4, section VI, paragraph 4, of the bill's Final and Transitional Positions in the proposed text. This is where, within three months of the date of entry into force, this law arranges for the convening of delegates from the number of right-holders of the natural persons who have transferred to the Office of the UAASP their property rights. So it's a very important story here on dispossession and transfer of property rights to the UAASP. And that's why we want our amendment to be taken fully into account, not partially. Because it is important for us to have the organization go through the proper resolution procedures. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-15-m0.u47	Thank you, Your Honor. As you have heard the position of the author of the amendment, which was taken into account by the partially-profile committee and working group, Maria Ionova and Alexander Spiowakovsky, who very much submitted for the drafting of this bill, ask the session room to support this amendment fully. I'm putting her to the vote. Dear colleagues, I ask you to listen to the authors. [[11:00:40]] For 118 Dear Mrs. Mary, I think that after all the amendments have been made, you will return with Mr. Alexander to reconcile the position of the hall when we may have a larger presence in the hall. We were before, now we're in 346, Over. 347th, Schrum. 348, Korchinska. Don't insist. 349. Don't insist. 350, Opanasenko. Don't insist. 353 amendment, Korczynska. Don't insist. 357th, Scrum. Don't insist. Next 438th Amendment, Schrum. Don't insist. Colleagues, we're basically getting to the end of the bill. So I'm asking all my colleagues to go back from the towers to the session hall, literally in two or three minutes, we might already have a vote, we're moving very quickly. I ask you very much to return to the session room. Here are the big articles, so we are looking for amendments that we have not considered to follow the Rules. Next 364, Korczynska. Don't insist. Dear colleagues, we have literally two amendments that have not been taken into account. I ask you very much to return to the session room. 369, Over. Don't insist. 370. Scram. Don't insist. 371, Korchinska. Don't insist. These are almost the last amendments. I'm asking you to return to the session room. 376th, Chicken, National Deputy Chicken. Don't insist. 378th, Yatzenko People's Deputy. Don't insist. 380th, Yelensky. Don't insist. Now. 372. Now. 372 plus some, I get it, I'm going to look for 372 and some, okay. 372, National Deputy Danchenko, it's your amendment, it's edited. Please, the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-15-m0.u48	The amendment was taken into account editorially, but I ask it to be fully prescribed. Paragraph 2 of Part 6 of Chapter VI, “To the end and transitional positions” should be supplemented by the following sentences: “Decision by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine on the determination of minimum rates of remuneration for collective management organizations in force for the adoption of this law shall cease to be valid at the end of the four months following the date of entry into force of this law.” It's very important. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-15-m0.u49	Thank you, Your Honor. So amendment 372, Danchenk's national deputy, was taken into account editorially. At the same time, the author insists on taking full account. I'm asking you to identify yourself. Please make up your mind. [[11:05:33]] For 101 Dear colleagues, 101 votes for your offer, Your Honor, Mr. Alexander, it's not coming through. And the final amendment, the honorary colleagues, 383, the National Deputy Opanasenka. I'm asking you to turn on the microphone, your honor.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-15-m0.u50	Thank you, headmistress! Dear colleagues! Still, I wanted to use my unacceptable, rejected amendment 383 to get back to 340 amendments to Spiowakovsky, Ionova, because it is extremely important. It's partially accounted for, but it needs to be fully accounted for, because there's a clear procedure, a procedure for dissuasion of the UAASP. We need this, we really need this procedure to go completely in line with the 340. Then it's going to be a transparent and completely uncorruptible, risk-free process for authors. Thank you. Please support 340. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-15-m0.u51	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I ask you to return to the session room, colleague. So now, dear colleague Opanasenko has asked to return to 340 amendments, not 383rd. I ask you to return to 340 corrections. Dear colleagues, please support the 340 amendment, this is the request of the national deputy Opanasenka and the national deputy Ionova and Spiowakovsky. Please vote. [[11:07:21]] For-161 The 340 amendment has already received more votes, 161 votes. There is potential, but not all deputies have returned to the hall. Colleagues, she's not supported, 161 votes only. And at the request of the People's Deputies of Lechchenka, I must now put it. I ask the author's attention, Mr. Spiowakovsky, Mrs. Kondratuk, Mrs. Ionova, 246 amendments ask the national MP Lewchenko to submit for confirmation. Please, microphone to the People's Deputy Levchenk.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-15-m0.u52	Levchenko "Freedom", 223 District of Kiev. The bill between the first and second readings introduced a rule that allows users of music to pay royalty, and I quote, "from the amount of revenue received by users from end-users." This means, in fact, that operators like radio and television will actually pay the copyright not as a percentage of income as before, and they'll just be free of any royalty payments and they'll use any music free of charge for their own reasons, because the final consumer of their services is a Ukrainian viewer or listener who doesn't pay directly for this service, in fact, radio and television. Thus, the media will simply be freed from the payment of royalty, which is a nonsensus for the entire civilized world. This amendment is absurd. I ask her to be confirmed now, and I appeal to all adequate deputies not to vote for her. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-15-m0.u53	Please, I'd like to request a comment from a professional committee that has worked very carefully and for several months on this bill. Please, Mr. Alexander.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-15-m0.u54	Thank you. I want to say right now under the stenogram. I'm going to read under the transcript that it's not the users that are going to be there, it's the users. So we're going to take your comments into account through the stenogram.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-15-m0.u55	I understand Mr. Yuri is pleased. No, he asks for confirmation, he is not satisfied with the clarification of the head of the task force and the profile committee. Dear colleagues, I beg you, 246 amendments are now being made upon the request of Yuri Lechchenk for confirmation. The committee has taken it into account and very much asks the committee to support the position here of both the working group and the committee. I'm putting to the vote 246 amendments for confirmation. [[11:10:10]] For-157. 157 votes, this amendment is rejected. I'm begging you now. It's a 246 amendment. Dear colleagues, in fact, we will move on in a minute to the vote. As far as I can tell from what's happening in this room right now, there are two amendments that are now causing an important concentration of our attention and a return to them, 340th and now 246th. I would like to give the floor to the head of the profile group and the committee, please express your position and we will proceed to the vote before this bill is defined.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-15-m0.u56	Thank you. Dear colleagues! Dear colleagues, the logic of the bill will be broken if we don't accept these things. Dear colleagues, I ask them to vote positively. After that, I will read under the transcript, and the remarks of Mr. Levchenk's distinguished national deputy will be taken into account. And so we're going to get an appropriate structure that will work. Otherwise, otherwise, after the adoption of the bill, we'll actually have to accept these things again. So, dear colleagues, before the transcript, I'm asking you to consolidate and vote 340th and 246th amendments, and make a positive decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-15-m0.u57	Thank you. So, colleagues, the discussion is over. I'm asking everyone to come into the hall, prepare for the decision. I ask the factions to invite all the deputies into the hall. And I would like to remind you that the head of the committee of Singer, Alexander Volodymyrovich, asked us to return to Amendments 340 and 246 before voting for the law in the second reading. Yes, Mr. Alexander? They were confirmed and then put to the vote in favor of the law. So now I'm going to announce these amendments and I'm going to ask Alexander Volodymyrovich to read under the transcript that he's proposing. Ready, Mr. Alexander? Under the stenogram. Please listen carefully to the text that Mr. Alexander will read under the transcript. I know these points are principled, so please listen carefully to the committee's report. And come into the hall. Please, Mr. Alexander.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-15-m0.u58	Dear colleagues, after appropriate consultations with the National Deputies, with our colleagues, with the experts of the United States, the European Union, the agreed position of the Economic Development, the factions of Parliament, the Committee and the People's Deputies, we ask that we accept these additions to the text of the bill as a transcript. First. In paragraph 5 of part two of article 4, after the words "external rights" add the word "a". The other one. Paragraph 4 of Part One of Article 19 instead of the words “by decision of the court” read: “according to the decision of the institution to revoke registration in connection with a violation by the organization of the collective administration of the requirements of this law”. And to complete part of the first article 19 with a new paragraph of this content: "The decision of the institution to revoke registration may be challenged in court." Paragraph 3 of Part Two of Article 19 instead of the words “by decision of the court” read: “according to the decision of the institution to revoke accreditation in connection with a violation by the organization of the collective administration of the requirements of this law”. To complement part two of article 19 with a new paragraph: “The decision of the institution to revoke accreditation may be challenged in court”. In part seven of article 19, the words “registration and accreditation shall be revoked on the basis of a judicial decision” shall be replaced by the words “the institution shall have the right to cancel the accreditation and (or) registration of such an organization”. Third. Paragraph 2 of the second part of article 20 reads as follows: "Projects of previous tariffs are defined in general congregations of collective management organizations and are set in fixed amounts or as a percentage of the arrivals of users (I emphasize users!) directly derived from the use of copyright objects and (or) adjacent rights, taking into account the cost of payments related to the acquisition (acquisition) of rights to such copyright objects and (or) adjacent rights, or the percentage of the cost of equipment and material media that can be used to play copyright objects and (or) adjacent rights separately for each user category." Four. Part of Article 25, “The manner in which public oversight of the activities of a collective management organization” is carried out, reads: “In the event of non-fulfilment or improper fulfilment of the requirements set out in the warnings of an institution and (or) the continuation of infringements of the requirements of copyright legislation and (or) of the adjacent rights indicated in the warning, the institution shall decide to revoke the accreditation and/or registration of such an organization and to exclude such an organization from the register of collective management organisations. The basis for the decision to revoke the accreditation of a collective management organization is also a well-founded appeal by the right-holders to the institution on the removal from the management of an accredited collective management organisation of a significant amount of property rights, which has led to an inadequacy of the essential representative criterion set out in Article 16 of this Law, as well as a request by a legal person who has reasonable grounds to believe that it meets the criteria set out in Article 16 of this Law, and can perform the functions of an accredited collective management organisation in an area in which the collective management of an organisation is responsible for lifting the accreditation of which an application has been made. In the event of a decision by the institution to revoke accreditation, the register of collective management organisations shall be recorded accordingly. In the event of an institution’s decision to cancel accreditation and (or) registration, such an organization is excluded from the register of collective management organizations. Information on the cancellation of registration and/or accreditation is available on the official website of the institution. The decision of the institution to revoke accreditation and (or) registration may be challenged in court. " There are corresponding signatures below this. Next. Part three of article 12 should be supplemented by a new paragraph three of the following content: "The collective management bodies have the right to initiate concerts, creative evenings, other cultural activities, and to make proposals to the relevant national authorities for national patriotic measures to promote national cultural works." There's a corresponding signature. From Kabmin. Section IV, paragraph 7, of the Act on Amendments to Certain Legislative Acts of Ukraine No. 1774-8 of 06.12.2016 replace the words and digits "1600 bracelets" with the words and figures of the following sentence: "for living minimum for working persons established on 1 January of the calendar year beginning on 1 January 2017". Dear colleagues, other suggestions from fellow members of the national MPs, Mr. Chicken and Mr. Anton Yatzenk, we will read under the transcript at first reading 7539. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-15-m0.u59	Thank you. So a colleague, a committee representative, read the text that worked on the working group. And now I'm going to tell you what the sequence is going to be. First, the return to amendments 340, 246. If there's room will, we'll confirm it. And then I'm going to put to the vote with the amendments that Spiowakovsky read under the transcript. Agreed? So, please prepare for the vote and please take the job. I'll be the first to propose to return to Amendment 246. And let me remind you, this is actually this right here, which is the recommendation of our European partners and which corresponds to the European directives. And so I'm asking everyone to back up the offer now to return to the 246. So, please prepare, please take up jobs, colleagues. So we don't race later. Prepare to vote. Everybody's in place, right? And I'm voting on the committee's proposal to go back to amendment 246. Please vote, please support. I would like to remind you that these are EU directives. I ask everyone to vote carefully for the return to Amendment 246. Please vote, please support. Vote! I'd like your support, colleagues. Please vote. Let's vote, colleagues. Vote. [[11:20:03]] For 236 And now I'm charging 246 confirmations, please support, we're back to her, now we're confirming her. Please vote, colleagues, please support. Amendment 246. Vote! We vote in favour. This is the European amendment. [[11:20:30.]] For 236 Decision taken. The next amendment is 340. Please vote for the return to Amendment 340. Please vote and please support. Vote. If you'll excuse me, the committee's asking for your support. [[11:20:54]] For 229 We're back. Now I'm betting on confirmation of amendment 340. Please be careful because there are literally voices to each other. Please support amendment 340. Please vote carefully and please support 340. Vote! Pay attention to every voice! Please be supportive. [[11:21:25]] For 235 Decision taken. And now, colleagues, I'm voting on the draft Law on the Effective Management of Property Rights of Owners in Copyright and (or) Neighbouring Rights (number 7466) in the second reading and in general with the rights that the deputy head of the Committee on Science and Education read under the transcript by S. Alexander Volodymyrovich and with technical and legal rights. Please vote, please support. Let's vote, colleagues. Please be supportive. Vote. Come into the hall, please. [[11:22:19]] For 246 The law is passed. Decision taken. And I want to thank all the members and the committee and the working group who have worked long and inspiredly so that we can adopt this law. But, colleagues, now we have the next law from the intellectual property block. Don't split up. Support the proposal so that we can consider it as a reduced procedure, colleagues. Next draft of the Act amending some Ukrainian legislation on the settlement of copyright and related rights (7539). Please support his consideration of the reduced procedure. Keep it up, fellows. Be careful. Please vote in favour of the summary procedure. Please support [[11:23:19]] For a hundred and Decision taken. And I invite you to the report. Mr. Alexander, we have the Deputy Minister's first report. Perhaps you are. Titarczuk Mikhailo Ivanovich. Or you can step out. Please welcome the report to the Deputy Minister for Economic Development and Trade, Titarczuk Mikhailo Ivanovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-15-m0.u60	Thank you. The Honourable Head, the Honourable People's Deputies of Ukraine, the draft Ukrainian Act amending certain Ukrainian legislation on the settlement of copyright and related rights, has been developed with a view to implementing the provisions of the Association Agreement between Ukraine and the European Union in the field of copyright and adjacent rights, as well as to correct the shortcomings of the current legislation found during the application. A number of changes are proposed in the draft law. In particular, the settlement of property rights for copyright and adjacent rights created for purchase or employment contracts, including those created by employees of public authorities; the clarification of the content of property rights for reproduction, cable retranslation, property leases, and so on; the strengthening of liability for infringements in this area; the use of licenses available in digital form that may be made available by electronic means. In addition, the draft law has expanded the list of cases of free use of copyright and adjacent rights for the benefit of society. The adoption of the law will have a positive effect on investment in the IT sector. The bill provides that the property rights of a computer program or database created by an IT specialist who works under a contract of employment belong to the employer, unless otherwise provided by the contract. It's a good signal for IT companies. They can be sure that the right to use their product will not be challenged in Ukraine. The adoption of the law will increase the amount of reward that the creators receive, as well as improve the international image of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-15-m0.u61	Thank you. The report invites the first deputy head of the Committee on Science and Education, Spiowakovsky Alexander Volodymyrovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-15-m0.u62	Thank you. Dear colleagues! I will not repeat what the deputy minister said. I want to say that the committee unanimously supported the first reading of 7539. And then we're going to work on the same pattern as 7466. We'll create a working group between the first and the second readings. I think 99 percent is going to be a working group working on Bill 7466. And now I'm asking for a transcript before the first reading to add appropriate amendments to the National Deputy Maxime Chicken and Anton Yatzenk. "The Electronic Course is an authorized institution, an information and telecommunications system which has a comprehensive system of protection of information, certified in accordance with article 8 of the Ukrainian Law on the Protection of Information in Information and Telecommunications Systems, and provides for the electronic system of registration and accounting in the field of copyright and related rights, identification of persons, placement, retrieval and transfer of data, information, documents, etc. when carrying out procedures for objects, entities, rights and legitimate contracts, other activities, copyright operations and (or) cross-border rights, the use of other services, established by electronic broadcasters." In paragraph 5 of Part Two. Next. After the word "e-mail," add the word "e-field" and the word "com" next to the text. At the end of the sentence after the words "rights" add the sign "come" and the words "understanding information through electronic channels." In part four of article 13, "Words and Signs in Electronic Administration System": "In order set up by the collective management organization," replace "through electronic courses." In the first part of paragraph 5 of the words "e-mail," add the words "e-mail" and "com" next to the text. Add paragraph 8 to the following sentence: “use services implemented by electronic courses”. In the second after the digits 1, 6 add a comma and a digit.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-15-m0.u63	Could you give me a minute, please?
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-15-m0.u64	And that this law takes effect from the day following its publication and applies to the legal relations that arose after it became effective, and from the functioning of the electronic system of registration and accounting in the field of copyright and (or) adjacent rights and electronic playgrounds, 30 days after the publication on the official website of the institution of the institution of the beginning of the registered electronic system, but no later than 1 July 2019." Dear colleagues, opportunity. If the Supreme Council votes in favour in the first reading, it will allow the work to start over 7539, and thus the basic actual law that synchronizes Ukraine's legislation with European Union law will enable it to apply equally powerfully, 7466 and 7539. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-15-m0.u65	Thank you. Please record: two in, two in. Capplin Sergey Mikolayovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-15-m0.u66	Dear colleagues, I would like to welcome everyone with the adoption of the previous bill, and I am convinced that we will vote for it, and that there will be incredible possibilities to investigate the facts of copyright violations and the current legislation that regulates the protection of intellectual rights, including by the ex-ministers of the country, ministers, deputies of the Supreme Council, there will be a lot of them. From the prime ministers of the Kamikaze to the former regional deputies. We support the adoption of this law as well. And I'm convinced that the practice is that when the very limited number of conducts that the Ministry of Internal Affairs is opening up about copyright violations, it's going to increase significantly. And we're going to open up new opportunities for, first of all, innovation in the country, development and modernization of higher education in the country. This will then significantly increase competitiveness and the national economy, and this is the way to new jobs, this is the way to raise wages, increase the EU's remuneration to the Pension Fund, increase pensions. And of course, an increase in economic sovereignty and our state, when we're independent of international currency funds, world banks, and we can protect an ordinary Ukrainian person from its genocide that's been going on for 27 years. We vote yes.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-15-m0.u67	Thank you. From the Radical Party of Halasyuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-15-m0.u68	Dear Andrey Volodymyrovich! Dear fellow national MPs! The Radical Party team has consistently supported all copyright laws to protect creative people in Ukraine. We have, we are simply obliged to create conditions in the country today so that Ukrainians can make their intellectuals so that the authors of those wonderful works that are created on our flourishing earth can live on the incomes that their minds create. You have to make money not selling raw materials abroad or selling people abroad, which unfortunately is happening today. Because this crazy emigration, which is, is a testimony to the totally wrong economic model that the Ukrainian authorities are running today. So it needs to be changed radically. You have to make an intellectual bet, you have to make a high-tech bet, and that's what these bills are all about. That's why we supported the previous bill, and we support this one. Let's make a bet on the future, let's make an intellectual bet, let's make it economically profitable to make, not export raw materials, but intellectual work. There is no alternative to success for Ukraine. Because the raw material always costs shocks and is tens of times cheaper than the finished product, which contains a creative component that contains an intellectual component that contains a high-tech component. Ukraine has every opportunity to make a qualitative breakthrough to become an intellectual and productive hub of Europe in order to become a European point of growth, not an eternal borrower, not an eternal debtor, depending on other countries, who are told what to do with the earth, with language and other necessities of life. So it's just development, it's just intelligence that we support this law.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-15-m0.u69	Thank you. Andrew Pomazanov gives the floor to Igor Guzu. Please, Mr. Igor.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-15-m0.u70	Dear friends, two minutes of your attention. I want to come up with a very important question for the people of Lucca. For over a year, there has been no mayor in the city of Lutsk, a city head who, unfortunately, died. For more than a year, the Ukrainian Parliament has been unable to decide on the elections in Lutsk, a shameful situation. I was born, I am alive, and I am likely to live in my hometown, and when the chains come to me. They ask me what it is that prevents Ukrainian parliamentarians from simply assigning the elections of the Lutsky City Head. I call on the people here today to consider or tomorrow to consider the issue of elections in local self-government, and again, Lutsk is going to be footballed. It's wrong, it's unfair, in Lutsk every city council session takes place with a fight, secretaries change, commissions change, and so on. The only solution to this question is the election of the city's head of the deputy corps. Whoever wins these elections must rule the city legitimately. The electorate speaks of the general attitude that the Supreme Council should have in order to decide on the elections. So it's not white, it's not red, it's not green, it's not for any. Lutsk needs an election. I'm talking to Andrey Parubia. I'm going to Peter Dustenk to give the BP faction team support the Lutsk election decision, and that puts all the dots over "and," there's no other option. Friends, I ask the entire Parliament once again to support the elections in the city of Lutsk. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-15-m0.u71	The discussion is over, let's move on to the decision-making process. Colleagues, I'm asking everyone to come to the hall right now. I want to remind you that when we passed the previous bill, there was an agreement that one of the rights to draft Law 7539 would be read under the transcript. So I'm going to put it to a vote, again, with proposals that Spiowakovsky announced from the rostrum. But I ask now that we vote effectively, that we all take up jobs. And I'm asking the factions to invite deputies and take jobs. So can we move on to making a decision? I am voting on the draft Act amending some Ukrainian legislation on the settlement of copyright and neighbouring rights (No. 7539) on the basis of the rights that the report by Sviovakovski Alexander Volodymyrovic from the Supreme Council of Ukraine announced from the rostrum. On the basis of this, I ask you to vote, and I ask you to support me, we vote. Please support, we vote. [[11:37:01]] For 186 I'll put it back once. Show by factions. Please take up jobs. And I'm proposing to go back to draft Law 7539, to consider the committee's proposal to take it as a basis. Please vote for the return. Please be supportive. Please vote. [[11:37:51]] For 202 I'll do it again, colleagues. I understand that there was agreement when we voted in favour of the previous law. Please. So, are you ready? So please prepare for the vote. [[B in m in s a l in]] If it doesn't work now, we'll have to work on it. So I'm going to re-proposal to draft the law. so that we can return to the proposal of a committee to consider draft Law 7539 to return. Please vote who supports the return. Please vote for the return. Vote. [[11:39:03]] For 206 20 votes is too much. Next sentence, which is according to the Rules, is to be sent to the Committee to prepare for the re-reading. Is that something you'd like to support? Yeah? So I'm proposing that the bill of Law 7539 be sent to the committee for re-reading. Please support us so we don't lose the bill. Please vote and please support. Vote. Please vote: to the committee for re-reading. [[11:39:47]] For 231 Decision taken. My colleagues, I want to tell you, the following two laws are very short. It's a second reading, and there's literally a few rights. And that's why I'm asking everyone not to split up, and very carefully and quickly, so that we can get through these laws. So it's a second reading, so there's no need for another procedure. First. The next draft of the Law on Amendments to Certain Laws of Ukraine prohibiting the Recruitment and Arresting of Heat, Water and Water Management Subjects, No. 6578. And I invite you to report to the committee's deputy chairman, Babak Olen Valerian. Please, Mrs. Olena. Colleagues, don't split up, the vote will be in a few minutes. Please, Mrs. Olena.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-15-m0.u72	Mr. Chairman, honourable national MPs, the draft law that we are currently considering was adopted at number 6578 on 22 March this year as a basis. During the project process, it received 36 amendments from 5 national deputies and the National Bank of Ukraine. 32 revisions are included, including editorially, 4 revisions are rejected as being contrary to the project's tasks. The prepared project is aligned with the Ministry, Nazbank, the Association of Ukrainian Cities, and the professional associations of utility companies. Consider these conceptual changes to the second reading. The project is complemented by the definition of terms: special accounts for credit costs in special laws. Complementary sources of funds that are included in these accounts. In addition to the costs of international financial institutions, it has been determined that these may be the costs of foreign financial institutions or of funds involved in accordance with intergovernmental agreements or loans, or of the funds involved by the State or economic entities in the areas covered by State or local guarantees. It simplifies the prohibition of drawing up and arresting funds that are on special accounts without identifying their sources because they are listed in new terms. It is supplemented by the rule that the owner of a special credit account provides control and is responsible for the purpose of using the funds. A bill with observations was called for by the Chief Legal Authority. As a result of a review of the comparative table to the bill, the committee decided on April 18, this year to recommend that the Supreme Council of Ukraine accept it in second reading and in general as a law. Please support the committee's decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-15-m0.u73	Thank you. Colleagues, only a few rights are rejected. They're going to confirm, aren't they? I'll read them first, and you'll call them. 5th. Don't insist. 1st, Kugel. Please, Alexandra Kugel.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-15-m0.u74	Dear colleagues! The Fatherland faction asks for confirmation of Mr. Andriyevsky's application, which foresees, well, that it is contrary to article 116 of the Rules, in fact, to propose the opening of current accounts by a special regime for credit funds that are not provided for by banking legislation. In addition, the de facto bill suggests that the loans received from any non-resident, not interstate contracts, not the IMF MRD, but any resident, could be Rothschild's blind trust, created at the request of the President, in a loan from the Ukrainian company. It's an anti-law, anti-State law. Please place Andreyevsky's first application for confirmation.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-15-m0.u75	Please comment, Mrs. Olena.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-15-m0.u76	Alexander Volodymyrna, I ask you very carefully to read the definition of this term. It's just a term that says why this law is actually being passed. The point is that these are exclusively investment costs involving either international financial institutions or other international financial institutions under city or state guarantees and solely for investment.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-15-m0.u77	What are you saying?Oh, my God! Read what's written here. Give me your word.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-15-m0.u78	Well, let's read it then. That "these are accounts opened in national or foreign currency for the stockpiling and use of credit, loan funds received from international financial institutions, foreign financial and credit institutions or in accordance with international contracts or funds involved by the State or entities of central water supply, water management under national or local guarantees only - please pay attention - to the preparation and execution of investment programmes in the area indicated by such accounts."
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-15-m0.u79	30 seconds, please. You're done, aren't you, Mrs. Helena? Colleagues, will you tell me there'll be a lot of amendments for confirmation? Is there going to be a lot of amendments for confirmation? Okay. Please, Alexandra Kugel, after that, vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-15-m0.u80	I'm asking you very much, Mrs. Babak, to read the final edition that you've adjusted. It says, "Foreign financial credit institutions." This has nothing to do with the municipal and state guarantees of international financial institutions. And (or) the subjects of farming. It's different things. Tomorrow, offshore, they're going to raise money, they're going to invest like foreign investments, and they're not going to get arrested when it's proven to be illegal money. Thank you. Let's leave the first line. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-15-m0.u81	Ms. Helen, we're still in a lineup and we're moving to a vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-15-m0.u82	Alexander Volodymyrna, but it is still written clearly, is only for the preparation of investment programs. And this article describes how the program's investment is approved. The point is that it's only about investing in municipal infrastructure, under investment programs that are approved in the established legislation. We're protecting a resource that's going to invest in municipal infrastructure. Ladies and gentlemen, we have a completely neglected infrastructure of cities and settlements. We protect investments exclusively for the introduction of investment programs that are approved in the legal order. Dear colleagues, it's about investing water-, heat-, targeted investment programs. We're supposed to protect every penny for these purposes today. I don't know what to do.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-15-m0.u83	So we're going to the vote. Deputy Coogell's got a one-line application for confirmation. The committee's asking for support. Colleagues, I'd like to be in the workplace. Now I'm putting a motion to vote so that one amendment is confirmed. And the committee is asking us to confirm Amendment No. 1. So whoever supports this amendment, please vote, please support. Vote. [[11:47:39]] For-142 The decision is not taken. Next. The Kugel of Alexander.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-15-m0.u84	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. This is Alona Babak number two. It also refers to the first violation of Rule 116, which was not in the first reading. Second, the law suggests that the NCRECR should be delegated to the Ministry of Profitability and approval of the procedure for the development, approval and approval of investment programs for central water supply and water supply at the general level. In fact, this amendment narrows down the competence of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine by handing it over to the NCREKP, which is de facto under the control of the President. Please bet on confirmation.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-15-m0.u85	Thank you. Olena Babak.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-15-m0.u86	Dear colleagues, it's the other way around. In fact, the order of development of investment programs is currently exclusively foreseen by the NCRECR. We're dividing, and my right is to say that for those subjects that are now regulated by local self-government and are licensed by the district government, it is not for them that the NCREKP should determine the order of the development of the investment programmes, but that the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine should do so. Therefore, it is divided that for entities governed by the NCRECR, the NCRECR sets up a procedure for the development of investment programs, and for entities licensed for ODA and tariffs set up local self - government, the investment programs for them are designed by the Cabinet. This, on the other hand, is aimed at resolving the situation that has arisen today that the NCREKP sets up for all such programs while they are not subject to the regulation of the National Commission. And it should be made clear that their investment programs are designed by the Cabinet of Ministers. That's why I'm asking you again.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-15-m0.u87	30 seconds. You can finish. So I'm betting on the vote number two that Alexandra Kugel is putting to the vote. The committee's asking for support. So whoever supports this law and who supports the committee, please vote in favour. 2 clearance for confirmation. Please vote. Please be supportive. Vote. [[11:50:29]] For-182 The decision is not taken. The cone, turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-15-m0.u88	To shorten, please place the number 3 Babak and number 4 Andreyevski for confirmation. In addition, the second reading of part nine is edited. These are all the amendments that we make that show the violation of the Ukrainian Law and the Supreme Council Rules of Work that completely change the essence of the law from first reading to second reading. And so 3 and 4, please put on confirmation.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-15-m0.u89	Mrs. Olena. Helen Babak, 3 and 4, please comment
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-15-m0.u90	Dear colleagues! It's about what we're doing here, how much money we're talking about. And we're saying that these are the costs involved in intergovernmental contracts or in the form of loans, loans taken by the State, or government and local guarantees, in the current accounts. It's completely incomprehensible why we're overcoming such important adjustments and refinements. Friends, the point is that in the housing and utility sector, Naftogazu's debt is drawn from enterprises every penny that goes into investment. We are now trying to protect this investment resource by this law, and we are completely failing and destroying the investment protection mechanisms in the municipal infrastructure of Ukraine's population. Dear colleagues, a great request to support.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-15-m0.u91	So I'm going to put the vote in a step by step: first the 3rd and then the 4th amendment that Deputy Kugel is putting on for confirmation. And I'd like everyone to be in the hall. 3 amendment, committee requests support for amendment number 3. So, please vote, please support Amendment 3, please. [[11:52:56]] For-195 The decision is not taken. And Amendment 4 for confirmation, the committee's asking for support. Anyone who supports the committee, please vote in favour. Edit 4 please support. [[11:53:22]] For a hundred and Please turn on the Kugel microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-15-m0.u92	Mr. Head, I'm pointing out to you that I'm going to put a lot of articles on confirmation. Why? Because Mrs. Babak and Mr. Andriyewski, in violation of the Ukrainian Rules, introduced a new edition in each article that I place on confirmation, apart from international treaties and treaties with state institutions that the state can control and guarantee, just wrote loans to any of the operators, we have no right. If we live in a state of law, any loan should be protected by law in the same way: is it a Ukrainian entrepreneur or is it foreign? And if the offshores come from blind trusts other people, they go as investments, wherever they're going, if they're illegal, they have to go under the law. And so if you cancel out the time, I'm asking you to send this bill back to read again. And that's how you put the 9th on confirmation.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-15-m0.u93	30 seconds, please. Please recalculate.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-15-m0.u94	9-y, 10-y, 15-y, 16-y, 17-y, 18-y, 24-y, 25-y, 30-y, 32-y, 33-y, 34-y, 35-y and 36-y.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-15-m0.u95	Please, Mrs. Olena.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-15-m0.u96	Dear colleagues! In fact, Babak's law, if you read the right-wing text, and you're talking about not only foreign investment in municipal infrastructure being protected in the same way as international financial institutions, but I'm reading "financial investments of national origin or derived from budgets of all levels." It was Babak's paper that didn't pass the committee. Because they just said that the national origin of the investment is going to be protected in another way, through escrow accounts and so on. And we're going to be regulating international investment today. But, dear colleagues, the point is that the whole law introduces laws in force: drinking water, heat supply -- and in the context of these regulations, the requirements for investment programs. These investment programs have clear rules of approval and passage. And all of these costs that we're trying to protect against the cost, they're going through a process of approving investment programs. And we're actually protecting them. But maybe if you have one phrase.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-15-m0.u97	30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-15-m0.u98	What to delete a phrase about. foreign financial and credit institutions. And for example, these are companies like NEFCO, they're going to international. JICA, this is it. So these are, in fact, the funds that Ukraine is now involving, they're not international financial institutions.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-15-m0.u99	30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-15-m0.u100	And there are those entities that give credit to Ukraine. And we're protecting every penny that goes to investment, water supply, sewage and heat supply. Dear colleagues, we're ruining the ability to protect these funds by not allowing us to protect this resource. But in order to keep the law, we may be able to agree.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-15-m0.u101	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-15-m0.u102	the question of "foreign financial credit institutions." One phrase, if you delete, maybe vote. "External Financial Credit Institutions." It was an amendment, it was a removal.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-15-m0.u103	So, colleagues, now I'm going to put these motions to the vote. We're moving on to the adoption of the law. I continue my sessions until the law is concluded and ask everyone to come into the hall and prepare for the decision. I'm asking all the factions to invite deputies into the hall, we're moving on to making a decision. Colleagues, we are now looking for a compromise position with the committee that can allow us to vote without confirming all rights. And while the national MP enters the hall, I ask you to invite me, I give Kugel my word, and I hope you find a compromise. Please, Mrs. Alexander.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-15-m0.u104	I'm talking to Mrs. Babak. Throughout the law, delete what this law affects and has the right to foreign financial and credit institutions and entities that lend loans. There can only be international agreements, international organizations, or agreements between utilities and international organizations. And just foreign financial and credit institutions and economic operators are operating under Ukrainian law.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-15-m0.u105	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-15-m0.u106	Ladies and gentlemen, let's put this to the vote. If we remove any other credit resource that can come into investment, to execute investment programs, for example, by concession contracts, leases and so on, well, that's the right and the solution. And the decision of this room. If that's the case. I mean, once again, we ask the Fatherland to make their offer and I ask the Chief of the Supreme Council to put it to the vote. If the hall accepts such an offer, of course, that will be the decision of the Supreme Council.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-15-m0.u107	Mr. Sergey, express it so that it can be written in the law, in the body of the law. Turn on the microphone. Sergey Sobolev. And please take your jobs.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-15-m0.u108	Sobolje, Fatherland. Our suggestion is that all text corrections, so that we don't put each article on confirmation, leave the general line. International institutions, state institutions, we're leaving it as an editorial. International organizations -- we're leaving it as an editor. And this is the final edition that we're voting with, and they're also staying with the previous project -- these are state guarantees. And that's how we vote: local or state guarantees. All of these are the three key positions that remain.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-15-m0.u109	Is the committee in agreement with this position? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-15-m0.u110	So, as we understand, you're going to ask me to remove from the definition of terms, this is number one, that these are the costs of foreign financial credit institutions that sound like that. Yeah, right?
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-15-m0.u111	Is there a committee agreement?
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-15-m0.u112	And everything else is involved.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-15-m0.u113	Roger that.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-15-m0.u114	Then we support this proposal.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-15-m0.u115	Well, then, colleagues, I won't.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-15-m0.u116	In order to preserve the idea of protecting the maximum investment at all. It's in the utility infrastructure.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-15-m0.u117	So let's move on to making a decision. I understand that this proposal is compromised. I'm not going back to the 1st, 2nd, 3rd, 4th. I will immediately make this offer, which was made by Sobolev and Helen Babak. You're ready, aren't you? So I'll read it. Please support the draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine (No. 6578) with the proposal that Sergio Sobolev made under the transcript, as well as Olena Babak, including the 1st, 2nd, 3rd, 4th, as amended by Sobolev, the second reading and the whole of technical law. In the editorial board, which was delivered by Sergey Sobolev and Olena Babak, in the second reading and in general with technical law. Please vote and please support. Vote. Please be supportive. Can I help you, colleagues? [[12:02:51]] For 259. The law was adopted in a difficult discussion, but we were able to make a positive decision. Now, according to the Rules, I'm going to call it a 30-minute break. At 12:35 a.m. please all arrive in the hall. The next law that we have in our daily lives, 6141, is extremely important for banking. And I'm also asking the committee's representative, Paul Alexanderovich Rizanenko, and the right-wing authors to come to the hall in time for us to begin our consideration of the law in time.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-15-m0.u118	Dear colleagues, this time for recess is over. I ask everyone to come into the hall and prepare for the continuation of our work. I want to remind you that after the next Law, 6141 we will have about twenty drafts of inclusion in the agenda of the day session. They will be included without discussion, and so I ask the factions under those laws once again to determine their vote so that we can get through quickly and effectively. And I'd also like to say that we have a day-to-day session after we've included the issue of individual out-of-order elections. The committee prepared 48 non-conflict election proposals. But before I go in there, I'm going to put the ratings vote to see if we have a chance today to go through this block of out-of-court local elections. Now I ask everyone to prepare for active and productive work. And we are going to consider the draft Act amending some of the Ukrainian legislation on the promotion of foreign investment (No. 6141). And I invite the head of the Committee on Financial Policy and Banking's work, Mr. Please, Mr. Paul. And the right-wing authors please get ready for work, and the goth factions I'm asking you to invite the deputies to the hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-15-m0.u119	Good afternoon, dear colleagues. Paul Rizanenko, head of the Securities and Markets Committee of Finance and Banking. Today, your view is suggested for the second reading to consider a bill on some changes to Ukraine's laws regarding the promotion of foreign investment, registration number 6141 (since 27.02.2017), under the authority of the members of Rizanenka, Doubbenko and Polakov. I would like to remind you that on 27,02,2018, the project was adopted on the first reading, exactly one year after its registration. In all, there were 56 suggestions from the National Deputies: Rizanenka – 39, Doubenko – 9, Polyakova – 3, Demchak – 6 and from a group of five deputies of the All-Ukrainian Freedom - 3. Total 53 revisions, 3. Let me remind you that the project envisions the establishment in Ukraine of a foreign financial intermediary institution, the nominal holder of a global castodian. For example, these are international institutions that perform such functions in Western Europe or in the United States as BNP Paribas, BNW Mellon, Sitibank, DeutscheBank, HSBC Securities Services and JP Morgan and others. The adoption of the project will allow foreign investors with fewer bureaucratic procedures and with greater confidence in global custodians to invest in Ukrainian securities, UDPs, shares of Ukrainian issuers, debt securities and other securities. According to previous estimates by the Securities and Stock Markets Commission, and professional market participants, potentially about 100 billion dollars can be added to the Ukrainian economy over the year, thanks or acceptance and implementation of this institution by the nominal global castodian holder. The bill is being prepared for second reading by a committee working group: NCCFR (the Securities and Stock Market Commission), NBA, Nacdepositaria, State Financial Monitoring Service, professional participants in the stock market, insurance associations, banks, and experts. For the second reading, the project was further developed on such issues, taking into account the GNEU’s conclusions on the need for a similar mechanism of nominal restraint also for Ukrainian investors through Ukrainian depository agencies abroad. So this is not a unilateral movement, this bill provides for the possibility of the same institution for Ukrainian investors in foreign countries. The IMF's proposal to secure an account mechanism at the level of law in the securities of the nominal depository-correspondent holder to meet the requirements of the Euroclear International Depository-clearing company is taken into account. Can I get on with this?
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-15-m0.u120	Please add two more minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-15-m0.u121	An important issue of financial monitoring has been addressed, the simplified identification and verification of the nominal holder and its customers in accordance with the fourth EU Directive No 2015/849. The issue of non-recognition of the disclosure of securities of a nominal holder in a foreign financial institution, which is created in accordance with the legislation of the aggressor State, is settled. It is also envisaged that the customer of the nominal restraint may not be the person to whom international sanctions or sanctions are applied in accordance with the Ukraine Sanctions Act. The technical and legal adjustments of the draft law have been made accordingly. The Committee on Financial Policy and Banking recommends to the Supreme Council that it adopt a draft law amending certain laws of Ukraine to promote foreign investment in a second reading and in general. I'd also like to say a little bit in other words the same thing, less technically, but perhaps more clearly. Foreign investors today have to open accounts in a local depository, or Ukrainian legal entity, in order to obtain Ukrainian securities. In the past, we know what kind of institutional environment we're working in, and there were times when such securities went missing, there were scandals even last year. such global investors, they trust their holders with the securities I've spoken about before. The bill foresees that these international banks can become depositaries, essentially nominal retainers, depositaries in our country. But the bill also provides that they will have to comply with the requirements of accounting, disclosure, compliance with corporate procedures, and that they will, in fact, have to carry out financial monitoring of these accounts. The bill also provides certain things -- what I said -- sanctioning things. I mean.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-15-m0.u122	30 seconds, please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-15-m0.u123	They won't be able to open such accounts from the aggressor country, they won't be able to open non-residents or companies registered in countries that don't meet the FATF requirements, that is, the requirements are pretty strict. The bill worked very well and for a long time with the involvement of all experts. I suggest you take a look at it. If you have any comments on the amendments, discuss them. And I'm going to sound some technical and legal disagreements that GNEU's been paying attention to, the legal department. They're very few, literally three, they're technical. Me, too.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-15-m0.u124	Thank you. So let's move on to the discussion. And I would like to point out that there's not much right to this bill, so it's going to be a quick discussion. And please invite everyone to the hall. And I ask the heads of factions and the factions to invite as many deputies as possible into the hall. So I'm going to read the papers. Anyone who wants to read an amendment by raising his hand may contact me. Four. Don't insist. 15th. Don't insist. 18th. Turn on the microphone, please. 18th. A boy. Turn on Demczak's microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-15-m0.u125	Dear colleagues, a very good bill that allows investors to be involved, foreign investment companies that can work. Sadly, though, this bill states that they can only work through foreign nominal restraints. As the reporter said today, my colleague from the Committee on Financial Policy and Banking is Deutsche Bank, Sitibank, BNP Paribas. But this is how we discredit our participants, discredit Ukrainian banks, Ukrainian investment companies. They could also perform such a function, including for foreign investors. Therefore, I propose that the number 18 issue be set up, voted on and accepted as a whole.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-15-m0.u126	Please comment.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-15-m0.u127	Actually, the bill, given by the amendment, here, it's quite large, it takes very many aspects of activity into account. And this is also about the restriction on the sanctions list that can't open. And we did, in fact, on the committee, a mirror system, which is not only foreign castodians and globals will be able to work in Ukraine, we predicted that Ukrainian depositories would be able to do the same if it allows the legislation of another country of the counterparty to open the same accounts of the nominal holder, that is, via Ukrainian depository Ukrainian customers would be able to maintain foreign securities. We had the liberalisation of monetary legislation. You know, today, Ukrainian citizens can open accounts abroad, up to $50,000 a year, and buy securities. And they'll be able to account for them, keep them in Ukrainian depositories according to the law and by the way, by the way, the law. Therefore, an adjustment must be taken into account.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-15-m0.u128	Thank you. So this is an editorial. I understand that the author insists on taking it fully into account. Put it to a vote? So I'm betting on a vote of 18, which the committee considered editorially. The author insists on taking it fully into account. Whoever supports this proposal on the 18th, please vote. Please vote. [[12:50:06]] For-78 The decision is not taken. Colleagues, I'm asking you to come into the hall. And I keep reading the papers. 23rd. Don't insist. 27th. Don't insist. 37th. Don't insist. 40th. The author does not insist. 44th. The author does not insist. 51st. The author does not insist. Is he insisting? 51 readout, Deputy Levchenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-15-m0.u129	Lewchenko, Freedom, 223 District, Kiev City. With my permission, I propose to supplement the provisions of the Ukrainian Depository System Act with the prohibition of all depository transactions in the account in the securities of a nominal holder in the case of a systematic one, and we determine that this is systematic more than three times, a violation of the requirements for disclosure by the nominal holder of information about the owners and the relevant securities or transactions with the relevant securities. These changes are necessary to guarantee the inability of the systematic avoidance of nominal restraints from the obligation to disclose information about owners and relevant securities or transactions with appropriate securities required by the relevant control authorities. So we need to create a mechanism that, if there's such an aversion that there's got to be an appropriate punishment. Unfortunately, so far there is no such mechanism in this bill, we propose that such a mechanism be put in place. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-15-m0.u130	Thank you. Please comment.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-15-m0.u131	It says here that the correctness is rejected, but it would probably be more correct to say that it's taken into account essentially. It is taken into account by essentially 52 revisions, and note how sanctions are imposed for failure to comply with the nominal mode of performance. It points out, 52nd, that in the event of non-discovery by a nominal holder of information in cases established by law, prohibit or limit the time limit for the removal of a marked breach of all or individual depository transactions in an account in the securities of a nominal holder for which the information has not been disclosed. So your concept or your proposal, it's taken into account by just another correction in its essence.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-15-m0.u132	Do you insist on voting, Mr. Yuri? Lechchenko insists. Let me remind you, this is actually a final amendment, and in two minutes we're going to vote and I'm asking everyone to go back to work and prepare for the decision. So I put to the vote the amendment of 51 groups of authors of Lehchenko, Illenko, Golovko. The committee rejected it, but the authors insist on voting. Anyone supporting Amendment 51, please vote. Please vote. [[12:53:28]] For-74. The decision is not taken. 52nd. 55th. 56th. We're done, colleagues, talking. Now I'm going to give the closing statement to Paul Alexanderovich, and then we're going to make a decision. So I ask everyone to come into the hall and take up jobs. Please, two minutes, Paul Alexanderovich. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-15-m0.u133	In order to ensure the balance and integrity of the bill, taking into account the outcome of the debate between the deputies and the factions, with a view to a comprehensive settlement of the relevant legal relations, it is necessary to take into account the law that was put in place, but not confirmed, 18th. Next. Some comments were also made to the Bill by the Chief Legal Authority of the Office of the VIA, which the Committee on Financial Policy and Banking agrees with, and for the sake of a clear understanding of the drafting of the transcript, I ask for the purpose of avoiding ambiguous treatment or the emergence of collegiates to take account of this. I gave the factions a table like that. If someone doesn't get it, they can get it. Here are three little technical adjustments, explained to everyone, I'll just read them. There's a substitution of certain words that don't really matter. First. In paragraph 7 of paragraph 10 of paragraph 4 (this is on page 15 of the comparative table, this is the first paragraph, row 54), the word "they" is replaced by the words "marked institutions". It just specifies the norm so that there's no variation between "they" and the "marked institutions" mentioned in this paragraph. The other one. In paragraph 5 of paragraph 15 of paragraph 4 (this is on page 18 of the comparative table, this is row 76), the words "the customer information of the nominal holder, the customer of the nominal holder" are replaced by the words "other information". This amendment refers specifically to the provision of information on the requirement of control authorities. Paragraph 1 above is provided for in this law, which is given in silence by law, and paragraph 1 refers to other information that these authorities may require in the order established by the Securities Commission. This will prevent potential misuse of depository institutions when identifying clients.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-15-m0.u134	Give me a minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-15-m0.u135	Third, last. The changes proposed in paragraph 5 of paragraph 5 of paragraph 5 (this is the last paragraph in line 88 on page 24 of the table) should be moved to the end of the paragraph. This paragraph is eight parts of one article 10, which is moved from one part to the other in the same paragraph, complementing the revisions at the beginning with the words "and/or in case of failure to provide customers with the documents or information they need.".. This will prevent possible ambiguous interpretations. Offered. The bottom line. It is proposed that the Ukrainian National Deputies support the draft Law on Amendments to Certain Ukrainian Laws on Promoting Foreign Investment (No. 6141), support the second reading and, in general, take into account what has just been read under the stenogram.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-15-m0.u136	Thank you. So the discussion is over. One more minute, please, head of the committee. Turn on Doubenko's microphone, one minute. And let's go to the vote. Please. There are no performances from factions, colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-15-m0.u137	Thank you. Dear colleagues, Bill 6141 is important. And I want to say, as a result of the hard work in the working groups that worked on the committee, we were able to write out clearly the changes that prevent jobs in the Ukrainian stock market of residents of the aggressor country. And I want to say, this is a very big plus. In addition, there is a clear mechanism for countering money laundering and financing terrorism. So I think, plus what Mr. Rizanenko said about the security and protection of investor property, it's consistent with world practice. That's why, given all this, I'm asking the committee to support this Bill 6141. I think it will provide us with foreign investment in our country, which is very important and relevant today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-15-m0.u138	Thank you. And another piece of paper. Debenkov, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-15-m0.u139	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman. Dear citizens, there is a procedure that is provided for by the Ukrainian Act on Rules of Procedure of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The Opposition Block faction will support the bill as one that protects the interests of foreign investors. But, dear fellows, we are now witnessing a violation of the procedure for considering the bill in the second reading. I'm sure there was a time frame for submitting the corresponding rights, and now a representative of the committee of profile read us some of the proposals from the voice that we gave out, we looked at them. I am responsible for the fact that the proposals mentioned do not simply have a technical legal character, they actually change the content of the norms mentioned. Therefore, the proposal is as follows. Vote Bill 6141 without the votes cast by the committee. We support the committee table.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-15-m0.u140	Thank you. Will you comment, Mr. Paul?
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-15-m0.u141	Come on, yeah. Colleagues, I deliberately handed out this table, it's on one page with technical legal rights. I'm reminding you, in one paragraph, they change "they" to "marked institutions," so in another paragraph, they just transfer what's in the text in this paragraph from the inside to the end, there, that's this paragraph. In the third, there's a substitution, so I get it, it's probably the last paragraph of row 76 and the technical paragraph 2 that's been read. Let me rephrase what this has to do with anything. We actually have this chapter to which. What this is about is financial monitoring, which is our institutions, financiers, law enforcement authorities should have access to information that is owned by what kind of securities, which is a norm both for Ukrainian dissidents and for the nominal foreign retainer that is implemented by this bill. And here are two paragraphs: one says the amount of information by law, and the other, the second paragraph, says the amount of information provided according to the position to be accepted by the Commission from securities. And here's just a substitute for the words "information of customers of nominal holder, customers of nominal holder" to "other information", which is essentially defined by the Securities Commission. This is their parish, this is their area of responsibility. I would still ask the room to support the draft with technical regulations.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-15-m0.u142	Thank you. So let's move on to making a decision. Please take up your jobs. Please come back from bed and approach the ballots. We are moving on to a decision, and I am voting on the draft Act amending some of the Ukrainian legislative acts to promote foreign investment (No. 6141), as amended by the head of the Committee on Financial Policy and Banking (No. 6141), as amended by the transcript of the second reading and in general. Please vote and please support. Colleagues, every voice. Wait a second. We'll wait. [[B in m in s a l in]] From the bed. Vote, please. You're ready, aren't you? Please vote. Please be supportive. Vote. Vote, colleagues. [[13:02:41]] For-187 Show the factions, please. So, colleagues, the discussion is over. [[B in m in s a l in]] Colleagues, as the committee would advise. So we have two choices. One option is to return to the committee for work. Colleagues, we're actually working on a formulation that can vote in the room. I ask the Committee on Banking to consult with each other. Colleagues, we're in the middle of a consultation. Who makes a compromise proposal? Please state. Oleg Lazko. Turn on the microphone, one minute. Compromising offer.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-15-m0.u143	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Our team will support this important law, which will allow foreign investment in Ukraine. Although it is crucial for us to protect an internal investor, because when a state creates conditions that its own employers are not able to work properly, no foreign investor will come here until it feels comfortable in their own country as a national producer. We will support this law by rejecting Paul Rizanenko’s 2 amendments, where financial and service powers are unduly and illegally extended. The commission was illegally created, and they are hand-in-hand given the authority to terrorize the national manufacturer. They're all running away from Ukraine like hell. We want Ukraine to have comfortable working conditions for the national business. So this amendment, the second one, is removed, and we are going to vote for this important law.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-15-m0.u144	The committee, what is the position of the committee? Please turn on Douben's microphone. Did you hear that offer?
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-15-m0.u145	Yeah, I think we can listen to that thought, we can listen.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-15-m0.u146	Do you support that position? One minute, Dudenkov.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-15-m0.u147	Dear colleagues! I've already mentioned that we support the drafting of the committee, which is set out in the table, because there were three proposals. Two of them aren't technical legal. If the first proposal can be accepted when they change to the institutions, then the other two proposals, they don't have a technical legal character. It's a principle thing. If we don't want to end this bill right now, please either vote in the table proposed by the committee or without taking into account the last two rights that Paul Rizanenko gave us. I'm compromising, by the way, because this is actually a partial breach of the Rules. But this readjustment, it's really technical-legal when they're switched to institutions. Without the last two rights, we support the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-15-m0.u148	So, colleagues, now pay attention! I will be the first to put to the vote a return to the law. And then I'm going to put it with no second amendment. Without a second and a third? That's a new offer. Let's go back first. So, please take up jobs, get ready for the vote. So the first is the offer to come back. And then, if the committee supports, without a second and a third, right? The first offer is to go back. Please vote for the return. [[13:08:30.]] For 237 And now I'm going to ask the committee again. Put formulations without second and third revisions, right? One minute, Doubenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-15-m0.u149	Yeah, I think so. I ask this proposal without a second and a third, and we vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-15-m0.u150	Thank you. Then I am voting on the draft Law amending some of the Ukrainian legislation on the promotion of foreign investment (6141) with proposals made by Rizanenko Pavel Aleksandrovich, except for the 2nd and 3rd amendments, which are in the comparative table, in the second reading and in general. Whoever supports this, I ask you to vote. [[13:09:32]] For 244 Decision taken. I mean, second reading with technical law. Colleagues, now a large block of inclusion in the agenda of the day session. I'm asking you not to leave the hall, and now there's going to be an important block of inclusion in the agenda of the day session without discussion, and I'm just going to call the laws and there's going to be a vote on them. So, please prepare to take up jobs. So I want to remind you that all the draft laws were published in the order of the day session, all the factions were able to get to know each other. And here we go. First. Draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on Public Procurement and certain other legislative acts of Ukraine (No. 8265). Please support the inclusion in the agenda of the day session. Please vote and please support. Vote. [[13:10:57]] For a hundred and Maybe you weren't getting your bearings, colleagues. It's the Public Procurement Act. It's a progressive law. I don't think we're just getting our bearings. Once again, colleagues, to vote on the inclusion in the agenda of the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Public Procurement Act (8265). Please vote and please support, it's just the inclusion in the agenda of the session. Please vote. [[13:11:40]] For 206 No decision taken. Next. Draft Act on Amendments to Article 3 of the Ukrainian Law on Public Order and Social Security in the context of the preparation and conduct of football matches, on the implementation of the European Council Convention on Comprehensive Approach to Safety, Safety and Services in Football Games and Other Sports (8197). Please vote, please support. Please vote. We support 8197. [[13:12:25]] For 216 I'll do it again. It was a proposal made by Pavel, head of the budget committee, that this law is necessary for us to have international football matches in Ukraine. I'm once again putting Law 8197 into the agenda. Please vote, please support. Please vote. [[13:13:03]] For 225 One vote, yes. I'll put a third, final one. So draft Law 8197. Please support the inclusion in the agenda of the day session. Please vote. Please be supportive. Vote. [[13:13:33]] For 233 Decision taken. The next one is 8201. Draft Act amending Ukraine’s legislation on the social protection of affected members of the Dignity Revolution and some others (8301). Please support the inclusion in the agenda of the day session. Please vote. Please be supportive. [[13:14:10]] For 224 I see we haven't. Please take up jobs. Once again, I propose the inclusion in the agenda of the daily session, the draft Act amending the Ukrainian legislation on the social protection of affected members of the General Assembly (8201). Please vote. Please be supportive. We're voting carefully. Please be supportive. [[13:14:47]] For 232 Decision taken. Next. Draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on the Armed Forces of Ukraine on National Security and Defence Measures, Sections and Restraints of Armed Aggression of the Russian Federation in the Donetsk and Lugansk Areas (8264). Please support the inclusion in the agenda of the day session. Please vote. Please be supportive. [[13:15:27]] For the 220. I'll do it again. It's easy. Maybe we should just hold on a little longer, I don't know. A few people didn't work, did they? Then I make a point: A few people don't have a system. And I'm going to ask you to just hold on for a little bit longer, maybe that'll be a bigger guarantee. So once again, I'm putting a bill amending the Ukrainian Armed Forces Act, 8264, the inclusion in the agenda of the daily session. Please vote carefully and please support. Vote, please support, please vote. Vote. [[13:16:20]] For 222 Final time, third time, final time, colleagues, please. Four votes, I ask you to mobilize, because during the vote, many of the deputies are simply out of places, during the vote. So I'm voting on the proposal to include in the agenda of the daily session of the draft Act on the Armed Forces of Ukraine on the implementation of measures to ensure national security and defence, interception and deter armed aggression by the Russian Federation (8264). Please vote, please support, we vote carefully every vote, please support, we vote carefully. [[13:17:15]] For 225 One voice. I'll do it again, one vote. You invite people into the hall, you don't agitate me, you agitate your colleagues by the faction, when they vote, people just come out of the hall. So 8264 is in the order of the day session. Please support, please vote carefully every vote, one vote is not enough, please vote, vote, vote, please support. [[13:18:01]] For 221 There were fewer voices. The decision is not taken. Next. Draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine in connection with the adoption of the Law on the Specialities of State Policy and the Provision of State Sovereignty in Interimly Occupied Areas in the Donetsk, Lugansk Region (8293). Please vote, please support the inclusion in the agenda of the session. Please support, we vote. [[13:18:46]] For 227 Decision taken. Next. Draft Law on Amendments to the Civil Code of Ukraine (on the Late Age) (4521). Please support the inclusion in the agenda of the day session. Please vote, please support. Please be supportive. [[13:19:18]] For a hundred and The decision is not taken. Once again, I put to the vote the draft Law amending the Civil Code of Ukraine (4521). Include in the agenda of the day session. Please vote, please support. Vote. [[13:19:47]] For 193 The decision is not taken. Next: Draft Act amending certain Ukrainian legislation on the transfer of ownership to agricultural land (8236 and 8236-1). Please support the inclusion in the agenda of the day session. Please vote, please support. Vote. [[13:20:26]] For 225 I'll do it again. I'm re-voting the proposal that draft Laws 8236 and 8236-1 should be included in the agenda of the day session. And I ask you all to vote, please support, one vote is not enough. Vote, please. Please be supportive. [[13:21:02]] For 230 Decision taken. Next draft of the Law amending Chapter VI of the Budget Code of Ukraine (8175). Please vote for inclusion in the agenda of the day session. Please vote, please support. Vote. [[13:21:34]] For 169 The decision is not taken. Next draft of the Law on Amendments to Certain Legislative Acts of Ukraine on Improving the Administration of State Property Objects (8225). Please vote and support the inclusion in the agenda of the session. Please vote. Vote. [[13:22:09]] For 171 The decision is not taken. Next. Draft Act amending some Ukrainian legislation on improving the financial sector in Ukraine (8331). Please vote and please support the inclusion in the agenda of the session. Vote, colleagues, please. [[13:22:45]] For 181 The decision is not taken. Next. Draft Act amending certain legislation of Ukraine on the restoration of the activities of the Black Mornaftegas Association of State Shareholders (8338). Please vote, please support the inclusion in the agenda of the session. We vote in the agenda, we vote in the agenda. [[13:23:18]] For 224 Two votes is not enough, I'll put it again. I'm betting on the bill of Law 8338, please support the inclusion of the day session. Please vote and please support. Vote, please. [[13:23:50]] For 228 Decision taken. Next. Draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine concerning the regulation of the activities of the Ukrainian Cultural Fund (8266). Please support the inclusion in the agenda of the day session, please vote. [[13:24:22]] For 211 The decision is not taken. Next. Draft Act amending certain Ukrainian legislation on the abolition of State certificates on the right to distribute and demonstrate films and to modify the conditions for the distribution of films and other audiovisual products (8263 and 8263-1). Please support the inclusion in the agenda of the session, please vote, vote. [[13:25:04]] For 204 The decision is not taken. Next, the draft Act amending certain Ukrainian laws as a result of the entry into force of the Ukrainian Act on State Support for Cinematography in Ukraine. Colleagues, please back up, please vote. Vote, colleagues, please. [[13:25:37]] For 215 Maybe they didn't, colleagues. I'm asking you, first of all, to invite more deputies into the hall. I'd like you to make the most of it. I am voting once again on the proposal that the draft Law on Amendments to certain Ukrainian laws should be included in the agenda of the daily session in order for the committee to be able to consider. Please vote. Please be supportive. Vote. Please be supportive. [[13:26:26]] For the 220. I'll put in a third, final one. So draft Law 8251 please support inclusion in the agenda of the day session. Please vote. Please be supportive. [[13:26:58]] For 209 Less votes. Don't take it. Next. Draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine on improving the system of protection of cultural heritage (8202 and 8202-1). Please support the inclusion in the agenda of the day session. Please vote. Please be supportive. [[13:27:33]] For 236 Decision taken. Next. Draft Act amending certain Ukrainian legislation on the professional development of artistic and artistic staff of the theatre (8222). Please vote. Please support the inclusion in the agenda of the day session. Vote! [[13:28:10]] For 229 Decision taken. Next. Draft Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Tax Code and certain Ukrainian legislative acts to stimulate the development of the electricity sector in Ukraine (8159). Please vote, please support 8159. Vote. [[13:28:52]] For 239. Decision taken. Next. Draft Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Customs Code on Promoting the Development of the Electricity Sector in Ukraine (8160). Please vote for inclusion in the agenda of the day session. [[13:29:23]] For 254 Decision taken. Next. Draft Law on the Protection and Protection of Intellectual Property Rights of UEFA during the Final of the League of Champions (8335). Please support the inclusion in the agenda of the day session. Please vote. And, colleagues, do not leave the hall, but go into the hall and invite all your colleagues. [[13:29:53]] For 219 I'll do it again. Please, Mr. Spiowakovsky, your law. Once again, I'm putting draft Law 8335 into the agenda of the day session. Please vote, please support. Vote, please. [[13:30:21]] For 219 I'm the third, final one, colleagues. Proponents of the law, just mobilize and take up jobs. I'm once again putting draft Law 8335 into the agenda of the day session. Please vote. Please be supportive. We are voting for the inclusion in the agenda of the day session. Vote. [[13:30:57]] For 219 Even less. The decision is not taken. Next draft of the Act amending some Ukrainian legislation on strengthening social protection for those who care for sick children. Colleagues, there are now three laws that provide for the protection of children's rights to be addressed. And as promised on the Conciliation Council, I'm putting them in the order of the day session to make a decision today, because it's a term that allows us to get to June 1st to consider these laws. Thus, 8294 are included in the agenda of the day session for making decisions today. Please vote. Please be supportive. Please vote. [[13:31:57]] For 268. Decision taken. Next, it's the same block. Draft Law 8295. Please vote in favour of the inclusion of the day session in order to make a decision. Please vote. Please be supportive. [[13:32:24]] For 265 Decision taken. Next draft of Law 8296, 8296-1 for inclusion in the agenda of the day session for decision-making. Please vote. Please be supportive. Vote. It's the same thing as children's rights. And that's why I'm asking you to support everyone. [[13:32:51]] For 261 Decision taken. And, colleagues, I'm giving immediate notice to these three bills in recess: 8294, 8295, 8296 -- I'm giving the committees a commission to consider them at lunchtime so that after lunch. And an alternative, 8296-1, so that we can go to their consideration after lunch. Next. Draft Act amending Chapter II of the Act on the Finality and Transitional Positions of Ukraine on the amendment of certain laws of Ukraine on the reduction of the deficit of black metals in the internal market (8226). Please vote for inclusion in the agenda of the day session for decision-making. Please vote and please support. Vote. Please be supportive. [[13:33:49]] For 244 Next. The Ukrainian Broadcasting Regulation, which will take place in the territory of the Russian Federation, is a draft regulation that violates the legal rights and interests of Ukrainian citizens (8343). Please vote and please support the inclusion in the agenda of the session. Let's vote, colleagues. Please be supportive. [[13:34:23]] For 207 Maybe we didn't get it, colleagues. I'm re-voting Bill 8343. Please vote and please support the inclusion in the agenda of the session. Please vote for inclusion in the agenda of the session. Vote. Please be supportive. [[13:34:55]] For 203 The decision is not taken. Next. Draft Act on Amendments to the Law of Ukraine on the Court of Auditors (for specific matters of the Court of Auditors) (8319). Please support the inclusion in the agenda of the day session. Please vote and please support. Vote. Please be supportive. [[13:35:26]] For 227 Decision taken. Next. Draft Act amending article 1 of the Criminal Procedural Code of Ukraine (8194). Please vote, please support. Vote. [[13:35:57]] For 242 Decision taken. Next. Draft Act amending article 3 of the Criminal Code of Ukraine (8195). Please vote, please support the inclusion in the agenda of the session. Please be supportive. [[13:36:25]] For 234 Decision taken. Next. Draft Law on Amendments to Article 2 of the Code on Administrative Offences (8196). Please vote and please support the inclusion in the agenda of the session. [[13:36:54]] For 235 Decision taken. Next. Draft Act amending some Ukrainian legislation on strengthening the guarantees of the independence of the judicial expert and ensuring the proper conduct of judicial and expert activities (8336). Please vote, please support inclusion in the agenda. [[13:37:31]] For 185 The decision is not taken. Colleagues, now I'm asking for your attention. Two draft laws were added: 8349 and 8350. These are changes to the Transitional Regulations of the Tax Code. Yes, yes, this is Jujanina, who are seeking to regulate technical remedies in connection with a change in the format of an antiterrorist operation. 8349 and 8350, they're actually identical and they allow us to take into account the new status of our fighters in the east. And I'm asking you to support the inclusion of them, just in the agenda of the day session: 8349 and 8350. Please vote and please support. Vote. Please be supportive. [[13:38:43]] For 207 My colleagues, I'll explain again. This standard is introduced for social protection. Yegor, I know that if they're not bugged in advance, it's harder all the time. But we talked to the head of the committee, and there's only one rule: the new status of our fighters is added when social benefits go. Now it's written "only veterans. ATO fighters," added "actors of the operation." It's a very technical thing, it's a harmonization of all laws. Besides, it's just an order of the day session. It's a harmonization of laws before we change the operation in the east. I think we can have a more detailed debate when the law is being considered. And I think that supporting inclusion in the agenda would be the right thing to do. And I think now, I'm going to say again that we support it. So the proposal for the inclusion in the agenda of the day session is 8,349 and 8,350. Please be supportive. Please vote. [[13:39:58]] For 205 The decision is not taken. So, colleagues, we don't have a few laws that literally get one or two votes. And the factions have consulted each other, and we are convinced that we will be able to make a positive decision. This is 8265: draft Act amending the Ukrainian Public Procurement Act. I'm sure they just didn't get their bearings. This is a progressive law that predicts the proliferation of ProZorro's functions, and I'm sure the MPs just didn't get oriented. I'm re-supplying the inclusion of Law 8265 in the agenda of the daily session. Please vote and please support, vote, please support. [[13:41:05]] For 215 Ten votes is too many. Next: 8331. This is a draft law amending some Ukrainian legislation to improve the functioning of the financial sector in Ukraine. 8331, we didn't get literally a few votes. Please vote for inclusion in the agenda of the session, please support, please vote. [[13:41:44]] For 181 The decision is not taken. And 8266. It's a request from, if I'm not mistaken, the Committee on Culture and Spirituality. And it was strange to me that it wasn't supported, there weren't enough votes, let me do it again, colleagues. This is a draft law amending certain laws of Ukraine concerning the settlement of the activities of the Ukrainian Cultural Fund (8266). Let's mobilize and support. I'm asking everyone to take up jobs. And I'm once again putting the proposal, putting it into the agenda of the day session, just putting it in the order of the day session. We support the Committee on Culture and Spirituality, let's vote, let's vote. Please be supportive. [[13:42:42]] For 209 And 8336 is another one. Each individual committee is actually going to be concluded. 8336 is a draft law amending some Ukrainian legislation on strengthening the guarantees of judicial independence and ensuring that court-expert activities are properly carried out, that decisions are placed in the agenda. Please vote and please support 8336. Please vote, please support. [[13:43:33]] For-189 No votes. My colleagues, I'm going to ask you again, are you ready to vote 8,349 and 8,350? It's the ATO fights' unification. Vinnik John, Vinnik! Mr. Ivan, well, if the committee doesn't care, neither will I. So now we're done, we've incorporated a lot of the laws of the day into order. I believe that there was a successful vote, although under some laws I did not understand the position of the hall. And, fellows, I also want to do this right now before I move on to the next appointment, on the next election, on the next election, on the next election, on the one hand, on the one hand, on the one hand, on the other hand, on the other hand, on the other hand, on the one hand, on the other hand, on the other hand, on the other hand, on the other hand, on the other hand, on the So that we don't get into a situation where we get into a situation where we don't have support. There was a requirement, there was an exit to the rostrum today, and now, before I go to these questions, I want to invite everyone to participate in the vote. So, who supports the proposal that we now move to the question of assigning out-of-order local elections, please vote and please support. Please vote. To those laws that are actually proposed by the committee. Please vote, rating vote, please take part. [[13:45:27]] For 148 Unfortunately, the room is not ready to address the issue of out-of-court elections, which is strange to me. I think there's going to be an opportunity. I think so. Let's look for voices. Now I have a statement from two factions: "Peter Prashenko's Block" and "The People's Front." I give the floor to Arthur Gerasimov, they're ready to change the break to three minutes. And then we go to Project Order 8020. Please, Arthur Gerasimov, three minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-15-m0.u151	Dear Andrew Volodymyrovich, distinguished colleagues! First of all, I want to thank all the people's deputies for supporting the adoption of the laws that are inherent in the country today, starting with intellectual property and ending with the law that relates to our economic growth. But when the daily bills were put into order, there were literally no more than a few votes in the bill tabled by the President of Ukraine, 8265 on public procurement. I want to explain that this bill concerns improving the ProZorro system, which has already saved billions of dollars for Ukraine, which has saved billions of dollars for our pensioners, social needs and everything. So, dear colleagues, I have a big request, Andry Volodymyrovich, to put this to the vote one more time so that we can put this bill into the agenda so that the committee can consider and make a decision. And, colleagues, please gather and support the ProZorro system. Because everyone in their conversation with journalists tells us what a nice system it is, that we all support it. But for some reason, many of our colleagues do not want to support what keeps the nation’s billions of dollars. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-15-m0.u152	Take a break, then there'll be a comment. So, colleagues. They took a break from two factions, you take a break. So, colleagues, at the request of two factions, I'm going to re-produce a bill amending the Ukrainian Public Procurement Act (8265). And to my deep conviction, this is a progressive law that needs to be supported. I'm asking everyone to mobilize, go into the hall and support this proposal. So, colleagues, I ask you to prepare for the vote. And I'm voting once again on the proposal that the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Public Procurement Act (No. 8265) should simply be included in the agenda of the day session, except for inclusion. Please vote, please support. Please support, include, support, colleagues, please support. [[13:48:30.]] For 177 The decision is not taken. And we're moving on to the next question of order of the day. This is a bill for parliamentary hearings on "The State of Implementation of Anti-Corruption Policy in Ukraine" (8020). Colleagues, it is important to us, according to our law and international obligations to hold parliamentary hearings. Date written: May 16th. The committee proposes to change the date. I ask you to support the consideration of this order by a reduced procedure. It is simple, support, colleagues, consideration of the reduced procedure. Please vote and please support. Please support the reduced procedure. [[13:49:21]] For-141 Guys, I'll put it back on. You can see what the questions are in the agenda. If we go into the hourly consideration, we just can't get through all the questions. Once again, I ask you to support the draft Decree 8020, consideration of the reduced procedure. Please vote and please support, carefully every voice, support, colleagues, support. Please be supportive. [[13:50:01]] For-151 Decision taken. And I invite you to report to the First Vice-President of the Committee on Prevention and Anti-Corruption of the Corruption of Saucuk Yuri Petrovich. Please. Yuri Petrovich, please report. The whole room is waiting for you. Please report. Please, Yuri Petrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-15-m0.u153	Dear colleagues! Under Ukrainian law, parliamentary hearings are to be held every year on the anti-corruption policy of the state, so this is an uncompromising issue, and I ask everyone to vote on these hearings in Parliament. If there are any questions, I'm ready to answer them.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-15-m0.u154	Dear colleagues, we cannot vote because there are no deputies in the hall and there will be a problem again. Please, are there speakers? Two in, two in. Please sign in. Dear colleagues, I'd like you to sign up for this. Dear Mr. Maxime, I will always listen to your advice as presiding officer, but then there will be complaints of a violation of the Rules. On me, not on you. [[B in m in s a l in]] Names weren't called, so no lines. Please, People's Deputy Kaplin of Peter Dusty's Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-15-m0.u155	I'd like to address our constituents, our countrymen first. Please take a closer look at the Ukrainian Parliament. When I vote, in my opinion, the most plausible bill, it is indeed fundamental to discuss what has been done in the fight against corruption that has been done in anti-corruption policy since Maidan, during the war in a war-torn country, the almost empty Ukrainian Parliament: there are virtually no factions' heads; there is virtually no one who will be running into the presidents of the country tomorrow. I want you to pay attention to the quality of this Parliament, to the need to change electoral legislation in order to bring here new young ideological political forces. I am deeply convinced, and a group of our parties, which today unites into a single bloc, declares that the next president of the country, the next factions in Parliament, should initiate constitutional changes. And to report, not to a bunch of parliamentarians, what was done in Ukrainian politics, but to the entire Ukrainian people. We need to change the Constitution and introduce a new constitutional institution, national assemblies, where delegates from ordinary people from all over the country will be selected from all factories, factories, villages, courts. And once every six months, the Ukrainian new president, the new Ukrainian Prime Minister, and the new Ukrainian government report on his real struggle against corruption. Dear compatriots, no struggle, no effective fight against corruption, you will not have high wages, so you will have no higher pensions, social protection, roads, peace of mind. Corruption is the biggest flaw and obstacle to our country's development and progress towards Europe. So give an assessment of Parliament, close your eyes to this blasphemy, to this aberism of hearings like this, and demand.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-15-m0.u156	Thank you, thank you for the expressive performance. And please, the next speaker. Please, the national deputy of Eutuszek.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-15-m0.u157	Sergey Eutuszek, "The Fatherland" faction. I'm going to say right now that we've decided at a faction session to support this draft decision, we don't see any warnings about what we can move. And according to article 18 of the Ukrainian Anti-Corruption Act, the Supreme Council of Ukraine conducts parliamentary hearings every year no later than June 1. I think this parliamentary hearing is going to be very meaningful, and what's more, we've created here a number of new bodies that are fighting corruption. There's going to be an opportunity to discuss how practical their steps are, whether they're doing this to expose these corruption crimes, whether they're just simply taking and provoking crimes in this way. That's why we support this draft decision and ask for the support of the Hall as well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-15-m0.u158	Thank you. Please, the People's Front hasn't been able to log in. Maxim Burbak, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-15-m0.u159	Dear colleagues! The People's Front will support this decision. Because this problem does not need to be discussed, as the first reporter who told us so fervently told us that there are no factions. All the heads of factions who are really fighting corruption are present and will vote in favour of this decree. And let's see how he votes in favour of creating an anti-corruption court. And finally, the organs that were created for us here in the session hall begin to plant corrupters behind bars. And I think, instead of telling the whole of Ukraine about how he's fighting corruption, we're going to look at him as he's going to testify to the political corruption case and how much money he's getting from Ljovczyn and Oneshchenka to do their bidding and to do the funky care of the government. All of this is ahead and everyone will see it. So so that we don't talk about this problem here, I've come to you, Madam Vice-President of the Supreme Council, so that we can vote, not once again, to watch some clowns forget the problems. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-15-m0.u160	Thank you, my dear fellow, for your observation. You know, I always vote for constructive bills and regulations. Colleagues, please return to the session room. Because the draft decision has been finalized. Are there other factions willing to speak? And now, please ask a representative of the committee, who is now essentially in charge of the committee, the committee, the word. Please turn on the microphone. And I'd like you to return to the colleagues' session room, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-15-m0.u161	Ladies and gentlemen, so far our committee has come up with the Anti-Corruption Strategy of the State of the Government, which will also be worked on the committee and put to the voting room as a bill. So these hearings are too important. We should be able to see with you clearly what has been done over the years, what has been done. What are some mistakes that have been made in the fight against corruption? So today this is one of the most important tasks for us to have with you. So once again, I ask my colleagues to return to the hall and vote in favour of these hearings.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-15-m0.u162	Thank you. Colleagues, what are we doing on the date of our decision? It says on the date of the decree that these hearings should take place on May 16, which is not quite. To be held on May 16, 2018. Tomorrow, yeah, we're voting for this? Okay. Please, Your Honor, I ask you to return to the session room.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-15-m0.u163	So you're proposing to vote, actually, in this formulation. Yes, Mr. Yuri? Yes. So, colleagues, let's move on to making a decision. The discussion is over. And I ask everyone to come into the hall and prepare for the vote. I want to remind you that holding parliamentary hearings is our commitment both internally and externally, which we adopted when we passed a package of anti-corruption laws. So I ask everyone to support this decision. Please prepare for the vote. And I'm voting on the draft Resolution on 16 May 2018 of Parliamentary Hearings on "The State of Implementation of the Principles of Anti-Corruption Policy in Ukraine" (No. 8020) proposed by the Committee as a basis and as a whole. Please vote, please support. Please stop, come into the hall. The MPs are still on the run. Please vote, please support 8020. Vote. [[13:59:44]] For 148 The decision is not taken. Colleagues, we're done. Please. Again, huh? I'll do it again. Who's in charge of getting back to the 8020 Project? Who wants to go back to the draft Parliamentary Hearing Order "The State of Implementation of the Principles of Anti-Corruption Policy in Ukraine" (8020), please vote, please support. Please support the return. [[14:00:27]] For a hundred and The decision is not taken. I'm asking you to prepare a new decision, and we're going to try to put it in the hall again and mobilize the hall to collect the votes. My colleagues, I want to remind you that after lunch, apart from the issues that are in order today, we voted to review three laws on the protection of children's rights. These are three laws that are adjacent, and I think we're going to look at them in one block. And I hope that the committees will be able to make decisions during the break. And I'm going to have the apparatus prepare these decisions more quickly, and when they're ready for consideration, after lunch, we'll be able to look at them. And now, according to the Rules, I'm calling it a break. The morning plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is closed. At 16 o'clock, I invite everyone to the conference room to continue our work.
