ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-18-m0.u1	Good morning! Good morning! Please enter the hall, prepare for registration. Colleagues, can we register? Take up jobs. So I'd like you to register with the National Deputies. [[10:06:06]] There are 338 national deputies registered. The morning plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Today is the birthday of the National Deputy of Ukraine, Natalie JuryovniKorolewski, congratulations. [[Applause]] And also today, in all our compatriots and friends around the world are celebrating the Day of the Fight for the Rights of the Crimean Nation and the Day of Remembrance of the Victims of the Crimea in the 44th year. 74 years ago, the Soviet Empire began repression against the entire nation. Hundreds of thousands of families of Crimean Tatars were forcibly evicted and deported from Crimea. Only by declaring Ukraine’s independence did the Crimean Tatars have the right to live freely and with dignity on earth in the Crimea. But again today, Russian invaders have unleashed terror and repression against the Crimean Tatars and Ukrainians in Crimea. For the fifth year, Ukrainian Crimea has been suffocating in Russia’s new occupation. Dear fellow countrymen, dear inhabitants of Crimea! We remember you, we will free Crimea, and we will restore you to a free and happy life in your homeland. Dear Ukrainians, I urge everyone today to join the All - Ukrainian Minute of Silence to honor the memory of the victims of the genocide of the Crimean Tatar people in 1944. And we also in Parliament at 12 o'clock honor the moment of silence of all the deported. Remember, we'll win. Let's move on to the agenda. I remind you, today we have an hour of questions to the government. At a meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, we have the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Vladimir BorisovichGroysman, and members of the government. Hello. And I invite you to the first speech by the government of Lilia Mikhailna Greenevich, Minister of Education and Science of Ukraine. In 15 minutes. And then questions from factions and national MPs. Mrs. Lilia, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-18-m0.u2	Dear Andrew Volodymyrovich! Dear Volodymyr Borisovich! Dear National Deputies! I thank you very much for this opportunity to speak out of the Supreme Council's rostrum and perhaps to dispel certain myths that have arisen in society regarding the new order of admission to the 1st grade. We also received questions from the national deputies. I'll also be able to tell you operational information about how we finish our school year. So the new rules for 1st grade. The main purpose of the Education Act and the draft accounting order was to remove the unfair and corrupt rules of counting to the 1st grade. From a pedagogical point of view, it is totally unacceptable to contest and test six - year - olds. Because they haven't learned from any of the joint programs yet. In addition, their psychological characteristics at that age prevent them from doing so. So this competition is turned into a farce, into a parental contest, a call competition, and also a bribe. And very often, we're just outraged by those questions that are being asked by children at these competitions. These are often questions that only the person who asked the question knows. For example, what does a hedgehog have to do with milk? I'm going to surprise you right now. The answer to that question is that both of them are collapsing. I want to tell you, honourable national MPs, something that can't go on like this. And we have to make a civilized 1st grade entry system. And the civilized system is that a six - year - old should have a guaranteed place in school next to his place of residence. And the child in the order we have offered is not obliged, but he has the right to study in an education facility in the area of service that he resides in. Because today parents and children can see the school next to their home, hear children laughing in the yard, but the child is back in school because they cannot get to the principal or bring bribes, or pay for the individual preparation for such a competition. If parents are planning to send a child to another school, they can also do so in this proposal that we have given, but they can only be counted there for free places and not for the competition. They can only be counted under an isolated competition when all are in equal conditions. This is not some "Ukrainian bike," it's a very common practice in education systems, leading education systems, especially in European countries. If you look at it, 66 percent of the 38 European countries that have been analyzed — that is, in 25 countries — are using this system. There are other countries that use exclusively territorial distribution and territorial ties, and you cannot even come to the open places. There are 7 countries like this, as you can see, 18 percent. And 16 percent don't apply this principle, but there's also a lot of criticism that we need to change this system of admission to primary school. I also want to say that primary school should become the same for everyone. And now the government is making great efforts to do that, and I'm going to move on to that in my presentation. But if a child has special abilities, like physical math, at the end of primary school, he can go on a competitive basis to 5th grade schools with an in-depth study of individual subjects according to their abilities. And at a competition like this, it's already happening because these kids are already in primary school, and they're psychologically willing to participate in similar competitions. So we don't limit the law, we can go to another school now, too, but we can go to free spots through lots. And very seriously with the Ministry of Justice and the Office of the Human Rights Commissioner, we've written down the rules for drawing lots so that they're transparent so that parents can control it, journalists can control it. This time. And the others. One way or another, a kid in the 5th or 10th grade can make a choice in favor of another school on the basis of a competition. Next. I'd like to ask your respectful parents what documents may require of you. Appropriately, an application for admission to school, a copy of a birth certificate, an original or a copy of a medical certificate, for children with special educational needs, that could still be a copy of the Inclusive Resource Center conclusion. If you would like to exercise your right to a primary registration, only then can you present additional documents, and this is not necessarily a place of registration. We know very well how many different situations we have in people: someone doesn't have a place to register, someone takes down an apartment, someone lives with their relatives, and if relatives can confirm and come and show their documents and place of registration, it can also be possible because of the realization of such a right. So we offer more than ten different ways of proving our place of residence. Next. It is also vital for us that the local authorities, the heads of educational institutions, study these conditions clearly and not create additional obstacles for parents. Dear colleagues, dear parents, we have everything published on the Ministry’s website and visualization to make it easy to understand, and in the form of the position itself, and the explanatory notes. Hence, parents can also read there if they see some injustice at school. Next. How we're going to end this academic year. First. By May 31st, filing papers for grade 1. By June 1, 2018, all children have been counted according to the territorial principle, including their siblings and siblings who are enrolled in the school. Because it is clear that it is easier for parents to take their children to one school. Children of education workers and not just teachers, but if it's a technical worker, and she works there, she goes to work, she can also bring a child. And children who are being transferred from the preschool unit of this facility in case of their presence. From June 5th to June 10th, selection to open places by drawing lots. And on June 15, the final order was to count the disciples. If a person suddenly moves after June 15 and belongs to this school, he is also obliged to accept it. Briefly on the accounting procedure. This public drawing action is especially important. The drawing takes place in a transparent drum, and each participant or parent, or their representatives, pulls out the lots and announces the results. At the same time, competitive selection in schools with an in-depth study of individual subjects to the 5th and 10th classes is preserved. It is also important for everyone to hear who is currently working in schools, and for parents whose children are in school. The main value of this change in general is that we have to make each primary school quality. We have a terrible spread between so - called prestigious schools, where those who bring go. They bring in their money, and they bring in their money, and those schools that had not received much from equipment for 25 years. This year we made an unprecedented investment in primary school. In addition to having a new content of education and retraining for all teachers, we have a budget of almost 2 billion dollars for the introduction of a new Ukrainian school. Of these, more than 1 billion are targeted primary school subsidies. You can also see that 40 percent of this amount will be used to buy didactic materials for the 1st grade; 40 percent will be used to buy modern furniture that will help construct the learning space according to the age of children and working methods; 20 percent will have to be used to buy computer equipment, including printers, to reproduce materials and work with children according to their needs. And that's an inexhaustible figure, because local self-government has to be proved. And we've divided it this way: 30 percent have cities, district centers, those that have higher incomes to budget; 10 percent, at least, have to report districts and OTG, and only 5 percent is the mountain area of the collision line; 95 is the whole state budget. So I would also like to inform you, my fellow national MPs and everyone interested in reforming the elementary school that we signed with the LEGO Foundation memorandum. The fact is that Lego's playing and working methods actually provide for a lot of teaching methods for the children of elementary school. They develop their operational memory, creative thinking, spatial and constructive thinking. So trust in our reform is actually very high, and this is shown by our international partners. We're going to get every high school student six bricks with which we can do a lot of very interesting exercises, and we're now teaching future 1st grade teachers how to do these exercises. And each class gets a box ofLegos where you can make collective partner projects where kids learn to design and co-operate in a group. For you to understand the scope of this aid, it's 50 tracks, big trucks coming in three queues to Ukraine. Absolute free humanitarian assistance to support this reform. The first one will arrive by September 1st, these six bricks, in our schools. In the classroom, training centers are created, and active learning techniques are applied. I would like to tell all my parents: Don’t be afraid of change! Sometimes you think, yes, this school might look worse, but first of all, we're changing it from the inside, second of all, all the teachers are qualified, but we need to remember that in primary school it's not just about the beautiful walls of the school, but first of all, the teacher of the elementary school that's going to work with these kids. Next is the end of the school year. The final bells will begin shortly, graduations. The principal conclusion of the school year is as follows: 11th grade – no earlier than 22 June, primary school – from 25 to 31 May, the primary school from 31 May to 15 June. From June 22 to 13, that is, from the following week, sessions of external independent evaluation will begin, and 11 - year - olds will receive the test results after they make up the ZNA, respectively, after June 22. It's an introductory campaign, but it's a separate theme. I very much hope that we are together, together with the efforts of the Supreme Council, the Cabinet of Ministers, the authorities of local self-government.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-18-m0.u3	Give me a minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-18-m0.u4	School principals, teachers, we're going to meet the kids properly and we're really going to start a real reform of education. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-18-m0.u5	Thank you. So, colleagues, now there'll be questions from factions. And so I'm asking you to prepare for the faction inquiry, then they'll be from the national MPs. Please register and record a question from the factions. Please. From Rebirth Group, Kulinic. Please, Kulinich. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-18-m0.u6	Thank you. Questions to the Minister of Infrastructure, Vladimir Omelyan. Minister, today the roads of national importance have become such a situation that they have come out of the winter period in a terrible state. These limits, which are available for repair and maintenance areas for 2018, are now practically used for international, regional and national roads. But what to do with roads of territorial importance, so-called "heaviness". For example, for 2018 only in the Poltava region, there is a need to repair 600,000 square feet [600,000 sq m] of road painting, 23 roads. So the question is: How do you plan to repair such roads for 2018, and in what amount? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-18-m0.u7	Your Honor, thank you very much for your question. I'm informing you, the Poltava region has received record funding for this year -- over 2.5 billion dollars. It's a difficult situation. At the request of many observatories, we are now preparing changes to the normative documents, the "heavy" during this year will be transferred to the balance of areas. As for the real state of use of roads. using the cost of repairing roads, we'll be conducting a briefing with Mr. Novak in the near future, where we'll publicly name all the areas that are actually being used. Because unfortunately, to boast of nothing in particular, we have a number of areas that don't use the money that we've worked so hard to get on the road. It's about exploitation. It was decided that an additional billion dollars would be spent on repairs and maintenance of Ukrainian highways. Of course, that's not enough, we'll only be able to repair about 50 percent, but there's progress. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-18-m0.u8	Thank you. From the Self-Help faction of Tetjana Georgievna Ostrikav, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-18-m0.u9	Dear Mr. Prime Minister! First things first. DABI’s leadership responded very quickly to the scandalous situation of the illegal construction site in Zolochev, which was covered by local officials and cancelled the building permit. And for that, we thank both the DABI leadership and you. And now for the bad. The government's three-year budget resolution this week contains $30.5 dollars and contains no mention of the reform of the DFS and customs through holes in which at least 75 billion per year pass through the corruption budget. Tax reform, Vladimir Borisovich, is not just an increase in inflation rates, as the government writes. Our meeting with the IMF showed that they don't mind the tax on the capital outlay, but they do require reform of the DFS and customs. And today, business is complaining to me about a simple customs office, a lack of personnel, especially in Odessa in sufficient numbers. So I want the whole country to know that if the customs system isn't listed, it's going to be your personal responsibility, because the DFS is in your direct jurisdiction today.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-18-m0.u10	Thank you so much for your question. I know that you understand customs work, including well-known information about shadow schemes that I'm struggling with. I would very much like to have a specific name, name, schematics, points of entry where there is such a problem. I'm not fighting this problem with words, and I can tell you that you can see that customs revenue in the country's budget is rising, and it's not inflationary costs, it's shadow money. Last year, we did not raise 75 billion, as you said, but 70 billion plus. This means that we are serious enough to get things in order. What's more, I'd like to point out that we've just announced a tender for the purchase of scanners, which is a completely strong weapon against the appropriate customs machinations. What the leader of the DFS is doing today is worthy of respect, because it is a completely professional approach and a completely open position to combat smuggling, including fighting all the violations that have been committed by the DFS. In particular, this was the leader who destroyed the VAT money-laundering scheme. And today, the whole business is going to tell you that VAT is given without a bitch and a doodling, without one day of delay, without a screw-up, and so on. And if you're talking about business, in your meetings all the time, and when I'm in the regions, I'm dating real business. And they say a lot of good words to those actions that are being handled by the State Fiscal Service today. Although it's extremely difficult for them because the system has rotted, and this system has rotted not only in the DFS, but also in others -- why you're silent, I don't know -- the adjacent law enforcement agencies that are "crippling" the smuggling that are pushing the customs, which are forcing them to smuggle. That's what you need to talk about if you want to succeed. I'm talking about it, I'm struggling with it, and I'm totally uncompromising because I think that all that goes into and out of Ukraine, all the payments have to be made to the state budget because this budget belongs to the Ukrainian people. And I can tell you, as Prime Minister, in a few years of my work, I've made coming with the DFS, with the Ministry of Finance bigger than they have ever been. And I want to tell you the next thing, we're going to keep moving to create a normal quality system, including getting information, including analysis on the standards that account for taxes on the state budget. I'm here absolutely not to be a proponent, I'm really the kind of person who's going to be uncompromisingly in the position of public interest. And I can tell you one more thing: I'm the one who's not involved, neither am I, nor the head of the DFS, nor the Ministry of Finance are involved in any kind of shadow scheme on customs, tax and smuggling. I'm proud of that, and I'm going to fight these bastards that make the country poorer. I came to make the country richer. Let's stand together and make suggestions, what you need to do, as you think, to make the situation change. And on Odessa's customs, look at the coming, see how many loads go through there, and you'll see the dynamics of increasing revenue to the state budget. I urge you to demonstrate the new quality of Ukrainian politics and to make concrete proposals that need to be done to make the situation better. We respect the members of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, ready to listen and fight together to make Ukraine richer. Thank you for asking.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-18-m0.u11	From Peter Prashenko's Block. Turn on the microphone from the spot.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-18-m0.u12	Dear Vladimir Borisovich! Dear Vladimir Borisovich! Dear Vladimir Borisovich, please. You know, I think you're like no one else, like no one else, you know, the situation with the Fireblanker. I think you're doing everything you can to fix it. But for more than a year, 5,000 workers do not receive a salary. They have different motivations, different contraptions: there were no factories, and there was another problem. I want to get a specific answer: what factories, to whom they belong, who didn't count from the skyscraper, from the Coast Blanche, why people go on strike. This can bring a very scary situation of environmental, social tension in the frontal area. I'm hearing a TV show where ten propagandists were arrested. Here are 5,000 propagandists, you make them propagandists themselves, you don't count on them. For tomorrow he'll buy bread, pay for rent, get the kids to school, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-18-m0.u13	Thank you for asking. Believe me, this question hurts as much as you do, because when it comes to debt from a person’s salary. This means that she did not receive what was hers as a reward for her work. If you've seen the last government meetings, we've made absolutely effective mechanisms to fight wages. And this initiative is the minister of justice, who is doing it completely on purpose. And now we have to look at the reasons. Just a few weeks ago at a government meeting, I talked about it. I was talking about the five arches that are in the administration of the Ukrainian State Property Fund, which proved that the management of these "deceptions" was ineffective. And unfortunately, the citizens of Ukraine who work there suffer too much. I've made a very strict request to the new head of the Ukrainian State Property Fund to bring about a five-navigation system, and especially the Zaporozhye oblener, so that there's no vacchanal that's causing the social problems that are happening today. And now, in order to systematically address this problem, the government has no authority. This requires a formed new NCREKP commission, which has to set up all the regulations and percentages of deductions that will make the calculations take place in the same way as all other U.K.O.O.s. I really wanted to solve this problem. There is no government that we can regulate. If it were, we'd do it. This is the last time, the formation of a new commission is over. And I'm going to ask the commission to. Ask them to consider the matter first and solve the problem. Thank you for asking.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-18-m0.u14	Thank you. From the Radical Party of Lazko Oleg Valeriyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-18-m0.u15	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Mr. Prime Minister, you are under an obligation to raise gas prices in exchange for the International Monetary Fund's credit. We read from the press that the price of gas for citizens is going to be 11,000 dollars per thousand cubes. I'd like to ask the government officials who are negotiating and agreeing on that, do you have a mind? Do you think that 11,000 bracelets for a thousand cubes can pay no Ukrainian but oligarchs, billionaires and, apparently, government officials?Oh, my God! Instead of increasing the production of your own gas, instead of reducing energy consumption, you raise the price of gas, you make our economy uncompetitive, our industry. Ukrainians are forced to travel abroad. You're going, you're going all over the world for credit! In exchange for loans, sell land, price for gas up, retirement age up, and so forth. I have a question for you: when will you start working for the Ukrainians and not for the International Monetary Fund? When will you give the Ukrainians the opportunity to live with dignity in their country? You say.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-18-m0.u16	30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-18-m0.u17	Let me finish, please. You say you want to make a richer country. How can you make a richer country when people beg? How can you make a richer country if you do not raise wages and pensions? How can you make a richer country when you are trading raw materials rather than finished products? I offer you from words to deeds, and listen more to what we offer you, and don't be afraid to hang on the ears of the citizens. Got it!
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-18-m0.u18	Oleg Valeriyovich, such a feeling that you were not talking to me, but talking to those who made Ukraine weaker than at least before the Dignity Revolution in 10 years. And it's not my job to hang my ears, it's my job to look into problems and actually solve them, not tell stories about what perspectives might be. Are you talking about pay? I'll tell you that it's our government that has raised the wages 2.5 times as much as it was, but that's not enough. Second position. Our government, for the first time, did not give the biggest amount to pensioners, but began to open up the possibility of creating a new pension system for Ukraine. We're doing everything we can to keep those debts that we don't take, and not me as Prime Minister. I've been giving you a number since 2004. In 2006 through 2014, 47 billion dollars were credited to Ukraine. Count on the calculator, one budget for our country. And that's why I'm doing it day and night to make Ukraine stronger. I'd like to do it faster, but unfortunately, not everything in this country is up to me and not everything is up to you, but with you, as the Ukrainian Parliament and the government say, depends on much that we have to do. Now what. And what we're doing today is an absolute fact. And I know for certain that we have found the key to solving many of the systemic problems in the country that have been closed to. And in Ukraine there will be normal medicine, there will be quality education, there will be quality infrastructure, there will be quality enterprises. Today, 49 businesses are being built in Ukraine. We're working on detining wages in the country. Today, the average wage is 8,000, but that's not enough. I think the average wage in the country this year is going to be 10,000 dollars. We will move, but not at the expense of walking with an outstretched hand around the world, as we have done before us, but at the expense of it.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-18-m0.u19	Give me a minute, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-18-m0.u20	And because the economy is going to grow. You're speaking. Yesterday, Durst, I know we can review his figures today, but we're going to invest 3 percent of the economy. This means that more products will be produced in Ukraine than in Ukraine last year, with Ukrainian hands, for Ukrainian wages. Do you think I don't worry about people going abroad because they pay them more? But I also know that they led the Pension Fund to the 140 billion dollar hole. The Ukrainian army today needs funding of 165 billion. We spend 130 billion a year serving debts that we didn't take with you. And you're saying that we don't do anything. We're making Ukraine stronger. I wish we could do it faster. But I know that fast is not a word, it's a concrete action that we're doing today. And we'll have order in Ukraine. Now for gas prices. Indeed, this is Ukraine’s commitment to equalizing import parity. But my course is what it is.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-18-m0.u21	One more minute, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-18-m0.u22	But my course as Prime Minister is to make Ukraine an energy-dependent state so that we don't buy gas abroad. And I want to tell you that this year we're on record as a state company, we're going to get over 16 billion cubic meters of gas. Why is this happening today? And because in the last decade, which I'm going to talk about, no permits, or units, two or three permits, the Crushing has been granted. When corrupters received dozens, hundreds of permits, extracted gas, and sold it at unknown prices. Schemes that were introduced into the gas system were destroyed. Yes, this obligation is. And I said what we're thinking about is how to get out of this situation. I know there's a lot of people who want to put this on my head to say it's Graceman's fault. It's not Groisman's fault and it's not Ukraine's fault. It's a bad situation today with which we have to find the right way out, because it's like a state to us while we're rebuilding the economy while we're creating the added one.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-18-m0.u23	One more minute, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-18-m0.u24	While we're creating added value inside the country. And don't everybody tell me it's so bad. You can go and look at the businesses today. There are problems, but we can handle them. Well, as long as we are. While we have to serve our debts, I want to give them all away and forget them, and all that belongs to the Ukrainians is given to the Ukrainians. But to do that, we need to earn them. And I'm willing to take that responsibility. Working till dusk in the morning to make Ukraine richer. And about specific decisions, I've already told you, and that's just a small part of them that we're making. But I know exactly what we can do for sure and better, and I'm working on making our decisions more quality and sensitive to Ukrainian citizens. Thank you for asking.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-18-m0.u25	Thank you. From the will of the people of Shahov Sergey Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-18-m0.u26	Sergeyshakhov, the political power of Our End. Dear Volodymyr Borisovich, please tell me you're talking about quality medicine right now. People on the streets say: Better off without the Ministry of Health, even with such a Ministry of Health. During this year, 15 thousand people were affected for the first time. Four times less that year. This epidemic is spreading. Please tell me, in a school in Cherkas, children on a ruler, almost two dozen children and teachers, have been poisoned. And yesterday, MOH says they don't know what kind of substance the children were poisoned with. First. When will this vaccine vaccine end? When will people stop getting sick today? Keep going. When the MOH responds, what were they, and how were Ukrainian children poisoned at school? 'Cause now there's gonna be summer camps, and now there's gonna be ambulances. You.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-18-m0.u27	Thank you for asking. You know, we should call things our names. Here you have touched on the subject of measles and have touched on the subject of the Ministry of Health. What has the Ministry of Health done to you in particular? Nothing. And if you're going to tell me about how we created this ministry in this government, or in the previous government, what, we had quality hospitals? We had doctors earning normal money, or could people reach out to normal health care? Never. The eyes were closed on this. We've opened our eyes to this, and we're talking about what we're proposing, what we're proposing, what we're proposing, what we're going to do, what we're going to do is we're going to make health better. And I can prove it to you both in numbers, both on the system, and nothing, and no Har – Magedon has ever happened and will not happen, please write that down. It won't happen. And now, for the disease of measles. You should know that vaccination from the bark takes place once every five years. In the first year and then in the sixth year of the child. So what I want to tell you is that what we're reaping today is what happened six years ago. Six years ago no one was vaccinated, six years ago no one thought about it. And that's why we have these flashes. Today we are provided with all vaccines and are working to maximize the vaccination of Ukrainian citizens. And I think I'm going to be the first to do these vaccinations on television so no one's afraid of anything. Because it is a protection, a normal protection for Ukrainian citizens, life, and health. And that's the main thing. So let us not put this in the Ministry of Health, but let us consider making changes to the national legislation that will make the vaccination mandatory. But to make the first vaccinations go through the Prime Minister of Ukraine and the national MPs so that people know it's safe. And then bring them in for humans and vaccines. Thank you for asking.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-18-m0.u28	Thank you. From the opposing block, the debtors from the rostrum. Please, Alexander.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-18-m0.u29	Mr. Prime Minister, if you'll excuse me, everything in this country is fine. You're saying that I didn't raise debts. I'll tell you one minute, you read the Ukrainian State Budget Act. 2018: unprecedented amount – $100 billion. It hasn't happened before. Second, these are flowers, and where are the berries? And berries from 2019 will be. In 2015, the government of Yatsenuk adopted a decree on the restructuring of government debt. Do you remember the Institute of State Derivatives? From 2019 to 2038, you will be contributing part of GDP. This is about your claim to repay and forget. But you drove the country to Cabal! By 2038, the country, with the exception of the $100 billion, will have contributed part of GDP. So things are not as good as they seem. I'd like to believe it, but the papers talk about something else. Now, here's the question. There is now.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-18-m0.u30	30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-18-m0.u31	There is now a delay in payment to retirees. As for the new pension system you've been talking about, everyone knows. Five million received up to 300 dollars, and 100,000 received more than 3,000 dollars. Why is there a delay in pension payments? Because of not receiving the IMF tranche or because 320 billion is due this year?
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-18-m0.u32	So you, if you're saying there's a delay for the retirees, can you tell me where? Nor can we, my colleague, have nearly 12 million pensioners who receive their pension on time. That's it. Tell me exactly where there may be problems in some area’s pension fund, so it needs to be corrected completely administratively. There's no problem with pension payments. What I'd like to point out. Yeah, it's not all right, colleagues, did you hear from me that it's all right? I understand you want to surrender from this rostrum that you're an opposition. But you call things your names, then people will trust you. I'm not saying that it's all good, I'm saying that, unfortunately, including the political party that you've belonged to before, which is not now, she's been doing unprofessionally her work and she's brought Ukraine into debt. Unfortunately, your authorities have robbed the country and left the Yatzenyuk you just mentioned in this rostrum -- 108 thousand dollars at the expense of the country. And the crazy debts that we didn't raise, I emphasize, look at the dynamics, take official data from the National Bank, and you'll see that there's not 100 billion that you just said. As far as change is concerned, I'm stressing that I'd like the economy to be stronger. And I'm working on investing in Ukraine. But without Parliament, it is very difficult to do so. I would ask you as a national deputy to support the government's initiatives. Since they do not apply to political affiliation, they apply to Ukraine’s success. And let us all work together, without disunity, to make Ukraine a better place. I saw a story on TV about Spanish health. And the key position, which was proven, why this health system is one of the best in Europe, was that the opposition power came to change the functioning government and power. And the opposition authorities did not overturn what they had done, but they multiplied and made good progress in making it a normal reform. So that's about the debt. Debt is our task and commitment, and I don't hold people's ears to hang and tell them anything, even with opposition rhetoric, but to talk about concrete decisions that make Ukraine stronger, stronger economy and create.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-18-m0.u33	30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-18-m0.u34	And they do. And these decisions can make Ukraine rich. When Ukraine becomes richer, we will be able to serve perfectly properly the debts that yours has created. As a matter of fact, I don't want to tell anyone in the back, but why would they take tens of billions of debts and then send them down to nowhere. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-18-m0.u35	From the People's Front, Burbak Maksim Yuriovich, head of the faction. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-18-m0.u36	Dear Volodymyr Borisovich, you and I have heard another Yaroslava Cry in the rostrum, how bad things are. I can tell you that in the 14th year, there was no line until the first government of Yatzenuk, when everyone saw that in the treasury account, there were 108 thousand dollars. And they were all waiting for Rostov to return and bring back the billions he had stolen from the Ukraine budget that had fallen on ours. And we're supposed to be doing external borrowing right now. But I'd like to ask you one question. You know what's going on right now is an increase in external labour migration, and you and I have to do everything we can to avoid breaking up with those Ukrainians who went to make money. And what's important is that we do everything we can to get them back to be the social protection of their families to ensure conditions and to increase the wages and conditions in the country so that they can work here. The People's Front came up with an initiative to create a single intelligence or management that would deal with this problem, because it's hard at the moment to say that it's the only one.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-18-m0.u37	Please, 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-18-m0.u38	There is now no single comprehensive policy on external labour migration in Ukraine. And that's why we've created an interfractional union to make it happen. We've created a legislative framework to create conditions for the return of our labour migrants. How do you feel about this initiative? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-18-m0.u39	Thank you, Maxim Juryovich, for the question and for the offer. In fact, there was a meeting yesterday at the College of Social Policy in Kharkiv, where I was present, and we were discussing employment. And there's actually our job today is to refocus employment services to support job creation and motivation to create jobs and raise wages. This is an important issue of paying the Ukrainians, and as soon as we can, our economy will allow for a corresponding growth that will in any way be linked to what they get abroad, of course, people will come back. Although there are already many businesses in Ukraine that offer market wages. So we're going to be reorienting the work from the employment centers to the system support service and the problems of combating labour migration. There really is a problem. The problem is difficult for the country. And you know, she does. She's very irritable. It didn't happen yesterday. Imagine how many waves of labor migration we had. Remember: Italy, Spain, Poland today. Many people have actually gone out looking for a better destiny. And at the time, those who were responsible for the economy of the state didn't just pay attention to it: they're leaving, let them go! But our job today is to solve this problem, find a solution, and I think in the medium term, it's impossible to solve it immediately. In the medium term, this is possible. The main thing is to make the economy grow. And here we will need, including the support of Parliament in changing legislation that will create these motivations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-18-m0.u40	Thank you. And from Fatherland, Sergey Sobolev, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-18-m0.u41	Fatherland, Sobolev. Since this is a matter of health and education, I would like to answer the Prime Minister. Dear Vladimir Borisovich, in his time the Ministry of Education was able to break the monopoly in preparation for the postgraduate education of professionals. The Ministry of Health, in spite of my numerous appeals, retains a monopoly structure that does not actually allow leading institutions, such as Shalimova, Amos, and other leading institutions, to train postgraduate professionals. This could add hundreds of millions of dollars to the health budget to these institutions. A request to pay attention. And the second question. Since a little over 1 billion have been allocated for technical education, this is clearly not enough. All the calculations point out that they will be sufficient by almost August.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-18-m0.u42	30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-18-m0.u43	It's a big request to pay attention to that. And the last. It's literally information from places. A number of treatments have been discontinued that relate to insulin - based patients with diabetes mellitus. The request to pay immediate attention to this matter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-18-m0.u44	Thank you, Sergey Vladislavovich, for your question. I think out of three questions, I'm going to make a mission to the ministries to get them processed, to keep you informed about the results of the review. Do we have a deal? Thank you for asking. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-18-m0.u45	Thank you. So, colleagues, it's now 20 minutes from the National MPs. People's deputies who want to ask a question to the government, please hold the record, please participate in the record. AresonkovVolodimir Yuriovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-18-m0.u46	Dear Vladimir Borisovich, good afternoon! First of all, I thank you for your attention to the Chernobyl theme as a whole and the order of action of the government today. But I would like to ask you to take a look at the outcome of the meeting, which was on April 24th, at a round table with the participation of public organizations, national MPs. We sent you a resolution. I'm sure you'll be transferred to appropriate departments, ministries, and we'll continue this work. And I wanted to ask you all to find a moment to meet with these public organizations. But my main question. Please tell me if the government is preparing a new strategy for forest management today. Is it planned to involve the private sector in the work of state forest enterprises, as many are said today? And that strategy, which was at the end of last year, was discussed at a government meeting that raised a lot of questions for citizens.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-18-m0.u47	Thank you. As far as the question of the Chernobyls is concerned. In fact, it's in the work and discussion and the Ministry of Social Policy, you have very good contact. And believe me, all we can do and can do is do it. The only one. You know, yesterday I was asked in Harkow about various social benefits and everything. I said that when it comes to giving people away, my heart has no boundaries. My limitations are only related to the limits of the budget, its possibilities, so I would give it all up. Everything and everyone so that only humans can be happier. But unfortunately, we're coming out of the issue that we talked about today as part of an "hour of questions to the government" a little earlier. Questions about the forest. In a forest farm, you have to set up a system. There are many challenges and problems. That concept that worked out in our cooperation with the European Union was worked out, discussed, but it did not pose any threat. If it had not been politicized, we would have worked on it, discussed it, and had no problems. So, on an appropriate assignment, my stepane Ivanovich. Stepan Ivanovich Kubev is taking care of this issue, and he is gathering experts (including international ones) to work out a joint solution and bring about a system of governance in the forest economy of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-18-m0.u48	Wait a second. Vadim Viktorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-18-m0.u49	Dear Vladimir Borisovich, last year in Zaporozhye, the runway was repaired for landing planes. Forty million spent. The airport was closed for about two months. This year, the airport is again being shut down to repair the runway – 20 million again. Please tell me, whose hand is this in us, not the Prime Minister, nor the MP in this is to blame, who is this secret, who is doing all this damage in Ukraine? After repairing this runway, two planes suffered minor damage there, a MAU plane and a rosewind plane. They're closing them down now. Me. I'm talking to the employees, they say, after every time Boeing takes off, we sweep this one. Find out who repaired where the money was stolen or not stolen.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-18-m0.u50	Thank you for asking. The airport is in utility. And I can say that the city's head has very serious plans for its reconstruction. I think Zaporozhye's air gates are very important, and I'm convinced that the region, the beautiful region, has to get both the quality and the runway, and the airport, and so on. If there's a call for you from the point of view of the use of budgetary resources, I'll have the State Building Inspectorate check it out, I'll have Deputy Prime Minister Zubka take care of it and inform you. And if we have to do more serious research there, financial audit and so on, please, we can do that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-18-m0.u51	Markevich Jaroslav tells Wojcietski. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-18-m0.u52	Please, Victoria.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-18-m0.u53	Dear Mr. Prime Minister, I have a very specific question for you. When we looked at the list of objects for privatization, we saw with surprise the unique strategic enterprise Turboat. It is strategic for Ukrainian energy and directly for our nuclear power plants. I want to point out that the business is profitable. Over the past year, it made more than two, four billion dollars of net income. Net profit is 700 million, dividends per share of the state are 400 million. More than three and a half harks work for this company. As you know, I hope Turboat has long been an object of interest to Rosatoma, because it produces unique quiet turbines. I have a very simple question: do you realize the danger of privatizing this business? And in general, what the government was governed by when it decided to privatize this unique enterprise. The same question applies to the Sitch Motor. Because as we know from the media, it's been over a year.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-18-m0.u54	30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-18-m0.u55	Attempts to violate legislation to privatise the Motor City by foreign investors. I wonder what steps the government is taking and is planning to take in order to protect Ukraine's public interests in this matter and to prevent the loss of a strategic enterprise, a source of technology that has a real chance of becoming even in Russia.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-18-m0.u56	Thank you for asking. As far as Turbotoma is concerned. Turbot is a unique enterprise that cannot be privatized. I know your reaction. I've been to Turboatom, and I've been seeing a team and a company manager. A wonderful business, strategic, important, working, great. But I'm just talking about that. First of all, we don't own 100 percent of the state's shares, I think you know, there's private equity there, unfortunately. But there is a government’s purpose next. Because no privatizations have been approved, nothing, we have only one goal: 51 percent to leave the state. That means there's going to be a state company. And maybe 20 to 25 percent of ushering in an international partner with a world name, with an impeccable reputation, maybe through public auctions, so that they can get into the factory capital and that it doesn't have 3.5 thousand people working there, it's 7,000 people working there. So that we can not only work for our nuclear industry and so on, but work for the whole global world. So all that's going on is that maybe it's because of this process of parting into the capital of the company to engage the world's famous brands. Period. And there's no threat to the business, there's no need to cherish it, there's no need to develop it. But I think this is a perfectly normal approach. We even discussed this in the factory, and we exchanged thoughts. Believe me, the government will only move in a transparent, very, very cautious way, taking the company's management opinion into account, and so that it will not harm this beautiful business. One more thing. Aggressor, the aggressor country has no right under the law that has been passed by the Ukrainian Parliament, even to own one thousand shares by the Ukrainian company. Thank you. As far as I'm concerned.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-18-m0.u57	Please turn on the microphone. One minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-18-m0.u58	Yes, I'm sorry. Another unique enterprise is the Sich Motor. Regrettably, this enterprise is not State - owned. This is a 100 percent private company. And there's nothing else to add to that. All the questions are solved by the management of the company itself and the owners of its shares. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-18-m0.u59	Barna Oleg Stepanovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-18-m0.u60	Good afternoon! My question will be to Alexander Alexandrovich, Minister of Finance. We're negotiating with the IMF about a 1 billion, one-and-a-half billion loans. And by the way, our alcohol industry is losing at least 2 billion. And that's why I can't understand the passive behavior of the Ministry of Finance, the DFS in terms of control, warning, non-admission or removal of unpublished alcohol. Why are technical perfumery spirits now being imported to Ukraine to produce vinegar? Why don't we take off the excise on those tech drinks so they can be competitive? Now there's a critical situation with agrarians that produce products that can't be processed. Inconveniently, the market has flooded imported alcohol. So I want to ask you, why don't you take steps to protect the domestic market, where jobs and wages and taxes will be created?Oh, my God! Who do you work for? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-18-m0.u61	Thank you for asking. Indeed, the share of the shadow market is now quite high. We are not looking for dotive decisions that those who abuse will then be able to make. We proposed that the Ministry of Finance draft a bill that was appropriate for the Prime Minister's mandate, and the government has adopted it, and now this bill is in the Supreme Council: the control system. An electronic excise stamp that allows you to control production from production to moment and sale on a fragmented network. This bill needs to be adopted. Without this system control, which means that it is impossible to prevent abuse, it is impossible to achieve it. So the request, first of all, for a tax committee to consider, not to drag this issue, to take it to the hall, and by successful efforts, we will overcome this disgraceful phenomenon. And the money will be paid to the state budget. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-18-m0.u62	Thank you. ConstantineMateichenko gives the floor to Andrew Teteruk. Turn on the microphone, Andrew Teteruk.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-18-m0.u63	Dear Volodymyr Borisovich, congratulations. I've had many speeches about the state of things in our space field. And we've been trying to learn what we can do to fix it and do everything we can to implement the State Space Program. Instead, I don't understand why the billions of funds allocated to the space program have led to zero results for our nation. And I don't understand why, as stipulated by law, Kabmin failed to inform the Supreme Council about the state of implementation of the space program. And I also don't understand why it's been six months and there's still no new programme in Parliament for the implementation of the State's targeted space programme for 2018-2022. What prevents this from happening? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-18-m0.u64	Thank you for asking. We meet more than once, well, it's such a subject, it's very delicate, it's so publically impossible to discuss. And that's why we're having a lot of meetings on the new space program, we're working. And there are, I think, good enough. Well, I think we're in the finals. And once we've finished working on such a complex subject, of course, we'll give everything that's necessary to Parliament, and the government will consider both part of what's open and part of what has limited access to information. So we'll keep you posted. Work is done, work is done on cooperation with international partners. Believe me, no copies are used without any serious reasons for publicity and openness. And there's not even a reason to say here today that billions of people are going out there because they're not even funded. Thank you. And as soon as we complete the finalization, we will be informed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-18-m0.u65	Thank you. I invite you to the speech of the People's Deputies.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-18-m0.u66	Good afternoon. I have a question for Mr. Nasalik. But I think Mr. Nasalik is hiding from the Radical Party, but the Radical Party will find a way to find him. That's why I'm addressing this question to your respectable Volodymyr Borisovich. Dear Vladimir Borisovich, please pay attention. I was very pleased to hear today how you support the energy security of our country, how you understand why this is important. You know, more than once, almost every day, Oleg Láška's Radical Party emphasizes that Ukrainians need Ukrainian coal and Ukrainian miners need jobs and decent wages. I'm glad you're our ally on this. So I have a very simple question. Why are the miners of the Selidowwowiel State Enterprise in debt on wages? I have a very simple question. Why the development of layers that belong to the Constitution of the State.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-18-m0.u67	30 seconds, please. Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-18-m0.u68	Are there incomprehensible private structures, not the Selidewwicil company? When will you respect people for your work? When do miners finally get their legal wages and jobs? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-18-m0.u69	Thank you for asking. I just want to start with what you've done. What made you think I didn't respect people? I respect people and respect the work of miners, and I appreciate their work, and I try to do everything I can to ensure that Ukrainian miners work in decent conditions. Unfortunately, too many opportunities have been missed. And today we're working on involving state guarantees for modernization of state mines in the country. In fact, I think that next week we're going to be having another meeting to finally determine whether we can create state mechanisms to involve funding and investment in the mining sector. That's the first one. Second, about respect for the work of miners. You know, I think it's probably the first time and colleagues who represent the Donbas regions and districts today, including Western Ukraine and Volini, where there are miners. I think it should be nice that our pension reform has given the pots the opportunity to give away what they've earned, and raise twice their pension and more their pension. This was also a very important question for us -- the return of justice and respect to Ukrainian miners. We're going to go to do the best we can to create conditions for the extraction of Ukrainian coal. If you look at private mining companies, it's normal, it's normal self-sustainment, it's serious investment, and there's still corruption in the public sector today. If you've been careful, I did a few months ago, a few weeks ago I gave Minister Nasalika a job to "explode" all the "watchers" from the Ukrainian mines. They are now parasitic in state coal enterprises. They should be put in prison instead of allowing them to join in the matter of coal mining. And that's why we decided that 75 percent of the revenue that mining companies get is going to be sent right away, and that's not what it used to be, right now, to pay wages to Ukrainian miners. We will continue to keep order. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-18-m0.u70	Thank you. And I'd like to invite you to the floor of the People's Deputies.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-18-m0.u71	Good afternoon! I have a question for Minister of Social Policy Andriy Alexiyovich. Dear Andrey Alexiyovich, we know that the Minsocpolytics, together with the Scientific Research Institute for Labour and Employment, are now working on different solutions to the problem and inequality that has arisen in thousands of pensioners. People get a lot of work, and they get a little bit of money. How many more people are waiting for a fair recalculation of pensions and internship allowances? I have hundreds of phone calls from the people of the Nicopol region, and they have worked for over 40 years in shops and hospitals. And this should be taken into account in pension reform, people expected, and instead they only have a penny. Answer people when you have a fair estimate of pensions.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-18-m0.u72	Your Honor, Mr. People's Deputy, you are absolutely right in the fact that justice needs to be restored. And the pension reform, which was carried out with the participation and support of the national MPs, restored it. The problem is that the conditions under which people worked and lived in the past were unfair. And you're absolutely right to say that those people who worked long hours in the farm, in agriculture, worked as babysitters in kindergartens, in health care in hospitals, having a lot of internships, had unfair low wages. And after a pension reform, we saw that people who have full experience, that women are 30 years old and over, that men are 35 years old and over, that in Ukraine there are about 3 million pensioners. And we're in the second phase of the reform, and I want to remind you that the reform didn't end with the adoption of the law, it just started, and the next step in this reform is to have a recalculation of pensions in accordance with this formula that we've all supported with you. And I hope that in this calculation, we'll take into account the problematic moments that we're talking about with you right now. We're all working on it, we're doing the right calculations, and I hope that we'll work it out with you in the near future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-18-m0.u73	Thank you. And a final question from the National Deputies. Kudlainko gives the question to Hotcharenko. Turn on the microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-18-m0.u74	Thank you. Dear Vladimir Borisovich, such a question. We have in Odessa a sanatorium called Lermontowski, which has existed for over 100 years and is one of the last of those health clinics left. Because, unfortunately, a lot of things have been lost, torn apart in recent years, and in the area of these sanatoriums, wealth has grown in many ways, and you understand what is going on. And now there are events that are really worrying about Odessa. The point is, in 2015, the government transferred the real estate of the sanatorium to the Ministry of Justice. After that, several attempts were made to capture the company. It is clear that it cannot function in this way because the movable property, including medical equipment, has remained in a state - owned enterprise other than the one that has been in existence since 2003. I think it's an unnecessary burden for the Ministry of Justice, because the Ministry of Justice is not supposed to do rehabilitation after heart attacks, strokes, which is the profile of the Lermontian sanatorium. So I would ask you to take this matter under control. Make a decision on the transfer.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-18-m0.u75	30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-18-m0.u76	Thank you. The decision to transfer this hospital to the Ministry of Health, which is a professional one, whether it's the Ministry of Health or the Ministry of Social Policy, is to help this sanatorium stay because there are 10 hectares by the sea, which are very, very attractive to a variety of fraudsters. This enterprise needs to be protected so that it can continue to heal Ukrainians. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-18-m0.u77	Thank you. Thank you for asking. Before giving the word to the minister of justice, he is present and commenting, you said that the Ministry of Justice should not be dealing with heart attacks. I want to tell you, in some ways, our last decision and the minister of justice to fight evil almanacs, I want to say that almost leads them to a heart attack, they have to give money to their children. Our next step, which the Ministry of Justice does, is to pressure those who don't pay the Ukrainians their wages and owe them. So they may also have serious problems with the nervous system because we will pressure them and protect the rights of the working person. But that's not the reason to have a rehabilitation facility. Please, Paul Dmitrovich Petrenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-18-m0.u78	Thank you for asking. I'd like to make a few details. Indeed, in 2015 the Ukrainian government returned to the state property stolen by the former authorities of the Lermontovsky sanatorium, which wanted to tear apart, build highs and cottages there for local offices: prosecutors, judges and representatives of the Party of Regions. To this day, representatives of the same Party of Colored Regions are now trying to maintain this property. I publicly state that we are ready to hand over this object to the Ministry of Defence, the National Guard, was the idea of rehabilitating the ATOs, residents of Odessa, and pensioners. But this object is now being held back by local frauds who hope to steal it in the same way. I declare officially that we will not give together, and the government and parliament, to steal this object into the Odessy and Ukrainian states. So I ask you to join us in deciding how this object will work in favor of Odessa, not for the benefit of individual fraudsters who run to MPs and tell stories and lie. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-18-m0.u79	Thank you. The time for questions from the national deputies is over. Please, the closing word is Prime Minister. Vladimir Borisovich, three minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-18-m0.u80	Thank you. Mr. Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, distinguished colleagues of the National Deputies! First of all, I want to thank you for a number of important laws adopted this plenary week. Whatever anyone wants to say or does not try to say, the Parliament shows the ability to make the right and necessary decisions for the development of the state. I'd like to draw attention to another very important question. You know, we have to make sure of the mistakes we made before us. The notion of justice in Ukrainian citizens is very important. They want us not to just tell them that we're honest, that we're smart, that we're trying to live fairly, but to be open. They want to make it absolutely clear to everyone that if you stole, you would go to jail, if you took a bribe and you were taken or taken later, you would be sitting, if you were confusing the government pocket with yours, you would be sitting. You know, I think that if we take the examples of many countries in the world that have put order in place, they have made order only when the first strict and just judgments of the courts have punished those who have put their own interests ahead of the interests of the state. In view of this, we need to create all the tools to bring this whole sense of justice back, to give people the hope that we are able to make decisions that put everyone on the same level and make this life fair. And what I want to say is that next week, every audience will have a huge choice of how to go: to give their voice symbolically in order to claim justice and an effective fight against corruption in the country or to cover all that was and destroyed our country. I want to ask you, I don't have the right to tell you how to do this, I can only ask you: Your Honourable People's Deputies, I want to ask you to make the necessary decision for the next week of a just, independent, crucial position! – Anti-corruption court. A court that will allow justice to be restored. This will give an absolute boost to the people that justice will be restored in Ukraine. And on the other hand, we're going to give a very strong signal to both investors and international partners that you and I are committed to a serious fight against corruption, which is our mission to you. So I want us to make a responsible decision next week. I am deeply convinced that many simply have nothing to worry about. I know exactly what it takes to live by law, and then everything will be fine. And forever in order to be free, you must be a slave to the law. Let us demonstrate the necessary decisions that life in our country will make fair.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-18-m0.u81	A minute? One minute, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-18-m0.u82	Along with a strong economy and a strong rule of law. Thank you very much for your cooperation, and the government is ready for further cooperation. Thank you!
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-18-m0.u83	Thank you. "The year of questions before the government" is over. Let's thank the government and the Prime Minister for participating in the meeting. [[Applause]] And, colleagues, I have two applications for a break from the Radical Party faction and the Fatherland faction and the Peter Poshenko Block and the People's Front. I'll give it to you first. Both factions are ready to replace the break for the performance. I'm the first one from the Radical Party and Fatherland, right? And Self-Help, from the Radical Party and Self-Help, three minutes, Victor Halasyuk. And then you can tell me who's going to be speaking from Peter Dusty's Block. Ariev, then Ariev. Please, Mr. Victor.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-18-m0.u84	Dear Andriy Volodymyrovich, distinguished colleagues of the National MPs, I ask you to form my speech as a request to the Prime Minister of Ukraine. To develop an economy, to pay off debts, to stop the emigration of talented Ukrainians abroad requires concrete solutions, not empty promises. I want to give you a specific example. The budget for this year, according to Oleg Ljashk, is 30 million dollars allocated for unique, revolutionary research into cancer drugs, research conducted by the Institute of Molecular Biology and Genetics of the National Academy of Sciences. It is an absolutely unique opportunity for Ukraine to enter the club of the most successful countries, to create a multibillion-dollar new industry in pharmaceuticals, to save the lives of hundreds of thousands of citizens and not only Ukrainians, to become a successful, visible country not only in science, but also in the economy, to rebuild its economy from the export of raw materials into a high-tech system, which is what Parliament has supported -- a straight line in the state budget, What do we see today? Today we see that this funding, first of all, is not yet allocated to the Academy of Sciences, secondly, they say that these funds have already been allocated to other funds, instead of buying a unique synthesizer that will allow this research to be completed. What does that mean? This means either inactivity, or negligence, or simply stealing from bureaucrats the leadership of the National Academy of Sciences. What does this lead to? This results in artificially blocking the development of Ukrainian science. This means that those scientists who do the research, they're going to give up. And if this is not resolved now, they will be living abroad tomorrow. They'll have housing there, they'll have wages there, they'll have government guarantees there. What, are you stupid enough not to understand this so as not to solve such questions? In the course of this problem and Minister of Finance Daniluk. He promised to do everything he could to solve it. I thank the head of the profile committee, Mr. Spiowakovsky, with whom we share this issue, and it is subject to a very quick solution. That is why I am asking the Prime Minister of Ukraine for an immediate review of this situation, first of all, to find out why this has happened; second of all, the immediate resolution and allocation of this funding. Ukrainian science, live Ukrainian science, has to be financed, supported, protected, given all kinds of development opportunities, so that talented Ukrainian scientists, who have a high impact factor, who have the authority of the world to carry out their research in Ukraine, and we become a high-tech, successful nation, not a source of raw materials and people, as it is now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-18-m0.u85	Thank you. And I invite you to the words of the People’s Deputy Ariev.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-18-m0.u86	Do you know what "surgen" means? It's a Crimean word for "deportation." 74 years ago, by order of a criminal named Stalin, the NCSC troops entered the Crimean Tatar home and moved the entire Crimean Tatar nation to Central Asia for four days. This is considered to be one of the greatest crimes that began on this very day. And I think today we could mention all those who died during the deportation of the Crimean Tatars. Today is a day of memory of one of the greatest crimes of the Soviet system. I think we need to remember this so that the word "surgen" doesn't happen again in English. Because this is what the invader wants today, and the invader today is a direct descendant of the Soviet Union, the Putinian Russia. In Crimea, Russia is now persecuting Crimean Tatars, all of them, and last night it was trying to light a flash of memory, arrest, and throw into car accidents. Today, all over the world, Ukraine and Canada, in other countries, will be taking very serious action to support Crimean Tatars. But perhaps the most powerful in the sense of the Crimean Tatars being held in Crimea, because expressing their position in Crimea is not about expressing the same position in the free world. Crime is not available today, but I think he'll be free. And we will also release the Ukrainians who are suffering today from the occupation. And we need to mention on this day both Vladimir Baluch and Oleg Sentsov, who declared an untimely famine so that all Ukrainian prisoners could be released. And now, dear colleagues, I understand that there may be other topics for discussion in this room, but I would like to ask you to honor the moment of silence of all those Crimean Tatars who died during the tragic four days of 1944. Please. [[A Minute of Silence]] And I very much hope that all of us today will express solidarity with the Crimean Tatars and do everything we can to ensure that the word "surgen" does not enter the language of any nation that lives in both the territory of Ukraine and in other countries of the world. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-18-m0.u87	Thank you. We're moving on to the MP's questions. We have two requests to the President of Ukraine that will require our vote, so please ask the national deputies to take their seats. The first is the request by Yuri-Bogdan Suhevic to the President of Ukraine to abolish the terrible pension injustice that affects millions of ordinary "black" Ukrainian citizens every month of their official work after the year 2000. I ask the people's deputies to support the referral of such a request to the President of Ukraine. Please vote. [[11:31:55]] for-45 The decision is not taken. Next question. Mikhail Dobkin to the President of Ukraine on the investigation of the propaganda of the ideas of fascism, chauvinism, xenophobia, anti-Semitism, racial and national hostility by officials and officials of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Ukraine and the involvement of guilty persons in criminal responsibility. Please support the referral of such a request to the President of Ukraine. [[11:32:32]] For-26
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-18-m0.u88	Next questions. Viktor Razwadowski to the temporary duty of Minister of Health of Ukraine, head of the Zitomir District Administration for the allocation of funds for the rapid intervention and replacement of the ball joint of the City’s Analyst Constantineni, residents of the city of Zitomir. Viktor Razwadowski to the Chief of Roads in the Gitomir region, head of the Zitomir district administration for the repair of roads in the Lubarski and Romani region of the Žitomir region. LjubomirZubada to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the objective assessment of government policy regarding financial decentralization. AloniBabak to the Odessa City Head about providing unverified data on the MP's appeal and the need to write off the balance sheet of the house in the management of the Harmonia Plus OSBB. Irina Herashchenko to the Kiev City Head for the allocation of funds by the Kiev City Council for the well - organized territory on which the Kiev military leader John Bokhon is stationed. Jury Pavlenko to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the requirement to remove discriminatory norms for orphans and children deprived of parental care from the regulations of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. Alexander Marchenka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for taking preventive measures to protect the state land, which is in the constant use of the Illinois State Agrarian College. Mustafa-MassiNayem to the Head of the Department of Citizenship of the Ukrainian Presidential Administration, head of the Ukrainian National Migration Service for citizenship. Anatolia Denisenka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the Innovation Development Fund. Anatoly of Denisenka to the Minister of Education and Science of Ukraine on the restoration of the financing of the Kharkiv State Vocational and Pedagogical College of the name of Vernadsky. StepanaIvahiwa to the Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Regional Development, Construction and Housing of Ukraine, for the financing of the 2011-2020 General Targeted Water of Ukraine, for the completion of the project "Renovation of Rural Water Recycling in the Village of the City-type Lublinec of the Kovel Region of Volin Region". MaximaBurbaka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the creation in the system of executive power of a single unit (or department) to coordinate public policy on labour migration. MaximaBurbaka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the increase in funding in Ukraine's State Budget for 2018 of the budget programme "Leading Ukrainian Citizens abroad". RuslanaSolvara to the temporary duty of head of the State Service of Ukraine on geodesy, cartography and cadastre, acting as Director of the Department of Science and Research and Project Institute of the Land, to resolve the issue of completion of projects by the Land Authority on the establishment and modification of the limits of the villages of Jaroshovka and Tomasovka Tomasovka of the Rural Council of the Fastev Region of Kyiv Region. RuslanaSolvara to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Vice Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Regional Development, Construction and Housing of Ukraine, Minister of Finance of Ukraine, on the solution of the problems of the monetaryisation of public transport benefits. Anatolia Yevlakhova to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the settlement of issues related to the reform of the Public Shareholder Society in the territory of Chernigiv region. Igorya Shurma to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the lack of original documents on education and citizenship, on the basis of which she was appointed First Deputy Minister of Health Uljana Suprun. Igorya Shurma to the head of the National Migration Service of Ukraine on the provision of information on the presence and issuance of Ulya Suprun passport from a Ukrainian citizen for going abroad and its term of validity. Evgen Rybczynski to T.O. "Teleradio company "Study 1+1 Media" about the provision of information in connection with the possible violation of the Ukrainian Law on Copyright and Neighbouring Rights. Eugene Rybczynski to Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine, Viacheslav Kirilenka, Head of the National Council for Television and Radio Affairs on the violation of the Ukrainian Law on Copyright and Neighbouring Rights. Vladimir Gusak to the prosecutor of the Odessa region for the unlawful persecution of the private enterprise Universal. Vladislav Buhareva, head of the Ukrainian Supreme Council Committee on Health Care, Prime Minister of Ukraine, is temporarily acting as the Minister of Health of Ukraine on the need for the acquisition of a digital mobile X-ray system for the communal institution of the Somali City Council. Michael Bondar to the Minister of Social Policy of Ukraine on the problems with the sole social contribution and the counting and recalculation of social benefits for employees of the State-owned Lviv-Coal Company. Michael Bondar to the Head of the Ukrainian Security Service, Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, Prosecutor General of Ukraine, on the unsatisfactory work of the Public Shareholder Society of the Lviv Coal Company and on the theft of budgetary resources under the leadership of the so-called "watching" of Hungary. Vladimir Litvina to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, head of the Provincial District Administration, head of the Novograd-Wallin City Council of the Žitomir Region for immediate measures to be taken to repair the housing of Marshall Rokosovski's 22nd city of Novograd-Wolinski. StanisławaBrezkina to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the reform of the Pomičnian Enterprises of the Public Shareholders Association: Locomotive and Wagon Depo. AndrijaJuriya to the Minister of Finance of Ukraine for the formation and maintenance of the Temporary Register of Refunds. StepanaIvahwa to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the use of state budget subsidies to local budgets for actions aimed at developing a health system in rural areas. IgoryaGuza to the First Deputy Head of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Social Policy, Employment and Retirement, Minister of Social Policy of Ukraine on the need to amend the current pension legislation in order to allow women to retire at the age of 55 (working on rail transport) and who are over 35 years of age. IgoryaGuza to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the need for speeding up the adoption of the draft Decision of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, which directs to the general fund of local budgets part of the size of the salary for the granting of a licence for the conduct of business activities from the release and the holding of lottery tickets. Sergio Melnika until the temporary duty of Ukrainian Minister of Health to issue a teaching manual. Alexander Kodola to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, the National Commission for State Regulations in the Field of Energy and Municipal Services, repealing the decision of the National Commission for State Regulations in the Field of Energy and Municipal Services, No. 972 of July 27, 2017. Alexander Kodola to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Pat "Ukranafta" for not allowing the work of the Gdynic Gas Reprocessing Plant of the Public Stock Exchange Society "Ukranafta". ConstantineJarynica to the temporary duty of the Minister of Health of Ukraine to take measures aimed at completing the procedure for the transfer of the entire property complex of the Specialised Medical and Health Unit No. 19 of the Ministry of Health of Ukraine to the property of the territorial community of Kropivnitsky, in accordance with the order of the Cabinet of Ministers dated 6 April 2016 No. 268. ConstantineJarynica to the Minister of Education and Science of Ukraine for the provision of first-class students to the Schools of Kropivnitsky in Lego, according to the Memorandum between the Ministry of Education and Science of Ukraine and The LEGO Foundation. Jury Boyka to the Deputy Attorney - General of Ukraine - Chief Military Prosecutor for the conduct of an objective and impartial investigation into the crimes of radically targeted persons, including a military officer under the contract of military A2076 on April 13, 2018, during the attack on members of the campaign to honor General Vatutin’s memory. Alexander Gehrega and Andrija Shinkovič to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, First Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Economic Development and Trade of Ukraine, Minister of Energy and Coal Industry of Ukraine, on the critical situation with the provision of gas to the population of the Hmeljna region. Mr. Alexander Gehrega and Mr. Andrija Shinkovič to the Minister of Education of Ukraine, Minister of Finance of Ukraine, on a critical situation that has resulted in the operation of higher education institutions of I-II levels of accreditation (collegates and technicalities). SergiaLabazuka to the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, Office of the Attorney-General of Ukraine, on the solution of the issue of housing rations in the city of Hmelnitskom. SergiaLabazuka to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, Ministry of Social Policy of Ukraine, on the recalculation of pensions to government officials. Vitalia Gudzenka to the Acting Chief of Road Services in the Kyiv region on the capital repair of the road to the territorial value T 1033-R 32 Vasilovka-Uzin-Bila Church of the Bilocerkow region of Kiev. Vitalia Gudzenka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the allocation of the necessary funds for the provision of fire and technology safety in the educational establishments of Biloczerkovsky, Voddarski, Skuriski, Stavishtenski, Tarostian, Tetijov region of the Kyiv region. Igor Lapin to the Head of the Ukrainian Security Service, Attorney General of Ukraine, Head of the Ukrainian Security Service in Volinsk Region, Prosecutor of the Volin Region for the participation of Ukrainian citizens in the Russian provocative action. Sergey Kiwalova to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the amendment of the Cabinet of Ministers Decision No. 710 of 11 October 2016 on the effective use of public funds needed for the development and adoption of the National Cancer Programme for 2017-2021. Andrija Vadaturski to the Irpine City Head, Director of the Department of State Architecture and Construction in the Kyiv Region, for the non-admissibility of illegal construction. Jurija-Bogdan Suhević to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the immediate cessation of the cooperation of the Government of Ukraine with the International Monetary Fund and the World Bank, because the latter are not interested in the prosperity of Ukraine, but in the collapse of Ukraine and the failure of one of the biggest problems of pension injustice in Ukraine, which has resulted in millions of ordinary "black" Ukrainian citizens being affected by their official work every month after 1 July 2000. LjubomirZubada to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the violation of the methodology for the formation of hospital districts in the creation of the only hospital district in the Lviv region. Jury Pavlenko to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the tragic death of children-infant children's homes of family type, foster families and caregivers. Olga Bogolitz to the Ukrainian Minister of Defense on the development and approval of the procedures for the involvement of civilian medical and auxiliary personnel under the project "First Volunteer Mobile Hospital of Mikli Pirogova" to carry out operations of the United Forces. Alexandre Comparative to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the need to bring legislation in the area of housing and utilities into line with legislation. Alexandra Compromise to Kiev City Head for Reconstruction of the Darnitsky Square in Kiev PaulRisanenka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, acting as head of the Ukrainian State Property Fund for the exclusion of the Society with limited responsibility for the "Restraint Titano-Magnium Combined" from the list of objects of major privatization of state property subject to privatisation in 2018. PaulRisanken to the Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Regional Development, Construction and Housing of Ukraine, Minister of Finance of Ukraine, on the use of urgent measures to recalculate the subsidy and compensate for the difference between the actual cost of living and the tariffs on water services and the water supply of the municipal enterprise of the Barishiv District Council of the Rhinewater Channel. Groups of National Deputies (Bathenka, Shevchenka and others, only 7 deputies) to the Prime Minister of Ukraine to increase the financing of the KPCH budget programme No. 2301360 "Leading Ukrainian Citizens abroad". Irina Konstankevich to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for information on the results of the State-owned company Volintorf. Irina Konstankevich to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the registration of family farms. Alexander Brigintz to the head of the Kyiv City Public Administration for Open Discrimination of the Civil Organization Creative Union of Partners of the ATO "Mets" in the framework of a permanent exhibition of fairs at Andriev's Exports in the Podilj district of Kiev. Andrija Lopushanski to the Minister of Infrastructure of Ukraine, acting as Head of the State Road Agency of Ukraine, head of the Lviv District State Administration for the need to carry out capital and ongoing repairs of the roadways of general use of locality in the mountainous regions of Lviv region. Andrija Lopushanski to the Minister of Energy and Coal Industry of Ukraine, head of the Government of the Public Shareholders Association of Lvivoblanergo, on the need for capital repair of the electricity line and replacement of resistance in the village of Jasenica-Zamkov of the Old Samobrian Region of Lviv Region. AlexanderPresman and Viktor Razwadowski to assume the responsibilities of head of the Ukrainian State Property Fund as regards the need for adequate and objective an overview of the appeal of the United University of Odessa Legal Academy to the United Technical and Vocational College on the issue of the organisation of the educational process. JaroslavaDubnević to the temporary duty of head of the State Environmental Inspectorate of Ukraine to carry out a verification of compliance with the requirements of environmental and water legislation by the private shareholders of the "Lvivski oblribbinata". RomanaMazoli and Andrija Šinkovica to the Prime Minister of Ukraine to increase funding for the budget programme "Talking Ukrainian Citizens abroad". RomanaMazoli and Andrija Shinkovica to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, head of the National Commission for State regulation in the area of communications and information on broadband access to the Internet and mobile communications in the Hmeljna region. Edward Matviychuk to the Ministry of Health of Ukraine, the Ministry of Education and Science of Ukraine, Odessa District Public Administration, Odessa District Council, Odessa City Council on the objective consideration of the collective appeal of children with cerebral palsy, who are being trained at Odessa Special School of Public Education at boarding school No. 7 and II, which is located on the street of Audiev-Black Sea No. 23 in the Kyiv district of Odessa, the need to provide all-ordinating assistance and to accompany the resolution of the issues that have been raised in fact for the planning and implementation of the capital rehabilitation of the school. Edward Matthewchuk to the Ministry of Social Policy of Ukraine, the Pension Fund of Ukraine, the Odessa District State Administration, the Odessa City Council on the need for an objective review of the appeal of the retired Larissa Ivanovna, a resident of the Kyiv district of Odessa regarding the need for comprehensive social and material assistance in connection with her husband’s illness. TarasaBatain to the Head of the National Commission, which regulates energy and municipal services in the area of illegal accounting at the limit of consumption of natural gas by 9.8 cubic metres for consumers who have not refused to install public-house gas accounting units, which is confirmed by the absence of complex offences. Alexia Lensky to the Attorney-General of Ukraine for the conduct of a review of violations of the law and illegal actions of the investigator, as well as for the taking of the situation under control to conduct an impartial investigation into the charge of the resident of the city of Žitomir Hodak Bogdan Anatoliyovich for the robbery. Sergia Lechchenka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the obstacles to Estonian investor Marcel Wihmann's activities in the village of the town type of Gulf of Odessa. Sergia Leshchenka to the Kyiv City Head for construction work in the Central Historical Area of the Podil district of Kyiv. Jury of Macedonia to the provisional duty of the President of the PAT administration, ‘UCRRANSGAZ’, to provide information on issues related to the supply of gas to the population of the area of Champi district. Vladimir Parasjuka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, head of the Lviv District State Administration for the repair of road 0142001 Yavorov-Grushov, which passes through the populated areas of Chernobyl and Nagachev in the region of Lviv. Vladimir Parasyuka to the Head of State Environmental Inspection in the Lviv region, Director of the Department of Ecology and Natural Resources of the Lviv Regional Administration, Head of the Lviv Regional Water Administration for Environmental Assessment and Compliance with Sanitary Water Standards in the Vreestitsec River Basin, which flows past the settlements of towns of the type of Ivano-Frankov, the village of Stradc, the village of Porečja, the village of Malčica in the Javorov region of Lviv. Alexia Lensky to the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine for the conduct of a thorough inspection of the Ukrainian legislation during the sale of rations from the former collective agricultural enterprise Zora in the village of Sokolov in the region of Žitomir. Groups of National Deputies (Romanova, Semimenacha, Ostrikova) to the Minister of Culture of Ukraine, the Poltava City Head, the head of the Poltava District State Administration for preventing the destruction of the historical monument of the Poltava Cadet Corps. Anna Romanova to the Prime Minister of Ukraine about the increase in the cost of treatment for patients with severe illness abroad. Olesia Long to the Public Shareholders' Association of the State Savings Bank of Ukraine for the commission to receive payments from the population for utility services, particularly gas. Olesia Long to the Central Electoral Commission to ensure that the term of office of a member elected in a single-member district is terminated. Vadim Sidorczuk to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the wide-ranging provision of socio-economic compensation for the risk of the population living in the observation zone of the Equinox nuclear power plant. Mr. Dmitra Kolesnikov to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the execution of state-owned targeted programmes. Mr. Dmitra Kolesnikov to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the payment discipline of the population for housing services. Mikoli Fedoruk to the head of the National Shareholder Company Naftogaz Ukraine for refusing to accept payment for natural gas consumed from the National University of Chernobyl named Yuri Fedeković. Jury Bublika to the Minister of Ecology and Natural Resources of Ukraine on the negative impact on the environment and health of the inhabitants of Karlovy Poltavska, a region of Pinopolyurethane production, opened within the city, and a prolonged disregard for the environmental services of citizens. AndriaShipka until the temporary duty of Minister of Health of Ukraine, State Enterprise Ukrvakcina, Director of the Department of Health of the Dnipropetrov Observatories to provide vaccines for the immunization of children in the city of Nikopol, in the district of Nnipropetrov. Mr. AndriaShipka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Head of the National Police of Ukraine, Head of the Ukrainian Security Service, Prosecutor General of Ukraine on the use of measures to hold the guilty responsible for the illegal acts that took place on 4 May 2018 at the meeting hall of the Nikopol City Council. MikhaylaDobkina to the Minister of Interior of Ukraine, the Attorney General of Ukraine, on the investigation of the propaganda of Fascism, Chevinism, Xenophobia, Anti-Semitism, Racial and National Enemy by officials and officials of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Ukraine and on the criminalization of guilty persons. AlexanderKirsha to Kharkiv City Head for repairing inland roads and sidewalks in the village of Petihatka in Kharkiv AlexanderKorsha to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the illegal actions of officials of the Public Shareholders Association "Harkovmiskgaz", who refuse to compensate natural gas consumers for the costs of purchasing and installing individual gas counters. Alexander Nechayeva to the head of the Kyiv City State Administration for the immediate restoration of the robot’s building’s thermal energy calculation and recalculation for central heating services for the residents of Kiev in February 2018. Alexander Nechayeva to the Director of the State Energy Inspectorate of Ukraine, the Chief State Inspector of Energy, the Mikolayev City Head, on the urgent solution to the issue of the safe operation of thermal networks and heating systems of residential buildings in the city of Mikolayev, Mikolai district. Vadim Krivenk and PaulDublik to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the illegal activity of the Society with limited responsibility for "Walk-Ilmenite" in the territory of the Corestinsk region of the Žitomir region. Julia Ioffe to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the need to protect the interests of the territorial community of the city of Sjevjerodonetsk Lugansk Region, to take appropriate action in connection with the illegal capture of the property rights object of the Main Complex of the Ice Palace of Sport. OlegaKulinich to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine on the increase in pay for teaching staff at institutions of specialized art education of the Ministry of Culture of Ukraine. Vladimir Aresonkova to the Minister of Infrastructure of Ukraine regarding the granting of legal status to Lugina Road Renovation. Vladimir Aresonkova to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for a subsidy from the State budget to local budgets for health measures in rural areas. RuslanaDemczak to the head of the Vinnick district government regarding the redistribution of medical subsidies. RuslanaDemczak to the Head of the Supreme Court of Ukraine on the settlement of contradictions in the case law on leasing disputes. JuryLevchenka to the Minister of Infrastructure of Ukraine, acting as head of the State Agency for Road Traffic, Ukraine, heads of the Kiev City State Administration on the emergency technical condition of the road covering the streets of Tatar, Baggovutov, Lower York, Solyan, Lukyanovsk, Nagorny, Smorrodin and Podilski, which connect the Tatarka microregion with the transportation system of the city of Kiev. JuriyaLevchenka to the Director of the Department of Urban Planning and Architecture of the Kyiv City State Administration for illegal construction on the land on Otto Schmidt Street, 26-B, 26-B, 26-G in Kiev and violation of urban legislation. Andrija Illenka to the Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Regional Development, Construction and Housing of Ukraine, Minister of Interior, Minister of Environment and Natural Resources of Ukraine, Deputy Head of the State Forest Resources Agency of Ukraine, temporarily acting as Head of the State Environmental Inspectorate of Ukraine, Prosecutor General of Ukraine, Kyiv City Head for Inventory, Dressing, Evaluation of Green Planting Balance Rates, Cessation of Their Self-excision and Use of Response Measures to Return Landplaces to the Ownership of the Kyiv City Territorial Society. Andrija Illenka to the Minister of Infrastructure of Ukraine, acting as Head of the Government of the Public Shareholders Association of the Ukrainian Railways, to increase the efficiency of seasonal summer passenger transports to Hersonian resorts by rail. Alexander Wiekula to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on parliamentary control regarding the implementation of the National Strategy for Human Rights Plan for 2020 and the immediate publication of the response to petition No.41/001462-18, “Please take steps to stop promoting homosexuality and protecting traditional family values” (the publication of the reply should be no later than April 12, 18). Alexander Wiekula to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on parliamentary control of the state of extra-school education of children and youth and the associated network of palaces, houses, children's art clubs, youth and young, artistic and aesthetic creativity of student youth, children's creativity, and aesthetic education. Mikhail Golka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Finance of Ukraine, Minister of Infrastructure of Ukraine for the renovation of the bridge in the village of Musorovka of the Ternopil region. Mikhail Golka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Education and Science of Ukraine, head of the Ternopil district administration for the repair of the teaching corps of the Cremenacian Regional Humanities and Pedagogical Academy of the name Taras Grigorovich Shevchenk Ternopil district. IvanaSporisha to the executive responsibility of the head of the Ukrainian State Road Agency for the repair of the road in the village of High Tomaspil district of Winnitsk. Groups of National Deputies (Shinkovich, Gerega, Maczola) to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the need to change the criteria for the distribution of referrals depending on the patient's state of emergency and non-express and to make appropriate changes to the Cabinet of Ministers decision of 21 November 12 No. 1119. Groups of National Deputies (Shinkovich, Gerega, Maczola) to the Minister of Justice of Ukraine for the suspension of the National Commission Regulation. State regulation in the field of energy and utility services No.2494 of September 30, 2015 "On the Approval of the Gas Distribution System Code" in part of the obligation of gas consumers to set the means of remote accounting at their own expense. Alexia Goncharenka to the head of the National Police of Ukraine, the Attorney General of Ukraine, for the establishment of the legality of the use of 869 hectares of agricultural land for the purpose of national ownership processed by economic operators without legal instruments in the Podil district of Odessa. Alexia Goncharenka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the deception of the Prime Minister of Ukraine, as well as the National Deputy of Ukraine, the officials of the Ministry of Justice of Ukraine in providing them with information on the causes of the resonant conflict that took place around the Lermontovski sanatorium in Odessa. Igor Popov to the director of the National Anti-Corruption Bureau of Ukraine, the Attorney General of Ukraine, for the improvement of the Ukrainian Criminal Code in part of the responsibility for illicit enrichment. Vasilyanick to the first deputy head of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Social Policy, Employment and Retirement, Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Social Policy of Ukraine, Head of Government of the Pension Fund of Ukraine on ensuring a fair mechanism for the recalculation of pensions to civil servants of the province. Vasilyanicki to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Head of the State Treasury Service of Ukraine, Head of the Government of the Pension Fund of Ukraine, Minister of Finance of Ukraine, Minister of Social Policy of Ukraine for the provision of a fair mechanism for the collection and recalculation of pensions for persons with disabilities whose illness is related to the consequences of the Chernobyl disaster. Dmitra Dobrodomova, head of the Ukrainian State Service for Geodesy, Cartography and cadastre, head of the National Police Directorate of Ukraine in the Žitomir Region, Prosecutor of the Žitomir Region, head of the Zitomir District Administration for the illegal transfer to property of land within the area of the sanitary forest in the area of the Zitomir paper factory in the territory of the Stanishiv village council of the Žitomir district. Dmitra Welcome home to the head.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-18-m0.u89	Dear colleagues, I would like to inform you that in three minutes there will be an act of respect for the moment of silence, the All-Ukrainian Action, the victims of the genocide of the Crimean Tatar people. And so I ask the secretariat of the Supreme Council to inform those deputies who are in the towers to enter the hall so that in three minutes we and all the Ukrainians will be able to participate in the celebration of the victims of the Crimean Tatar people. Please invite the deputies to the hall. Mrs. Oksana, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-18-m0.u90	Dmitri Dobrodomov to the head of the Lviv district administration, the head of the Lviv district council on the issue of unlocking the roadblock to the Drogobic dump site in the village of Bronice Drodobic district in order to avoid a major environmental disaster. Yurya Bublika, ConstantineIschejkina to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the accident of road traffic in the Poltava region, the inaction of local authorities in the repair of highways, the purposeless use of funds for maintenance of local roads. Borislav Bereza to the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine on the illegal actions of employees of the Ukrainian National Police. Borislav Bereza to the Kiev City Head on the illegal change in the target destination of a land plot on Radiostow Street, 40. Sergia Kiwalova to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the need to recover housing and utility benefits for wartime participants. OlegaOsukhovsky to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Education and Science of Ukraine, Head of the National Agency for the Prevention of Corruption, Director of the National Anti-Corruption Bureau of Ukraine, Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, Prosecutor General of Ukraine for the illegal involvement of law enforcement officials in business activities. OlegaOsukhovsky to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Head of the Ukrainian Presidential Administration, Minister of Defence of Ukraine, First Deputy Head of the Ukrainian State Service for War veterans and participants in the anti-terrorist operation, National Security and Defence Council of Ukraine, Head of the Kyiv City State Administration to address the issue of housing for a disabled person of war. Victoria Ptašnik to the director of the Public Shareholder Society KIEVPROEKT about the illegal installation of slugbaum and blocking devices that. which impede access to the instigation area at the street of Bogdan Hmelnicky 16-22 in Kiev. SergijaVlasenka to the head of PAT's Automobile Company Bogdan Motors reiterated the MP's request for the cooperation of the Public Shareholder Society "AK Bogdan Motors" with the aggressor country of the Russian Federation.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-18-m0.u91	Dear colleagues, I'm asking everyone to come into the hall. We'll finish after the break. So, if you'll all come into the hall. We can do it all the time, and we can do it faster. So, if you'll all come into the hall. Colleagues, I would like to remind you that today, on May 18, they honor the Day of Remembrance of the Victims of the Genocide of the Crimean Tatar Nation and the Day of the Fight for the Rights of the Crimean Tatar People. At 12 o’clock in the country, there is a moment of silence to commemorate the victims of this terrible crime. And I ask all the national deputies to honor the memory of the victims of the genocide of the Crimean Tatar people in 1944 by a moment of silence. [[A Minute of Silence]] Thank you. So, colleagues, the idea came up, I want to ask you not to take a break, but end up half an hour faster. If there's no objection in the room, we can follow that formula. So Mrs. Oksana will finish the questions, and then she'll announce the discussion, and we'll cancel the break from 12:00 to 12:30, but we'll finish the session by half an hour faster. It's accepted by everyone, there's no one to deny it. Then let's do this formula without calling it a break. Then, Mrs. Oksana, there were five or seven questions left, maybe ten.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-18-m0.u92	And then there are the speeches of those who are not satisfied with the questions, and then there's going to be "Crazy."
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-18-m0.u93	And then we move on to the "Variance." Is it accepted? Okay. Thank you for understanding. Mrs. Oksana, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-18-m0.u94	We continue to consider the questions. This is a request from Roman Semenha to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the size of the monetary compensation for the cost of food for citizens affected by the Chernobyl disaster. Roman Semenha to the head of the Peasant Village Council on providing information on the amount of material aid at the expense of the local budget of the Peasant Village Council. GregoryTimisa to the executive duty of the Head of the National Fiscal Service of Ukraine to provide information on the land tax rates introduced as of January 1, 2018 by local councils in the territory of the united territorial communities of Herceivsky, Głobecký, Novoselické Districts and in the territory of the Grand Duchyerres united district of the Strožinetsky District. JuriyaTimoshenka to the head of the National Architecture and Construction Inspectorate of Ukraine for the removal of city documentation violations and the preservation of the historic layout of the city of Colomia. JuriyaTimoshenka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the negative situation that has arisen with the financing of the educational institutions of the I-II levels of accreditation. John Melniczuk to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Finance of Ukraine, is temporarily acting as Minister of Health of Ukraine to ensure funding for the needs of the municipal institution, the "American District Medical Centre of Primary Health Care". SergiaLyvočina to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the rise in scientific crises. Alexander Dombrovski, who was temporarily acting as Ukrainian Minister of Health, was responsible for providing treatment for a seriously ill child named Potapchuk Mikoli. Alexander Marchenka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Regional Development, Construction and Housing of Ukraine, Head of the Kyiv District State Administration for the Dedication of Land Areas for the Construction of Roads R-04, R-17 and R-32. Jaroslava Markevich to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the repair of the road of general use of the national value of R-78. Jaroslava Markevich to Izumi’s city head on the heating system Taras Shepherd to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on increasing funding from Ukraine's State Budget 2301360 "Talking Ukrainian Citizens abroad". Taras Shepherd to Minister of Interior of Ukraine, Attorney General of Ukraine, on the investigation of the attack on Oleg Jarimovitch. The head of the head of the Dnipropetroval district administration, the head of the Danish district military and civil administration, the head of the Provincial District Administration, the head of the Zacarpathian district administration, the head of the Zaporozhyk district government administration, the head of the head of the Ivano-Frankov district government administration, the head of the Lviv district government administration, the head of the Lviv district administration, the head of the Lviv district civil administration, the head of the Lviv district administrative administration, the head of the Mikolaev district government administration, the head of the Udo-state district administration, the head of the Lugansk district government administration, the head of the Polt. Alexander Opanasenka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine about the placement of advertising by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. Jacob Bezbach to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, the Council of Business and Buildings, the State Fiscal Service of Ukraine, the Office of the Attorney General of Ukraine on unlawfully blocking the activities of the enterprise. Vladimir Litvina to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, head of the Ukrainian Pension Fund for the recalculation of pension insurance. IriniConsensual to the Head of the Court of Auditors on the scope of funding the plan of action for the implementation of the Strategy for Protection and Integration into the Ukrainian Society of the Roma National Minority from the State Budget of Ukraine in 2017 and 2018. IrinasConsensual to the Minister of Education and Science of Ukraine for the protection of the right of persons living in a temporarily occupied territory to acquire or continue to obtain education in one of the institutions of higher education and territory of Ukraine. Yurya Derevyanka to the Ministry of Health of Ukraine on the need to provide the central district hospital of Nadrujnyan district of Ivano-Frankov district with a new X - ray diagnostic complex at the expense of the state budget of Ukraine. Jurya Derevjanka to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine on the need for adequate funding of the higher education institutions of the I-II accreditation levels of the Ivano-Frankow region in order to ensure their functioning. Oksana Bilozer to Minister of Interior of Ukraine, Minister of Foreign Affairs of Ukraine, on measures to facilitate the fate of Ukrainian sailors sentenced in the Greek Republic to be deprived of their will for the transport of illegal migrants. AloniBabak to Kharkiv City Head on the problems of cheating from the balance sheet of apartment buildings, according to the Harkov OSB Initiative. Sergia Alekseyeva to the city’s Kiev head on urgent water treatment measures in Kiev Sergia Alekseyeva to the city’s Kiev head for the reconstruction of the transportation solution in the Kyiv Peninsula on the Julian Path. Igora Lucenka to the Attorney General of Ukraine on unwarranted involvement in entrepreneurial activities. Igora Lucenka to the Head of the National Bank of Ukraine for the provision of comprehensive information on the activities of the Government of the National Bank of Ukraine as a body directly administered by the National Bank of Ukraine. Sergey Rudika to the city’s Smilyan head of the Cherkas region on the threat of street repairs and roads in the city of Smil of Cherkas region. Sergei Rudika to the Minister of Foreign Affairs of Ukraine on the provision of information on the use of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Ukraine to avoid undermining Ukraine's energy and environmental security as a result of the construction by the aggressor country of the North Stream-2 pipeline and the official position on biased statements about Ukraine by Ambassador of the European Union in Ukraine Hug Mingarelli. Alexander Dombrovski to the head of the National Police of Ukraine, the Attorney General of Ukraine on the legality and soundness of the search at the residence of the Assistant Counsellor of the National Deputy of Ukraine, the establishment of officials responsible for the improper verification of operational information on his involvement in the crime. Yurya Solovya to the Minister of Finance of Ukraine for the provision of additional funds to pay the employees of the Kosovo and the Supreme Districts of Ivano-Frankiv region. Groups of National Deputies (Gorva, Lunchenka, Petovka) to the Minister of Infrastructure of Ukraine regarding the provision of a transparent distribution, processing and use of permits for international road transport. RobertaGorvath and Andrija Vadatursky to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the development of the production of terrarium wines, wine-growing and gardening industries in Ukraine. Jurya Bereza to the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, the Attorney General of Ukraine, on the legality of the use of the property right of the municipal community of the town of Verkhovce, a private person, and the equipment of the specified object for car wash. Jurya Bereza to the Minister of Interior of Ukraine, Deputy Attorney General of Ukraine, Head of the Special Anti-Corruption Prosecutor's Office for the Possible Disbursement of Budget Funds under a contract for the operation of the project "Reconstruction of the external sewerage of residences on Sverdlov Street, 3a and 3b of the town of Verkhovtsevce" from 24 May 13th year, which was established between the Supreme City Council and the Society with limited responsibility "Technocente". Yes, we finished the questions. We have to have at least an hour to perform at the Miscellaneous. So we have a bunch of questions here. Yeah, a bunch of disgruntled, yeah, with answers to questions. It's going to be somewhere for those who plan to take part in the recording, and it's going to be around 12:30. So, in order for all the deputies who want to participate in the recording of the "Variable" discussion, please prepare for 12:30. And now I invite you to answer the question of the MP, the National MP of the Republic of Cyprus. None. People's deputy to Semenha. Showtime. Please, three minutes. I won't add any time, I'm warning you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-18-m0.u95	Semenha Roman, Self-Help Unit. Dear colleagues, the presiding lady, my speech is related to the disgruntled response of the authorities to the terrible tragedies that have taken place in our country, particularly in the Balakley region of Kharkiv, and in other cities and villages associated with the explosions at military warehouses. I will remind you that more than a year ago, last April, there was a terrible tragedy at military warehouses in Balaklay. More than 200 million dollars have been lost, people have been killed. Over 150 million dollars have just been allocated by the Cabinet of Ministers. Six months later, this terrible tragedy was repeated in Kalinovka, Winnickin. The estimated cost of destroyed ordnance is 800 million dollars. Since 2003, we should mention that this is actually the eighth case. Remember Bahmut, Novogoddanevka, Lozov, Svatov, Balaklia, Kalinivka. I don't think it's a rhetorical question, it's what's done. Moreover, these terrible things happen during the war. A month ago, as you know, there was a repeat of history in the Balkans, a fire at military warehouses again. We have repeatedly addressed the minister of defense, who has drawn conclusions, colleagues. And the conclusions are as follows: none drawn to responsibility, no completed, completed investigation by the Military Prosecutor’s Office. What's more, the person who was in charge of the moment, at the moment of the tragedy in the Balkans, Vladimir Sklar, was not just being excluded from the investigation, and not being held accountable, this person was promoted and directed to a promotion for work in Kiev. I am convinced that such consequences are not acceptable. And it is because of irresponsibility, and so on, that those who have a direct involvement in these terrible tragedies must be held accountable. I have a separate question for the head of the Ukrainian Security Service. Remember, the Security Service has repeatedly said that there are signs of possible diversification work that resulted in these tragedies. I once again asked the head of the Ukrainian Security Service to explain publicly to the Ukrainian Parliament what had been done with the investigation of explosions at military warehouses. No real answer, I would like to point out, is the responsibility of any person in this country. And there is another aspect, too, of respectable colleagues. We're with you in the State Budget for the current year scheduled for storage and disposal, several hundred million dollars of taxpayers' taxes from the Ukrainian State Budget to keep this process organized. We demand, by the United Self-Help faction, that the Minister of Defense publicly, on Friday, during the "hour of questions to the Government", communicate to the taxpayers how and in what way these funds were or will be used and, most importantly, whether peace and peace will return to those cities and villages where there are military warehouses today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-18-m0.u96	Thank you. ShurmaIgor Mikhailovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-18-m0.u97	Dear citizens of Ukraine! I'm dedicating this speech today to this level of response to the MP's request. The MP's request on my part was addressed to the head of the National Police of Ukraine, the Head of the Security Service of Ukraine, and the Attorney General of Ukraine, Lucenka. What did he mean? In our time, we are told a lot about Ukraine's successful drug purchase through international organizations, we have a great economy, and we have the opportunity to treat our citizens with quality, effective drugs. For example, I would like to say that in three years, more than 10 billion have been counted by international organizations, and we've had our medicine back for less than 7 billion. Where the rest of the money, where the drugs, no one can answer today, and nothing has been bought in 2018. But more than that, according to the Act of Audit of the Management Service, we are told that health - care institutions are destroying medicines that are not subject to further use and that drugs are being damaged after a short period of time, or 17 million dollars are termed. In the manual provided by the Derjaudit Service, I don't even want to read it, because there are a lot of shortcomings on the side of the Ministry's work. I just want to focus on the fact that the audit materials have been transferred to the National Police Chief Investigation Authority and informed the General Directorate of Counter-Investigative Protection of the State's Interests in the Field of Economic Security and the Ukrainian Security Service, and the Attorney General's Office, I stress. I have the answers, the Attorney General writes that within the framework of criminal conduct, a request has been sent to the State Audit Service to require a copy of the relevant audit act and the materials to be tested by means of a legal decision. I have a question. Well, how does the D.A. say she transferred it to the D.A.'s office and the D.A.'s sending a request? People are good, since the 8th of February, the long-lasting volcano in the investigation. What do we have today? And we have what we've always had. Ten years ago, UNICEF placed an inadequate Indian vaccine against bark, and a boy died 17 years ago. Ten years later, a child dies in Ternopol after vaccination. This must stop the Security Service. If that is not the case, we will witness further deaths. I ask that my statement be considered a reference to the Attorney General, the Security Service and the Ukrainian Police for.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-18-m0.u98	Thank you. No, it's not. Five seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-18-m0.u99	to complete the investigation into the supply of inadequacies to Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-18-m0.u100	Thank you. Vlasenko Sergey Volodymyrovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-18-m0.u101	Thank you, Andry Volodymyrovich. Distinguished colleagues, distinguished lord presiding, distinguished people of Ukraine! I actually asked two questions in February and March of this year. These were requests to the Ukrainian Presidential Authority and the International Investment Bank. The International Investment Bank is a financial institution whose end-beneficiary is businessman Peter Poroshenko. What was I wondering? The president reports quarterly in his electronic declarations that he receives millions of dollars of money as a percentage of the cash deposits in his own bank. I asked a simple question about the interest rate that these interest rates account for. Is this a market rate, or is this a non-market rate? Because if it's a non-marketable bet, then I'm sorry, it's a corrupt act. It's an advantage that businessman Prashenko can get from putting his own funds on a deposit in his own bank. Instead, I got a note saying it was supposed to be conference information that shouldn't be released. Although this information is being made public, it is published in electronic declarations submitted by President Poroshenko as opposed to businessman Dustenka. Unfortunately, again, Peter Prashenko, why did this question arise? Unfortunately, Peter Poroshenko is manipulating official public information about his financial situation. In particular, we hear of him making many millions of charitable contributions to the Ukrainian army. But I'm opening a declaration and I can see that there's no record of these funds in the Dusty Declaration. And then it turns out that these donations were allegedly made by the Rosheng Corporation. But then I have a simple question, if the Roshenko Corporation was paying for why Dustenko presented it, he transferred the corporation to a blind trust. And he didn't make the decision to allocate the funds, but the Rothschild Foundation made the decision to allocate the funds, so what does Peter Alexiyovich do there? Then I was told that this was done by the Petra Dustenka Foundation. But again, from where the money in the trust fund of Petra Poroshenko, the president of which is Marina Poroshenko, not Peter Poroshenko. Again, I'm told, from Roschen Corporation and other things. That's why I want to know about Peter Poshenko's official financial assets, because we're both parliamentarians and we know everything about the official financial assets. So I demand an answer from both the President's Administration and the International Investment Bank as to what percentage of the Dusty's deposits are in his own bank, and whether it's illegal wealth or corrupt equipment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-18-m0.u102	Thank you. Lucenko Igor. None. Lechenko Sergey Anatolovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-18-m0.u103	The right question was raised by a colleague named Vlasenko about the way in which President Dustenk's corporation and his personal business are managed. But it's much more interesting how shadow incomes are formed and how Ukrainian corruption actually works. And you know, Ukrainian corruption destroys both Ukrainian statehood and the Ukrainian army, and eventually goes into the pockets of all Ukrainian citizens. Corruption has many manifestations, but today I am not satisfied with the answer to questions. I take advantage of this opportunity to ask publicly why the rules regarding illegal construction in Kiev are ignored. Like an MP, I often communicate with Ukrainian citizens, with activists, and especially with those who live on the Podola. This is the pearl of the Ukrainian capital, and I'm from below, and I don't care about what's going on there, and especially the illegal constructions that are now taking place, especially at the Wozniesen Tower, 28/30. Thanks to my intervention, we've got a warrant from the State Architectural Inspectorate on the illegality of construction that's being done now, but even though there's a ban on this building, even though the building permit is being revoked, the work is still going on and I'm being approached by Ukrainian citizens below that point. And together we have developed an appeal to Kiev's city head, to Mr. Klitschek, to take action on the work that is going on despite the prescriptions, despite the bans. So it's not like we did the Blue Market when, even though it didn't fit in any permits, even though the land was completely divided, despite all the illegal actions then closed our eyes, signed, waved, waved documents, shook the hands of the investor, and now the former prosecutor's mafia, who came to power in the days of Prashenka, its nearest refinement, and that prosecutor's mafia, who now leads the solidarity with BPP in the Kiev area, are building a new Shanhai, a new microregion right in the historical center despite all the bans on height, despite the fact that there is no transport infrastructure just to wash away their dirty money that they received from Janukovich's buddies, when they closed criminal cases against him, and then took out the arrests that they put into their own ways and then stuffed their own way. In order for this to not happen, and this week we have taken action under the Supreme Council, requiring the adoption of the Electoral Code, which you, Mr. Head, Mr. Andry Parubius, have submitted, which should be voted in this sessionary room, so that Ukrainian citizens can choose a new Parliament by new rules so that there is no "Greeks" and no round order of corruption. But unfortunately, you know, six months ago, we went through the first reading -- there's still no comparable table to the second reading. And I'm asking you the same thing so that we don't keep quiet so we can look at the Electoral Code. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-18-m0.u104	Thank you. Let me explain: The question is not even a silent, very active job in the working group, by the way, headed by Chernenko, one of the best specialists. And we met with public activists yesterday, and we talked about it in detail. And when Chernenko explained how fast work is going, when during one session only 200-300 rights can be considered. There's a large-scale system of work under the Electoral Code, and believe me, once this work is done, here in this room together we're going to make decisions about changing not only the elections to the Supreme Council, but also to the local councils. And you know, I'm the first author of this election code. And I've been keeping a very close eye on the progress, preparing it for consideration in the hall. So the closing statement from. in response to requests from the National MP. Mrs. Hanna, just one message. After the speech, HanniGopko will be recorded by the national deputies. Therefore, those national deputies who would like to participate will be prepared to make sure that this is not a surprise. This will be exactly the hour for presentations, as provided by the Rules. Please, Anna Mikolayevna.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-18-m0.u105	Good afternoon, dear colleagues, Mr. Speaker! In fact, I want to say that today we remember those terrible events of deportation in 1944 by Soviet authorities. And today we are doing everything we can to bring back Crimea to Ukraine and those criminals who have occupied and continue to oppress the Crimean Tatar people, the Ukrainians now, have also been held accountable. Ukraine is tried in international courts and is making an effort through international pressure, including sanctions, to bring Crimea back to Ukraine and restore territorial integrity and sovereignty. But today I'm going to make a call to the Ukrainian government to treat the outstanding Jubilees, and above all, to the events of the 100th anniversary of the Ukrainian Revolution. In particular, an orgcommittee led by Prime Minister Graysman and the head of the President Rainin administration to make their efforts more numerous, a smoldering of all the celebrations of the 100th anniversary of the Ukrainian Revolution is now taking place at the expense of a small group of the Ukrainian Institute of National Memory with a very meager budget. As early as February, a request was made to the co-chair of Prime Minister Groysman's jubilee committee to give due consideration to the marking of the events of the Ukrainian Revolution, particularly the 100th anniversary of the liberation of Crimea from the Bolshevik forces by the UND. I believe that such victories under, inter alia, Peter Bolbocan's leadership, when we released Crimea 100 years ago, should be marked at the national level. What did we see instead? This MP’s address was sent to various ministries and an answer from the Ministry, which I sent back in February, was sent after the celebration of the Minister of Culture, which states that the Ministry is ready to assist in marking the memorable dates that have already taken place. So, colleagues, I want to see, not the apathy and the write-offs, but the real steps that Ukraine can take. On January 22, the 100th anniversary of the declaration of independence, we were unfortunately unable to celebrate at a worthy level, as Lithuania and Poland or Finland do. The 100th anniversary of the liberation of Crimea by Ukrainian troops in Chongari, New Alexiyev and Herson was marked by the efforts of the Ukrainian National Institute of National Memory, the President's representation in Crimea, the Heroic Initiative and other civil activists. Six days later, on May 24, Sofia Kyivsky celebrated the 1,000 years of the first service in this sanctuary. This is noted in Parliament’s ruling. Sofia Kyivsky’s team has long been waiting for a government order for a Jubilee measure, but nothing yet. Instead, we see a block around Sophia Kyivsky and an attempt to destroy this remarkable monument. That's why it's a big call. To those Jubilees that emphasize our identity, our culture, our history, there must be a more serious approach. And accordingly, since she was in Hersonian, I also want to say that it's extremely important to increase the representation of the Nazgwardia unit on the Arab Arrow, on Changari. And also regarding the request to the Ministry of Infrastructure for the modernization of the ports of Herson and Skadowska. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-18-m0.u106	Thank you very much. So, colleagues, we are now moving on to the speeches by the national MPs. And I'm asking all the national MPs who want to participate in the discussion and give their position to the Ukrainian people to prepare for the recording. Please hold the recording. Not a non-personal vote. Don't knock! In fact, Bolbocan’s operation after the liberation of Crimea was a unique, unique operation during which the general was able to divert the main forces of the enemy, to preserve the secret of his armies and to gain a brilliant victory by liberating Crimea. And we need this military experience to arm the Ukrainian army. Hence, from Radical Lensky Alexiyyyovich gives the floor to Andrew Lozov. Please, Mr. Andrew.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-18-m0.u107	Thank you. Andry Lózova, Radical Party of Lazka. In God's Word in the Bible, the prophet Ecclesiast writes, "And I saw a place for judgment under the sun, and there was one lawlessness." Unfortunately, in our country, too, we see it all the time when lawlessness is taking place in the courts, and where Ukrainian citizens are unable to defend their rights in the courts. For example, in my native Level the day before the OTG election of the highest-ranking candidate of the Radical Party, Mikola Schustov, think, one day before the election of Judge Korrobov, insolently contrary to the law, without calling for an answer to what the electoral commission was, without calling a third party to whom our candidate was, boldly withdraw from the election and not submit a letter to the Court of Appeal, Zitomir. Our iron team has protected its candidate, as it always protects its own, as it always protects the Ukrainians, and has rejected this victory. But the corrupt judge of the ship will be responsible for his judicial mess. And I've already made the appropriate reference to the High Qualifications Commission of Judges. So is Judge Ravenna District Administration Natala Druzenko, who is currently on the loose for money trying to reinstate former deputy governor Yuri Privarsky, just insolently and cynically, the judges wipe their feet against the law. They don't care about people, they don't care about parliament, they don't care about what the law is supposed to be sacred, it doesn't matter, it doesn't matter. And the Radical Party has always stood in position since its founding: the judicial corps has been completely compromised in Ukraine. We don't need the so-called Anti-Corruption Court, which we're being hanged by embassies, but we need every court to be anti-corruption. We need the Ukrainian to defend himself in court. We need the courts to work honestly, not as politically motivated or bribed today. In Ukraine there is probably no one who believes in the honesty of the courts. Yes, there are honest judges, but there are so few that they can be written in the Red Book. And our position is to launch a full judicial corps and get new ones, they'll learn more. Not like today, thousands of law school graduates go out every year and can't find a job. I saw a man in the fair with a legal degree in tea selling because he can't find a job, and old corrupt judges sit back and abuse people. And given how much trouble the Ukrainians have suffered over the years of the independence of the judge, it is likely that out of a dozen of the judges themselves who have been corrupt, the Odystics themselves should be hanged in order for others to work hard for the people, not for their own pockets. Thank you. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-18-m0.u108	Thank you. I'm inviting you. People's deputy. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-18-m0.u109	DmitriLenco, the Radical Party. Dear Ukrainians, dear colleagues, there is an economic crisis in Ukraine, and today we have two choices to choose from. The first is the external administration, it's the government's leadership under the IMF's recommendations. Instead, they give us loans and they offer economic policy, and reforms, they offer what they see, how they can benefit from it. That's one way. Another way is to rely on our own economy, our own production, give up cooperation with the IMF, give up external management, believe in Ukrainians, and make Ukraine strong. Our Radical Party team is suggesting another way, and for that we have come up with a plan to save Ukraine is anti-crisis in all sectors of the economy and in all areas of our social life. Today I would like to focus on housing for Ukrainians because Ukrainians are going abroad because they don't have jobs and wages today, and young people because they can't buy housing or rent an apartment today. In the next two years, three million Ukrainians plan to leave abroad. We have proposed a specific project of 8041-3, a bill by Oleg Laska and other members of the Radical Party. In order to invest, and in economic times, it is necessary to invest public funds in infrastructure objects, as we finance roads today, in housing. This will give impetus to our economy, to our area of construction. And so we're going to provide housing for the movers. This bill applies to displaced persons and is supported by all. Because 2 million people today have no place to live. But we also joined our initiative in supporting the community organizations of veterans today, especially the displaced veterans who fought and fought for Ukraine. In no case can they return to occupied areas because they are in prison, and they have nowhere to live. Resume the youth lending program. And that's how we're going to encourage us not to create any more organs. When we're told about reforms. Reforms are the economic recovery, the restoration of production, the creation of new jobs, not the creation of additional bodies that control each other, but actually engage in corruption. And a change of credit policy. Yesterday we passed an important bill. But there's only one bill we can't change the situation in the country. We saw the head of the National Bank yesterday, he didn't give a clear answer to the Ukrainians, and are we or will the Ukrainians have credit access tomorrow? Will business have access to credit? Will youths have access to credit? To do that, you have to lower the bill. It's not about the conditions that the IMF puts us in, it's about believing in our own Ukrainians, giving them credit, giving them money to work, making money, and we had the opportunity to live and stay here. Such a radical party program will stop the demographic crisis, give new jobs and boost the economy to finally come off the IMF needle. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-18-m0.u110	Thank you. I'd like to invite you to the floor of the People's Deputy Bondar.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-18-m0.u111	Good afternoon! Bondar Mikhailo, 119th constituency, head of the coal industry subcommittee. A week ago, 10 numbers were approved by the Cabinet of Ministers for the list of objects proposed for privatization. And literally on Thursday, yesterday, there was a meeting of the Special Commission on Privatization at the Supreme Council. And it was just a matter of privatizing coal companies. Both the head of the Holding Foundation and representatives of the Ministry of Energy were invited, including the heads of professional unions, mining teams. First of all, they've made a negative statement on this issue, and they're the representatives of the unions, because there's no strategy yet, and there's no clear idea how they're going to privatize these businesses. We don't have the energy balance in the state as much as we need this coal, or we need all of these state mines right now, I'm stressing, storing and modernizing, whether some of those mines have actually made their stocks and there's nothing to put in them, and we need to close them, restructure them, and they're going to go away. And in other mines that have, for example, coal reserves, you have to invest, upgrade them, develop new lavas, give jobs to miners and thus be energy-dependent, provide our nation with its own coals, not buy them abroad for millions of dollars. So it was first heard, once again, by trade unions that were willing to support further privatization. And if there's a clear plan for those investors who are willing to invest money in our coal sector, there's clear social guarantees that the workers who are currently working in those mines after privatization and will not be released, and the enterprises will not be cut down, for example, and closed, but will really develop. Suggestions were made, including that if an investor entered and failed to implement his program after privatization, he would take the objects back into state ownership. That is why this issue is still in the debate in Parliament and in the control of the Privatisation Commission. So I want to call again both the trade unions and the ministry and the government to participate actively in this discussion and to find some mechanisms.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-18-m0.u112	Thank you. Welcome to the speech of the People's Deputy Hannu Gopko. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-18-m0.u113	Good afternoon, dear Ukrainians. I would like to inform you that this week, in particular, the European External Investment Plan presented by representatives of the European Union, the European Commission, which is intended to promote investment in Ukraine through the mobilization of private investments based on structural reforms to be undertaken in the country. In particular, this is what our Lithuanian partners initiated a year ago with the idea of a European Investment Plan for Ukraine. But here's the problem for our government, especially the one that's going to offer this model of economics, on the basis of which we see development, which is strategic industries, this is supporting small and medium-sized businesses, this innovation, this is a question of large infrastructure projects, this is energy efficiency, cadifying the economy. That's why it's very important for the government to present an economic development strategy that will provide 5 to 7 percent of GDP growth. And here's what's important is the resources that are, in particular, lithium genealogies. Who will manage them and how, in particular, will benefit the people of Ukraine. Therefore, we look forward very much to the Copenhagen conference in late June, with the support of reforms to the Danish government, where our government officials, representatives of parliament, go. We're going to be able to show a vision of this plan for investing in Ukraine with specific strategic sectors, with an increase in GDP. Also, colleagues, I would like to say that in the Committee on Foreign Affairs, after the President has vetoed the Law on Diplomatic Service with his proposals, the members of the Committee will insist that in the parliamentary-presidential Republic, the PSC, in particular, be entitled to consult with the recommending nature with candidates who claim to occupy the posts of ambassadors. This is an absolutely civilized European practice, which until 2010, Janukovic cancelled. And that's why I'm going to call on my colleague to support, particularly in the hall, a consultation on the profile committee, before the ambassadors are appointed. And what we saw now finally appeared to us as the Ambassador of Ukraine to Kazakhstan. We expect to finally see the ambassadors of Ukraine in Denmark, we will see the Ambassador of Ukraine in Switzerland. And those ambassadors who have already been seated, such as Azerbaijan, Israel, Vietnam, the Vatican, where there are seven or ten years of constant ambassadors, are absolutely unacceptable practices. I urge the President of Ukraine to find time to finally appoint the first foreign minister to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs to take on a huge amount of work during the time of military aggression. Finally, look at those ambassadors who have been sitting for years, who have forgotten what Ukraine looks like, at last, to be rotated. And in particular, the Diplomatic Service Act has an imperative rotation. Therefore, the Law on the Service of Diplomacy is extremely important for the protection of diplomats. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-18-m0.u114	Thank you. I invite you to the floor of the People's Deputy Silantiev.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-18-m0.u115	Dennis Silantiev, faction of the Radical Party of Oleg Lášk. Dear Ukrainians, all of us today have the opportunity to see and feel the results of the work of an active government. All they do is focus on meeting the demands of our international partners and international financial donors. Instead of meeting the demands of the Ukrainians, they forgot all their slogans and their promises. The same is true in the Ministry of Youth Policy, the Ministry of Youth and Sports. Instead of developing programs for wholesome technologies, instead of fighting for every sports course, I no longer speak for sports complexes or youth sports schools. By the way, which has been reduced tens of times over the past two years, and many children have been unable to engage in their favorite sports. The Ministry’s management is now engaged in the acquisition of pockets and wallets by robbing Ukrainian athletes. And this clearly led to the results of the House of Accounts. At the same time, at this time the Radical Party team focused on children’s health and the health of the nation in general. Why? But because we consider the life and health of every Ukrainian to be of great value. That's why we're initiating and holding round tables in the cities of Ukraine, where we're raising questions about the development of sports infrastructure. Do you know what turned out? That in some cities, for the last time, sports complexes were built 40 years later, imagine what state they're in, and even though they're in, there's only one left. You know what the development of sports infrastructure is? First of all, it's the health and life of Ukrainians living in this region, it's new jobs, it's taxes in local budgets, it's primarily the economic, social development of the region and Ukraine as a whole. The Radical Party team, led by Oleg Lášk, requires an active government to allocate funds for the development of sport infrastructure in the second half of this year. And we believe that there is no reason why this program can't be adopted, because it's a matter of the health of our children with you, because it's a matter of the future state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-18-m0.u116	Thank you. Welcome to the speech of the Romaniuk People's Deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-18-m0.u117	Honourable Ukrainians, honourable colleagues, recently passed a bill on the Supreme Anti-Corruption Court, which was submitted by the President of Ukraine. We all understand how important this bill is to our nation. We have heard different thoughts, different arguments for and against the adoption of this law, but today it is no longer important. Since there is certainly a request from society to create this court, there are recommendations from the international community and this is the main one, which means the Anti-Corruption Court in Ukraine is being. All our programs promise to fight corruption. In the Coalition Treaty of Deputies, we have made a commitment to counteract any form of corruption. And if a special court is necessary to overcome this disgraceful phenomenon, let us create it. Let's take another step to combat this evil. Let's form another maximum-powered anti-corruption tool. Colleagues, you know, the project, I think, should unite Parliament, and its position should be the result of the consensus of all political forces. In preparing the bill for second reading, it is necessary to remove the compromise between the proposals made by the national MPs, which are set out in the amendments, and today there are almost two thousand. In addition, the recommendations of the International Monetary Fund, the Venice Commission and, of course, international experts should be taken into account. Therefore, I suggest that we not delay the adoption of this law and begin its consideration at the plenary session as soon as possible. We need to realize that people expect concrete results from us in the fight against corruption. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-18-m0.u118	Thank you. I invite you to the speech of the People's Deputy Moseschuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-18-m0.u119	Igor Musiyczuk, Oleg Lachka Radical Party. The fourth year is the hybrid war, the hybrid aggression of the Russian Federation against Ukraine. To overcome this aggression, to bring peace back to Ukraine and to restore territorial integrity is the main task that our team leader, Oleg Lazko, and our entire team, are facing. How do we do that? One element, the leader of our team, Oleg Lazko, points out, is to demonstrate to the occupied territories the attitude toward the brothers and sisters who live on the Ukrainian side in the front zone. Yesterday I visited the Novoidar district of Lugansk. He visited the village of Sziowakowka, where the efforts of our leader, Oleg Láška, were rebuilt by the FAP, where the villagers received proper primary medical care. He attended a boarding school in Novoydar, where the director of Hanna Aleksiyevna demonstrated not only the ability to take care of children, because this is the most important thing in such institutions, but also to provide appropriate infrastructure, to provide adequate nutrition, to ensure an appropriate attitude towards staff. Our team of the Radical Party, Oleg Laska, is not working. and the word and the deed. And we're demonstrating this in the example of that New Waydar area, helping to rebuild the infrastructure. But just, literally, three minutes ago, I got a phone call from New Year's Eve and found out that in the New Year's region, they took all the money from the road repairs. So there's no need for high-quality roads in the front zone. There are no roads there, I was driving yesterday, and walking there is easier than driving a car. That's why our Iron Party team, Oleg Lalashka, demands that immediately the leadership of the Lugansk Military and Civil Administration of the Luhansk Region return the funds to the New Year's region and resume the roads so that the occupied part of Lugansk sees how Ukraine refers to the territories, refers to Lugansk. In unity, our strength! Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-18-m0.u120	I'd like to invite you to the floor of the People's Deputy Soboljev.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-18-m0.u121	I would like to draw Parliament's attention to the problems of our glorious capital, one of the unique green areas that has been preserved since the time of the Kiev Russia. It's the Pavlovsky Square, the Pavlovsky Park. There's a lot of sneezes that know him. The park is always full of kids, parents, adults who go for walks, runners. And unfortunately, there has been a great threat over the park for many years, and it wants to be built by the family of Sovkovich. In Parliament there are people who remember the role that Sevkovic played in the days of Viktor Yanukovich, then he was one of the organizers, according to the investigation, of attacks on students, of beating up a student Jewish. At the same time, his company planned to start construction in Pavlovsk Square in the interests of his family. A building fence has already been installed, and construction equipment has been prepared. We resisted it physically. The Dignity Revolution won, Sovkovic escaped, but in fact his attempts to build a unique park for Kiev continue. His company has recently received a ruling from the Supreme Court, which the leaders of the country call "new," but it continues to make decisions in the interests of corrupters, and this is one of these disgusting examples. I'm sure we don't have the right to start this building. If necessary, we will resist again physically. Clearly, the best situation is better handled by law. There are a lot of deputies in Kyivrad, not just self-help, who share this position. I turned as a national MP to Kiev's Vitaly Klitschka target. I will note that it is not possible to build in the park if the builder is unable to use the city’s land. Already today, using the land of the Kyiv community, the road is boldly paved, which is a violation and at the same time an opportunity for the Kiev officials to stop the breach. I'm sure that this is where power is to be displayed -- in the power of the law, in the power to protect the interests of the community -- that's what it should be.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-18-m0.u122	Thank you. And I'd like to invite you to the floor of National Deputy Sage.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-18-m0.u123	Good afternoon! SergeySzako, Daughter of the 59th constituency. Good afternoon, all colleagues and people of Ukraine! I want to draw your attention to a very painful issue, the social protection of the Chernobyl population. People who have protected our country and the whole world from the Chernobyl disaster suffer at the expense of their health. In her time, she assured them of their support and assistance. But what do liquidators have today? Most of them suffer from severe diseases that they have experienced during their stay in the zone of infection. Only in the Moroccan region of the Donetsk region, which I represent in Parliament, are there 338 Chernobylites, of whom 307 are at risk, they are in pain, 20 are seriously ill, and 8 are oncologically ill. Treatment and rehabilitation are very expensive. The liquidators spend almost all their money on it. And they're not getting any pensions because the government is stalling on this issue, it's a very urgent issue. In addition, the new National list of essential drugs has decreased considerably, and drugs are lacking such as cardiovascular disease, oncology, diabetes, digestive organs, and thyroid glands. Shortening the National Medical List will lead to a significant deterioration. the health of these liquidators. Another painful problem is to provide sanitation for people who have been exposed to radiation during the Chernobyl tragedy. There are 186 people living in the Marijin region alone who can exercise this right, but in 2016-2017 only 49 and 41 people took advantage of it, and in 2018 this list was halved. They can't use it, it's unacceptable. Also since January 1, 2018, a monetary compensation rule has been in force. A person will choose for himself whether to take a trip or to take compensation. But what is this compensation? 481 bracelet. What can be done for her? I've made appropriate calls to the Cabinet of Ministers to make it happen. It's gone wrong. I hope that these issues will be resolved as soon as possible because they are part of the sphere of social protection of the most vulnerable. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-18-m0.u124	Thank you. I invite you to the speech of the People's Deputy Vuka.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-18-m0.u125	Victor Wolf, the faction of the Radical Party of Oleg Laska. Respectable citizens! In recent months the world’s attention has been restored to the problem of nuclear nonproliferation. This reflects the growing concern of the world community about the possibility of nuclear conflict in the context of Iran and North Korea's nuclear programmes. In 2015, Iran agreed to consolidate its nuclear program in exchange for economic concessions. Following the recent withdrawal of the United States from this agreement, Iran, in its ultimative form, demands a guarantee from Europe, including the threat of ever-increasing uranium on an even larger scale. At the same time, the United States insists on a new effective nuclear treaty with Iran. At the moment, this crisis is stressing the whole world. On the other hand, after successful nuclear tests by North Korea, Washington proposed to withdraw sanctions against it if it closed its nuclear program. Moreover, the U.S. Secretary of State has announced the possible assurances of North Korea that the United States is willing to give in exchange for the refusal of nuclear weapons. And for possible assistance in promoting North Korea’s economic development, which has already been reached by its South Korean neighbours. The Ukrainians are familiar with the pain. Thus, the Radical Party regularly recalls the assurances and promises given to Ukraine in its time. Ukraine’s nuclear disarmament, which has legitimate nuclear capabilities in the world’s third, has provided a powerful start-up capital for the development of the new Ukrainian State, both safe and economic. However, an international treaty on our nuclear disarmament, known as the Budapest Memorandum, has so far demonstrated its inefficiency to ensure our national security and economic development. So we pay attention to our Western partners, who should be consistent and honest. Convinced that without the practical implementation of the assurances and promises of Ukraine, neither the old nor any new nuclear covenant with Iran nor the potential agreement with North Korea will be successful and effective. I would like to remind you that Oleg Lasko has asked President Prashenko to initiate the International Conference on Nuclear Disarmament in Kiev. In particular, invite the former US President Clinton and British Prime Minister Major to participate in the Budapest Memorandum. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs supported our idea, but there is still no response from President Prashenko to Oleg Lášk's proposal. The Radical Party is convinced: to ensure peace for present and future generations, to restore international law, and to prevent the proliferation of nuclear weapons.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-18-m0.u126	Please, 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-18-m0.u127	To ensure peace for present and future generations, to restore international law and to prevent the spread of nuclear weapons — the responsibility of all world leaders. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-18-m0.u128	Now I'm gradually getting into a scheming replacement. Illenko gives the word to Osukhovsky. Come on, three minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-18-m0.u129	Respectable Society! Dear Ukrainians! This week, on our anti-corruption committee, we discussed an anti-corruption strategy for 2018-2020 by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. We studied that strategy and appropriately sent this strategy to the Cabinet of Ministers, because there are no key points in the strategy, especially the fight against oligarchs. That's why we think that today the oligarchs are giving birth to top corruption in our country. As early as 2014, we, the National Deputies of the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union, passed a number of anti-Oligarchic Bills that deal with the elimination of private oligarchic monopolies, which refers to a progressive scale of taxation: big business -- big taxes, small business -- small taxes. This includes the return of stolen money from offshore. Prohibition of the sale of agricultural land Prohibition of the sale of state-owned strategic enterprises during the war. We also have political requirements, this removal of parliamentary immunity, this is about the President's impeachment Act, this is the new electoral legislation behind the open lists and the proportional system. Our anti-oligarchy bills have now been backed by the signatures of 123 national deputies, as well as 85 local councils — district councils, district councils, and city councils. They asked the President of Ukraine, the Prime Minister of Ukraine, and the Ukrainian Parliament to keep our anti-oligartic bills in order for the next week. And there we will see who serves for Ukraine and the Ukrainian people, and who serve for the oligarchs and the oligarchs. Thank you. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-18-m0.u130	Heroic glory! Semenchenko Semin Igorović is invited to attend. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-18-m0.u131	During this week, volunteers in Dnipropetrovska were found buried personal belongings of fighters who were killed in August 2014 under Ilowaysk. There were picks, uniforms, bras, helmets, baby letters in the pockets, flesh crosses, breastplates. Many things have been found that, according to all the laws of God and man, are to be identified and passed on to families who have died as memories, mothers, children, wives of fighters, in 2014. And everything that can't be identified is buried according to all the rules. In 2014, the local police chief brought 38 bags of what was in the fights, in the pockets of the fighters, into the fighters, just like everything was, in the blood, with the remains of the bodies in the helmets, in the clothes. He drove into the area of the local fishbowl and left it as if it were drying, told no one and disappeared for four years. According to the volunteers, all these things were buried in the area of the cattle market. Below are sacks of dead chickens. And there it was for four years, they were stretched out, dogs ripped apart, until the local farmers called the familiar volunteers. Volunteers came in, quickly looked for the smell, called the police, and there was a statement that it was from a car with the remains of the 98 Ilovian boys who had come to Dnipro in 2014. So far, it's hard to tell what units all these things were related to. Volunteers say they've found the Kravbas Battalion award, the Right Sector badge. I want to talk to those citizens who understand what's going on. Those who destroyed the country and the army by the age of 14 fled at 14. And the volunteer boys stopped, stopped Putin and gave him the opportunity to restore the army. And this is how we honor the memory of heroes! Crosses, rewards, children's letters, personal things -- all the memory in the cattle market. And it's not German, it's Russian fascists, it's Ukrainians. Because that colonel of the police who did all this also seemed like a Ukrainian and had everything under surveillance. What can we expect from strangers if they do this to their own? If, in spite of the four - year promises made by the three general prosecutors, there is still no trial against either Ilowisk or Debaltsev if, in Ukraine’s fourth year of war, all prisons are killed by volunteers and military officials. I spoke to volunteers yesterday, and they're sure it's not the only funeral. I'd like to address the Dniproperteers right now. If it's for you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-18-m0.u132	Ten seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-18-m0.u133	If you've had some kind of drive-by in 2014 bring something like this to dry up and then disappear, please report it. It's a memory.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-18-m0.u134	Thank you. Makharyan gives the floor to Michael Golovk. Please, Mr. Mikhailo.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-18-m0.u135	Mikhailo Golovko, The All-Ukrainian Freedom Union, Ternopolishte. Ladies and gentlemen, distinguished Ukrainians! It's sad for me, of course, from the politics that our government has conducted today, understanding that their motto today is to sell everything for nothing, everything that remains in the Ukrainian people: our land, strategic enterprises and so on. Of course, with this calculation, with such an approach to Ukraine’s future, it cannot and cannot expect development. So, of course, we condemn such actions. And I have repeatedly addressed the Prime Minister, the head of the holding fund, which is unacceptable during the war to sell out strategic enterprises. Unfortunately, he never got the answer. What I'm saying is that the government's statement that they're now going to sell strategic enterprises like Turboat, which actually generates revenue from the state budget; the Odessa import plant, which, by the way, estimated ten times less than, for example, in 2008, it was valued at 14 billion, today the holding fund valued it at 1.4 billion. But this is on course: at the time it was 8, and today it's 26. This is a clear way of robbing the Ukrainian State, the Ukrainian people. The same is true of Centrenerego, Odesenergo, Donbasoblenergo and Sumioblenergo. So those enterprises that want to privatize, today their estimate for the year has actually changed in order by 4, by 6, or even 9 times. If Donbasenergo was 690 million, it was valued, now it's worth 150. This is not called privatization, my friends. This is called the robbery of the Ukrainian people, the robbery of the Ukrainian State. Where does the government look? What action does Trubarov take today? He is a manifest criminal who must be immediately removed from office and brought to criminal responsibility. Because today what they are doing with the state is the apparent destruction of our Ukraine. So of course Freedom doesn't support that kind of action. Idiot, I'm sorry, he can sell. And now it takes intelligence and intelligence to run the Ukrainian economy, create jobs, give available loans, form a middle class. This is a major strategic task. And so Freedom has registered for more than a year in the session room a number of bills, an anti-oligarchy package of laws, which requires approval in the session room now in order to stop offshore exports of capitals from the Ukrainian state to bring them back here, back to the Ukrainian economy, to give them to create jobs and small and medium-sized businesses. To create such conditions that we really have jobs to make sure that Ukraine is not beggars with outstretched hands asking for loans that we require Europe to sell out the entire Ukrainian state. Of course, that's why we call for finally putting our package of laws into the session hall and adopting this anti-oligarchy package of laws, and finally getting rid of this corruption, and allowing for the development of the Ukrainian economy, and the creation of the middle class. This is a strategic task of the Ukrainian State. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-18-m0.u136	Thank you. Alexei Kirichenko gives the floor to Victor Halasyuk. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-18-m0.u137	Victor Galasuk, Oleg Lachka Radical Party. Dear Ukrainians, yesterday Parliament adopted an extremely important law for the Ukrainian economy, for the stability of bracelets and prices. A new steel industry law. I'm very grateful to all my fellow national deputies from all the factions and groups that supported the Radical Party's initiative to increase the export rate to 42 euros per tonne. Why it is so important, not just for Ukrainian metallurgy and their families, not just for the Ukrainian industry, but for every citizen in Ukraine. Because it depends on how much money Ukraine earns abroad, whether it's a stable currency exchange or it's going to fall, there's going to be stable prices in stores, or there's going to be a lot of inflation. So metallurgy forms an extremely large part of Ukrainian exports. The previous metallurgical law, initiated by us, with Oleg Lášk, and fellow thinkers, allowed Ukraine to preserve 35,000 jobs in various cities and regions. Over $1.5 billion in foreign exchange is a serious injection of financial stability for the state. He reduced the currency deficit more than twice, and he provided steel mills with raw materials and people with jobs and wages. Moreover, the government budget, due to an increase in duties, has increased more than threefold. This year we continued the extra operation of this elevated rate, increasing it to 42 euros per tonne. This is equivalent to 20 percent of that price for this raw material, as it was last year. By comparison, China has a double - power law, with 45 percent of the customs being exported to scrap metal. In India, Pakistan, that's also dozens of percent. I mean, those countries that care about their economies, they limit the export of raw materials, and they contribute to the production of finished products, not the other way around. In Kazakhstan, until recently, there was a ban on the export of scrap metal. So it's very important that this government decision was made yesterday, because it's over a billion dollars coming into the government budget of Ukraine every year, an extremely high, positive budget effect. In addition, the Radical Party team proposes to adopt a package of industrial park laws immediately in Parliament, in second reading, and in general. In order to attract large-scale investments to Ukraine, there are hundreds of new factories and hundreds of new factories all over Ukraine to win competition for investment, for work hands, for talent and for markets in Turkey, for Poland, for our competitors. In addition, to adopt the Law on Free Networking and "Buy Ukrainians, Pay Ukrainians" to favour Ukrainian products over foreign products in public purchases, as the United States has done since 1933. We're developing.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-18-m0.u138	Ten seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-18-m0.u139	We're developing our own economy, and that's the only way we're going to stop this crazy migration, and that's the only way we're going to get the IMF's loans back, and we're going to raise the real quality of life in the country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-18-m0.u140	Thank you. Osuhovsky gives the floor to Andrew Illenck. Please, Mr. Andrew.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-18-m0.u141	Andrew Illenko, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union, the city of Kiev. Ladies and gentlemen of the Ukrainian community, I am addressing you first of all, because in our city, our beautiful capital, Ukraine, in recent years, there have been very negative processes. We all hoped that after the change of power, after the revolution, especially in Kiev, a completely different era would begin, that the sea of our city, which would end massive corruption, would stop the scandalous illegal construction, would stop the destruction of the green areas. But we can see that, unfortunately, the opposite processes are taking place. And the number of these negative trends during the time of the city of Klitka and its team, and most of the time it's a former team of Czervetsky, in fact, the same thing, it's only increased. If we're talking about what's going on, it's literally right now in the Kiev City Council, there's this kind of city documentation upgrade program right now. In fact, absolutely contrary to the procedure, a step is now being taken to adopt 220 detailed territorial plans, in fact this whole city. And that would mean that you could totally barbaricly break all the rules and, above all, violate the current master plan, the whole city would be destroyed and converted into a complete building site of illegal cemeteries. Now this will not only allow you to start new scandalous and illegal constructions, it will actually legalize all those illegal building processes that have already been going on and on in recent years. Of course, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union, including our representatives in the Kyiv City Council, have taken the principle of position and are now blocking along with other patriotic deputies, blocking the adoption of these totally corrupt and criminal decisions. But we have to understand that until we really have in Ukraine in general, and in Kiev in particular, really patriotic power that will defend the interests of citizens, the situation, unfortunately, will not change. And especially in Kiev, it is necessary not to accept these DPTs as illegal, but to finally adopt the full new city master plan, and according to this master plan, to build. Yes, of course, the city should develop, new buildings should be built, but there shouldn't be such an infrastructure collapse as there is now that the city is completely submerged, when whole new neighborhoods are built, but there are no kindergartens, no schools are built, no other necessary infrastructure is built. As a result, today we have a city that is not comfortable for life, but comfortable only for the corrupts who rob it. So only by changing these processes will we be able to obtain, indeed, the Kiev that we need, that is our own, and that is comfortable to live in. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-18-m0.u142	Thank you. Semenha Roman gives the floor to Vojcitsky Victoria.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-18-m0.u143	Victoria Wojcietsky, Self-Help Unit. I want to talk to you today about the Anti-Corruption Court, which is actually a question of justice that hundreds of tens of millions of Ukrainians are awaiting. This is the justice that has been promised in Midian, the justice that all of us have promised in this Hall. But this question actually has a financial dimension -- a measure that can be calculated in an absolutely calm way, looking at Ukraine's current situation in terms of the return of those debts that we have accumulated. It's a matter of $200 million to $300 million that will be burdened on the shoulders of an ordinary Ukrainian in order to protect today's corrupters. In 2018, Ukraine alone has more than 6 billion debts to repay. One of the main sources of return is the International Monetary Fund, it's the macro-financial assistance of our European partners, it's borrowing from external markets. So if we don't adopt the Anti-Corruption Court Act in accordance with the recommendations of the Venice Commission, the IMF requirements, we won't get the next tranche. If we don't get the next tranche, it will actually have a domino effect, because then all the support from our international partners will be completely suspended. What about the international markets, the loans, how much they will respect us? Today, investors estimate the risk of investing in Ukraine at 8 percent. So this is already a signal, a signal that our external investors are assessing the financial and economic situation in Ukraine as quite difficult. Unless there's an appropriate IMF tranche, if there's no macro support. From our European colleagues, and we're talking to you about an amount of almost $3 billion, then we're going to have to go to external markets, borrow money from ordinary investors. Which we'll probably be told, no, Your Honor, you're not a reliable partner, we'll lend you under 10, 11.12 percent at least. That's 200 to 300 million dollars a year. And I'm only talking about 2018. I can say even more. What if the calculation of today's government, of today's parliamentary partners, that we can get the money out of our gold reserves and thus pay off the debt, so I can tell you that rate 32-35 is actually going to be another optimistic scenario. So our demand is very simple: to comply with the recommendations and requirements for the establishment of an Anti-Corruption Independent Court in order not to turn Ukraine into a "banana republic" to Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-18-m0.u144	Ten seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-18-m0.u145	to prevent Ukraine from covering economic and financial tsunamis. So let's support the Anti-Corruption Court, take it as soon as possible and run it this year.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-18-m0.u146	It's a deal. We'll support it. Please, Sergey Lechchenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-18-m0.u147	Dear citizens of Ukraine! Today is the end of the sessional week, and again this sessional week has passed without the approval of the Anti-Corruption Court Act, which is the body that is finally to take over the task of sending corrupt prisoners to prison and compensating for the state budget of their stolen money. Why is this happening? Because corruption is a bloody system of Ukrainian politics, and unfortunately, there is no desire to destroy it in those people who are sitting in the highest offices of our state today. And corruption one has the most violent manifestation, this is the Rotterdam Plus scheme. This is a scheme that has burdened all of us as citizens -- you, the audience, you, the audience, you, the electorate, us -- the whole society to pay a corrupt rent for the sake of the oligarch and his partner, the President. The Rotterdam Plus scheme enriches them every second and directs billions into their offshore accounts. And this week another step has been taken to preserve this corrupt scheme. As you know, the Rotterdam Plus scheme is a product that gave birth to the so-called National Energy Regulator of the NCRECR. We have passed a law in Parliament to have this body independent so that it does not work in the interests of the oligarch and his partner, the President, so that this body can make fair tariffs. But you know that the selection of the members of the new energy regulator's new composition is completely done under the President's Administration scenario. My colleagues and I went out last month and didn't allow ourselves to be assigned to the new power regulator of people who work in tandem with Ahmetov and Dustenk is Mr. Vuk and his former advisor, Mr. Goodachenko, who worked in the Ahmedov Corporations before that, and has neither experience in energy. But this week, the Kyiv Administrative Court, which is also administered by the Presidential Administration, suspended the competition for the appointment of independent members of the Energy Regulator. In fact, it's the same solitaire corruption for two. On the one hand, the Bank is moving new members who have no experience that we have not allowed, but they are still trying to get through. On the other hand, through a hand court, they stopped the competition for the appointment of new independent members of the energy regulator. Why is this being done? Because in the end, billions of money that they then take to their wallets, to their offshore accounts. And then, for this money and the election, votes are being bribed, and corruption is being unleashed all over the circle, and they're trying to get back into the government pocket, into the government budget, to be the most oligaric clan in Ukraine. That is why we, as deputies, take all measures to prevent them from doing so.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-18-m0.u148	Ten seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-18-m0.u149	Thank you very much. So as not to allow this oligarchic plot. And we demand that this competition be reinstated, but without pocket members belonging to the Dusty-Amhtova clan and to.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-18-m0.u150	Enough, time's up. Kuprienco is passed on by the word Kocheljev. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-18-m0.u151	AlonaKošeljeva, Oleg Láška Radical Party. Dear Lord, the presiding, distinguished Ukrainian people, fellow national deputies! Recently, the government adopted a decree that provides for the monetaryization of the benefits of all modes of transport. The Radical Party faction team has always supported progressive reforms to provide quality and affordable services to the population. But the government is transferring its own obligation to ensure that citizens have access to local budgets. First, the decision of local self-government authorities to grant monetary aid is not mandatory, and some cities, such as my own Kharkiv, refuse to do so. Secondly, money for the realization of the right to the benefit of citizens is significantly cut. The calculation of monthly cash payments is proposed by multiplying by 30 trips the average of one trip in urban transport. And for those of you who have the right to take a bonus trip on suburban routes, thousands. The total payout will only increase by 20 percent. Many Ukrainians — grandparents who own their own farm and who enjoy the right to a debt pass — had previously traveled from suburban to the city’s market to sell some food and survive. And once the changes are made, they can only afford it 3-4 times a week because they don't have that minimum amount. Moreover, if a cashier wants to use his right to travel at a residential location other than the place of registration and where the money has not been paid, he will need to pay and receive a ticket certified by the official person of the transport undertaking by identifying his name, his name, his father's name, the company; sign his own signature, a certified stamp stating the date of travel and the name of the settlement. Imagine how this will work in practice. Is this the way we are going to Europe? Do we remove administrative barriers, remove seals, and raise our positions in an international rating? And most importantly, would it improve this life for the Ukrainians? We already have a host of social conflicts throughout the country because the state does not properly carry out the obligation to compensate for the extended passage and, above all, for our defenders, the military. How many may be bullied by citizens and entrepreneurs? The issue of compensation for extended travel involves Chernobyl, members of hostilities, families of military personnel, persons with disabilities, children of many children, or 1 out of every 4 citizens. So I, along with my colleagues at the Radical Party of Oleg Lachka, urge the government to give due attention to this issue, and we demand that the process of monetaryizing the benefits be carried out in a high-quality manner to match the values of a decent life. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-18-m0.u152	Colleagues, I want to tell you right away that we're planning our time. Two minutes left, but I'm ready, because that's what Oksana Siroid told me, ready to give. Two performances, well, three: Sverk, Gopko, and Silantiev. Three performances and. [[B in m in s a l in]] Who's next? Sidorovich, right? Colleagues, all right. But we're done here, okay? After that, that is to say, Sidorovich, and after that, we are concluding a discussion so that no one else will wait. And the person I just called will be given the floor. Please, Mr. Sporish.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-18-m0.u153	John Sporish, 15th District, Winnitzkin. Dear people's deputies, the honorable presidency, of course, it's very nice that we have quiet and very nice in the hall today. If that were the case every time, it would be very nice for us to have sessions. But I'll tell you something else. Today, much of Ukraine’s economy depends primarily on agriculture. And yesterday we were looking at Bill 4532 in the first reading, where we're going to give and change government sugar price regulation. But I'll tell you something else. And yet today I'm going to give you an example like this, we had 40 sugar factories on Winnitzkin, and today we have 8 sugar factories left. And once again, despite the fact that there's not enough sugar plants, we have enough sugar. You know, today the price of sugar is 10 bucks. And it will not be sown today by farmers, nor will agricultural enterprises today sow sugar beet when the price is right. Thousands of tons of sugar in warehouses today, and unfortunately, not even the Ministry of Economics and Trade today, the Cabinet of Ministers can make any new deals with other countries in order to still have a market. Otherwise, such an area as sugar, unfortunately, will be neglected. Similarly, many of us from this rostrum speak for milk. And the Radical Party, and everyone raises the question that we cows will soon be seen in the Red Book. But once again, no matter what we do, the cows will be seen in the Red Book. Aleicosis today is again a product in processing factories, in processing dairy factories, today thousands of tons of cheese, thousands of tons of butter, other dairy products, leftovers in dairy factories, and no implementation. And today, peasants get four bracelets for milk. It would seem, really, that we should not see cows in the Red Book, but first of all, we should raise the price of milk: at least 5 bracelets, at least 6 bracelets, I don't say anymore. And I'd like something to stabilize the price to be the average. And I think, again, if the Ministry of Economics and Trade were to do everything today, the Cabinet of Ministers would do anything to ensure that dairy is implemented in other countries. I know perfectly and very hard that we don't have trades with Russia today, and maybe even Praise God, because I wouldn't want to trade with that country that is killing our children today, and unfortunately I will. I'd love to. In Trinity again, as we have seen, a child was killed, a family was killed, and a child was injured. You shouldn't trade with an aggressor. But, at the same time, we have to do everything we can to make it possible to produce this product, which is a waste of money.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-18-m0.u154	Ten seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-18-m0.u155	In the milk vans, in the sugar mills, so you can still get rid of it. And then the villagers will do much better work, grow sugar beet and milk cows. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-18-m0.u156	Thank you. And AnnaGopko gives the floor to Lubin. Please, Mr. Lubinets.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-18-m0.u157	Good afternoon, citizens of Ukraine! Good afternoon, dear fellows! I've repeatedly talked about the situation around the city of Dobropil in the Donetsk region, namely, the Separatist Mayor Aksionova, who, with Russian citizenship, did everything he could to get Russian troops to Dobropil. What happened? On 15 May, the Office of the Prosecutor of the Donetsk Region, together with the Ukrainian Security Service in the Donetsk and Lugansk region, was informed by the Dobropelian City Department of the suspicion of the commission of crimes envisaged in part one of the first 366 "Service Counterfeiting", part four of article 358, part two, third of article 191: "Owning, Disposal or Seizure of Property, Abuse of Service Status." I would like to thank the prosecutors and the Ukrainian Security Service for having responded to my parliamentary appeals. Today, at 9 a.m. in Kramatorsk, a court meeting was scheduled to take place in order to select the precautionary action of Aksionov. But he wasn't. Also, we have information that Aksionov left Borispol Airport yesterday at 11:20 p.m. to Frankfurt am Main. I hope this is just the weekend. Mr. Aksionov, please rest well, come back. Because the hearings were moved to Monday, and it would take a very long time to sit down. So I would like to address the people of Dobropil right now. You will soon see that your so - called very good mayor turned out to be just a fraud who was robbing you, stealing your money. Now, as soon as information came out that he needed to come to court and defend his so - called honest name, he simply burned his tail and fled the country. Similarly, I have information that on Mondays people from Dobropil, journalists, are being gathered to the Kramatarski building for trial and are already offering 500 dollars. That's what I'd like to say, people, come on. They'll buy you 30 pieces of silver at your own expense. Therefore, be wise to the fullest extent; do not be misled. And in the end, not only is the Mayor-Separatist Aksionov, but all the measures that now steal their budgets will be responsible. I want to say that I will definitely come to the people of Dobropil with the facts of how many mayors he stole from you and how much he has attached to his pockets. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-18-m0.u158	Thank you. Silantiev gives the floor to Oleg Valeriovich Láška. Please. All the hall goes out to the rostrum. It's not a blockage?
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-18-m0.u159	Oleg Lazko and my Radical Party, my iron team, who are powerfully, honestly, responsible always work in Parliament and with Ukrainians. This week, as a result of our nearly two-year struggle, the two-year-old parliament made a very important decision -- the first reading of a bill banning palm oil. I heard a lot of feedback after that, which, I said, is populism, it's making produce better, and Ukrainians are actually getting worse than they were. These faucets are distributed by those who earn wealth, income from the health of the Ukrainians when they are digested with cheap, innocuous palm oil instead of being consumed by Ukrainian children, by Ukrainian citizens. The ban on palm oil is primarily about the life and health of Ukrainians, which is the highest goal and the most important goal for me and my team. And the second. The ban on palm oil is the promotion of radical measures for the restoration of Ukrainian village and Ukrainian animal production. Today, rural families live exclusively on the basis of milk that costs nothing and on the basis of seasonal vegetables. We want there to be a cow in every farmyard and that Ukrainian peasants, whether they are singles or farmers, to receive donations from the state to support cows, is an opportunity to feed their families. So I want to assure Ukrainian peasants that we will extract this palm oil from Ukraine, and instead of palm oil, Ukrainians will eat your best Ukrainian milk. And we will not allow anyone to ban the sale of milk or meat to peasants because it is in fact to leave rural families with no wages, no means of subsistence. The second most important problem for people is the extremely high cost of drugs, resulting in millions of Ukrainians being deprived of access to medicines and treatment. Me and my team, we're announcing a crusade against the pharmaceutical mafia, which, by the poverty of the Ukrainians, is making profits. We demand that the authorities introduce government regulation of drug prices, limit profitability, cancel VAT on medicines, and this will make it possible to significantly reduce their cost. We will also propose a radical increase in criminal responsibility for falsifying drugs when the latter take money out of the house to buy drugs and sell them chalk. We also propose, at the expense of the state budget, that Ukrainians be provided with drugs for oncology and antibiotics. People go into the last debt, they sell the last to heal. We will stop this policy of genocide, we will ensure the right of Ukrainians to live decently in their own country.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-18-m0.u160	Thank you. Thank you. And Sidorovich Ruslan gives the floor to Oleg Barezyuk. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-18-m0.u161	The free state, the free economy can only be built by free people and free communities. And in fact, Ukraine, as a state institution, was able to take the first step towards building these free communities -- the Law on budgetary decentralization and decentralization as such. But over the course of those three years, we've seen an incredible rematching mood and resistance from a central government that blends in with a vulgar, oligaric business economy to destroy those will sprouts. The city of Borislav, a city on black gold, oil, osocaryrity, gas, is being poisoned today. 51 percent of the state-owned Ukranafta is just being destroyed, and it could be the richest city in the world. It's being destroyed. More than that, destroying it ecologically. Today the organization is set up, reregistered, transferred to another city that has nothing to do with the production that is not destroyed, and took away the city’s profits. Harassment, contempt for local self - government, community, and man as such. The city of Zolochev. For a year now, the city has been struggling with the alliance of vulgar capitalists, the law - enforcement agencies of the oligarchic state, and the central government. And this led to the mayor's extraordinary move and the proclamation of hunger, protecting the city's community. Today, Ukraine’s State Department has abolished the unfortunate permit for the criminal activity of a vulgar capitalist entrepreneur. But the protest continues because we have to win the final victory. A free community and a free man builds a free state. Now for the anti-corruption fight. Today, a colleague of Vojtsicka told us how much it would cost Ukraine that the Ukrainian State in the person of the oligarchy consensus would not accept the fight against corruption, the Anticorruption Court. It's going to be tens of millions, hundreds of millions of dollars for Ukrainian citizens' pockets, who won't be able to build up the Ukrainian economy and the Ukrainian army, where they're the only advocates of Ukrainian statehood. Because oligarhat now rules the state. These millions, tens of millions of dollars that have been borrowed from the International Monetary Fund, have been used by oligarhat for their own needs over the past 20 years, not for the need to stabilize and build the Ukrainian economy, machine building, agriculture. And today they're saying it's an IMF needle. Oligarchat is the needle of the Ukrainian economy with the destruction of Ukrainian statehood. Thus, the Anticorruption Court and local self - rule are today the forces that are building Ukrainian statehood and protecting against the age - old enemy of the Russian Empire.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-18-m0.u162	Thank you. Colleagues, I'd like to ask you a moment. Next is Mikhailo Bondar, a National Guard fighter. I asked for one minute, not three, but one minute. We'll give him one minute, and then I'll close the session. Please, Mr. Mikhailo, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-18-m0.u163	Thank you. I'll try to get in. The question will be related to the Lviv prosthetic plant. For five months, workers do not receive a salary. According to the previous director, Sergey Sujazov, before January of this year, there was this situation, a product that was now being slaughtered. And this prosthetic plant also produced wheelchairs and prosthetics, including orthopedic shoes for both people with disabilities and our fighters on the front. And this situation that is now happening, I want all the law enforcement agencies that have this authority to verify the operation of this Lviv prosthetic plant, and first of all Director Sergio Suyazov, and give him a proper assessment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-18-m0.u164	Thank you. So the colleagues, the time spent on speaking to the national deputies, is complete. And I want to remind you that the next plenary meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine will take place on Tuesday, May 22, at 10 a.m. The following week, I actually plan that we will be able to consider the Anti-Corruption Court Act. This may take a few days, not just one. I'm counting on Monday's committee decision. And on Tuesday afternoon, at most Wednesday morning, we'll be able to get into the law. You know, 2,000 lines, that's a lot. But if we agree on the position with the IMF and the Venice Commission by now, the discussion can be much faster, and so I think there's a good chance that Thursday we can make the final decision. So please prepare for the tense next week. And this morning's planning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, I declare closed. Thank you. Good-bye.
