ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-16-m0.u1	Good morning, dear fellows! I'm asking you to come into the hall and get ready for registration. So please prepare for registration. And I'd like the National Deputies to sign up for the meeting, please. [[10:04:17]] There are 332 national deputies registered. The morning plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Colleagues, today the birthday of the National Deputies, Alexander Ivanovich Dubinin, welcome him, and Victor Mikolaiovich Ostapchuk. Welcome, fellows! [[Applause]] I also remind you that today, Wednesday, we have 30 minutes of performances by national MPs, not by factions, but by national MPs. And so I ask all the national MPs who want to participate in the discussion to prepare for the recording. Please be prepared. Ready, colleagues? Please record for the announcements, messages and proposals made by the Ukrainian National Deputies. Please hold the recording. Please. Pavlov Kostin Juriyovich gives the floor to Villukul. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-16-m0.u2	Dear people of Ukraine! Dear colleagues! Parliament is still able to stop the large-scale falsification of the elections and the Parliament, and the President planned. Counterfeiting is exactly the kind of tool that is counted on by overpowered parties that have finally lost respect for people and have a minimum rating. What can happen is that the first one is manipulation with a number of voters. According to the website, the official website of the State, the population of Ukraine is more than 42 million. However, it is estimated that there are at least 28 million people living today. Real numbers can be established during the All-Ukrainian Census, which was due back in 2017, but the government moved it to the post-election year 2020. You know what the authorities will do with the difference between the declared and actual population of more than 10 million people. The other one. A new Electoral Law is being blocked so that the following year half the deputies will again be elected by Greek and administrative means. At the expense of these people, the authorities want to do something and at least fill up their factions. Third. A Central Election Commission is formed entirely under the control of the authorities. The Code of Independent Practice in the Electoral Affairs of the Venice Commission of the Council of Europe tells us that this body should ensure equal representation of all parliamentary factions and groups. This is also emphasized by the ambassadors of the Great Seven countries in their resolution. The same requirement is contained in the PASE resolution of January 25 of this year. This was achieved by many political forces. But I know that's what Julia Timoshenko did, and this is when I support her, because this standard is one of the most important components of a transparent electoral process. Reasonable resolutions. But what is actually going on? There are 14 candidates for the CLTC for 13 seats. There's no candidate for the Opposition Block. Although, according to a proportional principle, we submitted two candidatures: Sergei Rumpu and Gregory Moscalenka Dear colleagues, who are against the manipulation of power, we need to adopt a new Electoral Act and create a quality composition of the CBC. Because the CLTC, which is not trusted, is a straight line to not admitting elections either to Ukrainian society or to international society. This is the way to usurp power and total isolation. And we can change the way the country lives, not in poverty. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-16-m0.u3	Next talk by the People’s Deputy Krivochatko. Please, Your Honor, Mr. Clumsy. I realized that you were giving your word to the National Deputy. Yuri Derevyanko asks for 6 minutes because he is the fifth to combine these two performances. Please, Mr. Yuri, 6 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-16-m0.u4	Yuri Derevyanko, "The Movement of New Forces". Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to make a very important statement today at the Conciliation Council regarding Parliament's obligation to initiate a written procedure for initiating the question of the removal of the President of Ukraine, Mr. Petr Aleksiowiovich, from office in the order of impeachment. The point is that we have received from the media over the last two years a huge number of facts that need to be investigated. It's about what we've heard from the media, including international, about the so-called Panamian Offshores of Dustenka; about the deals in the purchase of fuel for the Troid Commodity army, about the corruption in the procurement of military technology that is produced at the Dustenka plant, where it is a direct beneficial owner; about the introduction of the Rotterdam Plus scheme, which gives revenue, including perhaps the President of Ukraine, to Prashenek. It is the purchase of low - quality medical vehicles for the army in the company associated with Peter Alexiyovich Prashenko. Also on the possession by the President of Ukraine of undeclared grains and small businesses in the country of the aggressor, the Crochmal Product T.O. in Lipeck. And including all the facts that are personal, one of his former partners, Deputy Oneshchenko, who is currently being prosecuted for corruption crimes, he himself says that Mr. Dustenko was getting money from him, bribes on a particularly large scale -- more than 10 million. Including he was the middleman when it comes to the ex-Zločevski ex-region. And these are all the facts of mega-corruption, top-corruption and crime they're all in the media. Honourable national MPs, when it comes to investigating the possible crimes of President Prashenko, are the only bodies capable of investigating such crimes, and in accordance with the Constitution and the Rules, this is the Supreme Council. Therefore, according to articles 93, 111 of the Constitution of Ukraine, articles 171 and 172 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s Rules of Procedure, we, honourable colleagues, are obliged as national deputies, on which it is up to each and every one of you to investigate whether these crimes will be possible or not, we are obliged to make a written submission, as required by the Constitution and the Rules, in order to initiate questions about the removal of the President of Ukraine from office in the order of impeachment. Neither NABU nor the Attorney General, the Security Service or the Ministry of Internal Affairs, is responsible for Parliament. And the people of Ukraine, who have chosen each of you, each of us, have hoped that we will also fulfil our responsibilities under the Constitution and that if any person commits a crime, including the President, we will act accordingly. Therefore, your colleagues, it is up to each of you now whether these crimes will be investigated or not. I would like to thank those national MPs who signed their signatures yesterday on the written initiation of the issue of the removal of President of Ukraine from the post in the order of impeachment, and such national deputies are now 37. Every national MP present in this room has the opportunity to join in signing this form of signatures, signing this written submission in order for each of your constituents, as well as the elector who voted for that political party that brought you to Parliament, to say that you are the advocate of the people's interests, that you are the person, that national MP who is not covering the crime, and who is trying and doing everything he can, depending on him, to investigate the crimes. Dear colleagues! You know, the journalists are asking us how we feel about repairing the roof in the Supreme Council. I want to tell you that we need to repair the roof in our power, not the roof in the Supreme Council. And this first important step in repairing the roof of our authority and in changing this system, we must do so today. Don't hide, please, because as if we don't have something settled, we have very clear constitutional steps to take. The first is written submission, the second is a discussion in the Supreme Council in full procedure, without the agenda of the day, the third is the vote in favour of the initiation of the impeachment procedure, the beginning of the impeachment, the next is the creation of a temporary commission of inquiry. And, honourable colleagues, the TSC bills signed by your faction leaders have been in Parliament for four years and have not been passed. So let's just take it one step at a time, not hide behind something that's not settled. This explanation was made very clear by the Kniazewicz Committee, which made it very clear how we should move one step at a time. I am now addressing Ukrainian citizens. Dear citizens, it's a test of reality, it's a test of who's in this Parliament. Either we stand in the position that we're investigating any crimes, or we're standing in the position that someone wants to cover these crimes. So, honourable Ukrainians, ask each of your deputies, in each of your political parties, for which you voted, what position the MP is, whether this signature is, or not. We're going to publish on Facebook pages, on the New Forces Movement website, and on all those active journalists who want to help us make sure that society knows the position of every national MP. I invite you to join us, and this must be investigated. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-16-m0.u5	Please give a statement from the People's Deputy Lapin. I'd like to have a word with you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-16-m0.u6	Glory to Ukraine! Dear colleagues! My performance may not be liked by anyone, but nevertheless. I want to thank you, very rarely I do, but nevertheless our forces, particularly the Ukrainian Security Service. For work carried out with Russian propaganda machines and with diversans in the territory of Ukraine who call themselves. They mask themselves under these, you know, slogans that we're independent media and so on. Now, I want to talk a few words about a case that today is gaining publicity and to draw the attention of the Ukrainian Security Service, that not only one director of the RIA News site could have made an information diversion in Ukraine. You know, there's a world-wide fight against Russian media that's spreading cool information. Unfortunately, we also have a lot in Ukraine that is not only relevant to the Russian media, but also our seemingly pro-Ukrainian media that is "playing at the hands of the enemy." On the subject that I am today, in addition to thanking the Ukrainian Security Service, I would like to draw their attention to the other shameful facts that I have on Volina, particularly in the city of Lutsk. I'm drawing the attention of the Security Service to the disgraceful actions of the UCROP party representatives who, of course, may be setting up their political leaders. Maybe the party organization doesn't know that they have people who go to Russian Sabbaths, who go to Russia to celebrate Victory Day, and who embezzle the media of the Russian Federation. I'm pointing out that we have an investigation in Volina by the Ukrainian Security Service in a public organization called the House of Order, and its leader is under investigation. This community organization was very sensitive to the political party UCROP. I'm paying attention to the fact that our forces and the Ukrainian Security Service that the Secretary-General of the War of Order, a member of the UCROP political party, was involved in this Sabbath and was travelling to Russia. I'm paying attention to the U.K.R.P. and the Ukrainian Security Service to the fact that there are people in their ranks (meaning the Party) who are embezzling the honor of our state. I also point out that, along with Mr. Volyanuk, representative of the Order War, the UKROP party, Mr. Korsac was also a member of the Mesquique Lutsky Municipal Council of the UKROP Party. I'm saying that these people represent power in us on Volina. Volanuk is the head of the public council of the government. Dear Ukrainian Security Service, please look not only at the melting canals in Kiev, but also at my Volin. And I also point to the fact that maybe in the UCROP party itself, it's up to us to condemn our members who are playing the aggressor, maybe do it in the public domain and clear our ranks of people who are covered in the slogans of Ukrainian patriots.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-16-m0.u7	Thank you for your statement, my dear colleague. And I invite you to Victor Chumak's word, please. Now is your time to speak, please, Mr. Victor.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-16-m0.u8	Ladies and gentlemen of the people, citizens of Ukraine! Victor Chumak 214 constituency, Kiev You know, I've been seeing people a lot right now, and I've had the impression that we're doing a lot of bad things here, because we're adopting a lot of laws, but the laws that are just being passed, for the sake of a branch and not being implemented, nobody needs them. Laws that are adopted and implemented in a selective manner are not needed by anyone. Moreover, I would like to say that such laws harm the state much more than those that are not accepted. We are simply wasting our time, energy, and resources, especially since such laws and their failure to do so lead to tremendous mistrust. But I'm going to talk about something else today, not corruption, not corruption. Although corruption, not impeachment, not bad electoral rules, I'm going to talk about water today. It's not a secret that we're a country with a huge water deficit, it's not a secret that we don't have a normal amount of drinking water at all. So preserving the water balance of the rivers, the great rivers that are in Ukraine: Dnipra, Dnistre, South Bug and small rivers -- is the task of national security. That's not an abstract question. His decision depends on how our children and future generations live. The wars of future generations will be for food and water. I mean, I did last Sunday. Last week he was in Dnipropetrovsk. There's such a beautiful river, the Eagle. It flows through the territory of Magdalen, Jury, Kingdom and Petrikow regions. Not so long ago everyone who was there saw very beautiful shores, a great river, saw normal forests, saw very many child camps and so forth. And today there's a completely different painting. In 2008, President Viktor Yushchenko of Ukraine issued a decree on the expansion of networks and areas of national parks, which was the basis for the creation of the National Park "Orilski". It's been 10 years. In 2016, the Dnipropetrov City Council made another decision on the creation of the Orilski Park, but no one did anything. Even today, no project documentation has been developed to create such a park. I'll tell you what, a few more years, and it'll save nothing at all, the Eagle River won't. In fact, the river has been captured by criminals because today, on the banks of the Orils, the meadows are illegally torn apart, the hunting is illegal, and the dams are illegally entombed. I was at a meeting of the Coordinating Board, which authorized me to speak from the Supreme Council’s rostrum and say so. Moreover, I want to say that this issue of illegal activity on the Eagle River will be considered both by the Attorney General and by the Cabinet of Ministers. I'll do the right thing.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-16-m0.u9	The next speech is from the national deputy of Lozov.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-16-m0.u10	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Yesterday, Parliament made an extremely important decision: in its first reading, a bill banning palm oil. This is, without exaggeration, a historic decision that will save the lives of hundreds of thousands of Ukrainians so that the cynical barriers do not fill billions of pockets at the expense of human health. But an equally important problem for millions of people is unreachable medicine and inaccessible medicine. Over the past three weeks, I traveled through Ukraine. At each meeting, people, especially pensioners, people of great age, poor people raised questions about the inaccessibility of drugs, and as a result of the inability to heal themselves and treat their children. I offer the Ukrainians and Ukraine a plan to make the drugs available. Today, the cost of drugs in Ukrainian pharmacies is twice as high as that in neighbouring countries because of the fact that a complete mess, a complete vachanal and a pharmaceutical mafia earns a living, Ukrainian health, last extracts and sells some kind of waste, earns billions. We're proposing and demanding that the government's regulation of medicines prices be reinstated so that the profitability is not 200 to 300 percent per year, so that there's not one thing that's sometimes the same thing in two adjacent pharmacies -- the difference of 100, 200 dollars. Restoring government drug prices, reducing profitability, will make it possible to significantly lower drug prices. The second is the cancellation of VAT on medicines, which is also an opportunity to lower them. The third is the expansion of the free medicine program. When we demanded free medicine for millions of Ukrainians two years ago, we were told it was populism and it was impossible. Today, more than a billion dollars in the budget for free medicine, but the list of medicines provided free of charge is insufficient. Today, oncology drug security is only 6 percent at the expense of the state budget. All other people have to buy for their money, the last one from the house is being taken, huge debts are being paid, houses are being sold, apartments are being sold to count oncology. We suggest that oncology medications were given free of charge. And the key is the responsibility of selling counterfeit drugs. When a person comes to the pharmacy, they pay the last money, and they sell the chalk instead of the real drugs, at least five to seven years in prison, so they don't make money for the health of the people. The pharmaceutical mafia, this rod, has billions of incomes on account of the health of Ukrainians, because they are unable to buy drugs. We'll break their backs. Me and my team. We announce a crusade against expensive drugs, against unavailable medicine, against the restriction of Ukrainians ’ right to be treated in their own country. Units can go to Switzerland and treat their children, millions of Ukrainians will not go anywhere, away from their village or to the center. We suggest that medicine and medicine be available. We declare the struggle for Ukrainians’ right to be treated in their home country for available medicines.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-16-m0.u11	Next talk from National Deputy Bondar. Please, Mr. Mikhailo, to the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-16-m0.u12	Thank you. Bondar Mikhailo, 119th constituency, head of the coal industry subcommittee. Dear colleagues, I have been repeatedly approached by representatives of coal companies, mining companies, representatives of public organizations about the situation around the PAT enrichment plant, the Lviv Coal Company, and the so-called watchdog, Andria Wengreen. The technology that was destroyed in the factory for the enrichment of the Lvivsko-Wallin Basin’s regular coal has led to an ecological disaster caused by the burning of terricones. The Lviv Coal Company also uses its monopoly and deliberately blocks the work of the Lviv Coal Company (DP). The entire coal concentration of Lviv coal is produced on. and is enriched at the plant PAT "Livial Coal Company" and directly depends on the removal of coal from the power plant and therefore the fulfilment of the set tasks and contractual obligations of Lviv-Coal DP. Officially, not the official management of the Lviv Coal Company in the person of Hungarian Andria completely ignores all contractual obligations and creates conditions that make it impossible for Lviv-Coal to do business. Instead, new technologies are being introduced, so-called enrichment by a Hungarian citizen, and the people from temporarily occupied areas that are not officially established at the factory are engaged in the theft of budget funds and the illegal production and the sale of uncalculated so-called Argilite, these are wastes left after the enrichment of coal products. All processes of extraction, loading, unloading and distribution of illegally produced products, according to the complainants, are controlled directly by Hungarian citizens. So I want to go back to both the Attorney General's Office and the Ukrainian Security Service and the Ministry of Internal Affairs to investigate all these facts, and more details will be given and read from this rostrum on Friday. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-16-m0.u13	Thank you. I'm asking you to make the presentation of the National Deputy Bondar as a parliamentary address, and the request can only be registered, your honorary colleague. And I now give the floor to National Deputy Igor Shurma. Please, Mr. Igor.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-16-m0.u14	Honorable citizens of Ukraine, respected colleagues present in the hall today! Yesterday, at a meeting of the P.I. committee, unfortunately, at the request of the deputies, we received no response from the Ministry of Health regarding the cause of the death of the child in the Ternopil area, suspected of having responded to the vaccination against measles. We also did not get an answer to what happened to children in the Cherkas region, where more than fifty children were hospitalized, which took place in Novomoskowsk. I fully support the position of our colleagues to organize "Christ's march" for affordable prices and the lack of the Ministry's work on drugs. But I must say that if we are not to become crusaders, we need to combat not the causes, not the consequences, but the causes. What is the reason? Right now, no one in this room, even the one who pushed the button for what we call reform, is going to answer the pattern of the health system we're building. We do not have today after three years of work as reformers of the concept of a national health system. We don't have a strategic plan for implementing this concept. And as a result, we have dot bills that don't work today. Look, there's a wide-ranging information campaign that we have people signing contracts, and it's going to be registered under the electronic health system. No one says that this system is unlicensed. That those contracts are not legally binding! And even when there will be a dispute, they will say, "And who has approved this treaty?" Neither the Ministry of Justice nor the Ministry of Defense. A model contract was approved by a public organization. Last night, I was happy to see the president in Kiev discover the FAP. He said it's from one and a half billion returned to Ukraine, so it's at the expense of the budget. If the area were to do so, that's one thing. And I have a question: Why is it the Kyiv region, and why is it the village of Bodenka? Why did they go there? Why did representatives of a party go with them? Elections begin. And I have to tell you what the result is. If the Ministry had indicated how much FAPs needed, how much medical clinics needed, then the information would not have said that there was a residence on the FAP, where the doctor would live. Why so much so? The minister wasn't there yesterday? And for today, we demand one. It's all because there's no head of the department. Introduce the 5642 Work Report to the 5642 Hall. Minister. Vote in favour, appoint a minister and be politically responsible. And come in later with your agitation from your political forces into every constituency. We're for reform. But it must be approved by the government and parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-16-m0.u15	The pawn passes the word to the head of the People's Front faction of Maxim Burbak. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-16-m0.u16	Good afternoon, dear colleagues. Burbak Maxim, People's Front, 204 constituency. Dear colleagues! We need to step up our responsibility to falsify elections, sells and collects votes. The final election to TG showed that Greeks and voice clusters were victorious. We see new patterns of machination, carousels with voter transportation, rising so-called voter price. Forgers to get to power, even in a small village, do not scrape at all. Opponents are intimidated at the start of the campaign and are forced to refuse to participate in the elections or to abandon their political power. The winners, who in spite of everything have won and even without fraud, are trying to destroy the post facto through the courts, whether physical or physical. I'll give you an example of my region of Chernieweck, 204-1 constituency, the city of Zastavna. Vassil Radishu, the chosen city head, who was secondly entrusted with the city, was burned by property belonging to his wife. But the return to Zastavan in the 1990s, as in the country in general, will not pass. Therefore, it is extremely important that the legislative strengthening of criminal responsibility for electoral fraud be strengthened as soon as possible. Parliament already has a government bill drafted along with the public for the initiatives of Minister of Interior Arsen Avakov, where severe penalties are provided for both voice bribery and vote sales, ballot manipulation and so on. Finally, we need to establish real mechanisms for punishment for electoral violations and introduce the real responsibility of those who buy votes and those who sell the future of their children and our state. Another example of life in the Chernobyl area. There are some young people who have wasted their lives by forging the 2015 election. Each of them was sentenced to three years. These children, as university students at the time, were buying votes for their teacher, who wanted to become a member of the country. The machination was discovered, the teacher fled abroad, and these students were expelled from the university and sentenced. But after a while, the teacher resumed his work and even protected his dissertation. Such a situation in a civilized country would seem absurd, but we do not. Three years after being selected for the purchased vote, the machinator’s case was finally in court. And this is a public merit that has prevented the case from being filed and the employees of the Henprosecutors who see the case as a personal challenge to the forger. But so far this deputy is going to a meeting of the Montenegrin City Council, which is long overdue, because this council has been formed and a corrupt majority in it, thanks to numerous forgeries that will eventually be proved in court. Now these so - called deputies are doing everything for the 2011 re - script, when the gang of Janukovitch’s captors removed the duties of the city’s head, Nicholas Fedoruk. The same scenario is that the group is trying to push and remove the measure in another session of the land of May 31st. Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-16-m0.u17	Give me 30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-16-m0.u18	But the public of the city and our deputies will not stand outside. This is no longer the time of Janukovich. The country has changed. No one will cover this crime against the Black community, and there will be no one in this session room. The People's Front faction will stand in the interest of the community and the act of the city's head, Alexia Kaspruk. To that end, you and I started the process of decentralization in the 14th year. The rematch of the regions and the return of Yanukovich’s time in the local councils, as in the country at all, will be no more. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-16-m0.u19	Thank you. And the closing statement by Jurinec Oksana Vasilovna. Please, Mrs. Oksana.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-16-m0.u20	Good day, Mr. Head, distinguished national MPs. As usual, the deputy major representing the city of Lviv, 117 constituency, I want to report on the work done. Our official delegation visited Vietnam for the first time in three years. As the head of a group of friendships between Ukraine and Vietnam, I want to raise awareness of the work done, for I believe that parliamentary diplomacy is essential to our understanding of the importance of seeking these priorities, where national interests of our nation will stand for the promotion of our products with the loss of one market. With war in the East today, we understand that Ukraine needs to develop, and we need to look for, sometimes, myths about the relationship between our countries. Why is Vietnam important to Ukraine today? Because it's a dynamic developing country where today's gross domestic product is 5.7 percent. This is a country that has never voted against Ukraine in the United Nations. This country, which understands what UPA is and hideouts, understands what liberation is for its state. And so today she respects what Ukraine stands for. It is very important that this visit was officially made, and we were accepted by an assembly headed by the Vice-Speaker of the National Assembly of Vietnam. Our next visit was to Hoshimin. This may be better known to our audiences and listeners than Saigon. A city that has 10 million, where today is a Ukrainian port that will work for the economy of the Ukrainian state. Vietnam’s absolute interest today is in cooperation in the defence, light industry, construction infrastructure, our technology, and our goods. And they are absolutely stressing each time, taking into account the national interests of each state. We understand that our group, composed of Valeria Karpuntsov, composed of Igor Vasyunika and Mikola Kadikala, was a certain work of the week, which showed that today graduates who had graduated from the Ukrainian higher, Kharkiv, Kyiv, Lviv, are completely powerful people, ministers, deputy ministers, government officials. These are people who are entrepreneurs and bankers who want to invest in Ukraine today, for whom the support of Ukraine was once very much needed by our country. Today, they are ready to send their children here for training. Yes, even the service provided by Ukraine today is not very expensive, but very quality, and they understand it. So every time we understand how important it is to report on the work done, we wrote and sent it to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the President's Administration. By the way, the Vietnamese side is looking forward to this visit in the fall of our President of Ukraine, to Vietnam. Likewise, on the Committee on Foreign Affairs, with specific proposals, with the shortcomings of the embassy's work, I hope that this work will lead to a new path and this will be a new stage in the development.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-16-m0.u21	Let me finish, 15 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-16-m0.u22	The First Deputy Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Irina Heratchenko, is invited to attend. Please, three minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-16-m0.u23	Dear colleagues! I want to continue with the subject that my distinguished colleague, Igor Lapin, had raised during his speech. Indeed, Ukraine’s Security Service has discovered another story, another soldier or hybrid wartime officer against Ukraine. And what's disturbing in this context is that yesterday the OSCE's statement, which in turn expressed concern about the searches carried out by the Ukrainian Security Service in the so-called "News" agency. Although today it is just a cube of propaganda against Ukraine. I would like to refer to our esteemed colleagues from the OSCE, as well as to the creative communities of the Ukrainians working in Ukraine, which may be worth giving our colleagues in Vienna more information about the violations of the rights of journalists that are taking place on occupied Donbassa and Crimea. We rarely hear statements, unfortunately, about the fate of journalist Asiev, which has been held for a year by invaders in the prison in Donetsk. We hear very little from our foreign colleagues about the support of Ukrainian journalist Romanu Sąszczenko, who has been detained in Russian prison for two years. And recently, I went to the National Association of Journalists of Ukraine, other organizations, asking us to provide information or to monitor shootings, those violations of the rights of journalists who were on Donbas. Unfortunately, there is no such monitoring. And so I want to thank my fellow journalists who gave me some evidence that when Ukrainian journalists got shot, they were injured when their rights were violated when they were even captured by a fighter. I want to thank the journalists who have already sent this information, including the Inter channel, and the 112 channel, the 24 channel, the Plus channel, the 1+1 channel, and all the other colleagues: please remember the exact dates, give this fact, it's very important to Ukraine, it's the fact that we have to go to international courts and international organisations, and that we have to operate, including the Ukrainian Journalists' Association, in negotiations with our international colleagues, protecting our journalists' right to work. These are terrible facts, when our journalists were injured, hurt, when drivers, simple drivers, who just drove creative groups to film these reports, were so wounded that today they have groups of disabilities. And actually in this context, I'm very surprised at the position of the Head of the Journalists' Association of Ukraine, who recently signed a joint statement with the propagandist Association of Journalists of the Russian Federation, as if for a noble purpose, that let's release Asiev. But to whom is this appeal? There's no one's last name, Putina. Putin now holds both Suchenka and Asyeeva and all other hostages. And that's terrible.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-16-m0.u24	Please add 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-16-m0.u25	That this statement, jointly signed by the Head of the Journalists' Association of Ukraine, calls for a visit to the occupied Crimea. To whom is this reference? So I really wanted to make it very clear that by protecting freedom of speech here, the right of journalists to criticize power, we distinguished it from playing and such impurity in fighting hybrid warfare. And these are the facts I'm passing on to Mrs. Sumar's profile committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-16-m0.u26	Thank you. Please turn on Mrs. Irina for 15 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-16-m0.u27	It's very important. I'm handing over these facts, I can pass on factions to all the leaders for use in the work, in the profile committee, in the department of profile, in the press, in the ICC for use in the work. And in order to have all those who violate the rights of Ukrainian journals to work in the courts answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-16-m0.u28	Thank you. So we're moving on to the issues of order of the day. We have the first draft of Parliamentary Hearings on "Implementation in Ukraine of international instruments to prevent anthropogenic climate change". The parliamentary hearings that were about to take place, but unfortunately we didn't get to them, and that's why the date will be proposed to be postponed. But it is important that we be able to accept this determination today. Colleagues, I'm putting a motion to vote so that we can consider a summary order. Please vote and please support the reduced procedure. Please vote. [[10:44:15]] For-78 78 – a.k.a. It's too much to go out 150. Let's go in full, let's talk about ecology. And I invite you to report to the Secretary of the Committee on Environmental Policy, Environmental Management and the Elimination of the Consequences of the Chernobyl disaster, Edna Ostak Volodymyrovich. Please, Mr. Ostap.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-16-m0.u29	Good afternoon, dear fellows! Even though the draft ruling has been in Parliament since 2017 and the issue is not moving. But global climate change, unfortunately, takes place every day, every second. Our earth, our planet, is approaching a very serious cataclysm. And that's why we need to discuss these issues, I think, on the country's highest pitch, on the parliamentary field. I very much hope that today’s votes for this decision will be in full measure. So, fellow Members, your consideration is proposed by the Committee on Environmental Policy, Environmental Management and the Elimination of the Consequences of the Chernobyl Disaster, the draft Supreme Council Decision on Parliamentary Hearings on "Implementation in Ukraine of International Instruments for the Prevention of Anthropogenic Climate Change" (registration No. 6129). The Supreme Council of Ukraine, and this is very important, became one of the world's first parliaments, which ratified the Paris Agreement on 14 July 2016 aimed at strengthening the implementation of the UN Framework Convention on Climate Change. In principle, a dynamic commitment system is a new one in the Treaty of Paris. That is, each country is obliged to determine its own level of greenhouse gas emission limitation and enforcement. At the Conference of the Parties to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change in Marrakech in November 16th, 48 countries in the world announced their willingness to move to 100 percent of renewable energy sources by mid-century. We have two or three percent of our respectable colleagues at the moment of renewable energy sources, and probably by the middle of the century, we have absolutely nothing to see, and so we definitely need to talk about this in Parliament. The implementation of the Paris Agreement can create appropriate conditions in Ukraine and contribute to the upgrading of energy, transport, agriculture and the transfer of new technologies and the refusal of fossil fuels for renewable energy sources that exclude greenhouse gas emissions during production. The implementation of the global international climate agreement will be of general importance and will require an appropriate position of the Convention to adopt effective environmental legislation, environmental standards, and the objectives and priorities of governance should reflect the context of the environment and development. In fact, the Ministry of Environment and Natural Resources is currently preparing for the submission to Parliament of the draft Law on Monitoring, Reporting and Verification of Green Gas Emissions. It is the same legislative initiative that we could further discuss during parliamentary hearings, adoption and conduct. Parliamentary hearings will contribute to a broad discussion of this issue in the Ukrainian community, to addressing environmental issues related to climate change, and to a comprehensive analysis, to a balanced solution to the issue. Moreover, there are currently several international programs in Ukraine, both from the World Bank and from USAID, the United States Agency for International Development. And it would be very interesting and good, and it would be useful to invite international experts to Ukraine to speak at parliamentary hearings from the parliamentary rostrum and to report the latest progress on these issues. In order to address these issues in a comprehensive manner, it is proposed to hold a meeting on 4 July, honourable colleagues, in 2018 at the plenary meetings of the Supreme Council, on the theme "Implementation in Ukraine of international instruments to prevent anthropogenic climate change". I ask you very much to support the appropriate draft of the Supreme Council's decree. And thank you all for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-16-m0.u30	Thank you. Please record the question to the reporter. Three minutes. Hope Anna Mikolayevna, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-16-m0.u31	Good afternoon, dear fellows! I have a question for the reporter. Please tell us what has been done specifically in Ukraine besides ratifying the very important Paris Convention on Climate Change in order to effectively prevent anthropogenic climate change? There is also a Sustainable Development Strategy that Ukraine has made a commitment to the UN. What exactly is done? And as you can see, I also have an additional question to ask you, given the genealogy that is in Ukraine of lithium when your committee is considering this, because we understand that, on the one hand, we want investments to come to Ukraine, and on the other hand, we see investment in the use or acquisition of lithium crops? Please answer these questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-16-m0.u32	Please, Mr. Ostap.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-16-m0.u33	Thank you, Reverend Hanna Mikolayevna. The issue of what Ukraine is doing to prevent climate change could and should be discussed at parliamentary hearings. Ukraine has developed a low-carbon strategy, Ukraine is developing a climate strategy, i.e. the Ministry of Environment and Natural Resources is quite active, including developing the necessary legislative framework. Regarding lithium ancestry and others, unfortunately, and we have recently seen copies of the correspondence of fugitive Oneshchenka with some of our national MPs, Ukraine's natural resources and not just lithium, but gas, oil and many others are being drained, unfortunately, in Ukraine. And we need to understand that this is an exhaustive natural resource, which means that our grandchildren, our grandchildren, will no longer have this natural wealth that we have. We're with you, and unfortunately, we use ineffectively and opaquely, often with corruption and abuse. Therefore, it is particularly important and I hope that our committee at the next meeting will consider these issues with the leadership of the Dergeondar so that there will be no abuse in this area. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-16-m0.u34	Thank you. Controversy Ivan Dmitrovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-16-m0.u35	Ivan Sporish, Peter Dusty Block, Winnitzkin, 15th District. I think that really today the issues that your committee raises and the Law 6129 is important because we see really issues, problems, a series of climate change issues. But I wanted to ask you a question. Doesn't your committee think that one of the main issues is also what. We should have a national programme – to greenen our country, to land areas like this in European countries. Where there's a free area, we have to have a government program and greenish it. This should also be in your program. How would you answer that question?
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-16-m0.u36	Thank you so much for asking. Exactly how we should act in this direction should determine the forest policy of Ukraine, which the Ministry of Environment and. Ministry of Agriculture Policy along with the Ministry of Environment and Natural Resources and the State Forest Agency. The job is not done. The government’s inaction, unfortunately, disappoints us in this direction. And from the good news, we realize that we're not shrinking into forest areas, like the catastrophic situation now in Latin America, Malaysia, Indonesia, where these countries are turning these areas into wetlands. Fortunately, the land of the forest fund remains unchanged: what is being cut will then be restored; we do not have a reduction in the area. For the last decade, we have significantly increased the area of forests, but unfortunately, in southern Ukraine, where it may not have been the best scientific decision, and where we put billions of dollars. To avoid repeating mistakes in the past, we need to approach carefully.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-16-m0.u37	Final question from Illenek Andry Yuriovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-16-m0.u38	Andrew Illenko, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union, the city of Kiev. An extremely important subject, and even what we have seen recently with what is happening to the climate, is of course a caution, and similar parliamentary hearings need to be conducted. I'd like to ask if we can interpret the fact that we have so little renewable energy just because we have, in particular, a completely monopolized energy market with oligaric groupings. Can we believe that this is one of the main reasons, if not the main reason, that today, as you said correctly, 2-3 percent of the power we have today is renewable energy in the structure of our country's energy supply?
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-16-m0.u39	Mr. Ostap, will you answer? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-16-m0.u40	Yeah, you're right. Maybe it's even better for the Energy Committee to comment on this situation, but really, because of monopolization and oligarization of this market, we need to increase the percentage of coal-based energy sources, and that's exactly what we need to do. As a result of our failure to reform the energy market, my fellow citizens. And once again, one of these issues can be discussed during the parliamentary hearings that I am aspiring to vote for all of you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-16-m0.u41	Thank you. Question time is complete. And I'm asking you to record the factions. Please sign up. Mr. Ostap, thank you. You can take your place now. Monsieur Igor Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-16-m0.u42	Igor Mosiyczuk, Oleg Lachka Radical Party Of course, our faction supports the decision to hold these hearings, as it supports all measures aimed at developing the country’s environmental security. But now, with the opportunity, I would like to talk about something else, about those who have protected the country from the environmental disaster, protecting mankind from the environmental catastrophe. Once again, I want to draw your attention to the problems of Chernobyl, to the social protection of people who have sacrificed their lives and health, protecting the country, protecting the nation, protecting the right to life of every Ukrainian. Bill 4442, which was disgracefully ruined in this hall, was sponsored by the team of the Radical Party of Oleg Láška, who was called upon to restore justice, to give social guarantees, to provide social security to those who rescued Ukrainians and all mankind from this catastrophe in 1986. Our bill 4442 is now under review by the committee. I call on the committee to consider it as soon as possible and to bring it back here to the session room. And you, my dear fellows, do not hide your heads like ostriches in the sand, but take courage to vote. To honor those people, to give due credit to those to whom you, including your life. Go to my native Poltavščina, to Lubenščina to the Spaso-Prefecture Monastery. In addition to Zajur-mountain, in Kurgana tribulations, where the Memorial victims of Holodomor in 1932-1933, Aleia of the Chernobyls, where the shores are planted in memory of each one who dies in Lubenčina, where the most liquidators live. Come, come, come in among these shores, consciously and vote. Give what is due to those who have saved the Ukrainians from destruction.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-16-m0.u43	Thank you, Your Honor. Please welcome national deputy Sergei Evtushk. He is given the right to speak by his distinguished colleague Alexander Abdullin.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-16-m0.u44	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Sergey Eutuszek, "The Fatherland" faction. Indeed, at the end of 2016 a new phase of the international negotiation process was launched to prevent anthropogenic climate change. I'm going to say that this agreement was our first country, including the first to support its ratification. This happened as early as July 14, 2016. What does the Treaty of Paris offer us? The Paris Treaty offers a system of commitments that are accepted by countries on a voluntary basis within the framework of shared responsibility. That is, each country is obliged to determine its own level of greenhouse gas emission limitation and enforcement. Support for developing countries to prevent climate change Given the desire of 48 countries around the world to move to 100 percent, I'm putting emphasis on renewable energy by the middle of the century. The implementation of the Paris Agreement can create appropriate conditions in Ukraine and contribute to the upgrading of energy, transport, agriculture, the transition to new technologies and the elimination of fossil fuels in favour of renewable energy sources that exclude greenhouse gas emissions during energy production. In order to address these issues in a comprehensive manner, on the basis of the Committee's decision of 7 November 2017, it is proposed to hold parliamentary hearings on 20 December 2017 at the plenary meetings of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on "Implementation in Ukraine of international instruments to prevent anthropogenic climate change". Parliamentary hearings will contribute to a broad discussion of this issue. Here, dear colleagues, this is our guide, this is the development of our Ukraine in the context of climate conservation. And I'm going to say right now, to the author who reported here, I wanted to ask you a question. Please tell me, these subsidy systems that are stimulating our owners of liars, poor oligarchs to subsidies, will they lead us to switch to renewable energy sources? Will our people, Ukrainian citizens, be able to keep their homes warm, thereby reducing the use of gas and everything else? I think it's an absolutely shameful practice, and it's in the context of this Paris Treaty that we need to move to renewable energy sources, thereby keeping the climate conditions in the state that they are now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-16-m0.u45	Thank you. Please welcome the People’s Deputy Krivoshei. Please. From the People's Front, he represents the position of the People's Front on the draft decision under discussion. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-16-m0.u46	Gennady Kryvoshea, faction of the People's Front. Dear colleagues! Dear members of the Ecology Committee! I'd like to ask you a favor. It seems to me that the public hearing and the public discussion in Parliament should begin with some serious words, saying, "People, come on, people, stop!".. I would like all of us here today in Parliament, first of all in Parliament, to pay attention to this. Each of you is now solving some of your questions, but you are not thinking about what is happening to us in the country or what is happening in the world. People are good, if we look at it, in just the last 10 years, the number of catastrophic emergencies in the world is actually increasing several times every year. It's fires, it's natural disasters, it's a constant flooding of certain areas. And that's it. The number of territories in the world, the number of land is increasing. And the scariest part is that the number of people who die from these extraordinary situations is also increasing. What should we do with you today? It seems to me that with one parliamentary hearing, we will not solve this problem. Each of us, every Ukrainian, every single person in the world should pay attention to this. We should be fully responsible for our extraction and use of the earth. We need you to understand that even forest conservation, by reducing the amount of paper that is being distributed to us here in Parliament today, is also the preservation of our land. We need you to understand that the future of the world depends on it. A moratorium on the removal of forests from Ukraine The decrease in the number of cars used by diesel engines in Europe is just an example and the smallest, the smallest example of what we should be doing today, probably in Ukraine and around the world. We need to understand that these discards are destroying our planet. I think that at this parliamentary debate, parliamentary hearings, I think that we are voting today, we should raise this issue substantially, and Parliament should take the flag into its own hands and continue what Ukraine has undertaken to do by signing the Kyoto Protocol in 99th year. It is not simply a matter of strengthening ourselves; it is necessary to be accountable and to have proper responsibilities toward the world both in the eyes of our own people and in the eyes of our own people. Because the future of the entire planet depends on it. We must guard what nature has given us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-16-m0.u47	Thank you, Your Honor! Please make the last statement on this block. Yuri Solovay. Please, Mr. Yuri.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-16-m0.u48	Yuri Solovay, 89th constituency, Gutzulščina and Poksi. Dear colleagues! Dear Ukrainian people! First of all, I want to point out that, of course, there are no non-essential bills that are being considered by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. But to my profound conviction, there are important, and there are the most priority laws that we should have considered long ago in the walls of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. And given that we are considering this provision today, clearly it needs to be maintained. But besides, I want to point out that over the last three years, the Ukrainian Parliament has done a lot of important things in defence, for example, or in the area of decentralization. But on my deep question, the largest range of issues that we've missed and missed in our work is actually the economic development of the Ukrainian state and the implementation of economic reforms. I want to point out that in four years we haven't come close to solving the land market issue. Over the course of four years, we have more than 3,000 state-owned enterprises, extremely deep-down and devastating enterprises. In four years we did not approach the issue of insurance. These are just the small structural, global economic reforms that the Ukrainian State has been awaiting for decades. But at the same time, we are closer than ever to implementing one of the key socio-economic reforms in Ukraine -- the introduction of a cumulative pension system. I would like to recall that last year the Ukrainian Parliament voted to introduce a mandatory accrual pension system as of January 1, 2019. This reform applies to absolutely all Ukrainians. I would like to remind you that more than 60 national deputies have cosponsored Bill 6677, a bill that regulates the mechanism for the implementation of a mandatory cumulative pension system in Ukraine. Moreover, the bill was in the order of the day yesterday, unfortunately standing in an impenetrable position. That's why I'm calling on the leadership of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to put the bill in motion tomorrow as one of the priorities for consideration in the parliament walls. Because the issues that we are considering need to address both critical and key socio-economic reforms that our country needs, namely the introduction of a cumulative pension system, are one of the strategic and global reforms that the Ukrainian state has long been waiting for. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-16-m0.u49	Thank you. Dear colleagues, before we continue to discuss this decision with you, I would like to inform you that, on the occasion of the World Mother's Day, which we recently celebrated -- and it is only right that this beautiful Ukrainian tradition -- the celebration of Mother's Day -- is now being invited to Parliament by the mothers of our dead heroes. And now these women are on the rostrum of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. I ask you all to stand up in applause and thank these women for raising the worthy sons of Ukraine. We thank you, we worship you, we pray with you, we have compassion for you, our dear ones. [[Applause]] And I ask now to honor the moment of silence of the boys who were raised by their mothers and who put their lives behind Ukraine. [[A Minute of Silence]] Thank you again, thank you, dear!
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-16-m0.u50	Heroic glory! And whoever wants to approach our beautiful heroic women, to communicate in the towers, will be quite right. We continue our work, our colleagues, we continue our discussions. And I'm asking you to hold a record of the Ukrainian people's deputies to discuss a ruling from the deputies. Thank you very much. Thank you. Please, Sergey Kaplin.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-16-m0.u51	The issue that we are discussing today is certainly of extraordinary relevance, and our team has devoted the last eight years of its work to energy conservation. We were resuscitated, in fact, by the Environmental Resources Corporation, which was responsible for energy conservation in the whole country of southern Ukraine. We've developed a series of projects, including the use of a low-potential pair to electrotechnically secure the utility activities in Bloody Rose and so forth. And of course, today we could pick up a huge ruler of the works of our scientists. All the innovations in the field, in energy conservation, but it certainly doesn't have to be done in the context of the so-called babbling of discussions during so-called hearings. In general, I believe that a similar parliamentary institution needs to be reformed, to some extent its decisions should have responsibilities to fulfil the character of the Supreme Council, the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. Because today it comes down to another attack of populism on the part of individual political forces, individual politicians who pretend to be great fighters for the energy independence and energy sovereignty of our nation. But I would like to highlight today what disasters are happening in the lives of ordinary, ordinary Ukrainians. You know that the second time on the Cruise Railroads has been organized and there's been an engine strike. I'd like to remind you that a simple, ordinary car driver lives to be 55 or 57 years old. This is caused by the unbearable working conditions of our boys. The temperature is about 58 degrees Fahrenheit [58 ° C], and the temperature is about 38 degrees Fahrenheit [38 ° C]. These are insufferable, according to doctors, working conditions. I'm not talking about the state of our locomotives anymore. I spoke to the unions yesterday, representing locomotive drivers, and they say the following. We're very sorry when we see a Russian railway locomotive here in the country that's equipped with beautiful furniture that's equipped with good conditions for work, air conditioning, and compared to how the railway relates to our simple boys, where there's no air conditioning, where people are actually killed in their workplaces. These questions need to be considered. We don't have time and money, and we have the right to spend an incredible amount of money on keeping the Supreme Council of Ukraine, looking at these issues without consequences for the national economy and our climate environment as a whole. I want to remind you that one day the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine costs 15 million dollars. Yesterday, southern work was thrown under the tail of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Today is the day of the work of the Supreme Council.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-16-m0.u52	Please, next. People's deputy Kishkar, you have the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-16-m0.u53	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the question that comes up at the parliamentary hearings and we will certainly support the proposed decision, resolves a few questions where we are probably not super-experts with you, and we need to listen to those people who will be involved in these parliamentary hearings. Everything in life is interlinked with the actions of the government that accept our instructions and our discussions, including the holding of parliamentary hearings, and the consequences of these parliamentary hearings, this is a requirement for energy saving measures and, as a result, a further rejection of the subsidy system. Because under a low level of energy consumption in each household, there will be no need to subsidize and spend a huge amount of government spending on providing a subsidized system. That's what this is about, that's what specialists need to talk about, that there should be some tools to be introduced into the state, and we need to listen to them. As a result, these hearings will result in government decisions and appropriate energy saving systems. What they're going to be like, how they're going to modernize, what modern systems are now going to exist, so that every household is free in their energy costs, we'll see. And the request of all national deputies to join the process of discussing such systems at appropriate parliamentary hearings. And that's a determination I'm asking you to support.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-16-m0.u54	Thank you. Dear colleagues, there will still be opportunity to speak to the national deputies Danilin, Shahov and Illenko, because not all groups were able to take the floor during the speeches by the MPs. Please, a national MP. I'm asking you to add this time. And now the word of the people's deputy, Danilino. Then there's Shahov and Illenko. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-16-m0.u55	Please pass on the word of Hennady Krivoshei.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-16-m0.u56	Once again, please invite the People’s Deputy of Krivoshia to take the floor on this matter.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-16-m0.u57	Thank you. I won't take up Mr. Shahov's time then, but then I'd like to focus on such things. Dear colleagues, we have to pay attention to Ukraine's presence today, according to international experts, in its 20s, of greenhouse gas emissions. That's a pretty serious problem. We need to understand that without looking at the territory, the small territory of our country, we are actually in 20 of those countries. And so, by focusing on this, I would just like to get public debates to pay attention to this and to do an analysis of what needs to be done during parliamentary hearings in order to actually make these indicators the lowest. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-16-m0.u58	Thank you. Please, the national deputy Shahov is invited to speak. Out of the way, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-16-m0.u59	Lugansk, Shahov, the political power of Our End. Dear colleagues, this is an important decision, and I will support this decision personally, because the planetary problem is practically an environment, not just in the country. Look what's happening around here, the oligarchs charge their pockets with money. I ask you to pay attention not only to party and special attention. Personally, MPs who were elected from majority districts. Today, electricity is being robbed and completely destroyed. Green energy today is needed so much worldwide, and in Ukraine electricity is being destroyed, and billions of dollars are being poured into the pockets of oligarchs at the expense of taxpayers, at the expense of pensioners. It is electricity that transports people of retirement age who today cannot pay for these routes. During the discussion, please note this. And the main question today is, what are we going to leave our children as heirs? They must leave the green groves, the lakes, and leave normal air and clean water. We used to buy. We used to buy milk in our backyards for 20 copies, today we buy water, and tomorrow we buy air in our bags. This is the world’s main problem today, and we will support this determination. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-16-m0.u60	Thank you. Last performance in this block. Please, National Deputy Illenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-16-m0.u61	Andrew Illenko, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union, the city of Kiev. Although the presiding lady has already said this, being in the hall right now, when the mothers of our heroes are among us, I can't help but point this out again and say that Ukraine is in debt to you forever, to your children, who have done this feat and given away the most expensive thing that they had -- their lives for Ukraine. [[Applause]] We will always remember them, their eternal glory! And eternal glory to everyone who defends Ukraine today on the front! In fact, I am convinced that we need to hold parliamentary hearings. We understand that anthropogenic climate change for today is really a huge problem. We all understand and see what is happening to the climate. It's a big problem, it's to be discussed, it's to involve scientists, it's to look for reasons, and it's to be addressed. At the same time, of course, the environmental situation in Ukraine is, indeed, catastrophic. And this is certainly the consequences of the terrible Chernobyl accident, but this is also today's situation where unfortunately, but the oligarchi business, it's absolutely not investing in environmental technologies, it's not doing anything to protect our citizens from the effects of environmental change, negative changes. And actually today we've already talked about this, energy, especially Ukrainian, it's only 2-3 percent made up of renewable energy sources, because the oligarchy business, which has completely monopolized, especially energy, is not interested in developing renewable technologies, it's not interested in the future of this land, it's not interested in making it as comfortable as possible for citizens here to have normal health, normal living conditions. What's happening in Ukrainian cities, especially in large industrial centers, is just horror, and we understand that it's necessary to change it. So Freedom, in particular, insists on the adoption of our anti-oligarchy package of radical transformations, which we require Parliament to adopt, which in particular concerns energy issues, because this is a key issue. And so we also think that, of course, we need to protect our environment, we need to improve our environmental situation, because, in particular, we need to protect our environment, because we need to improve our environmental situation, because, in particular, very low quality of life and, in fact, even high mortality, and low longevity. A small life span is one of the main ones. One of the major consequences of the terrible environmental situation in our country. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-16-m0.u62	Thank you. Dear colleagues, in fact, we have completed our statements on the draft Ordinance on Parliamentary Hearings on "Implementation in Ukraine of international instruments to prevent anthropogenic climate change," and we have to move on to decision-making. I see that not all the colleagues have returned from the towers in the session room. I'm asking the honourable national MPs to return to your places of employment, and there will be a vote in a minute. I would like to give the floor to the national MP, the author of this bill to the national MP of Eden. Please close the door for three minutes. And I'm asking your colleagues to return to the session room so that we don't fail with you because of the lack of discipline this important decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-16-m0.u63	Dear colleagues, once again, I would like to remind you that this Ukrainian Parliament, our convening with you in July 16th, was one of the world's first parliaments to ratify the Paris Climate Agreement. It was a great victory then, but it was only the beginning. Those commitments must be implemented and the opportunities offered by this Treaty of Paris must be used. To that end, we need to discuss with you in Parliament the issues, involving the best and best Ukrainian and international experts to determine the future political course. The issue of climate change is not just a matter of ecology. It's an energy issue, it's an infrastructure and transport issue, it's a agriculture issue, it's an energy efficiency issue, it's a question of how our country will develop over the next few decades, and it's an adaptation to climate change. Because in the same United States, every megapolis, every state, it's already ready, it's already predicting what will be done in the coming decades to change the climate, change the level of water in rivers, how cities will be protected from submersibles and so forth, and how agriculture will change because of climate change. There is much more to be done in Ukraine. As Mr. Sergey Eutuszek rightly said, the issue of subsidies reduces the motivation for energy conservation and energy efficiency, and this in turn does not contribute to the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions. And this also needs to be discussed at the expert level in the walls of our Parliament. So, dear fellows, I urge us all to gather now and vote in favour of the draft decision. If this happens that there are not enough votes to be found today, I ask not to put in a long box, re-register and vote for it in the passing part of the agenda of Parliament's work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-16-m0.u64	Thank you. So we finished the discussion. I ask the heads of factions to invite all deputies to the hall. Just two minutes ago, a few deputies left the hall. I'm asking everyone to report that we're moving to making a decision and taking our jobs. According to information provided by the apparatus, the decree is supported by all the factions of Parliament, and only mobilization is important. I ask everyone to prepare for the vote and take up jobs. Please tell the factions that there will be a vote. So I'm voting on the draft Resolution on Parliamentary Hearings on "Implementation in Ukraine of international instruments to prevent anthropogenic climate change" (No. 6129). The committee proposes to take a decision as a whole. Please vote and please support the position of the committee. Vote, please. Vote. [[11:26:16]] For 186 We didn't make it. I see they weren't all. I beg you now, I urge you to invite everyone into the hall. The discussion is over. We make decisions. And I'm asking all the deputies to come into the hall and take up jobs. So now I'm going to put it back. Maximumly mobilize the national MPs. Please, let's go into the hall. So, colleagues, I propose to go back to the draft Resolution on Parliamentary Hearings on "Implementation in Ukraine of international instruments to prevent anthropogenic climate change" (No. 6129). I ask everyone to take part in the vote. And I ask you all to support and vote. Vote for the return of 6129. Every voice has meaning, we vote, we support. Let's vote, colleagues. [[11:27:46]] For 208 208. I'll do it again. And now I'm asking everyone in the classroom to come into the hall. I ask the Secretary of the Supreme Council to invite members of the House. Colleagues, you see who's not there, who's not there right now, who's not there, who's there, who's not there, who's not there, who's not there, who's not there. I'll read the factions. "Block of Peter Poshenko" – 70, "National Front" – 54, "Resistance Block" – 22, "self-help" – 13, "Radical Party of Oleg Ljashka" – 15, "Fatherhood" – 3, "Will of the People" – 3, "Party of Rebirth" – 4. Let's mobilize and get back to the draft decision. So once again, I ask everyone to come to the hall and prepare for the vote. And I propose once again to go back to the draft Ordinance on Parliamentary Hearings on "Implementation in Ukraine of International Instruments for the Prevention of Anthropogenic Climate Change" (No. 6129), to vote in favour. And I ask you carefully to vote each vote for the return. I'm waiting, yeah, I see they're coming in. Please take your seats and take part in the vote. They're here, aren't they? Ready? So we vote for the return. All factions support, let's vote in agreement. Please vote and please support the return of 6129. Let's vote, colleagues. Vote. [[11:29:49]] For 224 Two votes. I didn't make it. I can see that Mr. Yuri didn't make it, and Ostrikov didn't make it. Be nice, Victoria Sumar. So there are voices. We lacked two votes. Four deputies entered the hall. And please, I'm going to put it to a vote now, but everyone is going to vote carefully. Colleagues, don't leave the hall right now. Now I'm putting the vote back to the 6129 draft. And I ask everyone to vote carefully. Don't move away from your jobs. Vote for the return of 6129. Please vote, please support. Carefully, each voice matters. We're voting for the return. Please be supportive. Vote. [[11:30:53]] For 227 227. We're back. And, colleagues, every voice matters. Please. I see Mr. Sergei is here. Every voice. I'm putting in draft Decree 6129 as a whole. Please vote, please support. We're back. Every voice, colleagues. Vote. All factions support. Let's vote and make a decision. Please vote. Vote. Please be supportive. Careful. [[11:31:29]] For 236 236. Decision taken. Colleagues, please remain seated. Now, colleagues, in order not to put them at risk of ratification, I'm going to run a rating vote on them. The draft has been approved. Now I, my colleagues, bet on the rating vote for two ratifications. Ratification we have no right to put at risk. So I'm voting for the next draft of the Law on the Ratification of the General Agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of the Republic of Poland (0145). Please vote, please support and participate in the rating vote. Vote. We're backing it up. Please be supportive. [[11:32:22]] For 185 Ratification. The rating vote. Let's do it again. I bet we don't lose. Don't leave the hall, please. So I'm putting again the draft Law on Ratification of the General Agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of the Republic of Poland on Co-operation in Defence, on the rating vote (0145). Please vote. Please be supportive. Vote. Please be supportive. [[11:33:03]] For 190 There's still not enough votes. Next. Draft Law on Ratification of the Agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of Romania on Cooperation in Military Transport (0153). I'm putting up a rating vote. Please vote. Please be supportive. Please be supportive. [[11:33:37]] For 180. Not enough voices. And so I move on to the next issue of the agenda -- this is the draft Act amending some of the laws of Ukraine on the basis of the study (No. 8116). And, colleagues, we don't have much time left. I ask you to support his consideration of the reduced procedure. Please vote. Please be supportive. 8116 - short procedure. Please vote. [[11:34:18]] For 186 Decision taken. And I invite you to report to the author of the National Deputy of Ukraine, Dobrenkov Aleksandra Valeriyovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-16-m0.u65	Dear citizens of Ukraine! Dear colleagues! This bill is not political. I hope that there will be no political debates around him, regardless of the political ownership of one or the other. It's very simple. This bill is aimed at avoiding the problem faced by many millions of citizens in their daily lives since March of this year, when, following the changes to the Criminal Procedure Code, a very complicated and bureaucratic procedure was made for forensic forensics, as it was until March 15, this year, when a person under uncertain circumstances, God forbids, dies, according to the procedure, a doctor and investigator arrive at the scene of the event, ordering a criminal case for the event, on the basis of the fact of death. And then, in order to determine whether there was a violent death, whether there was a natural death, the corresponding decree establishes forensic expertise. On the basis of the above-mentioned ruling, the person who has died is sent to the morgue and there is forensic expertise. Unfortunately, after the changes made to the Criminal Procedure Code in March of this year, forensic expertise is only possible on the basis of a court order by an investigating judge or a court. According to the court’s ruling, people cannot deliver their loved ones to the morgue and more than three days old because they cannot be sent to the morgue and are relatively unable to be buried. I believe that we do not have the moral right to complicate the procedure and to conduct the last-mentioned citizens. I'm just calling.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-16-m0.u66	Please add a minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-16-m0.u67	The bill is really so apolitical, it's aimed at removing the gaps and disadvantages that have unfortunately arisen this year. I'm asking you to vote it as a basis if there's any legal comment on someone, on the part of some faction, we can work it out, but the question is really urgent. Because there was a lot of talk about what it was about in criminal matters. But in order to rule out the possibility of violent death, forensic expertise is assigned by procedure in any case. Until then, one can't even get to the morgue. And accordingly, in order to clean it up, we initiated this bill with our colleagues. I ask you very much to exclude these shortcomings and to support this stated legislative initiative. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-16-m0.u68	Thank you. From the Legislative Security Committee, the law enforcement activity of Anton Herashchenko. Please, Mr. Anton.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-16-m0.u69	Dear National Deputies! Dear Chairman! Dear Ukrainian people! Indeed, last October the Supreme Council made major mistakes in adopting procedural codes. Corrections were adopted that led to some collapse in the law enforcement system. Part of what we started to do is we've already eliminated the question that the police and the prosecutor's department had to go to the courts every day to the district centers, that's Law 8151. And I thank everyone who supported him. The President signed it has already entered into force. And there's a second question -- it's a question that now, after all the expertise, the investigator has to go to the court, not directly to the expert as before. This leads to what, for example, if a person is killed and is motivated by the fact that he has died in a violent way. The investigator could have consulted the expert on the same day, and the expert would have given his expertise the next day. Today, the investigator goes to the judge it takes 5-7 days, the body of the person who wants to bury the family is in the morgues that aren't always equipped to do that. This leads to great suffering for the people. As far as this bill is concerned, I cannot say that it is completely perfect, but I will personally vote in favour. Perhaps there will be no votes for him today because not everyone is in the hall today. But I want the next bill tomorrow to ask you all to support Bill 8336, which is similar, but it solves a larger range of issues. And it also supports resolving the issue of expertise and that we should vote and adopt this bill as a whole. And we've solved the issues that we've created ourselves.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-16-m0.u70	Thank you. Are you done? Thank you. So, colleagues, please hold a record to discuss: two in favour, two in opposition. Please sign up for the discussion. From the Samohelp faction, Zubaj Lubomir Lvivovich passes the word Oleni Sotnik. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-16-m0.u71	Thank the chairman for the opportunity to speak. In fact, we continue the record of correcting the errors that we have accepted in this room, more specifically you, when voting for the Procedural Code. I can tell you a few things, so aside from the domestic problem of forensic expertise, including the establishment of causes of death that ordinary people suffer, they couldn't even imagine that there would be problems like this on a level playing field. For some reason, national MPs did not think of a number of other problems. What did we do? We've done so that no expertise, regardless of whether it's forensic, it's dactyloscopic, or it's economic in a corrupt crime, whether it's a criminal investigation or a prosecutor, is going to go to court and ask him to be allowed to do this expertise. As a result, this has led to an over-increasing of the courts. Courts. Courts are actually blocked today. A technical court can handle about 20 cases a day. Today, Pecherski, for example, is the district court of Kiev, the Shevchenkov Court of Kiev, in Kharkiv, and the courts of Lviv have decided at their meetings that they will have an appropriate hierarchy of priorities for dealing with problems. They will first consider these concerns regarding precautions, and then only medical expertise. This means that individual experts will wait years for them to be assigned, I'm not talking about temporary access and search. Thus, with such changes, we have actually blocked the activity and investigation and have not allowed the court to work properly and to deal with criminal cases. So this bill, unfortunately, does not solve all the problems of expertise. There remains a monopoly of government institutions, which we have very few.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-16-m0.u72	Please give me a minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-16-m0.u73	Thank you. . We have very few today in Ukraine. This means that even if we solve the issue of reconciliation in court, people will still have to wait in line until they get to the state institution, and it can take a year and a half to this day, economic expertise. In fact, it is absolutely crippling to any investigation into anti-corruption crimes, economic crimes. And I understand the MPs who initiated it, who voted for it. You wanted to control and manage the exact purpose of expertise, especially in corruption and economic crimes, but in the same way you led to total, simply destructive. a devastating situation in the judicial system. I don't really know what the solutions are. There's a bill that's already been agreed upon by my committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-16-m0.u74	30 seconds. Finish it.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-16-m0.u75	Thank you. ..because of my initiative, there's Anton Heraszczenko's bill, there's a bill called "The Opposition Block." Maybe it's the committee's task right now to get to the top of the line so that it will still be voted out by this Parliament, and we've removed this "primary pain" of the courts, of the people and of the investigators. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-16-m0.u76	Thank you. From the Radical Party of Igor Mosiychuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-16-m0.u77	Igor Mosiyczuk, Oleg Lachka Radical Party I don't want to talk about the tears and tears of Europeans coming out of this rostrum and criticizing the standards that are absolutely European and that work in most European countries. Instead, I would like to draw the attention of the Ukrainians and those present in the hall, that just in the course of the rating vote, two very important nons were broken down. Well, we didn't start to consider two very important military ratifications, including military cooperation with the Republic of Poland, but not just military cooperation. Just now, the leader of our Radical Party faction, Oleg Ljaška, was approached by the Yavorovsky District Council, the Cracow Village Council, the Novoyavori Town Council of the Lviv Region, and asked to contribute to the pedestrian crossing of Cracow – Korchev. I know that this is a matter and the head of our Parliament is working and promising. And I would like to take this opportunity to address the right ministers. Today, the leader of our faction, Oleg Lazko, will meet with the minister of infrastructure and raise this question. We really need to help people, not just by words, but by helping them. And, dear fellows, let us not turn our backs on the issues of defense, the issues that are really important to our nation and state, rather than talking about tears and tears here.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-16-m0.u78	Please. Ah, they're done, aren't they? Thank you. From now on from Peter Dustenka's Block, Sugonako. Turn on the microphone, please. Then I'll give it, then it'll be from the Front, Germany, from the Opposition Block came George Miroshnichenko, who'll be performing, and from the Fatherland, John Krulko. That's the order. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-16-m0.u79	My dear colleagues, as a lawyer whose first profession was the prosecution's, were very understanding and, of course, we need to adopt this bill, which provides an opportunity. unloading the law enforcement system, allowing, well, some simplified procedure to assign experts on the basis of the filing of investigators, where they don't need to, let's say, yes, or are not complex criminal offences. I therefore propose to support this bill, which will allow law enforcement authorities to work more effectively and where it does not need and is no reason to believe that it is a crime, but, as before, so-called non-refoulement materials, by a faster procedure, to assign expertise to deploy both the National Police and the Ukrainian Prosecutor's Office. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-16-m0.u80	Thank you. From the People's Front, Jemetz Leonid Aleksandrovich. From the rostrum, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-16-m0.u81	Leonid Yemeni, People's Front faction. Dear colleagues, unfortunately. Regrettably, it may have been because of the inadequacy of electoral legislation that a number of bills, which are extremely important to the state’s vitality, appear, in a mild sense, not entirely professional in their final version. And the problem that is today is a problem that should have been solved in the process of preparing the changes to the legislation that introduced the problem. Today we are faced with a situation where the real problem of conducting expertise leads to the collapse of the judicial system, the investigation system, the collapse of human rights, and this situation is unacceptable. We are obliged to correct this situation. There are a number of bills aimed at resolving this situation. On the first reading, we will support the bill. The only, well, as I can see from the presence of the people's deputies in the hall, we're not going to find votes for this important one today. for this important issue that needs to be rectified. The courts are unable to work today.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-16-m0.u82	Two minutes, please. Mr. Leonid, you can finish, two minutes at least. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-16-m0.u83	So, respectable colleagues, first of all. Well, I urge you again, let's accumulate our efforts. This is a question that does not bear political coloring, a question that relates to the effectiveness of the work of our investigating bodies and the judicial system. All of this is necessary for our citizens to know that their rights are protected and that they can demand justice from both investigators and the courts. And, dear fellows, once again, let's mention that we have the Law on Open Electoral Lists to correct the situation of the quality of Parliament's work, with the presence of deputies in the session room, with the professionality of the bills to be adopted. And tomorrow, I know, there's going to be a public meeting under the walls of Parliament just to change electoral legislation and adopt the Electoral Code. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-16-m0.u84	Thank you. From the Opposition Block, Miroshnichenko Yuri Romanovich, please, two minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-16-m0.u85	Thank you, Andrey Volodymyrovich. Dear voters, dear colleagues! Yuri Miroshnichenko, Opposition Block. In fact, all present in this room, regardless of factions, regardless of who the committee is working on, probably this subject, and the subject of funerals has become resonant in our country, not once has been discussed in any way. And majors in their districts, and those who have come to Parliament on lists at public meetings, we all understand that we need to solve this problem today. That's why from the speeches of our colleagues that we've already heard, I hope those who will still be heard from this rostrum are unitedly willing to support this bill in the first reading. Of course, our profiling committee is a committee on law enforcement, which includes representatives of different factions, supported this bill in order to improve these procedures so that we don't look for guilty ones, so that we don't try to do this policy, but make a good case for people. You can't put that off. And of course, the Opposition Block, and you know that the authors of this bill are our colleagues Voropeyev, Dudenkov and Matvienkov, who have just proposed, in our opinion, an optimal solution to the problem of expertise. And if we now vote on it as a basis, I'm sure that in the near future, maybe even in the next plenary week, we'll be able to adopt it as a whole. The only thing I want to do is talk to Andry Volodymyrovich as a speaker, maybe do a rating first. Because there may simply be a physical shortage of people present in the hall. Don't let us break this law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-16-m0.u86	Thank you. But it won't make any sense. We still have to finish the discussion, we still have. We could have taken it off or placed it before that. So, colleagues, now we're going to have a closing statement. And in two or three minutes, we'll move on to making a decision. That's why I'm asking all the factions to invite MPs into the hall. In two minutes, we'll finish the discussion and we'll move on to making a decision. I'm asking for full mobilization and inviting MPs into the hall. Now for the closing statement from the Fatherland faction. Krulko Ivanovich from the rostrum, please. And invite a colleague into the hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-16-m0.u87	Ivan Krulko, "The Fatherland" faction. Dear colleagues! Of course, all the factions in this room will try to cast votes for this bill. And it certainly needs to be accepted. Because we're in a situation of collapse, where every expertise that needs to be done in court and investigatively investigating any criminally punished act needs to be referred to the court for expertise. Appropriately, the courts are overwhelmed by these matters of expertise. And the question of conducting an expert is being seriously delayed. But I'd like to draw attention to two specific things right now. First of all, who gave birth to this problem. Isn't this a session room? This session hall voted the Criminal and Procedural Codes. When we talked like "Fatherland" that you can't vote with one spear all the codes, you can't strangle everything through parliament, they voted. Now we're heroically trying to correct this mistake. And I'm giving you a guarantee that we're not going to fix it right now, we're going to crash this bill. And we're going to put this situation down for the next session in the fall. The courts will continue to suffer from the fact that experts will come to them, who will have to decide previously in a non-judicial manner and which must be decided without a court’s decision. So I have the first and the key question is the problem of our legislative process and the problem of committee work. We don't have to print laws here like pies, we sometimes have to print them with this, so we're going to take the gool and the adoption of laws, and we're going to take so many things that are not necessary for the country, and then we're going to have to correct them so heroically. This is one moment. And second moment. Let's see if Parliament can really adopt these laws in a normal way. I'm setting an example last day. Yesterday.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-16-m0.u88	30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-16-m0.u89	Thank you. Yesterday, we were looking at a bill with a beautiful name, which is called the improvement of the investment climate in the state. What's in this bill? They adopted a standard that was kept secret by end-users who would buy off-shore bonds from domestic loans in Ukraine, which would be Russian capital. And yesterday, this question was voted in favour of the oligarchs and the Russian capital. And once again, we will heroically correct this norm, and we will not correct it.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-16-m0.u90	30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-16-m0.u91	Because the Russian capital and the oligarchs are forbidding controlled deputies to vote in favour of correcting this case. So let us read very well before we accept the documents that we vote on. And this bill needs to be voted on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-16-m0.u92	Thank you. So, colleagues, the discussion is over. I'm asking everyone to take up jobs now. I'm asking the factions to invite deputies into the hall. As soon as a few national deputies have come out, perhaps you should call them. Colleagues, please come into the hall. Let the Secretariat tell those in the towers that we're moving to making decisions. Oh, they're coming back. We're back. Okay. So, colleagues, I want to emphasize this question just as a basis. All the warnings that have been made during the discussion can be adjusted to the second reading. Olya, don't come out! Olya! I'm asking you to return to the hall. Invite everyone into the hall. And we're moving on to making a decision. So I'm voting on the draft Act amending some of the laws of Ukraine on the basis of an expert opinion (No. 8116) on the basis only. And I'm asking everyone to vote and I'm asking you to support me. Vote. I ask you carefully to participate in the vote. Vote. Please be supportive. [[11:58:02]] For 223 Three votes. We'll be right back. Please come into the hall and take a good part in the voting. Please, colleagues, that's just on the ground, we can adjust all positions to the second reading. I ask you to prepare for the vote. I'm going to put it back, and then I'm going to put it back. Please don't leave the room during the vote when we count each vote. So the first sentence is to go back to the vote of 8116. Please vote, please support. Let's vote, colleagues. Every voice matters. Please be supportive. Olya, we're voting. [[11:58:49]] For 233 233. We're back. And now draft Law 8116 is the basis. Please vote, please support me as a base. Vote. The vote is settled. Please be supportive. We're voting on the basis. [[11:59:13]] For 218. 218. What happened, colleagues? Please, 30 seconds. Don't leave the hall, colleagues, don't leave. It's some kind of proposal that lets you get a vote, right? Please, Yuzkova, 30 seconds. The replica.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-16-m0.u93	We propose in article 243 of the Criminal Procedure Act that part three delete the last paragraph, which defines the duty to assign forensic expertise when establishing the causes of death. That's it. We'll vote for it. In that case, we'll be dealing with the establishment and timing of the forensic expertise of the corpses.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-16-m0.u94	Colleagues, the debate will be a long time. You just say yes, don't you agree? Agreed. Then it'll give us a vote. If we agree, we'll put it to a vote. So let's start with the return. I ask you to vote for the return. And then I'm going to put in an adjustment that's been bugged. So I would like to vote for the return to 8116. Please be supportive. Please vote. Vote. Please be supportive. [[12:00:47]] For 227 We're back. Now I'm going to set up with the edits that Yuzkova gave me. Everyone agrees with that, right? Is it supported? So I'm putting to the vote the draft Law 8116, with a bill that the National Deputy of Ukraine, Yuzkov, has written under the transcript, based on only the basis. Please vote. Please be supportive. Colleagues, we vote, every vote matters. Please be supportive. Vote. Please be supportive. [[12:01:24]] For 235 Decision taken. Colleagues, I want to report now. I now invite the heads of factions, all parliamentary groups to meet with me on personnel matters. I'm asking you to come into my office after the meeting. Personnel, personnel. Heads of factions please come to me. And, colleagues, I want to remind you that tomorrow in Ukraine and around the world is embroidery day. Ukrainians around the world will wear their embroidery as a sign of solidarity and support for Ukraine. And so, according to our good tradition, I invite all the national deputies to mark this day with embroidery tomorrow. And that, I'm sure, will give us new powers to work in Parliament. Now, according to the Rules, I'm going to call it a 30-minute break. At 12:35 I invite everyone into the hall to continue our work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-16-m0.u95	Colleagues, break time is over. I ask everyone to come into the hall and prepare for further work. I'm asking you to invite the deputies into the hall. So, dear colleagues, I would like to inform you that I have now had a meeting with the heads, the factions and the groups on personnel issues. During the meeting, most representatives supported the position that personnel issues, including the CLTC, would continue political consultations in view of the fact that the algorithm, as determined by fourteen thirteen, had not been found. Peter Prashenko's Block insists that this issue be, but most, in fact all the other factions, have expressed their support for the position to continue the political consultations. And I'm here to guide both the committee, and for public information, I'm actually talking about the results of a meeting that asked the factions to continue their political consultations, including to meet with candidates. And now I want to remind you that the next issue in the agenda is the draft Act amending some of Ukraine's legislation on health protection and transplantation of human organs and other anatomical materials. This is a very large, very systemic law. And we have made a conscious decision because he has many rights that we are starting his consideration today on Wednesday, but at the end of the day, we will be able to come out tomorrow, during the morning session. But since this question has a very large social resonance, I'm asking all the national MPs, and I'm asking the right-wing authors to participate as much as possible in the discussion so that we can make the most optimal choice that will be supported by the hall, and where we can make a positive decision in the hall. So I'm announcing the transition to draft Law 2386a-1, and I'm inviting the head of the Health Committee, Bogopolitan Olga Wadimovna. I would like to stress that this is a second reading, and a form of consideration is going to be a discussion of the amendments that have been made to this bill. Please, Olga Vadimovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-16-m0.u96	Dear Chairman, dear fellow national MPs! In your attention, we propose a very important bill of 2386a-1, which the committee has been working on, preparing it for the second reading for almost two years. All this time, the law was not on the face, the experts were meeting almost every week, discussing and trying to find the best way to develop a transplant system in Ukraine to be modern and especially safe for all of our citizens -- both potential donors and potential recipients. A large number of experts participated in the drafting and drafting of the draft for second reading. I would like to thank the National MP, Alexi Kirichenko, who led the working group in the drafting of this bill and to point out that two bills were being considered in the first reading. One was the presumption of consent, the other was the presumption of disagreement. In fact, the key point is a person’s permission or consent to the removal of organs to death. So Alexi was the author of an alternative bill, and he was entrusted with an honorary mission to lead a working group just to consolidate society. And in that law that you're offered, there is a presumption in this law at the level of the law that will not allow human organs to be removed without its prior consent. The law is also very important because in 20 years, half of all the operations in the world are going to be transplant operations. They're going to transplant the organs of 3D structures, they're going to transplant little patches into the heart to make sure that the person who has a heart attack doesn't live with a scar, but live with a heart that will work fully. And today Ukraine has drifted away from the world for a century. Because we're practically the only country in the European community that doesn't do that kind of surgery. There is no country in the world where transplantation is prohibited. There are countries. Mr. Chairman, in view of the importance of the bill and the need to explain the substance of the bill, please add a few minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-16-m0.u97	Please add 5 minutes. And I think it's actually important to understand the essence and logic of this discussion, which was both on the committee and on the working group, and so I'm asking for five minutes to add Mrs. Ollie to the speech. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-16-m0.u98	Thank you. In fact, there are only 130 transplants in Ukraine today. They're being carried out, and we have the Transplant Act. Why don't we have one? We don't have donor and recipient databases, and we don't actually have a mechanism that makes it impossible for a black transplant that makes it impossible to transfer organs or systems. This bill states that the transplant system will develop exclusively on government funding, that is, no commercial moments, no business structures that will take part in this, are determined that there can be no. The bill also states that there are people, there are groups of people who can't be donors. They're orphans, they're people whose personality is not fixed, and they're soldiers, they're actors in an anti-terror operation. So by putting these fuses in place, we've made it impossible for a black transplant to become a risk in our country during the war. I would also like to add that today our country spends hundreds of millions of dollars a year treating patients abroad. In the last 10 years, it's spent 12. Sorry, 2 billion dollars for treatment abroad. This year alone, 700 million are planned. Thus, sending our children and people abroad to a bone marrow transplant essentially our state and our health care system are registered in their own inability to save the lives of children here in Ukraine. Why are Ukrainian children going to Belarus to undergo bone marrow transplants today? Because our doctors can't do that. That's not true. Our doctors have all the skills to do this here in Ukraine, and it was they who taught Belarusian doctors to develop this system of transplantation in Belarus, which, by the way, is under the personal patronage of the President of Belarus. That's it. Why is there no bone marrow transplant from a non-family donor here in Ukraine today? Only because some papers are missing. And our job is to get the law to be adopted, so that the Ministry of Profiles can develop all the sub-legal acts, so that the Cabinet of Ministers can join the creation of a transparent system and databases that can also be involved in European society. The bill, as I have already pointed out, has been worked by the committee for almost two years. The Ministry of Health and Government support this bill and believe that it meets the requirements of international legislation in the field of transplantation and the country’s Euro-Integration Commitment. Nearly 80 percent of the rights given to the bill have been taken into account in the drafting of the bill. The total number was 205 straights, of which 167 total – 46, partially – 2, edited – 119, rejected 38 straights. The principal legal office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine made some remarks to Bill 2386a-1 regarding the refinement of the mechanism for consenting to the death donation of family members and close relatives of the deceased, and compensation to donors for the hemopotic stem cells themselves. With the aim of removing the comments made by the committee, a cohesive meeting was held with the participation of representatives of the MPs, who also took note of these provisions of the bill, which would propose some clarifications to the bill. I also want to emphasize that. And go back, in fact, to the ability of Ukraine. What will allow us to do this bill? We have thousands of people who are bound to a procedure called haemodialysis, these are the people who refused to work the kidneys. We have people who have liver disease.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-16-m0.u99	Please, 30 seconds, finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-16-m0.u100	So actually, at the same cost that we're sending people abroad, for example, it was two and a half million dollars and half million euros, in 13-15 years only 6 bone marrow transplants, 8 heart transplants, 5 livers, 18 kidneys. And in Ukraine, at the same cost, we can save lives and make over a thousand heart transplants, hundreds of liver transplants, and over 5,000 kidney transplants.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-16-m0.u101	Thank you. So, colleagues, we're going to talk about rights. I want to remind you, I'm only going to read those corrections that are rejected. If one of the authors or any of the national MPs wants confirmation, he has to let me know by raising his hand. I call only those adjustments that have been rejected. 4th, Musai. Please give me the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-16-m0.u102	Good afternoon! Oleg Musei, 124 constituency. I have a lot of rights. Mr. Chairman, I'm going to ask for all my amendments that will continue, and I'm going to insist, and I'm going to speak to them, so without asking me to give me my word first. Secondly, Reverend Olga Vadimovna, I have a question of principle. At the very beginning, this particular bill, which is supported by the committee and where I am also in the proceedings, takes into account the very principle of the matter: the presumption of consent or the presumption of disagreement. Tell me, why do you, as chairman of the committee, think that the current presumption of disagreement is more important than the presumption of consent? Because at the time of assuming the agreement that works there in Spain, Belarus, allowing and saving lives much faster, simpler. And when this mechanism works, it's the right European practice, from my point of view. Explain why?
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-16-m0.u103	Dear Oleg Stepanovich, thank you for your questions. And once again, I want to emphasize that there are two assumptions in the world -- the presumption of consent and the presumption of disagreement -- and they work equally effectively. If we're comparing the number of transplant operations that are being done in those countries where the presumption of consent is fixed, and actually allowing the removal of organs from people without their prior consent, then in Russia, for example, Belarus and another example, this is Germany, this is Britain, the United States, where the presumption of disagreement actually works, I stress, Britain and the United States, that the development of the transplant depends on the presumption, we don't have the right, because statistics show that the number of transplant operations does not depend on the presumption. On what does the presumption of consent or disagreement depend?
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-16-m0.u104	30 seconds to complete, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-16-m0.u105	Just a minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-16-m0.u106	Please finish the minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-16-m0.u107	The presumption of consent or disagreement is based on the country's traditions. And actually, I would like to point out that we have been asked by the Council of Churches who did not explicitly support the presumption that without people's consent they would remove the organs. On the contrary, our entire community said that. The Council of Churches said that we are ready to support the transplant if a person is consciously willing to give consent in life. And that's an important decision. It's not enough that we think that once again, when there's a war in the country, we have to maximize the security of our citizens. And it's giving conscious, conscious consent to it that will allow people to be aware of what they're doing. And I would like to point out that not long ago, the director of the Heart Institute, Boris Toddurov, made an official statement on this.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-16-m0.u108	No, Mrs. Ola, I have all due respect for you, we have an order of minutes, I've already broken it, it's for one minute. What? Okay. You've exchanged thoughts, we don't put it to a vote. Also, I ask my colleagues to enter the regulations. 5th Amendment, Shipko, People's Deputy. Don't insist. Let's move on. I'll add 30 seconds if I don't have enough. But. The 7th Amendment of the People’s Deputy Musia is taken into account in an editorial way. The nation’s MP Moses insists on taking full account. Please have a word with me.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-16-m0.u109	Dear Olga Vadimovna, let me ask you. You have just quoted from the Council of Churches, but the words of John Paul II of the Pope are known to all society and the world, who urged those who want to give up their organs and tissues not to take them into that world. He said, well, almost literally, "if you have the ability to give away your organs and tissues, don't touch them in life. Give them back. Don't take them into that world, you won't need them there anymore." So the appeal, let's say, to the Council of Churches is good. But there are also traditions of transplantology in Ukraine. Therefore, the question here is questionable, especially if there is a position of world leader, thoughts at the time of Pope John Paul II, not to take the organs and tissues with us into that world, for we will no longer need them there. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-16-m0.u110	Please explain to the committee. Why the 7th amendment was only taken into account editorially. I remind you that the people's MP Musai insists on the full acceptance of this amendment. Please, Mrs. Ola.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-16-m0.u111	Dear Oleg Stepanovich, once again, I would like to point out that every person has the right to make decisions and to manage his own body, his own organs. So I think it's very true that the Ukrainian Parliament, in its first reading, supported, with the choice to support, and the presumption of disagreement, in fact, the presumption of consent, supported the presumption of disagreement. And this was supported in the first reading. We have no right to change it. And I don't think that's appropriate at all. As far as the 7th Amendment is concerned. That's your 7th amendment, edited in Law No. 6 of the Health Committee, in the final edition of the first law, proposed by the Main Committee, where the term is actually given. And once again, I want to say that we already have the statement of the director of the Heart Institute of Boris Todurov, who.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-16-m0.u112	30 seconds to complete, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-16-m0.u113	who has declared to the world that he is willing to save the lives of Ukrainians even after his death. And it reveals that he is willing to become a donor of organs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-16-m0.u114	Thank you. Please put to the vote Amendment No. 7 of the National MP Musia. It's been accepted editorially by the committee, and we've just heard the conversation. The National MP insists on its acceptance, in an editorial full of authorial texts. Vote please, colleagues. [[12:59:54]] For-54 No full-scale correction is accepted, but it's taken into account editorially. Yes, colleagues, there were questions about our work. We are moving today as amended, as amended by this important bill. 8 Amendment of the People’s Deputy Musia. Edited. The nation’s MP Musai disagrees with the committee’s decision. And please, I give you my word.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-16-m0.u115	Dear Olga Vadimovna! This amendment refers to the term, which is, "take an organ or part of an organ." It's in the committee's proposed form, of course, it's taken into account, my amendment, in part. But the proposed text says it's surgery and manipulation. And it says in my right hand that this is the whole procedure. So it seems, even from a logical point of view, that everything can't be taken into account, that it's just an operation, or it's just a manipulation. It's also the consent procedure, the exit procedure of the brigade, and so on. I think it's a little bit more embolistic, the word "procedure," so I'd like to take this whole thing completely into account.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-16-m0.u116	Thank you. The position is clear. We're going to put this to a vote right now because it's really, really about certain terms, terms that suggest that the author of this amendment should write more clearly. Please vote in favour of amendment No. 8 of the National MP Musia. [[13:01:33]] For-61 Not counting your repairs. Next 11th. It's also considered editorially. And the nation’s deputy Moses requires full consideration. Please, a word.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-16-m0.u117	This amendment also applies, and several other rights will apply to the definitions themselves. This refers to the definition of who is a living donor in Ukrainian legislation. It's in my office. I too, from my point of view, take more into account the notion of who might be a living donor. That is why this applies even to anatomical materials for transplantation and manufacture of implants and bioimplants. Instead, it narrows down only transplant materials and does not include bioimplants. So I asked, if there was room will, to support a wider edition so that we wouldn't change that term. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-16-m0.u118	Thank you for your clarification. Please position the committee on this amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-16-m0.u119	Dear Oleg Stepanovich, your rights are extremely appropriate, important, and in the right direction the number 6 committee in the final edition of article 1 of the law, proposed by the Main Committee, is given the definition of the entire term. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-16-m0.u120	Thank you. Dear colleagues! Thus, the head of the committee points out that the 6th article defines the terminology on which Mr. Musai insists in the 11th article. But I'm asking the session room to determine, the amendment is in terms of terminology, it's editorial revisions, but I'm asking you to determine. [[13:03:28]] Z-71 71 votes only supported the amendment. Let's move on. Next 12th. Similarly, it is the amendment of the national MP Musia, who was considered editorially, but the national MP Moses insists that he be given the word and fully present his amendment, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-16-m0.u121	Dear national deputies, Olga Vadimovna! The definition of someone who is a dead or dead donor is involved. In fact, if this bill has a bearing on medicine, the dead is such a general concept, and the dead is more of a medical concept, on the one hand. On the other hand, my point of view is that the donor must be included in a single register, and in the right that the committee voted, of course, there is, let's say, two thirds of it is counted, and the only registry is not included, although the only register still exists in the text. So it would be logical to leave a single register. So I'm going to ask, first of all, to answer what the only register was, and second of all, to vote in favour of this whole thing.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-16-m0.u122	Thank you, Your Honor. So we have heard an explanation from the national deputy Musia, who requires that in this, too, novel, this is the 12th amendment, the only register, and this is recorded in other articles of the law. I'm asking you to determine the room for this amendment number 12. [[13:05:05]] For-72 72 national deputies supported your amendment. Next amendment. I mean, it doesn't pass, but we'll expect that the one as you pointed out, and the committee head, the only register in this bill in the other articles. Amendment 15, People's Deputy Levchenka, partially counted, 15th. But Levchenko’s national deputy always insists on taking full account.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-16-m0.u123	Thank you. Lewchenko, Freedom, 223 District, Kiev City. I insist because it's not really counted at all. The point is that the bill creates a term, it introduces a new term such as "potential donor." But when we talk about the right part of the bill, where terminology is defined, that term is not properly written down. And that's why, in fact, we propose in this amendment to supplement the bill with a terminological definition of the person who voluntarily gave an orderly consent to take it after her death of anatomical materials for transplantation and/or the removal of bioimplants. So we write down what exactly is considered a potential donor. This is important for the legal definition of the bill. In general, I would like to point out that while we support the idea of the bill in general, considering it to be very necessary and very correct, we still need to work on some legal uncertainties that might complicate its implementation if adopted tomorrow by the Supreme Council. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-16-m0.u124	Thank you, colleague of yours. Including recognizing the importance of this bill. I ask the head of the committee of profile to comment on this article in terms of terminology, where the national deputy Lehchenko suggests more precisely the terminology of donation, the potential donor. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-16-m0.u125	Dear Mr. Jury, first of all, I would like to thank you for your always sound remarks and corrections, which are aimed at improving our legislation, so that the safety of our citizens is fully respected by Parliament. And thank you for your professionalism. I would like to point out that the Health Committee has considered this amendment and that it does. If you look at amendment number 6 of the committee in the final edition of article 1 of the law, which is proposed by the Main Committee, where the definition of the term is actually given. And we're ready as much as possible, if you have technical comments, we're ready to reconcile the terminology notes, and if you need me, I can vote, if you have any further comments, we can work it out and put it to a vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-16-m0.u126	Thank you. Colleagues, at the request of the People's Deputy Levchenk, I place his amendment number 15 to the vote. The committee insists that it is partially accounted for, but Yuri Lewchenko believes that the committee ignored his novel. I ask you to vote for the 15th amendment. What? [[13:08:28]] For-65 65 votes were in favour of your amendment, Mr. Yuri. It remains as a committee. Next, 16th. Please, National Deputy Musai.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-16-m0.u127	The definition refers to the word "allotransplants" are the anatomical materials of the human being for transplantation. This was the case in the previous edition, and there was something left in the editor’s office now from the committee. But the point is, in my right hand, it says that these are anatomical materials from living or dead, or dead, now (once the amendment has not passed) donors. Because it's not really human materials, it's materials that are already being donated, and this person has already become a donor. Because in terms of absolute logic, if these materials were already taken as a donor and not as a human being, that person had already become a donor. It would be more logical to write that these materials are from donors than from humans in general. So I'm going to ask you to take this whole thing completely into account.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-16-m0.u128	Please, Mrs. Olga.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-16-m0.u129	Oleg Stepanovich, thank you once again for your corrections and for your thorough drafting of this bill, which is extremely important and should be very clear. I want to point out that this amendment was actually rejected, and all the members of the committee voted in favour of rejecting this amendment. And article 1 of the Law is presented in a new edition proposed by the Main Committee, in line with the General Legal Authority. And on the right hand side of number six, the term "alotransplant" in this article was deleted as one that duplicates the term "anatomical materials" and allows this law to function normally. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-16-m0.u130	I'm asking the session room to determine for amendment number 16. Again, so far, we're discussing that block of law that applies to terminology, and that's an amendment to terminology. Please make up your mind. [[13:10:49]] For-60 It stays in the committee's office, this amendment, that is, it's rejected. Then the 19th, the 20th, Musia, the People's Deputy, there just goes as a reference that they're included in the 6th amendment. So, with your permission, I won't give you my word here. Next, 23rd, Lensky. Don't insist. And we're moving on. Similarly, the amendments of the 26th, 27th, 28th, 29th National MP Musia, who has been most actively involved in the drafting of the Second Reading Act, are included in Amendment 6. So we're going to roll over these amendments. 30th Amendment, Guli. I was walking! Excuse me, colleagues, excuse me! I've been walking. Don't insist. Okay. Next up, Gopko Hanna Mikolayevna, 32th Amendment. Don't insist. Walking, 33rd. [[B in m in s a l in]] What's that? 21st. Now, a minute, we'll go back to her if we do. Yes, Kirichenko. It's taken into account editorially in the sixth amendment. Mr. Kirichenko, you still want to take the floor. Please, Mr. Kirichenko, you have a microphone. And if I missed someone, just raise your hand, I will. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-16-m0.u131	I insist on my formulation of what bioimplants are, because I say they're products that are made according to special technological regulations from anatomical materials. And the proposed committee editor, she says they're products. I think this is a very wrong definition of these products, these bioimplants, so please confirm by voting my right.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-16-m0.u132	Ms. Olga, please explain yourself because the National Deputy Kirichenko demands that the 21th Amendment take into account the terminology of bioimplants. The committee, I, the honourable colleagues, want to stress here, stresses that all the relevant terms are laid down in article 6 of the relevant law and even here it is. Moses ’ national deputy, who similarly made a number of amendments, agreed, but they are included in article 6. I ask Mrs. Olga's comment on this situation.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-16-m0.u133	Mr. Alexia, thank you once again for your work in the working group that you have actually led, and for the amendments made to this bill, which has been processed by the General Legal Authority. In fact, you remember that three times we passed this law to the Health Committee in order to reconcile the misunderstandings that sometimes arise between medical treatment and legal treatment. That is why, in order for us to have no legal commissions, the Health Committee has considered your application editorially. And Amendment 6 of the Committee, the final edition of article 1 of the law proposed by the Main Committee, provides a definition of the term that is supported by the Chief Legal Authority. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-16-m0.u134	Thank you. Mr. Kirichenko, put to the vote? You insist. Please, we're putting amendment number 21 to the vote. The National MP, Kirichenko, insists that we set out in this amendment the term “bioimplants” that, as explained by the profile committee, are set out in article 6. Please make up your mind. [[13:14:51]] For-54 Your amendment was supported by 54 national deputies. He's staying in the committee's office. Next. National Deputy Lensky, 34th Amendment. Don't insist. Lechenko. 35th. I see, Your Honor, Mr. Yuri. Please, the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-16-m0.u135	Lewchenko, Freedom, 223 District, Kiev City. The proposal in the bill to interpret the term "brain death" in a new edition is, in our opinion, inappropriate in this way. The proposed position of the bill does not contain clear medical and legal criteria in brain death that may provide preconditions for the removal of organs in a person who is actually alive. That is why the standard of man is valid. I quote, "Man is considered dead from the moment the death of her brain is established. The death of the brain means the total and irreversible loss of all its functions, the moment of death of the brain can be set if all other possible causes of loss of consciousness and body reaction are excluded." It's an active norm. In our opinion, it doesn't need to change, actually, because now it's suggested to insert another option, it's suggested to replace it with the words "which is registered against the backdrop of a working heart and forced ventilation of the lungs." So I quote a new version: "brain death, full and irreversible loss of the human brain of all its functions, recorded in the background of a working heart and forced ventilation of the lungs." That's an understatement. We think it's logical to leave the norm in place. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-16-m0.u136	Mrs. Olga, please comment on this amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-16-m0.u137	Thank you, Mr. Levchenko. Thank you again for your consideration for the bill. I want to say that in view of amendment 191 of the Committee, which proposes a new edition of article 52, which defines how and on what grounds the findings of human brain death should be made, the amendment proposes the definition of "brain death". That is why Amendment 35 was rejected. And I would like to emphasize that the fact that other organs -- the heart and the lungs -- are supposed to continue to work at the death of the brain allows transplantation to be prevented outside the medical facility. Because only the person on the artificial ventilation of the lungs will be able to maintain its vitality after the death of the brain. She'll keep breathing.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-16-m0.u138	15 seconds, complete.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-16-m0.u139	Only if a person is in a medical facility will his vitality be maintained artificially after the death of the brain, which will allow for the preservation of organs for transplantation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-16-m0.u140	Colleagues, we heard an explanation regarding the 35 amendments. I'm asking you to identify a session room. She was rejected by the committee. People's MP Lewchenko insists on this amendment. Please. [[13:18:08]] For-52 52 national deputies, Mr. Yuri, supported your amendment. It doesn't count. We're moving on. We have a series of amendments: 42, 43, 44. [[B in m in s a l in]] Okay, well, so, 40th, this is the National MP of Musei. Please, microphone to the People's Deputy Musia. Correction counted as editorial.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-16-m0.u141	Ladies and gentlemen, this is after the definition of terms for the scope of this law. In fact, once again two thirds of my allowance is counted, and a third is the procedure for transporting the organs and tissues taken. Because in order to do a transplant, you all know, you have to take the organs and the tissues first and then transplant them. So the interval between ban and transplant is the procedure for the delivery or transport of organs and tissues, and it also needs certain medical manipulations to preserve the organ and tissue. And in world practice, transport, which is also a procedure, is part of the general concept of transplantation, it would be logical to leave it. And in the final version of the committee that we're seeing now, the transport procedure has failed. I'd like to leave and take this completely into account.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-16-m0.u142	Thank you. My colleagues, I would like to point out that this amendment is included in amendment 39 of the Committee. But the nation's deputy Musai insists that the 40th discuss it as well. Please make up your mind. [[13:20:01]] For-47 47 votes were in favour of your amendment. I don't think it's such a tragedy anyway. Because in 39th, this novelty is important. National MP Kirichenko insists that we return to the 25th Amendment. With your permission, Mr. Kirichenko, I'll do it this way. I give you my word. But we're already on your 43rd amendment. Unite, tell me about the 25th, 43rd, and we'll vote. So that we can move, move at a pace, at a pace. Thank you. Please, Mr. Kirichenko's word.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-16-m0.u143	I want to go back to defining what xenotransplants are, are the anatomical materials of animals. And in an editorial that came out of the committee, we lost "except organs." And we know that the transplantation of animal organs to humans is forbidden by all possible conventions. Professor Prezewski was fantastic. And that's why I insist that the term "except organs" be returned.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-16-m0.u144	That was the 25th amendment, Mrs. Ola, the national deputy of Kirichenko. The committee considered this position in article 6. Mr. Kirichenko insists that this be taken into account in his 25th amendment. I'm asking you to identify yourself, please. [[13:21:35]] For-58 58 votes, Mr. Kirichenko. But your important novelty is included in article 6. Next. Well, look, we have an amendment of 42 people's deputies Musia, 43 Kirichenko and 44 Kolganov. They're identical, they're all partially and editorially accounted for, and the committee says that they're, in principle, taken into account in 41 amendments. I suggest you give one representative a word, Mrs. Kolganovi, perhaps there, and she'll share your position with you, dear colleagues. Okay? Would you mind? Please, Mrs. Olena.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-16-m0.u145	Yes, I suggest you get the text. Paragraph 7 of Part Two of Article 3 of the Law. Section I, paragraph 1, of the bill: "Activities of blood banks, other tissues and human cells according to a list approved by the central executive authority with special status in the field of transplantation and donorism." This is the most objective assessment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-16-m0.u146	Thank you, colleagues. I would like to point out that immediately three national deputies: Musi, Kirichenko and Mrs Kolganova -- have made an identical amendment and they believe that this is exactly what this standard should be for the Blood Bank. The committee insists that this is outlined in 41 articles. 41 amendments to the relevant law. I'm asking you to identify the session room, now we're voting on the line of 44 Mrs. Kolganova. Please. [[13:23:23]] For-60 60 votes supported. He doesn't get the required number of votes. But we're also missing the corrections that I've calculated because they're identical, and they're obviously going to get as many votes. Next. 48th, Kirichenko. Are you insisting? Thank you. Mrs. Kolganova, 49th. Don't insist. Mr. Musia, 50 corrections. Are you insisting? Please. Please. It's the same thing, it's edited, but.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-16-m0.u147	Yes, it's taken into account editorially, but not to the end. In fact, this amendment is important, it's about those who are going to do, well, it's so much more to understand the hall, who's going to do the transplant in Ukraine in general. And that gives us a responsible standard that this is going to be the full competence of the state. I'm asking Olga Vadimovna to make a statement about the position of the committee, because it's important for the perception then of all the people's deputies and society that there's going to be some, there, black transplantists, anywhere, private firms or anyone. Who, according to the ideology of the bill, will be exclusively engaged in transplant activities in Ukraine? Explain to all of us what is going to be created by this law.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-16-m0.u148	Thank you. Please, Mrs. Olga, explain to the viewers of the "The Council" channel, and first and foremost to the colleagues in the hall, which will work the system in this area.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-16-m0.u149	Dear Oleg Stepanovich, distinguished colleagues, I thank you for these extremely good remarks, and I would like to point out that this process of control and development has been discussed for a very long time by the committee, by all experts, and we have been determined that a new body should be created that will fully control and manage transplant activities. So, of course, a state-owned, exclusively state-owned body that will be created by the central executive authority, and this state-owned one, we'll call it the "transplantology centre" that will take care of all the registers and databases. So the state itself will control the whole process. There is no transfer of powers – private, cooperative, partnership – that law is not proposed. Transplant is the prerogative of the state and the control of the recipient base and the control of the only donor register.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-16-m0.u150	Thank you. I take it there's no need to vote. Just the National MP Musai wanted to take advantage of this point in his amendment to clarify the subject of an institutional transplant. Mr. Musia's 53th amendment. Please. Don't insist. Thank you. 55th Amendment of the People’s Deputy Musia. Nor do you insist. Thank you. 58 Amendment of the People's Deputy, Elena Kolganova. Please turn on Mrs. Kolgan's microphone. And please, colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-16-m0.u151	May I?
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-16-m0.u152	a discussion on the transplantation of lead in workplaces.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-16-m0.u153	This is certainly the case. Please take into account the next line. Part of the first article 6 of the Law reads as follows: "Transplant is carried out in accordance with the principles of volunteerism, free of charge except for bone marrow and compensation and production of bioimplants in order approved by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine." That's the way it is. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-16-m0.u154	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I remind you, Mrs. Olena Kolganova is asking us to support amendment 58. I'm asking my colleagues to identify themselves. Thank you. [[13:27:30.]] For-59 The correction is being rejected. At the same time, I should point out that most of Mrs. Kolgan's amendments were taken into account. This means that they worked very well for the second reading of the bill. 60 revisions. People's Deputy Levchenko. Yuri Lewchenko, 60. And then you'll say I didn't give it to you in time. Don't you insist? Thank you very much. Thank you. 61st, Walking. Don't insist. 62nd, Lensky. Don't insist. 63rd, Musius. Please, National Deputy Musai, give me your word.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-16-m0.u155	In fact, these changes now, the block of rights, apply to consent or disagreement, and who will decide when the recipient refuses to transplant. And it's also an important understanding, it's got to be in the community, and it's in the medical community. The fact that a person, even if he's standing in a database, has the right to refuse a transplant, according to life evidence. And to that end, one doctor does not decide whether or not to do so. And there's also a whole commission that's going to have to see whether there's a rejection of the transplant or life evidence from the doctors or at the request of the recipient. That it is also violent, as it does not take the organs, no one can force them to transplant. Please comment on this right to understand the further adoption of this law.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-16-m0.u156	Please, Mrs. Olga, I ask you to express your position to the committee as to why the amendment of 63 people's deputies Musia was rejected. And the position on that question is what he sounded.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-16-m0.u157	Thank you, Reverend Oleg Stepanovich! In view of amendment 46 of the Committee proposed by the new edition of article 4 of the Law, the amendment actually proposes to exclude the rules on transplantation principles, which is why your amendment was rejected. What is involved in consenting or not agreeing, a person in life can express both consent to become a donor and not consent, so he can change his consent or not consent at any time, replace it just like a transplant of organs can never happen without consent of that person, and it is determined by our valid legislation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-16-m0.u158	Thank you. I mean, there's no need to vote, you just wanted to hear an explanation as to where it's fixed, where the rule of law is, which is a very important issue of consent or not agreeing to have its organs transplanted after death to save another person's life. Then we have some novels that are edited. It's the National Deputy Musia, I understand, not insisting on them, and it's taken into account in an editorial of Kirichenko's 67 amendments, so I understand you don't insist. Thank you. Kolganov does not insist on 68 amendments, Mrs. Helena. Kirichenko, Moses does not insist on amendments to 71, including. 73rd, too. You're insisting on the '70s. Wait a minute, I'm looking. Yes, indeed, the 70 amendment is the amendment of the people's deputy Kirichenko, it's taken into account editorially. I'm asking for Mr. Alexia's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-16-m0.u159	In my amendment, I have the honour to agree with the National Academy of Medical Sciences of Ukraine on materials that may be used, including for transplantation. I think if we have an institution that is the leading medical institute in Ukraine, we have to count with its perspective, and so please confirm my editorial that we are allowing the National Academy of Medical Sciences to agree on these materials.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-16-m0.u160	Thank you. The committee concluded that the position on the Nasakadem was fixed in 106 articles, by the committee. But of course, we will be happy to listen to the committee’s position. Please, Mrs. Olga, let us determine by vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-16-m0.u161	Thank you, Sir Alexia! I would like to point out that your license number 70 is edited in Amendment 106 of the Committee, the final edition of Article 13 of the Law. Suggested by the Main Committee, where the conditions for the recipient's transplantation are defined. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-16-m0.u162	I mean, there's no need to vote, you just wanted to hear that your position is fixed, but in another article. She did. Kirichenko, please turn on the microphone, do you insist on voting?
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-16-m0.u163	Yes, I insist on voting.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-16-m0.u164	All right, we'll put it in. There's no problem at all. Mr. Kirichenko still insists that we, colleagues, be determined by 70 amendments. I'm asking you to be sure. I believe that Mrs. Olga made it clear that the committee had fixed the standard in 106, but there was a colleague’s wish. [[13:33:05]] For-43 43 deputies supported your position. This novel remains in 106 articles. 73 corrections, you insist, right? Please, the nation's deputy Musai insists. 73 amendment is also edited by the committee, but there is a need to make a statement on this point. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-16-m0.u165	Dear chairman of the committee, we're about 20 amendments back, you just didn't take my entire edition into account where the word "transport" was. Yes, "transporting organs and tissues," which is part of the transplant procedure, and only removal and transplantation is final. Once again, there's a separate transport. So perhaps it was worth agreeing on, since it refers to 73 legal amendments, such as the transport of organs and other materials, carried out by authorized workers and so on? And there goes an entire article that uses the word "transport" again. And from the definition of "transport," we've cleared the word "transport." So maybe if we agree on a further legal term, sooner or later, either here to replace it, or add it. Well, look carefully at the above terms, and then it'll be clear, and the logic of the law will be reflected. So I would like to take this into account in the final editing and voting of the final edition that the transport procedure too.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-16-m0.u166	The position is clear. Colleagues, I then put to the vote 73 articles, where the National MP Musais requires more precise identification of the standards of organ transport. And if he doesn't think it's going to be supported right now, I'm also asking the committee to hold a brief meeting, and when we're going to go to the full vote. for the law in the second reading, and to take it into account in the End Positions. 73, please identify yourself. It was edited, but not entirely. [[13:35:17]] For-51 51 votes. It doesn't take up the necessary amount. 75 revisions. This is also Musai’s national deputy. 75th. Don't insist. Thank you. I see Yuri Lewchenko insists on 76 amendments. I would like to point out, my colleague, that this amendment was readjusted by the committee. Please, Mr. Yuri.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-16-m0.u167	Thank you. Lewchenko, Freedom, 223 District of Kiev. I have to insist, because it's really not fully counted. For example, my last amendment to the 60 was really edited, so I did not insist on it, but I had to insist on it. The point is that the bill suggests that "transplants and/or transplant activities are carried out by health and scientific institutions accredited in a special order designated by the Ministry of Health". But this position is not really in line with the Ukrainian Law on the Basics of Ukrainian Legislation on Health Protection, according to which health institutions are subject to accreditation in cases and in an order determined by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. So my amendment is to change the position of the bill, which proposes that accreditation be properly implemented by the Ministry of Health. Orders to approve the Ministry of Health, to change the order to be approved by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. And what's more, I think, considering how important this question is, I think it's appropriate for the entire Cabinet of Ministers to have the opportunity to vote, not the exclusive question, let's say, the more culinary Ministry of Health.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-16-m0.u168	Thank you, colleagues. I'm asking you to determine 76 of the amendment of the People's Deputy Levchenk. The committee took it into account. Mr. Yuri insists that his formulation is more accurate, clear, and so extensive, completely tangible. Please vote for the 76th amendment. [[13:37:15]] For-51 51 National MPs supported the amendment. She's turning down Lechchenk, but she's still on the committee. 80 amendments to the People's Deputies of Kirichenko. Please, the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-16-m0.u169	I support the view of the People's Deputy Levchenk that this is to be regulated by Kabmin, and in my amendment, I insist on the same wording, but we already have results. And I see it inappropriate to put this one to the vote again. This thesaurus.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-16-m0.u170	Thank you. Thus, we have just heard the explanation that the national deputy Kirichenko, as well as the national deputy Lechchenko, insists on a clearer formulation of the role of Kabmin. Amendment 81 of the Colganov People’s Deputy also applies to this standard. She doesn't insist, because we've seen the result that's not enough to support this novice in the hall. 82 amendments to the People's Deputies of Kirichenko. Please, the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-16-m0.u171	I apologize, but I would like to go back to 80 amendments, which basically says that organ transplantation is only allowed in health care institutions in state or municipal institutions. It's a fundamental question for me that there should be no insinuation on the subject of "private transplantation," "black transplantologists" and all that. That's why I insist on voting in this particular paper.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-16-m0.u172	Thank you, colleague. You may not have heard, but I've announced exactly 80 amendments to you before, and you said you don't insist on voting. That's why we didn't vote. But if you insist, please make 80 adjustments. I'm asking you to identify yourself. There may have been a misunderstanding about the number of the amendment. Please, the 80s, we vote. [[13:39:27]] For-54 She's not supported. Are you going to comment on the 82nd? You won't. Well, these are all amendments, really, which relate to the very responsibility and involvement of the Cabinet of Ministers in the process of being responsible for the transplant. Then there are some amendments that are edited. I don't see colleagues raising their hands that they want to take the floor, so I'm handing over the word again to the national deputy Kirichenko for 87 amendments, which was rejected by the committee. You insist on her, 87th? Don't insist. Okay. 88th National Deputy Kolganov. Don't insist. Okay. Now, here's the next amendment. Musi, National Deputy, 94th. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-16-m0.u173	Yeah, it's the next block, it's about funding a transplant. The point is that after the adoption of the law, when government and municipal institutions are exclusively involved in transplantation, there should be a state programme to finance this transplant in order to avoid the death of the law, a good law will be passed, and the financing of the Ministry of Health once again did not provide for it. That's why this right applies to the possibility of involving additional funds or voluntary contributions, or charity contributions, or any other source of resources, where we know that there's not enough money in the government budget forever. In addition to asking for confirmation of this amendment, I would also like to consult the Cabinet of Ministers and the Ministry of Health for the sake of general understanding. In the budget, if the law is passed, the 19th year must approve the funding programme for this transplant, then we will achieve the desired effect with the adoption of this law. Please set the edit specified.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-16-m0.u174	Thank you. Not for confirmation, but for the vote, because it was rejected. Mrs. Olga, comment on the 94th amendment. And with regard to the budgeting of the transplant area, we really need to adopt the law first and then move this topic forward in the budget for the following year. Please, Mrs. Olga. 94th Amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-16-m0.u175	Thank you, Mrs. Irina. Thank you, Mr. Oleg. I want to point out that this law on transplantation. All financing issues and, in fact, the law was rejected, because the financial provision of health facilities with any non-prohibited sources of legislation is carried out in accordance with Ukrainian budgetary legislation. And transporting or making changes that are not correlated with budget legislation is not responding to this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-16-m0.u176	Thank you. I'd like to make my mark on the 94th amendment. [[13:42:41.]] For-50 50 votes, correction not supported. Next 96. The nation’s deputy Musai. 96th. Don't insist. Colleagues, there's a block of amendments that have been taken into account editorially. I'm not going to announce them. If one of the colleagues isn't satisfied with some standards that aren't included, we'll let you know. And then I'm going to announce the 110 Kirichenko amendment. By 110, there's no comment, no objection, no wish to be completely sounded? Alexi Kirichenko, 110. You're looking. Okay, we're waiting. Don't you insist? And until the 110s, this block, where only editing is done, you have no objection. Okay. I'm only moving by unaccounted for. But if someone has a desire to hear an editorial correction, just let them know. 124 revisions. [[B in m in s a l in]] 118th? Now Mrs. Mantis wants to take the word for 118. 118, this is a committee amendment (Brezenko, Bogobolec, Korchinska, Musi, Shipko, Jarinich), which was taken into account, Mrs. Olga. Yes, please, Mrs. Mantis.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-16-m0.u177	We have received an observation, a clarification to amendment 118 of the committee, and we ask for the first sentence of part two of article 15 of the law to be drafted. "Exclusion from a living donor of haematopoietic stem cells is carried out free of charge, open braces (at the request of a donor), close braces, or on the condition of monetary compensation by a state to a living donor of haematopoietic stem cells expenses associated with donation." The point is that a person can become a stem cell donor in life, it's just a blood clot. And if the state can compensate a potential donor who wants to give up his stem cells to compensate for the passage, the road or something, the state can do that. So we're giving this opportunity to the state by clarifying the 118.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-16-m0.u178	Thank you. Mrs. Olga, I have another offer. Given that this is essentially agreed upon, as I understand it, by the committee decision, now if I put it to the vote, we're going to put down the 118th amendment itself agreed, and this novel of yours. I have a proposal that when we move to a legislative vote in general, we will go back to 118 amendments. You're going to announce this proposal, and the room will back it up. Okay?
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-16-m0.u179	Yeah.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-16-m0.u180	We've determined that we're going to need 118 amendments. The following 124 amendments of the People's Deputy Kirichenko. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-16-m0.u181	Dear Olga Vadimovna, if you would like to attach the paragraph you just read. If we look at this same article, number 15, but the second item is: "Exclusion from a living donor of haematopoietic stem cells is carried out free of charge at the request of a donor or under the conditions of monetary compensation for a living donor of haematopoietic stem cells expenses associated with the delivery of the donor," from my point of view, it's the same thing that you've just proposed. Therefore, I feel that it is inappropriate to propose such an editorial, a change to this article.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-16-m0.u182	Did you just talk about your 124th?
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-16-m0.u183	Yes. I am referring to the refinement of the venerable Olga the Mantis with regard to Amendment No. 118, which makes changes to article 15.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-16-m0.u184	Well, look, we're not voting for 118 right now. They were. It's just that Mrs. Olga pointed out that there is such a thing. But anyway, we are. At this point, the 118th article is in the version in which it is accepted by the committee. And before the vote, the chairman of the committee has the right to speak and those positions that can clear the bill under a key vote. Are we voting for 124 of your amendments now, or are you insisting? Don't insist. Okay. 125 amendment, People's Deputy Kolganov. No, it doesn't. Okay. 123 amendment, this is the amendment of the people's MP Musia, which has been taken into account in part. Please, Mr. Musia's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-16-m0.u185	Ladies and gentlemen, this is about reacquiring the relevant tissue organs that are being regenerated. Blood belongs to those organs and tissues that regenerate are restored naturally. And this is exactly what I'm doing, and this part that's related to those organs and tissues that are being regenerated or restored without any particular interference and need, is that you can re-take these organs and tissues in order to then transplant them. And in the proposal of the committee, whether where it's accounted for in whole or in part, this is exactly the missing norm for organs and tissues that are being regenerated. That's why I think, well, that's if it gives them an understanding and expands it for medical workers who are going to be doing this, banning the right kind of bleeding, for example, organs, so that they know absolutely clearly, understand, and there's no double treatment of legislation. That is why it would be desirable to confirm this amendment by a full vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-16-m0.u186	Thank you. But I would like to point out to my colleagues that this is an important standard that Mr. Musi is talking about, has been taken into account in the amendment to the 118th Committee. Nevertheless, we demand the National MP Musia amendment 123, in which he asks to take into account his editorial work regarding these organs that may regenerate. Please identify 123 amendments. [[13:49:25]] For-45 45 votes were in favour of your amendment. So the position on the organs that are being regenerated remains fixed in 118, and 123 is being rejected. Next up is 126. This is the national MP of Musai. Don't insist. Mrs. Kolganov raised her hand. 127 revisions. Please turn on Mrs. Kolganov's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-16-m0.u187	Thank you. This refers to the order in which bone marrow is stored and used and other materials capable of producing anatomical materials. Order itself, it is set up by the Cabinet of Ministers. I ask that this thesis be completed with the following words. Part five of article 14 of the law should be supplemented by the words “by the submission of a central executive authority with a special status that conducts activities in the field of transplantation and donorism”. And I realized that part of it is going to be edited into 118 amendments, but since we're not looking at it right now, and we will, I hope that tomorrow we don't miss it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-16-m0.u188	I understood the position of respectable Mrs. Helena. She insists that article 127 be presented in her editorial. I ask you to vote now on this amendment 127. And, really, tomorrow we're going to determine by 118. Please, colleagues, 127 revisions. [[13:51:11]] For-54 54 votes for. And then tomorrow we're going to have to look very carefully at where we're going to vote for the 118th amendment. 131 revisions. The nation’s deputy Musai. Are you insisting? No, it's not. You don't insist on 131st. You insist on 132nd, which was taken into account editorially. Please, Mr. Musia's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-16-m0.u189	In fact, it's another very important block on the procedure for determining brain death, which is what National MP Lewchenko also stressed. In this direction, it's detailed that, apart from the fact that this procedure is being set up by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, it's also very important for the understanding of such safeguards that the same people cannot, the same doctors who will be called the consulate of doctors who report the death of the brain, can be the ones who take the organs and tissues. Because the more people involved in the procedure, the more people are known to be involved in the risk of murder, the less the risk. That's why this readjustment details exactly that this consul of doctors who sees the death of the brain, it never has the right, and it can't be, any of these people, those who take organs and tissues. So it's as wide and as thick as it gets, and it's just one of the safeguards of fear that people will be able to sort it out into organs and tissues. And it's important because.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-16-m0.u190	The position is clear. Please, Mrs. Olga. How are the functions of a medical consilium that finds death still going to be divided? And will this consulate have the right to be involved in transplants, in these decisions?
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-16-m0.u191	Dear Oleg Stepanovich, I fully agree with your warnings and the Committee on Health, of course, divides and maximizes the law, and has set up all safety nets to diagnose brain death. And I ask you not to use the word "murder" because it does not match the concept of this bill. We've already had brain death, and the doctors have to determine this brain death. Thus, doctors who observe the death of the brain cannot, in any case under this law, be doctors who perform or perform transplants. In addition, we have additional people in this system, namely, transplant coordinators, who are actually responsible for the reconciliation of positions with the family and the reconciliation of the entire position. So from an ethical, professional and security perspective, this process is broken down, and as many people as possible.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-16-m0.u192	We heard an explanation. Is there a need to vote? Is there a need? There's still a need, okay. I ask you to vote, to determine the session room under Article 132, amendment 132 of the Musia People's Deputy, which concerns the division of the functions of the Consilium and the organ that will decide on the transplant. Please make up your mind. [[13:54:43]] For-44 44 votes for. This amendment remains rejected, but it, your divisive rule, is fixed in other novels of the bill that we are discussing. Colleagues, further down to 154 articles What's that? 136th, this is the amendment of the people's MP Levchenk 136, which was partially counted. Please, Mr. Levchenko, you have a microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-16-m0.u193	Lewchenko, Freedom, 223 District, Kiev City. Actually, I'd like to, I see we have a few minutes left before the end of today's session, actually, I don't insist on this particular amendment, it was actually taken into account, for which I'm grateful to report. But I would like to highlight in my statement now, in my opinion, the most important problem that remains in this bill, which needs to be resolved by tomorrow, before the vote in general. The problem is that the bill now states that if a person doesn't give, if a person doesn't leave a statement of consent or a statement of objection to organ transplants before he dies, then it's up to the nearest family, one of the closest relatives, and there's a list of those closest relatives. But there is a problem, and what happens if one relative says yes and another says no? And this moment is completely out of order. Personally, I feel that it is necessary to make a certain graduation of parents from, indeed, the closest ones, such as parents, marriages, distant relatives, and to prevail over what, for example, the voice of parents weighs.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-16-m0.u194	I've got the position. Now, please finish 30 seconds, no problem, finish, of course.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-16-m0.u195	And that the voice of parents, for example, weighs more than the voice of relatives, which, let's say, on a chain, first; and secondly, if the relatives of one weight argue, for example, there may be a disagreement between parents, right? Then it should be considered that this person did not consent to a transplant. Because we cannot believe that if there is a dispute even among relatives that a person has consented to a transplant. This question needs to be settled by tomorrow because it's just going to be an open mess. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-16-m0.u196	Thank you. We are not voting on the amendment of the Levchenk People's Deputy, 136th. A problem that, according to the National MP, is not fully established in the bill. Mrs. Ola, you have a comment on this. To this statement, to this warning? Please, the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-16-m0.u197	Thank you, Mr. Levchenko, thank you, Mrs. Heroshenko. I want to point out that tomorrow I'm planning an agreed position and I'm ready to join the discussion now so that we can do so, and no one has any questions about what to do if anyone objects and someone agrees? And I fully agree with your warnings. It needs to be fixed in the law and done. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-16-m0.u198	Thank you. Colleagues, we really have two minutes left, literally until the end of today’s sessional day. For this moment we are at the amendment of 154 National MP Musia. Until 154, I didn't sound the block where it was partially accounted for. We all agree that tomorrow we are starting work with 154 amendments to the Musia People's Deputies. So I give my word to our esteemed speaker and thank all the colleagues who have stayed in the hall to discuss this really important and very delicate bill. Tomorrow we're going to take a decision on this bill as a whole and start with 154 amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-16-m0.u199	Thank you. So it's clear tomorrow's work plan, only 200 amendments. We're obviously going to be able to consider and make a decision over a period of literally 15 to 20 minutes. But I have an appeal to the committee, and I understand that the committee is aware of this, and a very large, systematic work has been done. I also want to thank Mrs. Ollie the Mantis, all the members of the committee, the members of the working group. However, it is vital that the differences that remain be settled during the committee’s meeting today. We cannot go to an inefficient vote under this law. So I'm asking that all factions take part in the committee, all of which are warnings that have been sounded. And I'm sure the committee will be able to find a consolidated solution from all conflict positions, and tomorrow we can vote and come up with a positive solution. So, colleagues, time for our work is over. I want to remind you that tomorrow is embroidery day for all the national deputies. Tomorrow must be a hard, busy day, but hopefully effective. Thank you all for your work today. We passed two laws. I wish everyone good work on the committees. A large number of us yesterday have voted to be included in the agenda, and there will be a tense schedule. I wish you a fruitful committee job. And I declare the morning plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine closed. Tomorrow at 10 o'clock, I'm waiting for everyone in the hall. Thank you.
