ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-08-m1.u1	Colleagues, please come into the hall and prepare for registration. My colleagues, I want to remind you that we're still going to the cultural block. And the next issue of the agenda is the bill of parliamentary hearings on the protection of cultural heritage on "The State, Problems and Prospects for Cultural Heritage in Ukraine." And the committee convinces us to take this decision immediately. So I'm asking you to show a high level of discipline, as it was before lunch, we made 11 decisions today, colleagues, 11 decisions. God forbid it's the same after-dinner job. Please take up your jobs and prepare for registration. So, colleagues, please take part in the registration and please register. Please register. [[16:04:30]] 353 national deputies registered. I declare the evening plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine open. My colleagues, I remind you, we are moving to the draft Law on Parliamentary Hearings on Cultural Heritage on "The State, Problems and Prospects for Cultural Heritage in Ukraine." And I'm asking you to support the review of this motion by means of a reduced procedure. Please vote. Please be supportive. [[16:05:15.]] For-79 I'll do it again. Colleagues, please come into the hall and take your jobs. Colleagues, I'm going to re-suppose if there's no support in the room, we're going to go in full procedure. So once again, I'm putting to the vote the proposal that the draft Ordinance on Parliamentary Hearings on Protection of Cultural Heritage will be discussed in a simplified procedure. Please vote. Please be supportive. Please vote. [[16:06:22]] For 118 There is a position for us to consider such an important issue in full procedure. Do I get it right? And then I invite the head of the Committee on Culture and Spirituality of the Princely Nikola Leonidovich to report. And we're going in full procedure. And I ask the heads of factions to mobilize deputies to participate in the evening session. Please, Mr. Mikolo. Mr. Mikolo, please have the microphone on.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-08-m1.u2	Yes, thank you. Honorary colleagues, in accordance with article 93 of the Constitution of Ukraine and on the basis of article 234 of the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, have submitted a decision to the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Culture and Spirituality on 21 September 2017 (Protocol No. 60) for consideration by the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the draft Decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Parliamentary Hearings on "The State, Problems and Prospects for the Protection of Cultural Heritage in Ukraine". The conduct of parliamentary hearings will contribute to the formation of a single approach to reforming public policy in the area of cultural heritage protection and the creation of effective mechanisms, and to the preservation of cultural heritage objects. Dear colleagues, this year recognized as the year of UNESCO's cultural heritage, this year in accordance with the President's decree and the decree of the Cabinet of Ministers exactly the same as the year of cultural heritage in Ukraine. Today our Parliament passed a bill amending the law on cultural heritage, which applied to military memorials. In our order of days, there are still a number of other laws that apply to cultural heritage, one of them is the UNESCO Memorial Bill, which is located in Ukraine and which requires special administrations, is a bill by a colleague of Vasjunika, who is unfortunately not in the hall today. But I have great hope that we will consider this bill in the near future. In view of the cultural heritage situation in Ukraine, it is vital to have a serious discussion of the matter, to talk to experts, to representatives of the administration, to representatives of the administration, to local councils, and to representatives of the united communities. Unfortunately, we have not yet solved cultural subsidies in the country, and we are faced with the fact that a whole range of areas and regions have no financial resources to protect their own cultural heritage. If we compare, for example, the situation with cultural monuments in the Ternopil region and in eastern or central areas, we have a very large imbalance in the distribution of the budget. Because the problem with the castles of Ternopilska, which is repeatedly raised and the MPs from the Ternopil region, and the CEO of Mr. Barna, and many others, are still very important. Instead, there is no budget to restore these castles. We have a catastrophic situation with castles in other regions. You know the story of the Upper Castle, which has not yet been actually formed and balanced by any legal person. So every person, every person could just come and privatize this castle. It was only after the appointment of the head of the Lviv Gallery of Art, Mr. Taras Woznik, that work began with the Lviv District Council, with other authorities of the administration on the actual establishment of the castle and the transfer of the art gallery and the search for funds for the restoration of the castle. Even so, this truly architectural pearl of Ukraine, one of the most beautiful castles in Ukraine, remains in a terrible state. And literally last week, public organizations launched crowdfanding campaigns to rebuild and preserve those castles. At the same time, there are quite a variety of initiatives on concessions, on the transfer in concessions of cultural monuments, and on architectural monuments. Of course, for many situations this can be a solution. But the transfer to the concession should not ruin the original appearance of a monument to architecture. These are all the questions that continue to be debated in Ukraine and the answers that have not yet been found. Therefore, it is vital that these decisions be made. On December 7, 2017, the year of cultural heritage began in Europe. And the European Parliament decided on this in April 2017. It is also a wonderful opportunity for Ukraine to draw proper attention to the protection of cultural heritage and the resolution of mature problems, especially given that Ukraine has a rich cultural heritage, we face the challenge of preserving it for the offspring. Obviously, today there are many problems in the area of cultural heritage protection that need a comprehensive solution. Where is this complex decision needed? First. Legal protection and storage issues on UNESCO’s list The problematic aspects of the movement of cultural values. You know, cultural values. You know, there's a whole bunch of relevant bills in this room and it's being considered. Today, as I said before, we have decided on the status of an underwater cultural heritage. But there's a problem with the intangible cultural heritage, and I'm very pleased that, for example, Kosovo ceramics has a chance to get into the list of non-material cultural heritage, and then there's a chance that it's going to have a resolution embroidery in white. We are working to ensure that our people, our people, and other examples of shining examples of the intangible cultural heritage are recognized by UNESCO. The problem of updating Ukraine’s State Register of Real Estate now contains, this register, only 80 percent of the information. In addition, many of the issues raised by Russian aggression against Ukraine, such as the share of museums in Crimea, where many unique exhibits were preserved. The problem of the Scythian gold, which has not yet been returned to Ukraine. That's why we, the National Deputies of the Committee on Culture and Spirituality, which initiated these parliamentary hearings, were initiated and conducted, and it is clear that, after a professional discussion of such a dual subject, we will be able to prepare constructive, professional and principally effective decisions that will contribute to the protection of the cultural heritage and bring them to the attention of the Ukrainian Parliament. I would very much like the deputies to meet in the hall to support these hearings. Once again, I want to go back to the law that I was talking about, this is the Act (1553) on the Protection of Cultural Heritage (for the preservation of cultural heritage monuments on the United Nations World Heritage List). This bill is designed to improve the legal protection of UNESCO’s monuments. He's a fully-managed committee. Other initiatives on the committee we're working on. We are working to draft a bill on the movement of cultural values that aims to achieve a reasonable balance and prevent the illegal export of cultural values beyond Ukraine. But at the same time, not restricting the opportunity to participate in authoritative international exhibitions and to ensure the return of these exhibits to Ukraine. There are serious works that we hope will contribute to improving the legal protection of cultural heritage when it comes to the legal regulation of intangible cultural heritage. Of course, Ukrainian culture is rich and diverse, that we should work on this issue in order to expand the list of UNESCO's intangible heritage. The UNESCO Convention on the Protection of Immaterial Cultural Heritage of October 17, 2003 should ensure the protection of oral traditions and forms of expression, covering the language as a medium of immaterial cultural heritage – that is, the return to our Word Act, which we repeatedly talk about in this room – performing arts, customs, rituals, holidays, knowledge and customs related to nature, the universe, knowledge and skills related to traditional crafts. The Committee on Culture and Spirituality welcomes the initiative of the Ministry of Culture to declare 2018 the year of cultural heritage in Ukraine, and to make such a decision is the mandate of the President of Ukraine. And we hope that the President, as he has repeatedly said about it, will come back to that. And all these documents are now under consideration by the President. At the same time, irrespective of the President's decision, I think it's very important for me as the head of the profiling committee, and at the parliamentary hearings we have to discuss this, that 2018 can now be called a year of cultural heritage, because society has finally paid attention and acknowledged the need to improve the protection of cultural heritage, while deputies and specialists in this field are ready to work to improve our legislation, to increase the number of cultural heritage objects in Ukraine and to include in the UNESCO List the preservation of non-terial cultural heritage. Thank you and please support these hearings. We plan to hold these hearings on April 18th, this is the International Day of Monuments and Outstanding Places of UNESCO. I would appreciate your support for this project on parliamentary hearings. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-08-m1.u3	Thank you. Dear colleagues, please sign up for a question to the reporter. Please, Alexei Rybchin.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-08-m1.u4	Please give me your word.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-08-m1.u5	Please, Igor Lucenka. I see, yes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-08-m1.u6	Thank you. Mr. Reporter, I have, of course, a large number of issues related to the UNESCO heritage. For today, I would like to focus on two issues. First. In my own time, a statement was made by law enforcement authorities regarding falsification by representatives of the Ministry of Culture, individual representatives of the Ministry of Culture, reporting to UNESCO. And I think that this is a question that needs to be completely absorbed by Parliament and that we need to find a solution at the personal level on the personal responsibility of these officials, and that we need to make some systematic changes to the legislation that would allow us to secure us in the future so that there is no such international disgrace. So please, maybe just comment on that question. I know you're on our side, but I wanted to hear your word. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-08-m1.u7	Mr. Igor, yes, Mr. Igor, I thank you very much for your consistent position of preservation of Kiev's cultural heritage and not just Kiev, but Ukraine as a whole. I think if you go to our committee, our committee fully supports your call and we can invite representatives of the Ukrainian Ministry of Culture, as we do at committee meetings regularly. I also invite you to participate in parliamentary hearings. And I think that's a good question. But it is the bill where I am one of the co-authors, and also Mr. Vasjunik, Mrs. Mathios and many other co-authors, that defines the responsible authorities of the local authorities or other authorized bodies for preserving UNESCO's heritage, so that not only does the cleavage of one official in the Ministry of Culture depend on all of these monuments and that their fate is controlled by the supervisory boards of independent civil society which introduces this law, so that UNESCO's legacy and, in general, the architectural heritage is controlled not only by officials but also by local authorities and society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-08-m1.u8	Next question from the National MP, Musia.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-08-m1.u9	Dear reporter! Oleg Musei, 124 constituency, Sokalstina, Red Town. It is widely known that, unfortunately, Ukraine today does not protect our cultural heritage. For example, UNESCO's heritage, where the Decade Church is built by some of Moscow's Halabudas and nothing by the Ministry of Culture, by the way, with the opportunity, the Minister of Culture I also ask to express my position as the enemy centres of Ukraine may exist on UNESCO's heritage. This time. The other one. The hospitable court for which they fought before the Dignity Revolution is still unknown to his fate. Then we need to hold parliamentary hearings, or perhaps now some way to influence the Ministry of Culture, the local administration in Kiev, which, by the way, in the last year since the local administration of cultural monuments was burned down only over a dozen. So one way I'm asking for this parliamentary hearing, of course, which I have to do, and I'm certainly going to support these hearings, take this point of view into account, and I'm going to leave this point of view, and I'm going to take immediate steps to preserve Ukrainian history and heritage, okay?
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-08-m1.u10	Thank you, Mr. Musai. You're absolutely right. As far as I know, the Ministry of Culture has brought to justice an illegal forgetfulness of the foundation of the Tenth Church. And hopefully this will be considered. You know how difficult the situation in Ukraine is with the religious situation, especially since the beginning of Russian aggression. And what happened near the Decade Church, near the remnants of the Decade Church, is obviously both architectural and public disgrace to each of us. I am pleased that thanks to our deputies, our colleagues, including my colleague Levus, other national deputies, who have been charged by the architects who have been accused of taking action against this building, well, their release, taken on notice, the investigation will determine how guilty these people are. Each guilty one must be punished, but it is certainly inappropriate to keep in prison people who want to protest publicly. When you talk about other memories, you are right not only about UNESCO’s legacy but also about UNESCO’s legacy. But it is equally important to approach the same approach, as you said, to other monuments of the cultural heritage of Ukraine that are ours.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-08-m1.u11	Thank you. Dear colleagues, this question is exhausted. Three minutes have been scheduled, there will be an opportunity to speak. I ask you to take your place in your return, Your Honor, Mr. Mikolo. The factions are coming from the factions and from the deputies. Meanwhile, the minister asked for the floor. I'm asking for two minutes, Mr. Secretary. And then act from factions and deputies.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-08-m1.u12	Thank you very much. Madam Chairman, distinguished national MPs, honourable Mr. Igoru, Mikolo, Mr. Oleg! First of all, I would really like the entire MPs to support this bill, because actually listening will give a lot of answers to the questions and set up a certain algorithm for all the problems that you've been talking about. Because many of the allegations that you're even talking about in these walls right now, they're not exactly throwing themselves at those walls. Because when we're talking about cooperation with UNESCO, it's actually the last year that the entire Ministry of Culture is constantly in contact with UNESCO. And all the differences that had not previously been made in every object of historical heritage, upon the approval of the historical plans of cities, historical habitats, are in complete agreement with UNESCO. It really didn't happen before, so here's the first story. The second is about the MAFs. We said, and we have a clear position: they're set up there illegally. In the 12th year, apparently the predecessors signed, we know how it was done, but now we have fully prepared all the documentation for the lawsuit to be filed by the National Museum of History, in whose territory these MAFIs are illegally installed. And we will be accompanying the entire trial. I would like to call again to support this law because it refers to the issues of UNESCO’s national world heritage, which are in occupied areas and annexed to the Crimea. This is true of Hersones of the Tavrish, which refers to the Han Palace in Bahchisarai. This will help us to have a certain voice when Parliament has the same resolutions as the Ministry of Culture to the Russian government to stop the illegals.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-08-m1.u13	30 seconds to complete.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-08-m1.u14	30 seconds out. Stop the illegal archaeological excavations in Hersones and stop the destruction of the Khan Palace. This is very important to us. Please be supportive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-08-m1.u15	Thank you. And now I'm asking the factions to sign up for a draft ruling. Thank you. Dear colleagues, I'm just the first to give my word to the Radical Party Yuri Suhevich so that we don't return to the post. And then we move on the list. Thank you. Please show me your list. Then it's Self-Help. I'll just give it to Mr. Suhevich first and then you, Mrs. Podujak. Please, Mr. Shuhevich's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-08-m1.u16	Madam Chairman, honourable deputies! This bill can't be adopted in any way. He was accepted on a committee with significant violations. Now that all the corrections have been made, someone in the committee in the middle of the proceedings has moved the entire chapter that rewrites the essence of the law itself to change it. Let's move on. There's a whole bunch of comments from the Legal Authority about the violation of the Constitution by the law, which refers to violations of international norms, of our conventions that we signed. And you, without reading it, will you accept?Oh, my God! Do you have a conscience? Do you understand what this is, all these concessions are the destruction of our cultural heritage? On your conscience, that will be all when you adopt this law! Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-08-m1.u17	Thank you, Mr. Shuhevich. Please, the word is now given to Mrs. Irina by way of "self-help." Please, Mrs. Irina.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-08-m1.u18	Dear colleagues, a venerable Presidium! Clearly, these parliamentary hearings that we planned for the April month are important. And I am convinced that almost all the members of the Supreme Council will be listening at these parliamentary hearings in the hall if they do not at least speak. Because the problem of the protection of real estate is critical in Ukraine. We know that there are huge coalitions between the Cultural Monument Protection Act and the Urban Activity Regulation Act. We know the great problems and crises that are taking place in the historic cities of Ukraine, where chaotic construction is being done, where the landscape of cities is being destroyed, where the monuments are being destroyed in the same way. We know what a huge problem lies in the chaotic advertising activities of companies, institutions, companies that engage in external advertising that practically loses the face of Ukrainian cities. All these problems are a large and difficult node that we will have to solve with you. And because there are many approaches, many theories, many experts, many public figures who are interested in Ukraine not losing its unique face, such parliamentary hearings are necessary. In addition, I would like to say that protecting our real estate monuments, our material and intangible cultural heritage, my dear, indecisive words, you and I know how to use beautiful words that require financial power of the state, if that is part of state policy. These few hundred million that are budgeted for this 18th year, which is announced by the Year of Cultural Heritage, unfortunately, do not solve this problem in any way. We know that cities have been thrown down one by one with the financial challenges we face in terms of reconstruction, renovation, restoration of historical monuments. So, of course, we support such public hearings, we invite representatives of the Ministry of Finance, and we support such a decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-08-m1.u19	Thank you, Mrs. Irina. Please, from the faction. I'm sorry, right now. Igoru, now you're on the block of Peter Dustenka. You're arguing. First – Sporish, then – Kugel. No, look at the list. Now the Peter Dust Block, the Sporish, and then you. I'm going to get a leaf. National MP Sporish. Please, boys, sit down so you can see the National MP of Sporish. I'll be right back.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-08-m1.u20	Ivan Sporish, Peter Dusty Block, Winnitzkin, 15th District. Of course, we have just heard the head of the Princely Committee, as well as our minister, Mr. Destroyer. And of course, we have to support this bill, because we see it and we have to worry about our cultural heritage in Crimea. First of all, I would like to point out that this is really, as has already been said, where the question of legal protection will be put, where the question of the transfer of an inheritance will be raised. This should be discussed at parliamentary hearings. What's more, as has been pointed out again by the committee's head, and also by the minister, that in fact the world's heritage and the values of it, all these issues are also very important. And I think that at parliamentary hearings, where there's going to be quite a number of people involved in this issue, and we need to discuss and ask, and support this question, and still protect our cultural heritage. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-08-m1.u21	Thank you, Mr. Sporish. Please, Igor Lucenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-08-m1.u22	Thank you. First of all, I would like to personally thank Mr. Nietschuk, Minister of Culture, for his active personal position in protecting the historical and cultural heritage, which unfortunately sometimes contrasts with the position of certain officials of the Ministry of Culture. With regard to the question raised by my colleagues, the Dozens, Mr. Nietschuk. There's now all the support in the Ministry of Culture from the public to be active from the Ministry of Culture. So today, the entire legal base is being prepared. And I hope that we can reach a legal and peaceful solution. As far as hearing is concerned. Well, actually, they matured four years ago. Four years ago, the new parliament had to defend Ukraine in this hybrid war. Because, honourable colleagues, in any hybrid warfare textbook, it says what to do with the enemy, with the country -- we need to develop their identity. What is not the best tool to develop identity? It's the destruction of memory, the promotion of negligent and disrespectful treatment of the historical and cultural heritage and so forth. What does our Ukrainian business do, unfortunately? What are some of our officials doing very often? They destroy our heritage, contribute to the destruction of the legacy that we have in order to gain profit. Even here, there's no need for Russians. What's more, if we analyze the percentage of Russian capital that's involved in destruction through the construction projects of the heritage in downtown Kiev, we're just going to be horrified -- that's more than 70 percent of Russian companies with Russian capital. That is why it is a hybrid war in which we must also share in the defense of our country. I emphasize that there are a lot of questions that have come to light about protecting our cultural heritage. This is an inheritance from UNESCO. In memory protection zones, the meaning, the universal meaning of UNESCO, if you walk around Lavra, near Sofia, you'll see dozens of areas that are dedicated to just the builders that we're trying to bring back. And that's why we need to adopt the legislation that we're proposing with regard to the extension of the statutes of limitations so that the prosecution and other public authorities can bring it all back. There are also major problems in the existence of memorabilia. The monument is now owned and destroyed, and no sanctions can actually be applied by the State. And so what we're seeing right now in government neighborhoods, literally through the road from the Supreme Council of Ukraine, literally in a quarter of this in Lipak, in the Podol, in other parts of the President's Administration, to the Parliament of the Districts, is the consequences of our inaction. So, honourable colleagues, let's talk this over and we'll make a decision to support at least a selected pool of legislative initiatives that can literally improve the situation in this area in a short time. Thank you all for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-08-m1.u23	Thank you. Please, from the Opposition Block, Mr. Doubenkov. It will also appear from the rostrum. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-08-m1.u24	Dear fellow Ukrainian citizens! A draft Resolution on Parliamentary Hearings in April of this year is under consideration. The theme of these parliamentary hearings is "Stan and the prospects for protecting objects of historical and cultural significance", our cultural heritage with you. There's been a lot of talk in this plenary room right now about who's to blame for the fact that the objects of historical and cultural significance are in a state of discontent. Someone blamed the Russian capital, the Russian companies, on the negligence of certain Ukrainian citizens. This is our common cause, this is our shared responsibility of Ukrainian citizens, both ordinary Ukrainian citizens and those in power. Because any company that does the building, the licenses are issued by Ukrainian officials, and that's what you have to say directly. And if there is a breach of legislation, it needs to be responded to. As for the very attitude of us to objects of historical and cultural significance. It starts not so much from knowing our history with you, but from being united around the values that unite us. Security will be there and there will be a general respect for objects only if we respect each other. Not to mention that someone is a patriot, someone is a non-patriot, not by doing, for example, in the eastern areas with the hands of representatives of Western Ukraine to knock down any memory, but with mutual respect, our development will begin. As for the substance of this draft decision, this is not a bill, it is from the point of view of the Rules, but I would like to point out that, in the voting, Mr. Head, in the text of the bill, you are conducting these parliamentary hearings in April 2018, and you are tasking the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine to prepare the relevant materials for the Supreme Council by 1 March 2017. So please take this into account, because there's going to be a conflict in this project, this is about the quality of our legal work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-08-m1.u25	Colleagues, now from the People's Front, right? Taras Kremen. I'd like to make a more mobile discussion right now so that we can go out on a decision-making basis. If I may, Mr. Taras, will one minute be enough? And then speak to the national MPs. Please, Cream, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-08-m1.u26	Taras Kremen, People's Front. Dear colleagues, in fact, it is worth stressing that the entire history of civilization is divided into two periods: prehistoric and historical. The more ancient monuments of the culture of any nation, the greater the gravity of the history of a particular nation. I would like to point out that depending on how we view our cultural monuments, how we view those cultural monuments that are outside of Ukraine, we determine the length of our Ukrainian state. I am very happy that in the Voice of Ukraine two days ago there was a fundamental article about the Bertin Annals, which essentially prolongs our history of Ukraine to 1180 years. But it is important to emphasize that we need not only to care for a material inheritance but also for an intangible, spiritual inheritance. We have separate fields of science that are being destroyed. And in this sense, I want to emphasize what's borderline.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-08-m1.u27	30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-08-m1.u28	At the border of the collision, it's not just a cultural monument in the South of Ukraine, it's the Olvia Reserve, it's the Wild Garden, it's our observatory, it's the wooden churches. But it's also the cathedrals that study archaeology that do archaeography. For the record, the Institute of Literature, which will be preparing for the Jubilee of the Forest of Ukraine, is gathering all the manuscripts of our classics. And beyond Ukraine, there are many objects that need our support. Therefore, these hearings are to be held.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-08-m1.u29	Thank you. It is now nine minutes for the national deputies, three minutes. I ask you to give a speech by the people’s deputies, and then we go to the vote in nine minutes. Please invite the deputies to the hall. Please sign up. Musi, turn on the microphone, please. From the rostrum, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-08-m1.u30	Dear National Deputies! The extremely important parliamentary hearings, which were really on time, had to be held long ago. And here is the position of the hall, I think it should be completely the only thing that such parliamentary hearings not only need to be held, but actively everyone in the parliamentary hearings, the deputies who care about Ukraine, care about our historical past, participate. Now it's about the essence of the question itself. In my question, I was talking about the vacchanalia that is developing with the misunderstanding in the capital city of Kiev. And you know, a lot of public activists have repeatedly appealed to the Kyiv city authorities to preserve the registration of architecture monuments, newly discovered local architecture sites. In fact, it's such an impression that to date, a full register of the Ministry of Culture, the function of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, which should have entered those registers, even registers we don't have. Therefore, one of the main tasks of these parliamentary hearings will be to introduce a concretely clear register and rules for the incorporation into the register of objects of historical and cultural heritage of these objects. In addition, the immaterial assets of the Ukrainian nation and Ukraine as such may need to be addressed. It is also a very important layer, which to this day, well, thank God, petrick’s drawings or Petrikovsky’s inscription is also part of Ukraine’s heritage. You know that there is a legacy of Ukraine, such as the Tripoli culture and the Stone of Mogil, who, unfortunately, are still silenced by Ukrainian power and who are pretending to be gone, for example. Instead of building the Mecca of Ukraine as a foundation in our Art arsenal, for example, by building a museum of Tripoli culture wherever the world is going to look, the question is not solved. And here, once again, I want to go to the minister of culture. Mr. Eugene, you know that we have such an academic as Toločko, who to this day is a man who is an honest Ukrainianophobic, manifests Moscow values. How such a leader can protect Ukrainian. At the Institute of Architecture History? Well, good people must have taken some measures long ago so that odystic Ukrainian phobias like Toloczko still do not destroy our archives in appropriate institutions. So there's a lot of work to be done. And I think that these parliamentary hearings should explain not only problems, but they should draw completely clear mechanisms, some of which I have suggested that we not only preserve Ukraine, but also multiply it in world culture. Thank you all. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-08-m1.u31	Thank you. Abdullin gives the floor to Igor Lucenk. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-08-m1.u32	Dear colleagues, honourable parliamentarians! Unfortunately, at the fourth year of our cadence with you, it should be noted that the rate of destruction of our historical and cultural heritage, especially in the city of Kiev, has not diminished in any way, compared to the pace at Yanukovich, at Yushchenk and at Kuchma. On the contrary, they rushed. That legal chaos and that legal mess that is now being created in law enforcement agencies, in the courts, is simply an ideal environment for illegal developers, unconscionable entrepreneurs, who are unfortunately our colleagues today with you, for example, Mr. Mikitas, today, is our colleague, for example, some others, Mr. Connonenko, also his business partner. To this day, they have successfully continued the affairs of their predecessors by destroying Kiev systematically. Landshaft monuments, historical monuments, and architectural monuments are smashing under their blows. Because who, if not, can force them to at least force their shame, let alone the power of the law, to stop this destruction, which is far more successful than what Putin is doing on Donbass today. Unfortunately, if we call any region of Kiev, we'll call any monuments, they're at risk today. Andriyevski Vistula. At Ahmet, at Yanukovich, we protected him with purely public efforts. Now there is a huge construction of a 30 - foot - high [30 m] building in another location. What's going on? Thus, no judge who made unjust decisions and continues, unfortunately, to make illegal constructions, has been punished. Let us make one precedent with you by our efforts. I repeat, there is no precedent for the return to municipal property of the entire memory in the last three years. Even though dozens of them have been stolen, dozens of them are destroyed, lying in ruins, burning. You remember that a few weeks ago there was a fire with us literally. It is also a monument to the gorilla. And believe me, these are also the plans of the builders -- to build the Crusader, build the adjacent streets, build us with you, and these are our colleagues with you. No case of return to municipal property or state property of a monument that was improperly exploited or destroyed or burned, of course anyone will come and treat the monuments in any way. So unfortunately, we're very late for this war with you, because of this economic crisis, we've forgotten about the main thing, our legacy -- what we're fighting for, what we're living for. Is there another three minutes? No, I don't. So please don't hide your head in the sand. I repeat, Mikitas, Cononenko and our other colleagues are sitting with us. Let us also invite them and ask: How does this happen? Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-08-m1.u33	Colleagues, the closing statement is now, in three minutes, there will be a vote, and I strongly request all the factions' heads to invite deputies to the hall. The Supreme Council's apparatus, please invite members to the Hall, and in three or four minutes, there will be a vote. Final address, please, Mrs. Kugel.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-08-m1.u34	Dear colleagues, in a sweet barrel of honey, as everyone has told us how we all love the Ukrainian heritage, I want to say that maybe someone won't like it, but these parliamentary hearings won't solve anything. We're with you, each committee is holding parliamentary hearings, then we're making parliamentary hearings, and the visa is there now. I think it's time for the parliamentary committees to take their role very seriously in controlling the authorities of the state for failing to comply with the laws that we are adopting. I can give you an example. The licensing law was not implemented by the government for 2.5 years, until the end. And that's why those parliamentary hearings, you know, are a requirement for MPs. Please tell me, who remembers the towers in Zakarpat? As deputy secretary of construction, I followed them. That state doesn't put money there, they move, you sneeze at business. See how the Czech Republic did, recovered, made serious nighttime appearances there, and collected money. Take the reserve of Sofia, how much the head of this reserve restores, collects it in a copy, and is always bitten on that side. Next to us, you travel every day, the National Art Museum of Ukraine. Shame! The last time we raised money, the Americans, I was there, we were giving up money for charity. Where's the state? A unique museum in the center of the country is falling apart. You know, the paintings that are there, they're mostly going to be inappropriate, because there's no conditions. How many of these paintings have been stolen from the MPs! And that's why your parliamentary hearings are beautiful, but everyone on the committee is in charge.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-08-m1.u35	Thank you. One more minute. And so, I'm sorry, not three minutes, but one minute, Irina Gorge. This is the last minute of the discussion. And I'd like you to come into the hall and take your jobs.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-08-m1.u36	Dear friends, there is no doubt that parliamentary hearings are needed, although I agree with a colleague who has told us that we should think that the results of parliamentary hearings should be more effective. To my profound belief, all the historic cities, we call them, are cities that have a large core of historical heritage, architectural in the first place, they have to develop, or the state has to help them develop, an integrated concept of development, actually, historic cities, because cities are not museums. Buildings are being destroyed, new buildings are being built, people are living, they are developing. Of course, the activities of law enforcement agencies are important because I also have to agree with my colleague that 60 percent of these problems could be solved if the law enforcement system were not sold if the courts were not sorry. I just want to point out one thing in the presence of a minister of culture: about registers and about entering new objects into registers, and about war. The city of Mariupol still has mosaics.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-08-m1.u37	30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-08-m1.u38	In Mariupola so far, fortunately, there are mosaics of Alla Gorsky. She's a great Ukrainian artist, her mosaics are priceless. And since 2015, when the committee first visited Mariupol, we have asked the local authorities to contact Mincult to register them. Did they not ask if the changes in Mincult had taken place, but sadly, they were mosaics.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-08-m1.u39	Thank you. So, colleagues, closing statement, Culture Minister Eugene Nietschuk, 1 minute. One minute, please. And let's move on to making a decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-08-m1.u40	Thank you very much, I have, in principle, already spoken. It's really what we've long dreamed of, because we've faced this big problem, this situation that's in our historical realms. And it would be a specific criminal responsibility of law enforcement authorities to destroy historical heritage and our buildings to produce a clear law, wherever they may be. But it is clear that these questions will give rise to many things and produce a specific solution. Maybe I'd like it to be sooner, but at parliamentary hearings, it's a really good place when we can do it. What's more, we were really preparing documents for the announcement of the year of cultural heritage this year, and this is the year of cultural heritage in Europe. That is why we need to be fully integrated in the process of protecting the world's national heritage in every way possible.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-08-m1.u41	Thank you very much. So let's move on to decision-making, colleagues. I'm asking you to take your seats, colleagues. Please return to the hall, as soon as the two deputies are out, come into the hall. And I'm voting on the bill of parliamentary hearings on the protection of cultural heritage on the subject of "Stan, problems and prospects for cultural heritage protection in Ukraine" with the rights that the head of the committee, Princely Mikola Leonidovich, has written under the transcript. In terms of the date, that's what the representative of Dudenkov emphasized, with this right, with the date, the date, the 7294 on the basis and the whole. Please vote. Please be supportive. Let's vote, colleagues. Please be supportive. Please be supportive. [[16:51:50]] For 205 We didn't make it. I'm on my way back, I see, I'm going to put everyone back and ask them to come into the hall, colleagues. Please show by factions. So please mobilize. I'll be back in a minute. Everyone, please take your seats. I ask the Secretary of the Supreme Council to invite MPs in the towers to come into the hall. And, colleagues, I propose to return to the draft Parliamentary Hearing Order 7,294. Please be careful, every vote please vote for the return. Vote. With a change of date, as this has been noted by the committee head. [[16:52:57]] For 209 Colleagues, let's invite everyone into the hall. I'm begging you, colleagues. I see they're entering the hall. Everyone, please come into the hall, take your seats. The heads of the factions please mobilize the deputies. I now ask you to show me on the ballot board. I don't know what the differences might be about culture. This room has to vote unanimously. Okay. I'll wait 30 seconds. So by factions. "Block of Peter Poshenko" – 80, "National Front" – 61, "Resistance Block" – 0, "self-help" – 18, Radical Party – 12, "Fatherhood" – 9, "will of the people" – 3, "Resurrection Party" – 3. Please come in. Call me back, ask me who's close and close. People's deputies are coming along. So I remind you, I'm going to put it on the return first, and then I'm going to put it on. Please. So take up jobs. Yeah, they're coming in. Everyone in the workplace. And I'm putting the first vote back into the draft Parliamentary Hearing Order on Protection of Cultural Heritage. Please vote and please support. Colleagues, we vote unanimously and with care. Please be supportive. Vote. [[16:55:06]] For 223 Only three votes. Colleagues, three votes. Please. Colleagues, three votes. We didn't make it. Please, I can see. Please come in. I see. Come on, fellas. Please. [[B in m in s a l in]] So here we go. Please don't leave now. I'm begging you not to leave. I'm asking you to stay put. And, colleagues, I'm really asking for your support. It's wrong when, according to the decisions that have general support in the room, we try to break them down because of political moments. That's not right. This is disrespect for the Ukrainian Parliament and disrespect for the committee that prepared the decision. Please take any part in the vote. I'm asking everyone to get ready. And I ask you to vote in favour of the return to the vote for the draft Decree 7294 on parliamentary hearings on the protection of cultural heritage. Please take over and take part in the vote. Everyone, right? Jaroslav? Please vote and please support. Let's vote, colleagues. Please, each voice is very attentive. Jaroslav, we vote. I'd like to support you for your return. [[16:56:56]] For 228 We're back. Now be careful, colleagues. No, now I'm putting regulation 7294 on the ground and in general with a bill issued by the chairman of the committee regarding the date of the Supreme Council. Colleagues, pay attention! Please vote and please support. Don't leave the hall, please! Don't leave the hall, please! Vote! Please vote and please support. Vote! [[16:57:36]] For 232 Decision taken. Colleagues, there are two other decisions on parliamentary hearings. Let's take a brief look at them and take our colleagues. Short. So I'm going to read it. The following is the day-to-day draft of Parliamentary Hearings on "National Innovation System: Status and Legislative Development" (7399). I am asking you to support its consideration by means of a reduced procedure. Please vote. Don't leave the hall! Please be supportive. [[16:58:17]] For-198 Decision taken. One minute, Singakovsky. Let's get out of here. Please. Colleagues, may we vote? Vote? Okay. Let's vote, colleagues. Please vote, colleagues. 30-second vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-08-m1.u42	Vote. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-08-m1.u43	So please take your seats, and please take part in the vote. So Project Rule 7399. Please support on the basis of the draft Parliamentary Hearing Order as a whole. Please vote. Please be supportive. Let's vote, colleagues. We'll support education. Please vote. Vote. Please be supportive. [[16:59:17]] For 219 I see a few people. I'm asking you to take up your jobs, colleagues. So I'm going to ask you to take up jobs. And I'm voting once again on the Bill of Decree 7399 as a basis and as a whole. Everyone please take their place and vote. Please be supportive. Please vote. Vote. Please be supportive. Vote. Every voice. Careful! [[17:00:01]] For 227 Decision taken. We're next in line. Draft Resolution on Parliamentary Hearings on "Problems of Living Minimum in Ukraine" (7525). I ask you to support the consideration of the reduced procedure. Please support the consideration of the reduced procedure. Please vote. [[17:00:37]] For 199 So I'd like to invite you to the head of the committee, one minute. So we're voting, right? Colleagues, parliamentary hearings: "Problems of the formation of living minimum in Ukraine" (7525). So let me vote. Please support as a whole. I'd like your support, colleagues. Please vote. Ratings for support, ratings, please support, please vote, please support. [[17:01:31]] For 215 Colleagues, attention, the situation is very simple. Now we're going to go into a long discussion, and then I'm going to have to reconvene the MPs again for 10 minutes indefinitely, and I don't think that does anybody any good. So, colleagues, now I'm going to put the rating vote again, if it's not in the rating vote, let's get into the discussion. I'm re-voting in support of Project Rule 7525. Please vote, please support, colleagues, every vote matters, please support. [[17:02:28]] For 206 Let's get into the discussion, colleagues. And I invite the head of the Committee on Social Policy, Employment and Pensions of Denis's Ludmila Leontiyevna to report. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-08-m1.u44	Dear Mr. Head, distinguished national MPs! The Supreme Council of Ukraine approves the minimum of living, which is the basis for the formation of a system of social standards and guarantees, in particular the minimum wage, minimum age pension, state social assistance and other social benefits. That is, we, the people's deputies, and we have all the responsibility for the standard of living that our citizens will have for the coming year. At the same time, the decision is preceded by the process of setting up a subsistence minimum by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine after a science-popular analysis of food and services packages on the basis of social partnership. The value of the minimum of living shall be determined based on the approved size of the minimum of living for the current year, taking into account the estimate of the consumer price index for the following year. During the year, however, inflation forecasts have often deteriorated, which unfortunately is not reflected in the size of the already approved subsistence minimum, since the corresponding calculation is not carried out. For your consideration, therefore, it is suggested that the committee's decision to hold parliamentary hearings on determining the subsistence minimum to be held on May 23, 2018. Thank you. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-08-m1.u45	Thank you. Please record: two in, two in. From the Radical Party, Lazko Oleg Valeriyovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-08-m1.u46	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. As our team repeatedly insists, Ukraine's key problem is poverty. When people are poor, unable to be a happy country, unable to overcome corruption, it is impossible to be a strong country. So the key to the country's development is overcoming poverty. What does our team offer? And we demand of power tools, steps to overcome poverty. You propose to discuss at parliamentary hearings a minimum of living, and I propose not to discuss, but to address the problems of raising the income of Ukrainians, raising wages, raising pensions. The minimum wage that more than 2 million people get today is 3,000, 700 dollars. But it's a totally low wage, given the level of food prices, medicine, utilities, and so on. Therefore, the Radical Party team requires the government to raise the minimum wage in the first quarter of this year and set it to 5.5 thousand dollars a month. This will enable the average wage to be raised throughout the country, and this will enable poverty to be overcome. It's about retirement. Retired reform was carried out, but millions of people in the village, former colporteurs who have a great job but a small wage or workday even worked for the branches, and they have very few pensions. We demand that pensions be raised for former workers, agricultural workers, in order to ensure that this pension is fair, depending on their work that they have been doing all their lives in the village. And so the key to overcoming poverty is protecting national production, raising wages, increasing pensions for Ukrainian people, raising Ukrainian income. This will be the real solution to poverty. Everything else is talking about leaving Ukraine forever poor and dependent.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-08-m1.u47	Thank you. By "Block of Peter Poshenko" Rizanenko Pavel Aleksandrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-08-m1.u48	Please pass the word to Caplin.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-08-m1.u49	Sergey Kaplin, head of the Socialist Party. For 27 years, we spent tens if not hundreds of discussions on the subject. And please tell me, has the life of ordinary citizens changed? [[B in m in s a l in]] It hasn't changed, it's just rising inflation.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-08-m1.u50	Dear colleagues, I beg of you in the hall of silence. Dear colleagues. Dear colleagues, do you all remember that this is the Parliament of the Supreme Council?
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-08-m1.u51	Because of the shameful, terrible politics that he pursues.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-08-m1.u52	Dear colleagues, next in line for the Opposition Block. Please, Igor Shurma. Now I'm going to have to finish. I'm just asking you so much. Colleagues! My colleagues, I'll tell you this: for children, it's a bad example and alimony not to pay, and it's like yelling all over the hall, like you're doing right now. So let's all do it. [[B in m in s a l in]] Let him return, and let him behave. [[B in m in s a l in]] We don't have that in the Rules. Please. Honorable colleagues, well, stop this mess. Please! Stop the mess, please. Please, Mr. Shurmi, I'm turning on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-08-m1.u53	Igor Shurma, Opposition Block. I'd ask you all on the left to shut up! I'm only talking to you with one. Today your representative is the Head of the Supreme Council. You're all going to pretend that the transcript of the Head, which you, the coalition, presented, is going to get into the European Parliament to be ashamed of you! And no one will take you there, savages who won't let you run Parliament. Learn some basic culture! Not only do you have no coalition, but he's gonna be looking for you in five minutes! You better sit in the hall, or you're fooling people, and you're not going to work alone! And I'll remind you that you have a job from 4 to 6 p.m. And so on. Don't bark, because you're not the dogs at the booth, you're the deputies of the Supreme Council!
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-08-m1.u54	Please don't say that.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-08-m1.u55	Now it's about the essence of the problem. So, look, we're talking about the priority of the issues that have been broken, it's an urgent question of tariffs. And I'll tell you that your Prime Minister, Mr. Groissman, who was just in Lviv, said that I would immediately introduce Ulysses Suprun's candidature if the coalition agreed to it. Don't make any noise! Go out to the towers, agree with the Suprun, and immediately review Decree 5642 on the recognition of Suprun’s work as satisfactory or unsatisfactory. What are you creating? You have most of it today. You won't have it tomorrow. Imagine how you will act! I call everyone to culture. And once again, I'm telling you, you have a majority of 226 votes -- show me! Quietly, without panic, vote without hesitation if you are interested in tariffs. Tariffs are a requirement of the IMF. You want to raise tariffs, raise, please don't embarrass the Ukrainian Parliament.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-08-m1.u56	Thank you. Dear colleagues, it seems like we have a piece of Parliament for breakfast, and we haven't had another one for breakfast today, because you've been something before tonight, well, you've all become quite evil. I very much ask you to remember that this is the Parliament of Ukraine, let us demonstrate. Dear Mr. Capplin, I'm with you. I'm asking you very much. Now we have Mr. Danchenko on the list. Then I'll give you a minute, sit down, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-08-m1.u57	[[Unheard]]
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-08-m1.u58	Dear Mr. Lazko, did you have breakfast today? Be good. And you don't have to use an unorthodox language here. Please, Mr. Danchenko. You've got some lines to take.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-08-m1.u59	Dear colleagues, certainly, by supporting the parliamentary initiatives, it is very important, but I want to point out that the minimum of living is not shaped by parliamentary hearings. The minimum of living is derived from a literate economic policy. It is very important to create an investment strategy for the development of a state that, unfortunately, we don't have now, and only then to see how real the minimum of living is. So first of all, we need to create an investment strategy for the state's development, identify the priority sectors of the economy that need to be developed. And what I want to say is that in order to be the right minimum of living to satisfy all the citizens of our country, it takes a long time to move from a raw model of economy to a digital economy. The results of parliamentary hearings should, of course, be supported. But once again, the priority should be to develop an investment strategy for the development of the state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-08-m1.u60	Thank you. One minute, please, which Mr. Capplin has not been given an appointment. I ask the hall correctly, then you come up, you say everything you think about alimony, but for a minute, we're talking about a minimum of living right now. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-08-m1.u61	First of all, it's about our colleague, who's just been teasing me that I don't pay alimony. [[Noise Nodes]] Here's an extract from the government register, where it's clearly stated that there's no debt for any alimony and debt to the children of Kaplin Sergey. This was the affair between Habakkuk and Petrenko, who faked the state register. And I'm dragging them to court. That's the first one. The other one. Dear Mr. Oleg, the head of one of the factions, I can still adopt you and feed you. Just adopt, because you're not a man, you're a grandmother.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-08-m1.u62	Period, that's it! Turn off the microphone, please. Stop turning the Supreme Council of Ukraine into a kindergarten, okay? Act in such a way that your children are not ashamed of you, your daughters, and your sons. And not only alimony, Mr. Oleg, but also behavior. [[B in m in s a l in]] Please, Your Honor, have they all discussed this? Mrs. Kugel, please to the rostrum. And speak out of this resolve. Please. Colleagues, this is our colleague speaking, please. Mr. Liege! Mr. Liege! Dear Mr. Liege! Please take a look at the rostrum and listen to our colleague. Careful!
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-08-m1.u63	Dear friends, Napoleon also said, "Only great people learn from other people's mistakes, and everyone else learns from their own." How much longer does it take to convene the Supreme Council to see how the minimum of living is calculated in each country? All countries have come this way. Please see, in most countries, the minimum wage is tied to the minimum wage. Remove this disgraceful, 17 - year - old, untaxed minimum in a country where 60 percent is below the poverty line. And to Mr. Parubia, I would like to remind you that, on May 22, 2015, Julia Timoshenko and the faction of "The Fatherland" registered Regulation No. 2703 on measures to update food and non-food products and services to determine the minimum cost of living. And so please bring up the opposition projects and don't create any more.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-08-m1.u64	30 seconds to complete. The performance is clear. Colleagues, apart from certain emotional moments, all speakers stressed that this is an important decision on important hearings, which I think will be joined by all the factions of Parliament, regarding the formation of a living minimum in Ukraine. Obviously, this is a social issue that concerns millions of Ukrainians. I am very much asking you to return to the session room and join the vote. Dear colleagues, there will be a vote in a minute. Please return to the session room and let us support the decision to hold appropriate parliamentary hearings, which the profiling committee proposes to hold on May 23, 18. And we still have an hour of work left, so let's also treat each other right and discuss bills, not each other's. Okay? Colleagues, we are now waiting for all parliamentary deputies to return to the session room present at this time in the House of Parliament, and we will vote. Yes. Dear Lord of the Honourable faction, let us use moralism to deal with each other and with our factions at all points. Colleagues, please, please take your seats, take your jobs. A vote is about to take place. Yes, Your Honor, the head of a radical faction is not so radical, please, okay? Don't shout so radically, because everyone's got it. Please, please, colleagues, take your jobs. And now there will be a vote in favour of the draft decree.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-08-m1.u65	So please come into the hall, not come out, but come in. They found a way out of the hall. Please prepare for the vote. Please take up your jobs. So let's move on to decision-making, colleagues. And I'm betting on the vote. The draft Resolution on Parliamentary Hearings on "Problems of Living Minimum in Ukraine" (No. 7525) is based on voting as a whole. I would like everyone to take up their jobs and take part in the vote. Please vote. Please be supportive. Let's vote, colleagues. Please be supportive. [[17:19:32]] For-195 I'll do it again. I'm asking you to come into the hall. I'll be back. Please enter the hall, take your seats. So, colleagues, I ask you to prepare for the vote. Please, the Secretary of the Supreme Council, invite who is in the towers to the hall. The columns, the columns of the MPs, they go in. Soon there will be no seats for all the deputies in the hall. So I'd like you to prepare. Now I'm going to put it on the way back, and then I'm going to put it on the way back. Although it is a determination, it does not require a return to bet. I can put it on right away. Without a return, I'm just going to put it again, the Rules allow the decrees to be made several times. So I'm voting on the bill of parliamentary hearings on the issue of "Problems for living minimums in Ukraine" (No. 7525). Please, colleagues, back everyone up. If there are voices, then I'll put yours. I'm on my way back to the Accounting Commission. Let's vote now. Please, now, please vote and support everyone. Parliamentary hearings, 7525 Vote. We vote on the basis as a whole. Please vote. [[17:21:41]] For 203 Why don't you vote, colleagues? Why are you holding back? You've got a hold of someone. [[B in m in s a l in]] So, colleagues, how can we be? I'll do it the third time. Please. If there's not enough votes, I'm going to have to rule out. Please come into the hall. Please prepare for the vote. So I'm putting a bill on Parliamentary Hearings on "Problems of Living Minimum in Ukraine" (7525) as a basis and as a whole. Please vote, please support. Vote! Please be supportive. Vote, colleagues, every voice matters. Vote. [[17:23:07]] For 211 Unfortunately, this decision has no votes; it has been rejected. But, colleagues, the next question is an extremely important social one. This is a draft law amending the Code of Administrative Offences and some other laws of Ukraine. No, I'm sorry, it's the next one, it's not the law. and about ensuring the state's border security. And we have a draft of the Law: to amend the Criminal Code of Ukraine (to establish criminal responsibility for contributing to suicide). He stands next, colleagues. But in order not to put him at risk, I'm going to run a rating vote before that. I ask you to participate in the rating vote in support of the draft Law establishing criminal responsibility for contributing to suicide. I ask you to vote and to participate in the rating vote. Please be supportive. Let's vote, colleagues. The rating vote. Vote! [[17:24:29]] For 224 There's support, colleagues, it's rating, we're going into law. And I'm asking everyone, very few amendments here, colleagues, very few amendments, and so I'm asking everyone to stay in their seats. We move on to the next issue of the agenda. This is a draft law amending the Criminal Code of Ukraine to criminalize suicide (4088). And I invite you to the report by Palamarczuk, a representative of the Committee on Law Enforcement.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-08-m1.u66	Dear colleagues, the honourable chairman! At its meeting on 21 June 2017, the Committee considered a comparative table prepared for the second reading of the draft Ukrainian Law on Amendments to the Criminal Code (to establish criminal responsibility for contributing to suicide) (registration No. 4088). I remind you that the bill was adopted by the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the first reading on May 24, 2017. The project proposes establishing criminal responsibility for any contribution to a person's suicide or attempted suicide. The bill received 12 proposals, 2 amendments taken into account by the Committee in full, 4 amendments taken into account in part, 6 rejected. These are proposals number one, two, seven, eight, nine, ten. In general, the proposals taken into account correct the shortcomings of the bill in terms of terminology. And the corresponding norm of article 120 of the Criminal Code is supplemented by objective signs of crime, such as the tendency to commit suicide and other acts that contribute to suicide. At the same time, we propose to support the proposal that, given the nature of the proposed amendments to the Criminal Code, the acts of ministries and other central executives will not need to be reviewed and brought into line with the law. In this regard, it is suggested that article 2 of chapter II, “Ending Positions, ” be deleted. Please support the Committee's proposal No. 13. A comparison table is given to you, and the reasons for rejecting it are given. I propose to go after the amendments and make a decision, recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine to adopt the bill in second reading and generally as a law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-08-m1.u67	Thank you. So I'm going to read the papers quickly and ask everyone to come into the hall. Right hand is only four, if I'm right. 1st. Don't insist. Third. Don't insist. 7th. Don't insist. 9th. He insists. And this is going to be the last correction. I give the author 9 copies of Lechchenk my word. And I'd like everyone to come into the hall and take their jobs. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-08-m1.u68	Thank you. Lewchenko, Freedom, 223 District, Kiev City. The point is that in the way this bill is prescribed, the temptation to commit suicide remains unpunished. And that's actually a big problem, because these actions, according to the law, remain unpunished, and the promotion of suicide can't be considered an inducement, unfortunately. Today, as the Internet develops, suicide baits are widespread. Criminals have been given more opportunities to influence potential victims, especially children who are mentally unformed and who trust the environment. Thus, there is a reasonable risk of committing suicide, which is why they should be criminalized. I remind everyone here, as recently as a huge problem in these whole social networking communities, if I'm not mistaken, it was called the Blue Whale, who were teasing children, in fact, to commit suicide. So this version of the bill that you're proposing, although it's the right bill, but that's not the moment that criminalizes and that's the problem -- it's got to be added. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-08-m1.u69	Thank you. I'm putting it to a vote of 9, and the committee has rejected it, who supports it, please vote. [[17:28:46]] For 158. The decision is not taken. No, colleagues, there's still a tenth right -- this is really the last time, Jacenko, please, briefly, if you can. Short. And I'd like everyone to come into the hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-08-m1.u70	Dear colleagues! I'd like to go back to number four. I don't think there's any precision there, but instead of "suicide attempt," I think it would be "suicide attempt." And in general, the law is right, and I want to say that this has really taken very broad forms on the Internet and in the social media, and there are a lot of examples. Even in my district, in Umana, when people are being killed. So I'd still like us to support him right now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-08-m1.u71	Thank you. It's counted. Please, Palamarczuk, explain. This is an account. Turn on the microphone, partitions.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-08-m1.u72	This is an account. In the "try" part of the substitute for "tests." And that's what you're counting.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-08-m1.u73	So the discussion is over. Let's move on to making a decision. Please, everyone, take your seats, come into the hall. Please prepare yourself for the vote and take a careful part in the vote. And I'm voting on the draft Act amending the Criminal Code of Ukraine (on criminal responsibility for contributing to suicide) (No. 4088) in the second reading and in general with technical law. Please vote, please support. Vote. Please be supportive. Let's vote, colleagues. [[17:30:49]] For 229 The law is passed. Colleagues, now I'd like to consult with you. We still have it. request that two bills be transposed. One of them is a big request, listen carefully, the draft Act amending some Ukrainian legislation on the development of the production of terrarium wines and natural honey drinks. This is the general support of the entire hall under that law. Colleagues, I'm asking who's backing up. No, you don't? Yes. Okay. Number 6693. Colleagues, I'm looking for bills that have general support that have general support. Yeah, let's get somebody to put him up right now. If there are voices, we go in, we don't go in. So this is supported by all the factions. Who would like to postpone the consideration of Law 6693 to vote in favour? Please be supportive. I'm being informed that all factions support it. 6693. If there's really general support, I'll set it up if there's a general understanding. [[17:32:05]] For a hundred and No, there's no consolidation of the hall under him. So the next one. Colleagues, pay attention! Next is the Draft Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on Temporary Measures for the period of anti-terrorist Operation. This is 4023a. He's in a couple of hours in the daytime. I'm also told by the apparatus that all the factions are supporting it. I'm looking for those bills, those colleagues who have total overall support in the hall. So who wants us to transpose Bill 4023a, please vote. In order of the day closer. [[17:33:11]] For-163 Thank you. So there are no votes for the transfer. The next one's in the daytime. the following is in order of the daily Draft Law amending the Code of Administrative Offences and certain other laws of Ukraine concerning the security of the State abroad. But first, I'm going to put it on the rating vote. So I'm voting for the next draft law, which is in the order of the day, 5442 on amending the Code of Administrative Offences and some other laws of Ukraine. The rating vote. Anyone who supports it, please vote. Please vote. [[17:34:15]] For 193 The ratings vote shows. I think we can go in. I see they support all the factions in Parliament. And I invite you to the Palamarchuk report from the Committee on Law Enforcement. So this is a bill that everyone supports, which is next in line on the day. Please report.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-08-m1.u74	Dear Head, honourable national deputies, your opinion is proposed to provide a comparative table prepared for the second reading of the draft Law amending certain Ukrainian legislation on the security of the state (registration number 5442). This bill is aimed at countering the State Border Service’s crimes committed both in the state border of Ukraine and within the temporarily occupied territory of the Autonomous Republic of Crime and the uncontrolled areas of the Donetsk and Lugansk regions. The bill included 70 proposals and amendments from national deputies, of which 45 are proposed by the committee, including partial and editorial consideration, and 25 amendments rejected. The reasons for the rejected amendments are given in the table below. In particular, under the stenogram aimed at correcting the inaccuracies noted in the comments of the General Legal Authority, I propose that such technical and legal remedies be introduced to section I, paragraph 1, of the bill. When it comes to the formation of the dispositions of part 1 of article 204. 1 The Ukrainian Code of Administrative Offences, in paragraph 3 of section 5 of the bill and paragraph 5 of section 5 of the bill, replace the word "or" with the word "or such". The other one. In paragraph 11, after the word "discovery," add the words "persons who did." As a result of the discussion, the committee decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine the adoption of Bill 5442 on second reading and generally as a law. So I propose to the Supreme Council of Ukraine to support the committee's decision on this issue. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-08-m1.u75	Thank you. Let's go to the right. 7 rows. The author does not insist. 8th. Don't insist. 9th. Don't insist. 10th. Don't insist. 12th, Levenchenko. He insists. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-08-m1.u76	Lewchenko, Freedom, 223 District, Kiev City. The bill proposes to establish that crossing or attempting to cross the state border of Ukraine by any means outside the border of Ukraine or at the border crossings of Ukraine without the relevant documents, or using a forged document, or one that contains unreliable information about a person, or without permission of the relevant authorities, is an administrative offence. The point is that as it is now formulated, the question of a forged document and a document that contains unreliable information is divided, i.e. these two different concepts are prescribed. That's wrong, because if we prescribe administrative offences for indiscreet information on our own, without counterfeiting, we reject that possibility when people without their knowledge have been misinformed in the document. Appropriately it should be stated that unreliable information in this context can only refer to a deliberately forged document, not as prescribed here: either falsified or unreliable information. Because you can thus punish people who have entered unreliable information without their knowledge. And that's not right.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-08-m1.u77	Thank you. So this is the correct number. Remind me, Mr. Yuri. 12 axles. The committee turned her down. I'm betting on a vote of 12 votes against by the committee, but Yuri Lewchenko insists on her vote. Whoever supports it, please vote. [[17:38:35]] For 104 The decision is not made. Next line 13. Helen Scrum insists. Mrs. Olena. [[B in m in s a l in]] 13 Amendments.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-08-m1.u78	Good afternoon. Alona's splinter, Fatherland faction. Colleagues, the only thing I'd like to say is not just this amendment. As far as I know, at the meeting of the committee and at the meeting of the working group, the State Border Service requested another vote amendment. I can see it now, I can read it, but since it doesn't fit the Rules, I just want to ask if these amendments are taken into account by the State Border Service. Because there was a serious bill on the committee, and they were addressing a single amendment that would allow them to collect fines at the scene of detection of irregularities through cash-free terminals. And similar powers already have representatives of the National Police. That's the thing that, if possible, I'd like to ask a representative who's speaking from the committee, or just notice what I've been authorized to say to the State Border Service. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-08-m1.u79	Please comment.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-08-m1.u80	Of course, this is a very important bill. And we talked about it on the committee, but we didn't count it. Why? I'll tell you what. I don't even know why, but we didn't count it. Although we discussed it, the amendment really is very important.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-08-m1.u81	Thank you. So, I'm putting to the vote number 13 of the People's Chamber of Skrum. The committee turned her down. But the author insists on voting. Whoever supports it, please vote. [[17:40:40]] For 112 The decision is not taken. Next amendment, please. 18th, Scrum. Turn on the microphone, please, Schrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-08-m1.u82	Alona's splinter, Fatherland faction. My colleagues, in fact, I would like to thank the committee for the fruitful work they were doing as amended. My amendments included the technical nature of improving the opportunity for the State’s border office to show administrative misconduct and to bring about an administrative breach. Well, to simplify the procedure of payment of fines in general, make it more convenient for payers. But since again we were talking to the State Border Service, they explained the reasonableness of accounting-discounting every amendment I made, so I don't insist on voting on this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-08-m1.u83	Thank you. Will you comment? Will you comment?
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-08-m1.u84	I just think we should put her on the stand because she insists and vote for her.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-08-m1.u85	So, just so I understand, Mrs. Olena, do you insist on confirming 9th? Yes. And 18th. So I'm gonna do two separate votes, right? I'm betting on confirmation of the 9th amendment that the committee supported, 9th amendment. Oh, no, it's rejected. 9's a negative. Whoever supports the 9th amendment, please vote. [[17:42:47]] For 122 The decision is not taken. The author insists that the 18th be put to the vote as well. 18 of the amendment I'm betting on. The 18th amendment was rejected by the committee, but the author insists on voting. Please determine by vote, please. [[17:43:52]] For 112 The decision is not taken. 21st, Walking. Don't insist. 22nd, Scrum. Turn on the microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-08-m1.u86	Alona's splinter, Fatherland faction. Colleagues, I would just like to emphasize what this law applies, including. Well, it's an extremely important law, in fact, on measures taken by authorized authorities to counter illegal migration on the state border. And the GNEU had important remarks, which I tried to make in my papers, including. Therefore, I ask that it also be confirmed that it is precisely those observations that we make so professionally, legally prescribe the possibility of countering illegal migration at the state border and establishing offences in the border area, including the collection of debts for these offences. Please place an amendment on confirmation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-08-m1.u87	Please comment.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-08-m1.u88	Mr. Mikolo, your comment, please, on this.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-08-m1.u89	Thank you. So we're going to the vote. I bet 22 amendments, and I put it to a vote, the committee rejected it, the author insists on voting. Whoever supports this amendment, please vote. [[17:45:31]] For-119 The decision is not taken. 26th. Don't insist. 27th. Don't insist. 28th. Don't insist. 29th. Don't insist. 32nd. Don't insist. 33rd, Roman Semenha. That's not what this is about, is it? Next. 35th. Olena Schrum, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-08-m1.u90	Alona's splinter, Fatherland faction. Colleagues, well, we really need to understand that we need to establish a stricter responsibility for committing the same re-infringement, especially if it is established over a certain period of time, especially when it comes to crimes such as illegal migration on the state border, illegal crossing of the state border and so on. So here, including in the law, we need to legally prescribe these things so that we don't give any additional powers, but at the same time, that we don't give any extra resources to abuse these powers. And that's why, including from the GNEU, we worked on the legal and technical correct methods so that we don't abuse the powers that we give to state border guards. Please make an amendment to confirm that the data to the border guards are used within the framework of the law, within the Constitution of Ukraine and legitimately. Please bet on confirmation, Mr. Head. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-08-m1.u91	Do you insist on voting? And I'm putting to the vote the amendment of the 35th People's Deputies of Elena's Skrum. It was rejected by the committee who supported the vote. [[17:47:53]] For-96 The decision is not taken. What's your readout going to be through how many lines? Now, 37th. Don't insist. 38th. Don't insist. 40th. Olena Schrum. There's Eutushka, right, or Scrum? Scrum, please, Olena Scrum, 40 revisions.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-08-m1.u92	Alona's splinter, Fatherland faction. What do my peers also have to do with my changes in this context? For the second reading, changes have taken place that require the ATS to publish a specific order of entry into and exit from the ATO area in official printed editions of Ukraine. And once again, we have to clearly, correctly, legally sign off on the authorization of such force organs as the BAF, such as the NATION, such as the State Border Service. To give them authority on the one hand and to fight illegal migration, of course, with an illegal crossing of the state border, especially in the ATO zone. We realize that we are in a time of war, and we understand how dangerous such intersections of unauthorized persons can be. But at the same time, we need to consider human rights, we need to consider safeguards for human rights. And so it is very legal, legally correct, technically and in accordance with the Constitution, to prescribe such rights and responsibilities for our power structures. This included technical adjustments. Thank you. Please bet on confirmation.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-08-m1.u93	Thank you. So this is 40 revisions. And the committee rejected it, but the author insists on voting. Whoever supports Amendment 40, please vote. The committee turned her down. Please vote. [[17:49:47]] For-92 The decision is not taken. Next up, 47th. Don't insist. 43rd. Sergey Eutuszek. Please. Sergey Eutuszek, 43 revisions.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-08-m1.u94	Sergey Eutuszek, "The Fatherland" faction. Well, the faction as a whole is going to vote on this bill, but if there are votes, this is a huge question. And in preparing the amendments, we would like to complement article 222 of the Ukrainian Code of Administrative Offences with such a paragraph or meaning. Paragraph 9 of the first draft of the Act: “The authorized officials of the Ukrainian State Border Service may impose fines imposed by them at the scene of the detection of administrative offences, regardless of their size, solely by means of cash-free payment terminals.” I ask you, Mr. Head, to put this amendment to the vote. And please identify yourself and support yourself.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-08-m1.u95	Thank you. That's 43rd, right? On the 43rd, you're on. So it is rejected as a committee, but the authors insist on voting. And whoever supports Amendment 43, please vote. I'd like to make a statement. [[17:51:22]] For-93 The decision is not taken. Forty-five, Scrum. Don't insist. 33rd! All right, one second! 33 revisions, Tetjana Ostrikav. 33 Titjana Ostrikov's revision. [[B in m in s a l in]] What's the readout number? 48th. 48th, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-08-m1.u96	Dear colleagues, the amendment of the 48th National Deputy of Semimenha still suggests that we clarify the terminology that the State Border Service has the right to impose charges for administrative offences committed, the opposition to which the legislation refers to the jurisdiction of the State Border Service of Ukraine. In fact, the Law on State Foreign Service relies on this body to combat organized crime, illegal immigration, terrorism, and the cessation of illegal military or armed formations, criminal groups, and criminal organizations. That is, the law defines a series of criminal offences, administrative offences, which this body provides. Therefore, it is suggested that terminology be clarified and that it should be stated that these are administrative offences, which are opposed by legislation to the jurisdiction of the State Border Service. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-08-m1.u97	Thank you. So it was 48th and Alona Skrum was 45th. Then there'll be Alona Shkrum, and then there'll be Mustafa at 49th. We're on our way. 49th, yeah, after that, Alana, and then Mustafa Nayem. So now 48 revisions. The 48 papers were also rejected by the committee. But the author insists on voting. Who supports the 48th amendment, please vote. [[17:53:34]] For-97 The decision is not taken. Now 45th, Olena Schrum. And the next is Mustafa Nayem, 49th. And that's probably where we're going to end up today. If we can make it, let's see if we can make it. Please, Olena Schrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-08-m1.u98	Alona's splinter, Fatherland faction. Colleagues, in fact, if you go by the Chief Legal Authority's point of view, they're not many, but they're technically very correct. Nor can we in such bills, where we give additional powers, for example, to impose administrative fees on other officials, except those already defined in legislation, we must not deviate from very clear legal procedures, as should be applied so that these officials do not abuse any additional rights. Well, for example, the Chief Legal Authority's point is that there is no time limit for a document that confirms the payment of a fine that has already been sent to the body that made this order for imposing a fine may. Well, what time it's due and at what point a fine is actually imposed and it's applied if it's not at the scene of the offence. It is also unclear who is making the decision to ban the further entry of foreigners into Ukraine for 10 years if they have violated it.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-08-m1.u99	Please add 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-08-m1.u100	If they've breached procedures for crossing the state border. And these things, I think as a lawyer, we have to write very, very professionally so that we don't give any reason to abuse the public authorities' rights. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-08-m1.u101	Thank you. So this was 45 revisions. Will you comment, Mr. Mikolo? No, right? Please comment.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-08-m1.u102	I would like to be told by the national MP very faithfully. But I would like to add that almost all of this is included in the article, amendment 18. So that's what this bill takes into account. But as I'm trying to get a confirmation, I'm counting on putting this amendment to confirm. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-08-m1.u103	Thank you. So, 45 fines, national deputy schkrum. The committee turned her down. Anyone supporting Amendment 45, please vote. [[17:55:58]] Z-87 The decision is not taken. Now, 48th. Don't insist. 47th. Don't insist. 49th, Mustafa Najim insists. Please, Mr. Mustafa.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-08-m1.u104	Dear colleagues! In our amendment, we propose in paragraph 19 that the words "imposed for administrative offences" should be replaced by the words "imposed for administrative offences committed against which legislation refers to the jurisdiction of the State Border Service of Ukraine". This is to unify terminology in this bill. It had been counted somewhere before. But I insist on voting for it now.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-08-m1.u105	Thank you. So 49 revisions by the committee are rejected. But the author insists on voting. Will you comment, Mr. Mikolo? Please, Palamarczuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-08-m1.u106	I'd like to comment on what's practically taken into account in line 46. So almost all of this is taken into account. But since the MP insists, I'm counting on a confirmation.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-08-m1.u107	Thank you. There must be respect for the national MP. He insists, we vote. 49 lashes, Mustafa Najem. The committee turned it down. Whoever supports the 49th amendment, please vote. [[17:57:42]] For-99 The decision is not taken. Colleagues, we're making another move and that's it. 50 fines, National Deputy Tetjana Ostrkova. Please state your 50-way position.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-08-m1.u108	Dear colleagues, the amendment of the 50 People's Deputies of Semimenha suggests to us in paragraph 34 the words "the consideration of which should" replace "the opposition to which legislation has been attributed." The point is that, in accordance with article 19, paragraph 5, of the Ukrainian Law on State Border Service, the DPS is a criminal and administrative offence prevention organization that is subject to the jurisdiction of the Ukrainian State Border Service, its detection, termination, enforcement of administrative offences. Therefore, the committee did not understand when it reasoned with us that there was no concept of opposition to administrative offences by the State’s foreign service itself. And so we insist that this amendment is systematically linked to the previous amendment so that we can put it to the vote. And please support her. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-08-m1.u109	Thank you. Fifty lacquers. Will you comment, Mr. Mikola? No, it's not. So we're going to the vote. The bill is rejected by the committee but insists on voting by a national MP. So whoever supports the 50th amendment, please vote. I'd like to make up my mind. [[17:59:22]] For 106 The decision is not taken. So, colleagues, we've stopped at 50 degrees. The next session will begin with the continuation of the consideration of rights. And I hope that we can go productively and get a positive vote. On the 50th, I emphasize, for the apparatus, we're done. I want to say that today we've made a lot of important decisions and decisions, and it's been an extremely productive day. I want to thank everyone and the authors of the laws and the authors of the rights for their active work. And I declare the evening meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine closed. Tomorrow at 10 a.m., I'm asking you to come to the hall and continue our work. Thank you.
