ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-17-m0.u1	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Please come into the hall and prepare for registration. So, are you ready to register? Please take up jobs. National deputies of Ukraine are requested to register. Please register. [[10:03:39]] 347 national deputies registered. The morning plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. I would like to remind you that today we are continuing to work on Bill No. 7163 on the characteristics of State policy and the provision of state sovereignty over temporarily occupied territories. Yesterday we looked at 481 of the 673. We've got about 200 left, 192 rights left. And I hope that we can be productive today so that tomorrow we can get out first thing in the morning to make a decision. And I'm sure the whole of Ukraine is watching our debate, and it's going to be watching who vote when making the decision. And that's why I'm counting on the productive and effective work of Parliament today. But according to the Rules on Wednesday morning, we have 30 minutes to make speeches by national deputies with proposals, statements and messages. I emphasize to you, not factions, but people's deputies. And for whoever of the national MPs wants to participate in the discussion, I'm going to do the recording now. And so I would like you to prepare for the recording for the discussion and the presentations. You're ready, aren't you? Please hold the recording. Brichenko Igor Vitaliyovich. He gives the floor to Burbak Maxim Yuriovich. Please, Mr. Maxim.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-17-m0.u2	Dear colleagues, good afternoon! Yesterday we started a new year in the Supreme Council to consider a very important Bill No. 7163, which for the first time in Ukrainian legislation is the notion of Russia as an aggressor state. And we've seen the hysteria in the mass media of the aggressor country, because now Russia will be responsible in the international courts for materially, criminally, politically, for all the crimes it commits in the temporarily occupied territories of Ukraine that we will return, I'm sure. But we see, like on the X-ray tubes, in the media, where unfortunately, law enforcement doesn't take some measure to stop the agitation for the aggressor country, open manipulation has begun. One of them is that yesterday, it seems, was not voted in favour of an amendment that is recognized as "LNR," "DNR" by terrorist organizations. I want to refresh the memory of these politicians. On January 27th, 2015, we already voted in the Supreme Council ruling, which is recognized by the LNR, the DNR, as terrorist organizations. It's the most important thing. I just want to advise them to read this bill that predicts that LNR, DNR, is recognized as the structural units of the occupation regime that work for the aggressor state. Dear colleagues, stop manipulating and feeding our country with various garbage fairies. The People's Front faction has decided to vote in favour of the bill in the second reading in the Committee's edition, which took into account all the amendments from all factions where there was a professional discussion on a very important issue for our country. The main task of this document is to finally recognize Russia as an aggressor state and to hold Russia accountable in international courts for creating it in temporarily occupied territories. We see that some political forces deliberately delay the adoption process by accepting and voting the same amendments. First of all, for cheap populism and getting a cheap political rating. And secondly, they're acting on Russia's orders as an aggressor state. Because during New Year's holidays and the bells at the Kremlin's curant, during the "oil" and "shub" they were asked to break the bill because we understand it will finally tear Ukraine away from the empire of evil. So once again, I appeal to all politically conscious and responsible deputies. Despite the political interests of political parties and factions, tomorrow we will vote on this bill as a whole in order to protect and begin the real process of our country's depopulation. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-17-m0.u3	Heroic glory! Melniczuk Sergey Petrovich is invited to attend. Mr. Sergei, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-17-m0.u4	Good day, chairman, good day, Ukrainian people, good day, distinguished colleagues! I'm going to start with my paper yesterday, which, after listening to our President, wrote, "Peter is balding in the Maldives, and Kiwa is eating up in Bali. In the country, the children of the poor are walking and starving. The people are torn from poverty, and they are opening up expensive palaces. They're not international banquets, they're just dancing on human blood." Honorable Ukrainian citizens, respected colleagues, what's happening in the country, we've actually jumped to the bottom, and usurping the power of the President will lead, God forbid, to bloodshed. I urge the President to resign from this high rostrum because what he's doing in the country, and the usurpation of power, what's being created in the country, it's actually going to explode, it's going to explode very soon. And someone will be responsible for the destruction of the Ukrainian nation in the Hague tribunal. Briefly, for example, what happens to the crust epidemic. And what I'm saying is, it's an epidemic, because yesterday, we're told by the Deputy Minister of Health that seven cases per 100,000 people. And I'm asking, how many people do you count in the country? So it was 52 million. If we count by that number of people, we're already at a threshold that we're about to jump. Six deaths in the Odessa region, that's where the head of the area set up by the President, medical education is, and he thinks there's better medicine. No, actually, with that reform, the pseudoreform you proposed, we left the people without health care, without primary medical care. People take away their acquisitions, that's their property, that's their pies. And it's just for the permissiveness of all law enforcement agencies, they're not what they're letting go, they're bending it. For example, the Colossus Market in Nicholas, the Ukrainian Security Service, the K Department, Mr. Song, you're hiding, you're covering it all. Mr. Gritzak, get out of the way, please. Grandma's festivities. The people took their belongings and built a new Mezigiriya there. Return their belongings to the people. They will come as to Yanukovich, and they will take away.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-17-m0.u5	Thank you. I invite you to the floor of the People's Deputy Vilkul.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-17-m0.u6	Dear people of Ukraine! On another occasion, we are witnessing how the government is conducting an experiment on humans. The so - called pension reform has deprived millions of Ukrainians of their pensions and has reduced tens of millions more of them by a meager increase in wages, which are consumed by inflation, by the fall of bracelets, by rising prices, and by tariffs. The Cabinet of Ministers, Vladimir Groysman, gave a New Year's gift to hundreds of thousands of our citizens: On December 27, Kabmin decided to transfer the pension increase to military personnel for a year, from January 1, 2018 to January 1, 2019. People who have served Ukraine, more than half a million military and about 200,000 law enforcement veterans, remain with a cash pension. The coalition is busy adopting incomprehensible laws on the reintegration of Donbas, it is in parallel reality. And the laws needed by millions of Ukrainians, the most vulnerable, lack time. The government on television gives a fine account of how it cares about military personnel, law enforcement officials, and ATO veterans, while at the same time condemning them and their families to a destitute existence. As in millions of Ukrainians, I have a question for the government. Why do you translate your calculations into economic and social policies by the least vulnerable citizens — pensioners and children? In December, the coalition adopted a budget for 2018, increasing the cost of billions of dollars to officials. The Cabin has increased its funding by one and a half billion, the President's Administration by 700 million dollars. The Supreme Council is at 600 million. On the one hand, the authorities earn money in war, on the other hand, and the authorities take away pension workers from their families for poverty. What is the prestige of military service if today the military knows that they will retire as beggars? Dishonored people went to extremes, and roads were blocked. This has happened in Odessa, Nicholas, Lviv, and Equinox. This week, there will be a series of very serious protests throughout Ukraine. Today will be brought to trial. For our consideration of the Supreme Council, we have introduced a draft Decree on Retirement for Military and Law Enforcement. We demand that the necessary decisions be made immediately to increase pensions for military pensioners and IMF pensioners. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-17-m0.u7	Thank you. I'd like to invite you to the floor of the People's Deputy Taras Batenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-17-m0.u8	Honorable National Deputies, a venerable Ukrainian society! Let me give you the position of the Ukrainian Patriot Union, U.S.A.K.P., our MP group, on the draft law on de-occupation and reintegration. Dear colleagues, during the fourth year of the aggression of the Russian Federation against Ukraine, our authority is in fact continuing to ignore its constitutional obligations and to protect the territorial integrity and sovereignty of Ukraine, offering society instead of specific decisions half-steps and pear-walks. It's one of a kind. They could be a bill, a positive bill, at first glance, on the characteristics of state policy, which recognizes the Russian Federation as an aggressor. On the one hand, a number of positive changes have been made to the second reading of the bill: the Ukrainian Act on the Establishment of the Free Economic Zone of Crimea and on the Specialities of Economic Activities in Interimly Occupied Areas is a proposal by UKROP; a provision on the criminal responsibility of participants in armed aggression against Ukraine, which corresponds to the meaning of UKROP's proposals on acceptability, is included. the non-admissibility of the amnesty provisions of the Minsk Agreements for Russian mercenaries; the full, detailed, comprehensive text of article 1 containing a political and legal assessment of the armed aggression of the Russian Federation and participation in the occupation administration; and a more detailed and comprehensive commitment of the occupying State and part of the rights of Ukrainian citizens. At the same time, the bill, in fact, is a blow to parliamentaryism, it narrows down the rights of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, fundamentally unjustifiably and dangerously expands the rights and capabilities of the President and the partially executive branch of power. The broad rights and opportunities afforded to the President not only for the purposes of the organization of defence and military aggression but also for intervention in the political processes of Ukraine, not only does it remove the gaps between the legislative requirements and the actions of the President on the organization of arms aggression, but it does not definitively remove the rule of law, it creates conditions for uncontrolled action that will most likely lead to a mass violation of human rights, it does not prohibit trade in occupied areas. In the law, there are different approaches in the state to occupied territories on the one hand and to the Autonomous Republic of Crimea and Sevastopol on the other hand. This is why UKROP insists primarily on its amendments, which are largely failed: first of all, the dissolution of diplomatic relations with the Russian Federation, amendment 615, the ban on trade in occupied territories and amnesty of militants and others. If the MPs are willing to support these amendments, we're willing to vote in favour, but if they're finally rejected, especially the amendment to break the rules with Russia, we don't intend to vote in favour of these unprincipled legislative initiatives that aren't able to change the situation either on the front or in the state.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-17-m0.u9	Thank you. I would like to invite you to the floor of the People's Deputy Musia.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-17-m0.u10	Good day, distinguished national MPs, distinguished people of Ukraine! Oleg Musei, 124 constituency, Galicina, Sokalstina, Red Town. My speech will be about two things. First, I'm going to reflect on the performance by the so-called leader of the so-called faction of the "front", who was the first to speak today and who was talking about the Kremlin scenarios here. It turns out that this leader knows all the scenarios of the Kremlin. Do you have any idea what the faction leader knows about the scenarios that are written in the FSB and Moscow? And then he accuses everyone else of being the hand of the Kremlin, the hand of Moscow and the hand of everything else. I would advise you, these dungeons that you receive from the Kremlin, in fact, Your Honor, Mr. Leader, to rename your faction as a faction not of the People's Front, but of the Kremlin of the Front. Of course, you're going to have a replication, of course you're going to have something that you didn't recognize yesterday's Corchinska amendment, your faction -- two-thirds and two-thirds of the Petra Prashenko faction -- didn't vote in favour of Korchinsky's amendment to the Law on So-called Deposition, where Russia isn't recognized as an aggressor, and it's wrapped in the text, don't give God anything, something didn't work out, and your superiors who sit under those Kremlin stars didn't wave your finger and don't tell you. If you're not in the Preamble or in the title of the text, you won't recognize Russia as an aggressor. And now you call upon these dungeons to vote on the entire Supreme Council? The shame and shame of such a faction in the Ukrainian Parliament. You must go to the State Duma to work, not to the Ukrainian Parliament. And I want to respond to the second thing that happens in Ukraine with the local elections. And in fact, the Central Election Commission, by manipulating and failing to comply with the rulings of the court, is withdrawing from the national elections. candidates to the local authorities in the form that they — imagine — are non-partisan, but were on the lists of other parties once, and now they have no right to travel to local self-government authorities. There's an appropriate court ruling, there's an order from the Central Electoral Commission. And the Central Election Commission, under Bank's adversaries, continues again the shameful practice of withdrawing the new political powers from the elections. This is a violation of the existing Constitution by the President of Ukraine, who does not bring a new composition of the CBC to the Supreme Council, an old composition of the CTC has long survived. Do you want to re-elect Janukovich and the Supreme Council? Peter Alexiyovich, immediately submit the new composition of the CBC to the Ukrainian Parliament. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-17-m0.u11	Thank you. I'd like to invite you to the floor of the People's Deputy of Bachteev.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-17-m0.u12	Dear colleagues! During 2017, I repeatedly drew the attention of Kabmina Ukraine to a dangerous epidemic of bark, the spread of this infection in Ukraine. Cyrus is a dangerous infectious disease. Nine out of ten people who have been contacted with this infection will surely be ill if they have not been sick before. Or no vaccination. Can you be calm when more than 4,800 cases of disease per year in 24 regions of Ukraine in 2017? That's 47 times what it was in 2016. In two weeks 2018, 285 people in Ukraine suffered measles. The largest number of patients is in the areas of Ivano-Frankivsky, Chernobyl, Zacarpathian and Odessa. 73 percent of patients are children. Six deaths from bark. In 2017 – 5 carcases are in the Odessa region, and in 2018 – 1, this is also a child's accident in Odessa. The government must admit that there is an epidemic in Ukraine. In the 21st century, a disease that WHO and all civilised countries plan to eliminate by 2020 broke out in central Europe. The causes of the crust outbreak in Ukraine: this is the irresponsible policy of the MOH leadership on vaccination of the population, the insufficient and timely provision of Ukraine's regions with the necessary number of vaccines, the lack of confidence in the quality and effectiveness of vaccines purchased by the MOH. We need to take urgent measures and save the lives of Ukrainians, and most importantly, children. For this direction, the MOH urgently orders and acknowledges this fact of the epidemic. The heads of ODA and the district health authorities should take over the situation in the areas under daily supervision. We need to have a clear picture of the number of sick and unvaccinated citizens. If the disease in the region in 2017 is significantly higher than in 2006, schools and preschools in such regions should be closed to quarantine, and not as is done today, with silence and niche, only by populism. WHO should inform the population daily about the epidemiological situation associated with the outbreak of the bark rather than the practice of populism. We need to gather an EBA meeting and.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-17-m0.u13	Ten seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-17-m0.u14	I demand a report from the MOH leadership to the Supreme Council and to the Ukrainian people because it threatens national security.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-17-m0.u15	Thank you. I invite you to the floor of National Deputy Sergio Soboljeva.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-17-m0.u16	My fellow Members, I think that if the head of the National Bank can't be born with a declaration of resignation, it's not just the President's responsibility, but the majority of Parliament's responsibility for what's going on with the national course and the total collapse of the bracelet. If Parliament continues to avoid being responsible for the direct proposal of the Fatherland faction to create a temporary special commission to investigate the activity of this person, Mrs. Gontareva, especially after the published materials of the so-called closed court hearing, where it is now clear, and I say this for a year now, that it is Mrs. Gontareva and her company that helped export $1.2 billion through six offshore companies. The name of these six offshore companies is right in court. And we make it look like nothing's going on? You and I are pretending that, in fact, Gonnaareva, who wrote a statement in May of last year, is still on vacation. It's already the direct responsibility of the parliamentary majority, it's up to you, not just the President for what's going on with the country, for what's going on with the National Bank, for what's going on with the Deposit Guarantee Fund. The other one. The Fatherland faction has repeatedly claimed from this rotterdam Plus criminal scheme that will lead the country to financial and economic bankruptcy. When today the main national university of the country, the National University of Kyiv, Taras Shevchenka, is shutting down education because of the lack of funds for municipal services and transferring students to so-called remote learning, it continues for a month the learning process until July 2018, which you need to confirm that the crime scheme "Rotterdam Plus", where billions of dollars are being washed, is working. It only works, not in the interests of the state, but in the interests of the oligarchic groups that are actually benefiting from it. And until now, the NCRECR, which you, the parliamentary majority, along with the Opposition Block, have extended your life, empowering the President to appoint for three months additional members of the NCRECR, is your responsibility. And I think that these are the two questions that have to be asked.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-17-m0.u17	Thank you. I'd like to introduce you to Maxim Burbak. National MP Andrey Teteruk. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-17-m0.u18	Dear Mrs. Chairman! Dear fellow national MPs! Dear Ukrainian people! We see dirty information campaigns running against Ukraine every day. Part of this dirt is poured out of the border, and part of it is formed inside our country. Yesterday, the Kremlin began a new wave of hysteria that was responsible for military aggression, which was discovered by Ukrainian authorities and captured by our country’s controlled media. Russia's non-recognizance as an aggressor is either a sign of insanity or a conscious attempt to conceal its own cooperation in the interest of the enemy. The People's Front is working in Parliament to protect its country, especially to eliminate the consequences of political decisions made under Moscow's watchful eye. The Kremlin administration has purposely used Ukrainian sales policies for its dirty business. Putin knows that, for power and money, they will sweep up and sell Ukraine. And signing a cable gas contract with Putin, and screaming in cynicism through the Parliament of the Kharkiv Treaties, which allowed the enemy to secure himself on Ukrainian soil for another 25 years, and then start his military aggression -- all of these are examples of decisions by politicians from Ukrainian politics that they are trying to hide or forget. Just as it is impossible to forget every Ukrainian who has given his life as a result of Russia’s military aggression, it is impossible to forget those who have contributed to this aggression, both those who have bled themselves to death by fighting Ukraine with weapons and those who have polluted themselves with the ink bills signed for sale by our country. The People's Front is a political force that was formed in Midan, on the front and came to Parliament to work to protect our country. We are doing everything we can to prevent the Russian Federation from ruling both in Parliament and in Ukraine. We will never agree with the occupation by the Russian Federation of part of Ukrainian territory. We stress once again that the Russian Federation is an aggressor country, and so-called the LNR, the DNR, is just a waste of the terrorist regime that is trying to establish the Russian Federation. We will do and do our utmost to ensure that Ukraine is a strong, independent state capable of protecting itself with powerful Ukrainian Armed Forces, a powerful economy and creating conditions where Ukrainians can prove to the world, especially ourselves that we are a nation capable of defending ourselves, protecting ourselves and developing ourselves. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-17-m0.u19	Heroic glory! Bondar Mikhailo Leontijovich is invited to attend. Passes the word to Lapin Igor. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-17-m0.u20	Glory to Ukraine! Dear colleagues, I see we've begun to respond so quietly to "heroes of glory." But nevertheless, the glory of Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-17-m0.u21	Thank you. There's a great medical officer here who just told me as a member of the People's Front faction that I am the Kremlin's dregs. I'm really sorry that he just got out of the hall. I want him to tell me. Oh, there is. You'll tell me in my eyes later. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that, in the context of breaking the writings around Bill 7163, we are unfortunately losing the main direction of our country's development, and the main direction of our country's development is today's protection. And these inner peripetions always work on the enemy's hand. And before you call anyone, you have to think very well. But that's not what I'd like to say right now. You know, we're a majority coalition, and we have a government, and we all have a responsibility. I am calling on this high court to remind our government, including taking responsibility for the development of the country and for our military. I point out that to this day we have failed to fulfill our obligation to our military and have failed to bring into the hall a bill that would apply to the pension of military personnel. And it's shameful for us, and I admit it. So I'm talking to everyone that we need to solve this question. And I still think the government will keep its promise and put this bill into the room and we will vote on it. The second point that I'd like to take your attention again with regard to once again our military. Disgusting practices have followed in the decision to deprive military personnel who had been the first in the ranks of volunteers since 2014. I now appeal to the State Service for veterans and participants in the ATO and to Mr. Mankov Valentin's newly elected director of this service. Please note this fact. I understand that many UBDs were distributed to law enforcement officers who did not attend. I understand that we have UBDs with prosecutors who had an assembly in Kramatarsky. I understand that and I think it's shameful. That's where you're supposed to get it. But I don't understand when they take up the status of a volunteer in 2014, they take up the status of a member of the fighting in the cyborgs. And I'll give you an example, thank you for the rapid response of the Ministry of Defense, but the status of the participant in the hostilities has been taken to the cyborg of Gonti, which has received both injuries and injuries, is now a war invalid and has the President's rewards. The status of the participant of the fighting was taken from Mr. Melnik, my brother from Idar, who had gone to war since 2014. And now I've got this bunch of references, and we've been putting together guys after a year and a half, and we couldn't form it, because in the back, the headquarters were full of messes in 2014. And today there's a lot of talk about boys being taken away. That's why I appeal to the Department of Defense personnel today, too, "Dear Sir, pay attention if you are.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-17-m0.u22	30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-17-m0.u23	If U.B.D. has been illegally extradited, put someone in jail for playing who did it. But don't take real soldiers, they've got rewards, they've been celebrated by the President. What are you doing now? You're crippling passions about all this in the military? You can't do that. So let us protect our military, let us keep our promises. Thank you. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-17-m0.u24	Heroim Slava! Thank you. And the final speech of the Yelen. But helensky gives the word to Mikola Knieżick. Please, Mr. Mikolo.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-17-m0.u25	Thank you, Mr. Head. Dear colleagues, I would like to draw attention to two problems that may not apply to this room, but concern every Ukrainian. Problem one. Today, it will be considered by the Committee on Freedom of Speech. The protection of freedom of speech is the Victoria Sumar Committee, it's a problem delivering the Express to subscribers. This is the largest Ukrainian-speaking newspaper in Ukraine, which, in fact, today because of the conflict with Crucifixion, cannot reach its readers. I understand that journalists are sometimes uncomfortable, and I realize that the managers of this issue in negotiations with Shorty, like the managers of Crucifixion, can be wrong, not find a common language, not be wrong. But I urge the two sides of this conflict to compromise, and the Committee on Freedom of Speech today will address this issue, and protect the largest Ukrainian-speaking newspaper in Ukraine. The second question that I think is very urgent. We have a vote tomorrow on the Mountain and Highlands Act. I ask him to accept it only on the first reading. Perhaps another way to protect our highlands. We've reformed local self-government. And while we have budget surpluses in the large cities of Kiev, Lviv, or Odessa, there is a huge amount of debt on wages and in front of educational workers, technical workers, in the mountainous regions where one teacher spends more than 10 km of schooling. In the Supreme Region alone, the debt over the past year amounted to 7 million dollars, and for this year, 40 million dollars were underfunded. And that's a complete failure. Because for the tens of thousands of people who protect our culture, tens of thousands of people living in the Highlands, in the Putil region, in some parts of the Carpathians, the state actually spat and forgot about them. I go to the Ministry of Regional Development, to the Prime Minister, to you, my colleagues, to focus and get rid of the imbalances that some regions now allow to effectively implement local self-government programmes, while others are actually destroying them. People go out there, there's no place to work. Losing these areas, we're losing our history and our culture. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-17-m0.u26	Please, the next Kuprey MP. You're welcome. I'm sorry, I'll give you some time. Dear colleagues, this is the last performance. After that, the replicas have a leader of the People's Front faction and the Peter Prashenko Block, because there was an incorrect mention of two factions in the performance of one of our colleagues. After that, we have a statement from two factions and a statement by the national deputy Oleg Laska, leader of the Radical faction, instead of a break. Thank you. I'm sorry, there's a colleague here, Mr. Cooper. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-17-m0.u27	Dear colleagues, I recently received a very serious crime claim, and it is so serious that I would even like to read some extracts so that you can understand what may be happening in our country, which needs attention, including law enforcement. One is that the widow of a late businessman, a member of the Roschen Corporation, was one of the top managers who was responsible for the distribution of goods in Dniper and Dnipropetrov region, who died in mysterious circumstances from a heart attack in 2016. She says the following. After his death, there was a limited-liability company called Strong K, which registered 100 percent on it. The company’s balance sheet includes property, transportation, technology, and real estate purchased at the expense of their family’s personal expenses, and loans paid. The company started making millions of profits, which began to annoy the management of Roshen. Before his death, Kislicin returned from the city of Kiev and told him that one of the directors of Constantine May’s corporation had asked him to leave the business and, since it had begun to develop successfully, handed it over to him. Then Oxlyn refused to meet the requirements, which may also have caused his mysterious and very quick death. Statistics show that all who disagree with the actions of the authorities and the so - called powerful world of this world die under such circumstances. What happens next? Then the widow of the deceased cannot present an inheritance to the notary. It takes more than a year. Bribery notaries bribed by judges The widow is now being evicted from her own apartment, and they point out that the management of the Roschen Corporation has given instructions to their leaders who have entered and know the inputs in all organs, to take the money out of their bank accounts. When criminal conduct in this matter was discovered, what happens next? As the workers explained, the vote has already broken down, as prosecutors explained in an informal interview to investigate investigations by owners and employees of Roschen Corporation, they cannot. Because the Attorney General of Ukraine, Lucenko, is the godfather of Dusty and, using his authority, blocks any attempt to investigate criminal conduct. There's an address for Dusty, there's a statement to the head of Roshen. Zero response. I demand that the President of Ukraine declare a public position on this matter and make sure that the investigation is carried out, and remove any charges. I'll take this case under control and let you know about it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-17-m0.u28	Dear colleagues, the speeches of the deputies in today’s plenary session ended in an appropriate section. And now I'm giving you a minute to give the leader of the People's Front, and then I'm Arthur Gerasimov. Please, Maxim Burbak.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-17-m0.u29	Dear colleagues! I would like to reiterate that on 27th January 2015, the Supreme Council voted in full for a decree declaring that the DNR, the LNR, are terrorist organizations. I advise them to read again this bill, which recognizes that DNR, LNR, is part of the occupying forces of the Russian aggressor state. To all of them, who are spreading fairy tales and manipulations from Russian media and working for the Kremlin's controlled local media, I want to repeat, once again, this is a bill that recognizes Russia as an aggressor. And stop manipulating it. And that's what's important. I remember Stolarov bringing these "Moscow Cans" into this session hall. Realizing that they need to pay off the fees paid by Putin personally so that they can come in here and sow this hostility. That's not gonna happen. And by the way, our guys are members of the faction who were in Maydan Self-Defense, who, after the Dignity Revolution, went to the front to defend themselves.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-17-m0.u30	30 seconds, please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-17-m0.u31	The acquisitions of the Dignity Revolution, which by their bodies defended our state and allowed them to sit here, require public apology. Because you spit in the Dignity Revolution and in those behind it. Shame on you! Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-17-m0.u32	Please, the next performance by Arthur Gerasimov, the Peter Prashenko Block, was also mentioned in an invalid form in one of the performances. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-17-m0.u33	Dear Mr. Head, dear colleagues!
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-17-m0.u34	Dear colleagues, be quiet, please! Mr. Arthur, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-17-m0.u35	You know, it's very strange to hear from some of the things that are saying that it's a bad law that recognizes Russia as an aggressor, as if it's a norm, it doesn't fit. We all remember the first reading of this law when we were surprised at what factions had blocked and not only blocked the adoption of this law but in general destroyed Parliament. So I want to tell you that let's not forget that it's because of the coalition vote that this law was adopted in the first reading and adopted and approved in the second reading. The other one. When someone comes out and attacks the President of Ukraine, somehow everyone has forgotten about things that are now perceived as given but that have been achieved by hard work and hard work. This is the restoration of our army, this is also international solidarity with Ukraine. I am.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-17-m0.u36	30 seconds to complete, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-17-m0.u37	Which was not so easy to create and which we all have to support together in this session hall, and in our speeches abroad, and during international conferences. And last of all, as far as the Central Election Commission mentioned here is concerned. I want to remind you that it has been in Parliament for quite some time now, the President of Ukraine has brought it in. So now the family situation has changed for certain candidates, and that's why the President is going to give us new materials so that we can make a decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-17-m0.u38	Thank you. Dear colleagues, there are two other statements of factions. First, please, Oleg Lazka, and then two factions turned, then Oleg Berezuk. Oh, I'm sorry, not Oleg Lazko, but Victor Galasjuk, please. Please, Mr. Victor.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-17-m0.u39	Please, Mr. Victor.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-17-m0.u40	Thank you. Dear Andrew Volodymyrovich, distinguished colleagues! When the authorities tell us that they are pursuing the right economic policy, they are borrowing new and new debts from the International Monetary Fund, the European Union, look facts in the eye, look at the exchange rate, look at the prices in the stores. You don't have to be a deputy or a minister here to evaluate this economic policy of power. This year's budget alone provides 130 billion dollars in government debt -- the second largest article in expenditure -- is more than for education than for medicine and more than even for defense. By dividing this into the number of taxpayers in Ukraine, 12,000 dollars per year of such payments is just interest on the holding, that is, a thousand dollars per month, and give to the creditors of the state. In addition, if we have to pay off total government debt today and we divide this amount of government debt into 43 million people in Ukraine, we will see that every citizen, from child to pensioner, will have to pay $1,750. I have a simple question: is there any of these costs in each person? No, there isn't! And that's why there are only two ways out: either the continuation of existing economic policies that lead the country to default and the loss of sovereignty, or the fundamental change in economic policy. And that's what our radical party team is proposing because of the anti-crisis economic plan and through the industrial reform package. The low laws have already been passed with us in this Parliament to implement this plan, but it is sabotaged by executive power. You see, over a year ago, you passed the Export Credit Agency Act, or did the government create it? Fate didn't create it! They are sabotaged and, in fact, proud of raw exports, proud of the fact that in Europe they bake bread from Ukrainian grain instead of producing finished produce. There are said to be insufficient funds, and the Ministry of Economics has officially waived 2 billion dollars of guarantees for the Export Credit Agency. This would allow for the promotion of Ukrainian engineering, Ukrainian aircraft construction, Ukrainian coaching, other key industries to raise the level of wages, the financial independence of the country. Or another bill called "Buy Ukrainians, Pay Ukrainians", which is systematically sabotaged today by the Ministry of Economics. But I am very grateful to all colleagues in the Parliamentary Corps for your support, for your meaningful amendments. Unfortunately, there are MPs who have made three thousand amendments just to bring this law down technically. I want to thank the Committee on Economic Policy and the Secretariat, which is already working professionally, to solve this problem. You and I will pass this law in the hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-17-m0.u41	30 seconds to complete.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-17-m0.u42	Please, 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-17-m0.u43	You and I will adopt this law "Buy Ukrainian, Pay Ukrainians" in this room, we will put our taxpayers' money into service with you in the service of the Ukrainian economy, pay raises, pensions of the Ukrainian industry, and we will reduce our dependence on the International Monetary Fund, other foreign creditors. The goal is not to cooperate with them, but to repay the debt, the strong economy and the real income of the citizens who are growing as they are in Europe, thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-17-m0.u44	Thank you. Please give me the word of a leader. I can't hear you. Ah, Yegor Sobolev. Two factions took a break, and they volunteered instead of taking a break to announce the performance. Please, Jehora Soboljevo has the word.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-17-m0.u45	Not once at the talks in Washington, Brussels, in London did we get a question: did you admit to war in your country, you acknowledged Putin's aggression? And for four years, none of us had a good answer to that question. And we agree with colleagues who say it's very good that this time has come, we're willing to vote in favour of war, Putina is an aggressor, and the territories are occupied. We just wanted to pay attention to what this was all about. The law itself will not liberate Ukrainian lands. Ukrainian lands will only be liberated by the Ukrainian army. But in order for this army to fight, in order for all society to fight for independence, the law proclaims a position: a position on behalf of the whole state, a position on behalf of Parliament, a position on behalf of the President of Ukraine, which is to sign the law. And so it's very important when we say, "Let's recognize Putin as an aggressor," really. It can't be that when we confess to war, we refuse the responsibility of parliament and the President to declare war. This is actually the first example that the leaders of the State have to do for their people. When they attacked the country, they had to leave -- the President, the Parliament -- and say, "We were attacked. War has begun. Let's defend ourselves!".. And we can't write in the law. Well, it's already started, so let's not announce it. Because it's an escape from responsibility. The second is a very important matter. War is a battle for destruction. War is the fight to win. For whom the idea was to write in this law, which recognizes Russian aggression by aggression: and let the generals determine which goods can be moved through the front line. I won't talk about corruption among generals, you know better than I do, but what example do we then set for soldiers? What will a soldier feel when he sees trucks coming behind him, trains coming, and someone making good money? We have a huge request to all our colleagues. Let's make this decision. But let's make it real. This is a parliamentary battle for Ukraine's independence. And it's up to everyone who's here to win this fight.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-17-m0.u46	So we're done talking. There were two applications for recess. The factions ended. And, colleagues, let's move on to the right. And I remind you that we were yesterday. I thought we finished on 483 last night. I invite a representative of the Committee on Security and Defence of John Winnick to the rostrum. And he'll remind us of the previous consideration. And we're going to look at the licenses. Mr. Ivan, will you give me three minutes? Three minutes, please. If necessary, I'll add one more minute. Please, Mr. Ivan.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-17-m0.u47	Good morning, dear colleagues. I would like to thank you for the self-help position just announced by their colleagues in the rostrum. At the same time, as the secretary of the profile committee, as the person who worked in the working group, the person who read the text of the law for second reading, I strongly deny the individual statements. Of course, Ukraine cannot be freed by a declaration of war alone. If we do political action, declare war, it doesn't mean that Russian tanks will evaporate immediately, the Russian soldier will return to the Russian Federation's aggressor country, in no way will it strengthen our Ukrainian army immediately. So certainly, when we see the manifestations of hybrid war against Ukraine, when Russia is waging an unannounced war, when it is organizing fairies' illegal referendums in our territory, when it removes signs of distinction from their regular armies, and pretends that these Ukrainian miners are so successful in using modern Russian military technology, which is only available in the Russian Federation's aggressor state, under such conditions Ukraine is obliged to give effective hybrid responses. Of course, the first step that Ukraine took in 2014 was to announce the regime for conducting an anti-terrorist operation. Yes, we were not able to declare a legal regime of martial law because it was interpreted as an initiation of war. This could perhaps be interpreted as a cassation of belli. Yes, I know and clearly distinguish the status of war and the legal regime of war. There was a lot of emphasis yesterday on this. I'm clearly aware of the difference, but I also realize the difference that Ukraine is vulnerable to the outside world, which today is aggressive to Ukraine, both economically and financially, and politically, as well as militarily. And you don't have to convince anyone about that, dear colleagues. The committee worked hard, and members of the committee, together with other factions, improved the project. Last but not least, there's no trade in this project, there's no noun, there's no trade. What are you talking about, colleagues? What is no longer in the context of moving goods that would be controlled by the Armed Forces of Ukraine, the same order that is in place today, the Cabinet of Ministers is playing a single and decisive role in order to move goods. The order of movement of persons is similarly regulated by the Cabinet, but the Ukrainian Armed Forces, which defend life, first of all, every Ukrainian, have the right to temporarily restrict the crossing if the security situation is tense. That's what's in the project for second reading, respected colleagues. I think we're going to have to quote individual positions if anyone doesn't understand. And with regard to our work today, let me briefly report, because yesterday I had an opportunity.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-17-m0.u48	Please finish 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-17-m0.u49	Ukrainian television and, unfortunately, Ukrainian people, Ukrainian society gets from individual politicians quite seriously distorted, and in fact, false information about what we're looking at. In fact, we passed the preamble yesterday, clearly defined by the Russian Federation as an aggressor country, an occupying country. The date of the beginning of the occupation is clearly set out, on February 20th, in an actual legislative act that was voted in May 14th in connection with the occupation of the Ukrainian Crimea.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-17-m0.u50	30 seconds to complete.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-17-m0.u51	This date is the beginning of the occupation and aggression against our country, which began in Crimea, continued in Donetsk and Lugansk. We don't have to convince anyone, we did it, it already is, it's a fact. We have clearly pointed out what our nation will do. Therefore, discussions about how this bill will help us to resell Ukraine, our individual territories, do not withstand any criticism. There is a clear order: the liberation, the security of rights and freedoms, the restoration of the constitutional system. This is article 4, there are three points of everything. Clearly, what must be done.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-17-m0.u52	Thank you. So, colleagues, I remind you how our work will be organized. I'll call the amendments that were rejected. If someone wants to put the hand up or the message of the Presidium on confirmation, we will give our word. I also want to remind you that we ended up with the amendment of 483 national deputies, Elena Skrum yesterday. And we agreed that this amendment would start today. And I'd like to invite you to the floor for amendment 483 of Helen Schrum. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-17-m0.u53	Alona's splinter, Fatherland faction. Thank you for your word. Actually, I've got the 470s and the 483s. They're all about the same question, so I'd like to say about these amendments. Colleagues, in "The Finals" and "The Transitional" positions in article 11, it is stated that the Supreme Council, in an unconstitutional way, will unconstitutionally approve the President's decision to use the Armed Forces of Ukraine, because the Constitution makes it very clear that the Supreme Council can only rule separately when the President orders the use of the Armed Forces of Ukraine to approve his decision to use the Armed Forces. And the Supreme Council cannot in any way give its constitutional powers to make appropriate decisions at the President's request for a one-person ruling by the President. What kind of decree is that? This is a future decree, a past decree, what decree is that? It is vital that we do not conflict with the Constitution by adopting such important laws. And that's what my amendments are about, and that's why I'm asking them to support me. If you want changes, change.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-17-m0.u54	Let me finish. Please, 15 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-17-m0.u55	If you want to change the procedure for the use of the Ukrainian Armed Forces by decree of the President, change the Constitution, your colleagues, dial 300 votes and go ahead. But we cannot unconstitutionally endorse the President's decision to use the Armed Forces, which is incomprehensible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-17-m0.u56	Please, Mr. Ivan.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-17-m0.u57	I'm the only one I'd like to comment on. I'm looking at the amendment of 483 People's Chamber of Skrum, and it sounds like "Part Three Article 11 delete." If I look at part three of article 11, it is as follows that this law acts without prejudice to Ukraine's inseparable, sovereign right to the temporarily occupied territory of the Russian Federation of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea and the city of Sevastopol and to the measures aimed at the full restoration of Ukraine's territorial integrity in an internationally defined border. I have a question: What is wrong with this article?
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-17-m0.u58	You said they were the same as the 470s, the 2nd and the 83rd that we stopped at yesterday. All right, God be with him.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-17-m0.u59	So, colleagues, there was a sound of positions. Let's move on to the vote. So the committee rejected 483 papers, but I insist on voting for it. And to the supporter of Amendment 483, please vote. Please. [[11:01:19]] For-39 The decision is not taken. 484th. Don't insist. 486. Fifth. Please, Pinzenik.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-17-m0.u60	Dear colleagues, there is no foreign and customs control in the administrative borders between the regions of Ukraine. There's this kind of control on the administrative border with Crimea. The legal basis for establishing such control is the Crime Free Economic Zone Act, which is proposed by this right to cancel. How will border control and control of the movement of goods and natural persons be exercised if the legal basis for such control is gone? It's another important moment. This law has established a special order for tax administration. Today, Ukraine does not compensate businesses located in Crimea for VAT on export. If the law is repealed, we may have legal obligations to reimburse VAT. This law also sets out the characteristics of compensation for lost investments, the specificity of guarantees on citizens' contributions, the specificity of the Act on State Aid.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-17-m0.u61	Please let me finish. Colleagues, we just didn't know that the 485 amendment was considered by the committee, that's essentially an amendment to the committee. Victor Pinzenik is on her way to confirm it. And it will continue for one minute, your position.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-17-m0.u62	This law also sets out the characteristics of social funds payments, or pensions. In the event that this law is repealed, it is difficult to predict how many lawsuits the Ukrainian budget can affect. If there are problems before this law, it should not be annulled, but it should be corrected. Many colleagues stressed the need for a clearer regulation of the import and export regime. And this could be done by introducing the corresponding rights in article 6 of the law, by issuing it as follows: "During the temporary occupation, goods, services, including transport, from other areas of Ukraine, including customs transit into Crimea and VEZ Crime, to any other territory of Ukraine or beyond the customs border of Ukraine, are not allowed. Order of control.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-17-m0.u63	Thank you. Tell me, do you propose to put it on confirmation or change it? Please make the correct proposal, for the 85 amendments are counted. Are you suggesting? To confirm or change it? Please, 30 seconds, finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-17-m0.u64	This amendment should be made for confirmation because the whole law cannot be repealed. But at the same time, I'm proposing a drafting of articles that can remove the issue of the supply of goods. So this is about the embargo on trade in the free economic zone. These are the limits set by the Cabinet of Ministers today. Articles 6 and 12.4 of this Law need to be corrected. And I'm asking you to make an amendment and remove it from the law.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-17-m0.u65	Thank you, Mr. Victor. I'll put her in for confirmation. But I'll say something important. Your problem, raised by you, is important. We're obviously going to vote tomorrow. Try tomorrow in a dialogue with the committee to find the right proposal so that the committee before the vote can sound the right compromise position under the transcript, because we can't just be a free trade zone, even though I understand the risks you're talking about. And that's why I'm going to give Chubar's word. I'll give it to you. But you work on the committee today so that we can find the same formulation as how to get out of this situation. It's a deal. Please, Chubarov's one minute and then the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-17-m0.u66	Thank you very much, Mr. Head. Dear colleagues, our goal is to stop any form of trade or service in the temporarily occupied Crimea territory, and what Victor Mikhailovich and you, Mr. Head, have confirmed. I suggest you don't bet on confirmation right now. I now propose to Victor Mikhailovich, and I support such an offer, to formulate a committee, and today, after the committee's lunch, to consider this particular proposal, because this is a committee proposal, and to put us to a vote tomorrow. And then we're going to come up with a concrete solution.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-17-m0.u67	I ask, does the amendment support this position? The author of the amendment supports this position. And that's why I'm not putting her on the stand, but we're making all the commitments for tomorrow's vote, which will take place around 10:40-11. You're making a proposal that the representative of the committee, John Winnick, will sound like a transcript, and we'll be able to confirm it by voting. Is that accepted? Thank you. I, my colleagues, propose the next amendment. Next up is 486 Palamarchuk. Next up is 487th, Germany. Please turn on the microphone, Mr. Nimchenko. No, it doesn't. 488, Levechenko. He insists. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-17-m0.u68	Lewchenko, Freedom, 223 District of Kiev. Because of today's, not just today's, but the criminal inaction of the President of Ukraine, Peter Alexiyovich Prashenko, and all of this oligarchic kleptocracy, who refused to declare war, there is now such a legal situation in the East that our heroes, who defend Ukraine and who shed blood for the Ukrainian nation, are constantly subject to criminal persecution for their absolutely legitimate, humane understanding legitimate actions, in defense of their nation and state. And this bill, the bill that is being proposed today, does not solve these problems, but worsens when it prescribes such a possibility, such a thing as opening fire only in case of extreme necessity, I stress the extreme necessity. In order to at least try to solve this problem, we propose to amend the Criminal Code of Ukraine to clearly state that any action taken to protect the territorial integrity of Ukraine's sovereignty.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-17-m0.u69	30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-17-m0.u70	Any action taken to protect Ukraine's territorial integrity and sovereignty, which has been done to deplete the militants and Russian puppets, clearly cannot be criminally punished, that they are necessary and cannot be punished in any way. Therefore, this correction is vital in order to stop the shameful persecution of our heroes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-17-m0.u71	Please, Mr. Ivan.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-17-m0.u72	One of the priorities of the committee's work in preparing the bill for the second reading was to see the need to adequately and sufficiently protect the Ukrainian soldier who would take steps to ensure national security and to counter the armed aggression of the Russian Federation. It's dedicated to three articles in this project: 8, 9, 10, which are actually authorizing, they're clearly saying that a Ukrainian soldier can do to exercise his authority to free territories from the Russian occupation. The second question that many people call unconstitutional is very sad. That's why we, in this case with the reporter, are in the same ideology, and we propose to take this into account and implement it, not in the Final and Transitional positions, but in the body, in fact, the project at the level of articles 8, 9, 10, where clearly defined mandates are both the head of the General Staff and below, including the head of the Joint Staff, and further to each soldier.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-17-m0.u73	Thank you. But I understand the author insists on voting, right? So I'm putting to the vote the amendment of 488 national MP Levchenk, and the committee rejected it. Whoever supports this amendment, please vote. [[11:10:27]] For-44 The decision is not taken. 489th, Andrew Illenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-17-m0.u74	Andrew Illenko, All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. This amendment, like many other amendments, refers to the question of trade in occupied areas and its inadmissibility. And in fact, in this amendment, we, the free people, are proposing to criminalize similar activities. That is, criminalize a violation of the order of cross-section of goods through a line of temporarily occupied territories. And accordingly, such actions must become criminalized acts, in order to make it clear at the level of our Criminal Code that such activities, in fact, are fuelling occupation regimes in these territories temporarily occupied, are criminal and must be punished in a legal order. It's because there are no possibilities for these collaborators to actually use the resources of our state to reinforce the occupation regime in those areas that are not temporarily controlled by the Ukrainian authorities.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-17-m0.u75	Please, Mr. Ivan.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-17-m0.u76	Again on trade, so-called trade. I would like to quote directly the contents of an article that is prepared for the second reading. The procedure for entering persons, moving goods to a temporarily occupied territory in Donetské, Lugansk, and leaving persons is determined by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. There are no other subjects here. With regard to the changes and responsibilities of the administrative or criminal person proposed by the reporter. In general, we support the imposition of certain sanctions, but we deliberately in this project, even through "Transitional" or "Ended" positions, have not tried to amend the Criminal or Criminal Procedure Code or the Code of Administrative Offences. This bill actually sets a framework, we called it a constitution for the liberation of occupied territories. That is, the principles of the law on which they will be based and on which Ukrainian legislation will be developed in connection with the implementation of all necessary regulations and regulations.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-17-m0.u77	30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-17-m0.u78	This project. We are now in the process of actually developing this bill, already registered in the committee, projects by colleagues, such as collaborators, which determine the new status of individuals who promote or directly, knowingly or unconsciously, Russian aggression in the territories and help the enemy in every way. We'll welcome the bill from the "Freedom" interfractional merger, I'm sorry, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-17-m0.u79	Thank you. So the author insists on voting. Yeah? And I'm voting on Amendment 489. The committee rejected her. Anyone who supports it, please vote. [[11:13:55]] For-41 The decision is not taken. 490, Zlatczyk. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-17-m0.u80	Good afternoon, dear fellows! I propose an amendment that will distribute the Law on the Status of War Veterans, guarantee their social protection to health - care workers who have died as a result of injury, injury or disability, or who have been injured, injured or disabled, were in the workplace at the time of the fire on a health facility. I can see that the committee rejected this amendment, and I don't know why. I am asking you to support this amendment, and the committee is asking you to explain why it was rejected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-17-m0.u81	Thank you. Please give the committee an argument about this.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-17-m0.u82	The committee held a joint meeting with the Committee on Veterans in relation to numerous standards for the social protection of war veterans, who receive the status of participants in national security measures, we have veterans, we have participants in an anti-terror operation, we may have other measures in the future. We have families of the dead, we have separate powers and positions on disability, payments due to receipt or temporary disability, or permanent status. We have already adopted a series of bills to protect the social volunteers who have been or are participating in, volunteers. In large numbers, we have about 10 legislative acts regulating the same issue, in fact, receiving compensation for injury or death, in which case the family receives the loss of a breadwinner in connection with Russian aggression. We have made a decision in connection with the fact that the law was extremely large.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-17-m0.u83	30 seconds, complete.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-17-m0.u84	A separate bill, a comprehensive one that deals with these issues that you're talking about, and we still need to deal with the issue of getting, and, in fact, there are now cases of depriving a participant of the status of a war, and abuse is sometimes, unfortunately, an appropriate status. So this question needs a comprehensive solution, and we've decided that we're not going to burden this project with these standards right now, if and when it's accepted, we're immediately with the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-17-m0.u85	Thank you. I understand the position of the committee. Dear colleagues, I ask you to determine for amendment 490. The committee turned her down. Please make up your mind. [[11:16:49]] For-42 No correction supported. Let's move on. 491, Mrs. Corchinsky. Don't insist. 492, Musai insists. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-17-m0.u86	Ladies and gentlemen, I'd like to ask you to fully support our work, because it's written "partially counted." It refers specifically to the Law on the Status of Veterans, the Participants of War, and their Social Protection. Because the previous arguments that were made yesterday by our defenders -- both volunteers and regulars. Those who were in regular armies and in the National Guard who were protecting Crimea, and those who are, it turns out, we have, too, it's not regulated by valid legislation. So why not add, since we are making changes to this article of the law regarding those who fought in the Donetsk region and in the Luhansk region, to add Crimea? Then why should we add another law to those who defended Ukraine in Crimea? So it's perfectly logical and I'm asking you to support this amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-17-m0.u87	Dear colleagues, I would like to remind you that the committee has partially taken into account this amendment 492, and we have also heard a reasoned response from a committee representative who is still working with a veterans' profile committee, a bill that will be a complex solution to this issue. And I'm asking the room to determine now about the amendment 492, which the committee considered in part, but the author insists on taking full account of it. Please make up your mind. [[11:18:42]] For-36 Not counted. Next, 495th is partially accounted for. Don't you insist? John, because then you'll say I said it quietly, you didn't hear it, and it wasn't like that. What, what?
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-17-m0.u88	No, it's not. I'm saying that I'm addressing you, but as a chairman's right, I urge you to hear your amendment. 496th, a self-help amendment. Who's going to represent Amendment 496? Dear colleagues, don't you insist? Okay. Let's move on. What? We can take it off, but, look, not all of your deputies came running in the snow. So I'm afraid we're going to have some voting issues. 497th, Igor Lucenko. You see, he did not run in the snow, so he does not insist on his correction. 499th, Olena Schrum. Don't insist. 503, Ivan Krulko. Is it insisting or not? Don't you insist? This doesn't take into account your correction. 504th Self-Help, 504th. The Self-Help faction, no one insists on 504? Okay. Okay. Well, I don't see you around the trees, so I'm gonna ask you a question. 508th. Moses. Please, Mr. Musia's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-17-m0.u89	For the sake of the economy of time, I'm asking you to just put it to a full vote, that's all.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-17-m0.u90	There will be a comment, please, from the committee. Please. 508th Amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-17-m0.u91	It's actually the same content that I've already commented on. With regard to obtaining appropriate social status in connection with taking part in national security measures, this is the term introduced by the bill. We have, as I said, decided to take into account only the most necessary things, that is, we, if the status of a participant in national security measures is already introduced by law, we are extending all the norms that are and new to the development of current legislation or some unifying bill. We're going to do everything together with the profile committee, and that's what we've come up with at the committee meeting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-17-m0.u92	I see. Now we're going to define the 508th amendment. The committee rejected it, gave the argument appropriate. The author insists on taking full account of this amendment. I'd like the session room to determine your position now. Please, colleagues. [[11:21:57]] For-32 Thirty-two national deputies. Correction not supported. 509th Amendment. The Self-Help faction doesn't insist? Okay. 510th Amendment. Don't insist. 511. Edited. Don't insist. 512th. Scrum of Olena. Don't insist. 514th, Oksana Korchinska. Mrs. Corchinska, 514th Amendment. Don't insist. You insist. Please, Mrs. Corchinsky's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-17-m0.u93	Christ was born! Now in this direction, we deprive our military personnel of compensation, who have received and become disabled, not only of injury, injury, and disability, but also of disease. Now the only difference is that there's a word of disease. I remind you, our military personnel are ill with oncology, our military personnel have hepatitis. And now that we're with you with this right now, the committee is depriving us of inserting the word, the only word of sickness, all these boys and girls, our military personnel, we are now depriving our country's only social security. Three years in this case, they are families and volunteers then treat them with hepatitis and not just hepatitis and oncology. It's in principle for us. Now, Mr. Ivan, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-17-m0.u94	Let me finish, please, 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-17-m0.u95	Mr. Ivan, I'm asking you to be a representative of the committee. I realize that the committee probably didn't just figure out that the difference between this amendment in one word, in one word: to include the word disease We should give military personnel social security. One word. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-17-m0.u96	Please comment from the profile committee. Your position on the 514 announced amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-17-m0.u97	You have raised an extremely important issue that needs to be settled. Now, by the way, the committee has already considered three bills, two of which are alternatives, the content of which is that today a military officer who was injured and died six months or twelve months later as a result of this injury, in this alternative to projects, is not receiving adequate social protection as one who died as a result of an anti-terrorist operation. These bills are prepared by the committee. And now that I have the opportunity, I would like to address the leadership of the Supreme Council. At the next meeting, perhaps on Thursday, perhaps it will be symbolic, immediately after we have concluded with a bill on the specificities of public policy on ensuring sovereignty in certain areas of Donetsk and Lugansk, to consider these projects and to adopt a decision of the Supreme Council and to extend social protection if a person has died as a result of getting hurt.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-17-m0.u98	Let me finish 30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-17-m0.u99	Six to 12 months later, depending on what the Supreme Council will accept, it was given the same social protection as social protection. And your question about other diseases is that I propose to settle this project, because of that, of course. [[B in m in s a l in]] There will be no conflict with the law. And that's why we turned it down so that we don't now balance legislation. We'll accept, I'll suggest, maybe on the second reading, if that's the case.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-17-m0.u100	The committee's position is clear. Dear Mr. Barroso, we don't have that kind of practice. [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear colleagues, look, we're about to move on to Amendment 514. Mrs. Korczynska made her position quite clear and made this amendment that the word "disease" should be added. Mr. Bereza wants to join the discussion. We do not have such a regulatory norm, but you will be able to express your position during other amendments. And the committee also stressed once again when we are discussing this social security bloc, including our military, which now protects Ukraine's sovereignty and territorial integrity in the East, that this will be set forth in a separate complex law. Dear colleagues, please determine the session room for Mrs. Corchinsky's 514th amendment. The committee turned her down. Please make up your mind. [[11:27:18]] For-55 55 votes for you, which means it's not going through this time. But the initiative of the committee's representative was to consider as soon as possible the law of profile, complex. The next amendment is the 517th National MP of Musei. Microphone, please turn it on.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-17-m0.u101	Ladies and gentlemen, please note that this amendment concerns volunteers. And I am asking you to put it to a full vote. And what the committee comment on is that, four years later, the committee matures to some kind of systemic legislation that's going to be unknown in the future when it's adopted, I think you should go out to the volunteers and go out to the fighters and tell them that in four years, the committee didn't do anything and didn't take into account those who fought in the Crimea and protected the Crimea, and one day they'll do something else. How many more years do you need to prepare such legislation? Why not now include in the law that will be passed tomorrow? I believe he's going to be voted in the normal order. That's why I'm insisting on getting involved right now.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-17-m0.u102	Please comment to the 517th amendment committee, which the committee rejected.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-17-m0.u103	As far as the volunteers are concerned. I would like to inform the room that all volunteers involved in an anti-terror operation, in the absence of armed aggression, a large majority, an absolute majority of them are already legalized in regular military units or the National Guard, or the Ministry of Defense, or the Ukrainian Armed Forces. As for the committee's work, I'll also allow myself to comment. Indeed, we have volunteers who have been killed or injured and have not been legalized in any form of military formation, so you do not think social protection is spreading. Actually, that's not true. Because it was on the initiative of the committee that I was directly the author of the amendment, the head of the committee, Mr. Jaros, who was also a member of our committee, by adopting appropriate professional legislation on the protection of volunteers who, as part of the official formations, are involved in the conduct of the anti-terror operation, that we included in the regulation that, in relation to those who were not in it, but who were killed or injured.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-17-m0.u104	Let me finish. Please, 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-17-m0.u105	For the legitimate concern of the military administration, in coordination with which he has acted, such a person may receive the appropriate status or receive the corresponding payment from the members of his family. This rule is in actual legislation, it's implemented, it even works for some people, we've personally helped individual families get this status as a committee. So to say that the committee doesn't do anything about it, I definitely deny it. And please read at least the legislation that we are.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-17-m0.u106	The position is clear. Dear colleagues, the committee has once again expressed its position regarding a series of amendments to the same issue: social guarantees to our military personnel. I ask you to identify yourself now with amendment 517 proposed by the People's Deputy Musai and his colleague. The committee rejected the amendment. I'm asking you to make up your mind. [[11:30:55]] For-39 39 National Deputies. Correction not supported. The next is 518, this is self-help. The faction does not insist on its correction. 519. The author does not insist. 520th. Partially counted. The authors do not insist. 521st. National deputy of Korchinska. Are you insisting? Please, Mrs. Corchinsky's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-17-m0.u107	It's an identical readjustment that insists once again that we insert the word "disease." Once again, I'm addressing the National Defence Committee: please, this is the nonsense of what you're doing right now. From tomorrow, if this law is voted out, all our military personnel of all kinds of troops who have been sick and disabled, disabled persons during a military operation or an ATO, will have social protection. You're depriving them of how many months of this social protection. Once again, fellow MPs, I remind you that today, five wounded, two killed. It's quiet here in Parliament right now, and there's a fight going on. And when we deprive them of their social protection, that's real betrayal. Please support one word, including "disease." This one word will give additional life to hundreds of ours and thousands of our fighters.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-17-m0.u108	Thank you. He wants to comment on the position of committee member Mr. Bereza. Please, Mr. Bereza, you have a microphone. I'm asking Mr. Levchenk to step back a little bit, because a colleague is about to speak, here Winnick is giving the committee the right to comment on this amendment to his colleague, Berezi. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-17-m0.u109	I'm calling you, Mrs. Oksana. I understand and know how much you have done for both the volunteer movement and for the Ukrainian Armed Forces regarding assistance, but do not confuse the righteous with the sinner. I'm telling you again, this is the wrong way to go. I invite you personally to come to the committee and look at the laws that have just settled these points. We worked on them quite hard. And by the way, representatives, there, and BUT, the Parenthood Party, Self-Help Party, we've taken into account virtually all the observations and predicted all the consequences that could be after the war of all those who took part in this war, even though at the time that, for some time, will pass. And that's where we settled everything. And that's why I want to turn to your sanity. Still, support our law, the one that provides for all of these.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-17-m0.u110	Finish up, please, 15 seconds. This is the position of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-17-m0.u111	Yes, this is the position of the committee. And I'm going to say again, support it right now. The sooner we adopt this law, which we're talking about, will give us the opportunity now to adopt the following laws that will provide for the full protection of military personnel, volunteers and all those who take part in this war. You don't have to manipulate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-17-m0.u112	So, your honorary colleagues, I remind you, we're looking at the amendment of 521 people's deputies to Mrs. Corchinsky. It refers to the same block of social protection for our military personnel, other citizens of ours, people who are involved in protecting Ukraine's state sovereignty in eastern Ukraine. The committee also expressed its position that this amendment was taken into account in an editorial manner and was included in the whole block of this social one. Mrs. Corchinska insists on full voting for her amendment. I'm asking the session room to identify itself. Please. [[11:35:12]] For-49 49 votes, no check. I was also approached by the authors of previous amendments, including the 520s, including the People's Deputy Ribczynski. This is essentially an amendment that has also been taken into account in an editorial way, but it has been submitted by deputies, representatives of the VA committee, and disabled people, and they demand that it be fully placed. Please, Mr. Ribczynski, you have the word. That's 520ths.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-17-m0.u113	Good afternoon. Yeah, yeah, yeah. It's a profile committee for ATO participants. We'd like to use this amendment in the next edition. Paragraph 8 of article 11, paragraph 4, of Law 7163, “Towards” and “Transitional” are to be read as follows: persons who voluntarily provided or voluntarily participated in the provision of anti-terrorist operations — and beyond. If you can count on it, please do it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-17-m0.u114	Please, the position of the committee that has edited this amendment, but the authors from yours, from another committee, insist on the full extent. Please, Mr. Ivan.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-17-m0.u115	Well, we've really taken into account editorially the provisions of this bill that apply to the bill that we are considering and the corresponding status of the persons who will be involved in national security measures. And as for the participants in the anti-terrorist operation, as I have pointed out, together with Mr. Trelyakiv during the working group meeting, it has been decided that we have a number of issues in relation to the status of the participant in the anti-terrorist operation, which we propose to regulate by a separate bill, which will already be adopted as a summary of all the legislative acts that have been adopted today, including perhaps with this, of the bribery that we are considering today. And then together with the two committees, we're going to register a project and we're going to propose to it in the session room to look at and take into account all the positions, including what Mrs. Corchinska says, which is the result of the disease that a person died. At the same time, I would like to turn once again to the leadership of the Supreme Council.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-17-m0.u116	Finish 30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-17-m0.u117	We may have considered tomorrow an entirely consensus project that went to the Committee on Safety and Defence, which gives social status to the families of the victims who died as a result of the injury, not immediately after receiving the injury, but after a certain period of time during treatment. There are three alternatives, all of them can be placed in the hall, chosen one of them, and voted on the basis and in general. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-17-m0.u118	Thank you for your clarification. So, colleagues, we're voting on amendment 520 now, the committee partly counted it. At the same time, the authors of the amendment require that it be voted in full, as proposed by the authors. I'm asking you to determine the session room for amendment 520. [[11:38:35]] For-45 45 votes, non-supported amendment. Next 522 from Self-Help. Don't insist on self-help. Let's move on. Next up is 525th, Musius. He insists. Please, the microphone of the people's MP Musia.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-17-m0.u119	Honorable National MPs, a respected committee representative, who by the rostrum, you have just called for logic and told them that the status of volunteers has already been regulated, are already regulated in the law on the status of war veterans and the protection of disabled people. So what logic does it make when you make changes to these laws? If it is already in place, why make changes? It turns out it's still not settled if you're making changes. And since you are making these changes and the committee has decided to make them, complement our fighters and volunteers who fought in the Crimea. So there's no manipulation here, as another representative said, and I don't understand your logic at all, and I don't see it. Why are you making any changes, please? And I'm going to ask you to take full account of what we're doing.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-17-m0.u120	Please comment to the profile committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-17-m0.u121	Dear colleague, I've already talked about this, I'll say again that we're making changes, that as a result of national security measures, we're going to have a new status of military personnel involved. There is now a status of, for example, a participant in an anti-terror operation. The bill introduces a new legal regime for the use of the Armed Forces and other military formations. That is why all persons involved, members of the military, will be given appropriate status, and will be violated by the social protection and guarantees that are currently in force with regard to the fighters and participants in the anti-terrorist operation. That's why this status across the committee, all the alternate and other statuses, we respect this position, but the committee has decided to regulate it with a separate bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-17-m0.u122	Thank you for your clarification. So we're voting for amendment 525 right now. The committee has taken the bill into account in an editorial way, but the authors of the amendment insist that it be taken fully into account. And now I'm asking the session room to be determined with regard to this 525th amendment. [[11:41:22]] For-42 42 votes, no charge. The next amendment is 527th National Deputy Ribczynski. Please, Mr. Ribczynski. The amendment is also edited, but the authors of the Veterans Committee require that it be taken fully into account, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-17-m0.u123	This amendment actually duplicates what I said before, it just moves on to another point. And I'm quite pleased with what Mr. Winnick said, if this goes into the new law, so be it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-17-m0.u124	Clearly, you do not insist on the correction, but only your position has been sounded. Next amendment number. There's no deer schkrum. 529th National Deputy Svetlana Zlatchuk. I'm asking you to turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-17-m0.u125	Dear colleagues! Obviously, we don't have enough votes, we don't have 226 votes. Although there are extremely important issues raised here, including respect for and compensation for people who die in the war we are talking about. However, I want to sound it for the Ukrainian community, for this room, for the journalists. However, my rights are regulated by health workers who provide assistance in the war zone when they leave and help our military, including our civilians in the cities that are being shot. You said that this issue needs to be addressed in a complex way, and you need a whole law that takes these issues into account. But we have the fourth year of war, and these questions are not taken into account. And so far, doctors, health workers, are leaving the area because they cannot become part of the fighting and become part of the war. And I urge you to look at this as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-17-m0.u126	Thank you, Mrs. Svetlano. Now I want to respond from the committee. Well, he doesn't want to, but he's asking Mr. Winnick to hear from the committee their position. You raise a very important question and all of the previous rapporteurs on your amendments to the social guarantees. I want to say that maybe you've been looking at not all the amendments, but 531ths, the joint amendment of the committee that's listed, right there, look, it sounds, it's what you're talking about, both Mrs. Corchinska and other rapporteurs, and Mr. Ribczynski about social guarantees. The second letter reads: "The procedure for granting the status of a war participant to the persons referred to in paragraph one. This item, the categories of such persons, the term of their participation in the provision of anti-terrorist operations, in the provision and implementation of measures, and in the provision of security and defence, in the interception and deterrence of Russian aggression in the Donetsk and Lugansk areas, as well as in the areas of counter-terrorist operation are defined. " And here goes that. And that's where they get medical guarantees. No, there they are. Now we're in position. That's where the committee's going now. The committee, please, Mr. Bereza.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-17-m0.u127	Again, I'm talking to my colleagues, and I want to remind you, when we were working on this law, there were quite a lot of broken spears. You know, this law could have been passed yesterday even if it wasn't. such spam changes, some amendments about nothing or anything. If Mrs. Svetlana, you're so worried about our doctors, you should have just now. At the time of the drafting of this law, the second reading on the committee should be included. And that's why. Mrs. Irina, unfortunately, took out 531 amendments, and that's where we predicted it. And we predicted it. Participation. participation of both doctors and hospital staff. So you don't have to manipulate. Again, this is full manipulation. Read the law! Read the law completely, not like that. And don't take it out of the context. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-17-m0.u128	Thank you. Dear colleagues, it wasn't a comment, it was a position from the committee that Mr. Brezza sounded in. [[B in m in s a l in]] No! No! If. [[B in m in s a l in]] No! No! Well. Stop! We have a position to give an editorial committee, to give an editorial. I'll have Winnick do it next time from the rostrum. We went on here. It's like a compromise. [[B in m in s a l in]] I'm sorry, now. Mrs. Svetlana, as the author of this amendment, in 529, is still asking that Mr. Winnick join in expressing his position. Please, Mr. Winnick, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-17-m0.u129	In fact, in the bill on the basis of State policy on State sovereignty, we tried to regulate the participation of other people and make them valid in terms of social protection and guarantees, which would be the law and other social protection laws. They will be given. The point is that the order provided for in article 8 provides for participation by the General Staff. We count from material resources, weapons, and so forth, as we continue to fight the Armed Forces, other formed formations, we list these formations, law enforcement agencies, special organs, as well as other individuals who. staff of the central executive authorities to be involved in appropriate measures. We have thus tried to resolve the situation so that, including those who are neither military personnel nor central executives, they will be given the right status as participants in national security measures and will be extended accordingly.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-17-m0.u130	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-17-m0.u131	Social guarantees that would extend to fighters who are directly involved in fighting. Perhaps these questions need to be addressed separately. But once again, the position of the committee is that if we want a comprehensive, all the more retrospect, deal with those doctors who are about to be involved in the Russian Federation's armed aggression for almost four years, helping our wounded, we need to regulate this with a separate project. That is, in the future, it will certainly be possible to do so in accordance with the orders of the Head of the General Staff in relation to persons whose names will be indicated in the form to be included in the action. Further, in retrospect, this may need to be decided by a separate bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-17-m0.u132	Thank you. And I'm asking Mrs. Svetlana and Mrs. Oksana Korczynska to take note, page 400, of the amendment of Mr. Láška and Vovka, 516, there is this position that you're talking about regarding persons who have voluntarily provided or engaged in anti-terrorist operations, security and defence measures, including volunteer activities, and who have become disabled as a result of injury, injury or injury, obtained during the provision of the anti-terrorist operation, while in the areas and during which it was carried out, during the provision of measures and the provision of security and defence, cutting-off and restraint, and during the period of action. She's counting what you're talking about, according to the committee's version. It's opposite 516 revisions. But we are voting, at the request of Mrs. Svetlana Zalitschuk, for the social protection of people, including the medical community involved in the anti-terrorist operation, in the full amount of amendment 529. Please identify the session room. Please make up your mind. [[11:49:39]] For-48 48 national deputies supported your full-scale amendment. She doesn't get the required number of votes. 530th. Mrs. Corchinska, will you be speaking? Please, Mrs. Corchinsky's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-17-m0.u133	I can't put it in this situation anymore, it's pointless, it's for confirmation. Now I'm ashamed of all the national MPs who aren't in the room, because a month ago they voted for their salary raises, and they have several times the pay, not the work. It seems to me that after such a vote, when we have the 543rd amendment and we don't have any confirmed regulation that parliament in the world can do 500, and in this case we have 680 rights and no confirmed, what is the work of the Supreme Council? So I hope that, after such a vote, the MPs are as friendly as they vote in favour of this law in order to reduce their pay for the so - called work several times. Thank you. I'm not betting on confirmation.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-17-m0.u134	Thank you. I see. You've just expressed your position. I can only join Mrs. Oksana's words and on behalf of our presidency that we ask to strengthen the responsibility of all our colleagues and to attend more intensive plenary meetings. 533rd Amendment. National Deputy Ribczynski. Don't insist. 535. National Deputy Ribczynski. Don't insist. 538. The nation’s deputy Musai insists. Please, Mr. Musia's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-17-m0.u135	Dear National Deputies! This amendment applies to those who have perished and died, including those who were in the territory of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea during the Crimea occupation process, as well as to our volunteers who have been assisting in the liberation of Crimea or in the struggle to keep it from being occupied. And it turns out we're settling. As this amendment is partially taken into account, we settle this for those who participated in the anti-terrorist operation in the Donetsk and Luhansk region, and for some reason we've forgotten about Crimea again, and again, we're going to have to force it to be settled sometime later. So let's settle this right now. Then why delay when there is. The amendment itself applies only to two words: The Autonomous Republic of Crimea and Sevastopol. Did we forget about Ukrainian land in Crimea or in Sevastopol? Probably not. Then let us do our sacred duty and include our amendment in its entirety. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-17-m0.u136	Please, Mr. Ivan.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-17-m0.u137	I've already made a comment on this. I can only repeat that all the extra statuses that we're discussing with you, we respect them, but we've decided to settle this with a separate project. This project extends social protection and guarantees to the status that will be realized in the implementation of this project. This is the status of a participant in national security measures. All over the text through "Transitional positions," the laws of Ukraine's general regulatory action in this area are properly adjusted.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-17-m0.u138	Thank you. The amendment is edited, but the amendment insists that it be taken into account in its entirety. And that's why I put her to the vote. Who would like Amendment 538 to be taken into account in full volume, please vote. [[11:53:53]] For-46 The decision is not taken. 539th. The authors do not insist. 540th. Don't insist. 542nd. Don't insist. 543rd. The author does not insist. 545th, Lucenko. Don't insist. 546th. Please, Semenha. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-17-m0.u139	Semenha Roman, Self-help faction. Dear colleagues, the clarity and clarity of the wording in the law will depend on a great deal, and as we know, the devil is always in detail. At first glance, the draft law seems to fix the fact of Russia's armed aggression against Ukraine, but the recognition of the fact of armed aggression is due to launch a legal mechanism established by the Constitution of Ukraine when the President decides to use the Ukrainian Armed Forces and submit it to the approval of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, after which the Armed Forces acquires the right to use weapons to offset external aggression. At the same time, however, the bill contains incomprehensible changes that provide that the Ukrainian Armed Forces have the right to use and use weapons and military equipment in actual peacetime. In fact, this rule does not establish a state of armed aggression by Russia against Ukraine but rather a fact of civil war. So it would seem that a legal error can actually have fatal consequences. So please consider our revision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-17-m0.u140	Please, Mr. Ivan.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-17-m0.u141	Of course, at the time of national security measures to counter the Russian Federation’s armed aggression, in articles 8, 9, 10 of the project, we propose to write a comprehensive list of actions that military personnel involved in the operation, including the use of weapons, other measures, and the detention of persons, etc. I understand your criticism, I deny the use of terms that can be interpreted as civil conflict. This law established the Russian armed aggression, which began on February 20, 2014, as a result of an annexation of illegality by holding an illegal referendum in Crimea, continued in the Donetsk, Lugansk region, and thus the State, by exercising its right under the UN Statute of Article 51, realizes the right to self-defence. In accordance with the Constitution, we have the right to refrain from armed aggression, including in the order provided for by the Defence Forces Act. That's why.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-17-m0.u142	30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-17-m0.u143	Of course, the fighters will use weapons. And we are convinced that this is the order, if it is accepted, that will ensure that any fighter who has used or will use weapons against the Russian armed aggression, starting on February 20, 2014, will be provided with any criminal prosecution for such use in carrying out his service, military and service duties. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-17-m0.u144	Thank you. Do you insist on voting, Roman? I'm betting on a vote of 546, it's rejected by the committee. Whoever supports her, I ask her to vote, please. [[11:57:32]] For-47 The decision is not taken. Next, 547. Don't insist. 548th. Don't insist. 549th. Don't insist. 550th. He insists. Musai, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-17-m0.u145	Please place it on a full-scale basis. That's it.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-17-m0.u146	Thank you. Is there a need to comment? Well, obviously there's no need. The 550th edition is taken into account. A group of national deputies. A group of deputies insists that it be taken into account in full volume. Whoever supports this proposal, please vote. Please. [[11:58:24]] For-49 The decision is not taken. And 548th, Schrum. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-17-m0.u147	Alona's splinter, Fatherland faction. My colleagues, I would ask you to respect every MP's right to apply, not to call it spam, not to call it abuse, it's our right as national MPs to apply. I think that this law is extremely important and very important that Ukrainian citizens, including those on the front, protect us with you, listen to the debate on every amendment and every important question. And this amendment of mine relates to this position in the bill, which now reads: "The military authorities, the military unit joining the military unit, the U.S.S.S. unit may engage in peacetime according to the law, in the implementation of the measures envisaged by Ukraine's protection laws, in the sovereign territories of Ukraine." I don't understand how the Ukrainian Armed Forces can unconstitutionally engage in peacetime. First of all, I don't understand why we have peace time, I think it's completely unpeaceful, and Ukraine is still in a state of war. Secondly, I propose to sign all of this in accordance with the Constitution and not to authorize the involvement of the Armed Forces in peacetime, as is not provided for in the Constitution, is not provided for by our laws. You don't have to.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-17-m0.u148	Please, Mr. Ivan.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-17-m0.u149	You know, you made a professional legal comment, but the reality of today is a little bit different from what you're modeling. The fact is that the Armed Forces of Ukraine, starting in April 2014, have been fully involved as a force unit to ensure peace and stability in Ukraine, to counter the armed aggression of the Russian Federation within the framework of an anti-terrorist operation. This rule is already in force in the Ukrainian Armed Forces Act. They have the right to use weapons, and other means are available. Therefore, due to the adoption of this bill, the necessary changes should be made to the Ukrainian Armed Forces Act as the mandate of the Armed Forces during peacetime under the Constitution of Ukraine to fully implement measures against the armed aggression of the Russian Federation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-17-m0.u150	Thank you. So I'm putting to the vote the amendment of 548 People's Chamber of Scrum. The committee turned her down. Whoever supports this amendment, please vote. [[12:01:06]] For-53 The decision is not taken. 12:01. And I've noticed, dear fellows, that time has come to rest from the weary work in the hall. But we have to figure out what kind of correction we're going to start after the break. This is going to be the 551st National Deputy Krulk. People's deputy Krulko, you insist, right? So with your amendment, we'll start work after the break, 551th. I ask you to prepare yourself carefully during the break for the talk, please. And so, according to the Rules, I hereby declare a recess of 30 minutes. At 12:32, everyone please come to the hall to continue our work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-17-m0.u151	Colleagues, break time is over. I ask that you enter the House of People’s Deputies, especially the author of the following amendment. I want someone to know. So, colleagues, please come into the hall. I'm inviting the deputies into the conference room to continue their work, and the amendment will be literally in 30 seconds. So I remind you, we ended up at 551st, the author is John Krulko. Please prepare for comment by John Vinick. And I give the word on the 551st hand to John Krulk. 52, right? Please, Mr. Ivan.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-17-m0.u152	Yes. Ivan Krulko, "The Fatherland" faction. This amendment, which I have tabled with National Deputy Boris Tarasyuk, refers to replacing the words "the area of anti-terrorist operations" with the words "the extraordinary situations caused by acts of armed aggression." 553 amendment, committee, it envisions another formulation: "the region of the Russian Federation's armed aggression". I agree with the committee's approach. But under the transcript, I would like to ask the reporter to use one terminology throughout the text of the law, a terminology that we've already prescribed before: backstopping and deterring the aggression of the Russian Federation. So there's a request under the transcript that we use the entire text of the law, not "outside," but "outside and deterrence." It's going to be more valid and it will be.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-17-m0.u153	Please, 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-17-m0.u154	This will be more correct, and one terminology will be used throughout the text of the bill. I'd like to take it into account. And I agree with the 553 amendment accepted by the committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-17-m0.u155	Thank you. Mr. Ivan, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-17-m0.u156	We're also in favor of unifying terminology. Indeed, the ideologies of this project are built around the actual action of countering and deterring armed aggression. By the way, in "The Ends" and "The Transitions" positions where we make changes to the legal acts of general regulatory action, we write back and hold back aggression without identifying Russian aggression, thus making this act unified for any future time. It's not clear where the next aggression will come from, maybe the Russian Federation will be called by another name, and then we'll have to change our standards. That's why I support ideology: everywhere in the text of the bill. Tomorrow, when we're actually summarizing the text that we're going to be introducing at the suggestion of individual deputies under the transcript, we're going to be all over the text and we're going to say "outside and deterring armed aggression." Of course, the project will vote with the necessary technical legal work, and that will allow us to make it right. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-17-m0.u157	I understand that there is a principle of harmony with logic. However, a minor amendment should be put to the vote. We, as always, before the vote on the basis of the whole discussion, Mr. John will report compromise proposals, and we will vote on them. But on the right hand side, Mr. John, you insist on voting. Okay, then we vote it out, but the position of the committee representative remains in force, and it will sound a compromise joint position before the vote, so that we can come to a common understanding. I'm putting to the vote amendment 552, the committee rejected it, who supports it, I'm asking you to vote. [[12:38:35]] For-32 The decision is not taken. 554th. Semenha Roman, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-17-m0.u158	Semenha Roman, "The Self-Help Union" faction. Dear colleagues, I will use this right to recommend to you a report on our previous 546th draft on the order of application of the Ukrainian Armed Forces. Dear Mr. John, no one denies the right, not even the right, but the authority and responsibility of the President to apply the Armed Forces of Ukraine. Initially, this has been the case that any President or highest official has the temptation to use the Armed Forces of Ukraine not only to counter external aggression, but also against his own people. And that's why in all European parliaments the use of the Armed Forces is carried out solely with Parliament's consent, it's a safety net. If you have authority, you have responsibility. And Parliament, as a representative body, unquestionably agrees with the President, in that case, too. So I'm asking you to think about it and go back to this exercise so that the use of the Ukrainian Armed Forces can take place solely because of agreement with the National Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-17-m0.u159	Please, Mr. Ivan.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-17-m0.u160	We do not fully agree with this logic, and I will explain why. Indeed, the practice of both the Constitution of Ukraine and the individual other constitutions of other nations empowers Parliament or other general congregations to accept the use of the Armed Forces. As for the use of weapons, it is a fairly broad concept, it is governed by as well as individual profiling laws, as in Ukraine, for example, the National Police Act, which may allow the use of weapons in certain cases, as well as the statutes of the Ukrainian Armed Forces. When it comes specifically to military aggression, even the Constitution of Ukraine directly and indirectly allows Ukraine to take measures to contain any aggression and to take action against this aggression, what we have just discussed. It's the use of weapons, take action. If, indeed, we want to apply the Armed Forces fully when declaring the legal regime of the state of war, preparation for war or state of war, the declaration of war is vested in the President of Ukraine, but in agreement with the Ukrainian Parliament. In the data.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-17-m0.u161	30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-17-m0.u162	In this case, Russia did not actually declare war, but it did war on Ukraine, armed aggression. That is why we are taking steps to counter this aggression. If Russia had officially declared war, we would certainly have been able and obliged to take appropriate action and make appropriate decisions at Parliament’s level. And as for any act of aggression, they have to be implemented directly, immediately, without delay and immediately.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-17-m0.u163	Thank you. So 554 correct, negative. A group of authors insists on voting. Whoever supports amendment 554, please vote, the committee has rejected it. [[12:42:02]] For-28 The decision is not taken. 555, Sergey Eutuszek, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-17-m0.u164	Sergey Eutuszek, "The Fatherland" faction. 555 revisions. I want to say right away that for us, for the Fatherland faction, it is certainly a good signal that many of our amendments have been supported in the committee. But at the same time, such fundamental amendments, not only technical ones, unfortunately, are included either in part or at all rejected. And in the 555th amendment, the words "in the Donetsk and Lugansk areas" after the words "over temporarily occupied areas" are deleted. Please put the amendment to the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-17-m0.u165	Please comment from the profile committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-17-m0.u166	We've created an institution of military and civilian administrations as an institution that has to manage normal life, constitutional order, conduct elections, exercise executive powers, exercise authority over local self-government in territories that have experienced aggression, have been temporarily occupied and are freed for a certain period of time. That's why military and civilian administrations can only operate in freed areas. In this connection, the point is that in any case, the use of the terminology of "temporary occupation" in the context of the bill does not correspond to the substance and content of the project. That's why we rejected this amendment. At the same time, we cannot fail to thank the Fatherland faction for its constructive work in furthering this project to the second reading. Indeed, thanks to Fatherland's work, this bill has become more perfect. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-17-m0.u167	Thank you. Dear colleagues, please be determined by amendment 555. We're going to do this. The committee turned her down. The authors insist that it be voted. Please put the 555th amendment to the vote. Please. [[12:44:44]] For-36 Correction not supported. The next is the 556 amendment, the National MP of Musai. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-17-m0.u168	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to point out that this amendment also applies to amendments to the Law on Civil and Military Administrations. And it's very difficult for me to understand the logic of a committee representative who says, well, when we release other territories, then we'll re-create military-civil administrations. By that logic, you know, we will again be five years or four years, as we adopt this law, four years to form the military civilian administration of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea and the city of Sevastopol. Why don't we, in this law, prescribe the possibility that when we release the Autonomous Republic of Crimea from the Moscow yoke, we can create an appropriate administration? So I insist that we take our rights fully into account. I think so.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-17-m0.u169	Please comment on the profile committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-17-m0.u170	Well, to be honest, I didn't fully understand how the comment relates to the content of the amendment. At the same time, the Law on Military and Civil Administrations clearly stipulates that in areas where local self-government authorities have removed themselves or in some other way from their duties, this is the case with ARC Crime, largely accounted for, it will be created after the liberation of the military and civil administration. There is no other order at present in Ukrainian legislation. Maybe something will be implemented separately, but now it's what it is. And in no way is the law currently restricting the power of the President of Ukraine to create a military-civil administration in any free territory that is temporarily occupied today. If you read the profile law on the legal status of the occupied Crimea, it says in article 2 that the territory of the ARC Crimea is listed specifically that: including the shelf, the waters, the airspace, what is occupied by the Russian Federation and the date of occupation – February 20, 2014, which we are constantly referring to in the context of this project as the date of the beginning of Russian aggression against Ukraine. So I don't see any contradictions here, we turned it down. At the same time, it's not.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-17-m0.u171	Thank you for your clarification. Dear colleagues, I ask you to determine for amendment 556. The committee rejected it, and we have just heard the committee's reasoning on the text of a specific amendment. Please vote. [[12:47:28]] For-36 It doesn't take up the necessary amount. Next, 557th People's Chamber of Scrum. Don't insist. Next 558, National Deputy Krulco. I'm asking you to turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-17-m0.u172	Ivan Krulko, "The Fatherland" faction. Mr. John, I wanted to continue with you exactly the discussion that we started during the previous amendment, in order to remove from the text the term "anti-terrorist operation" as a term that has not just exhausted itself, and it was strange enough from the beginning when we have armed aggression and need to introduce a state of war, it will be declared so-called ATO, which has been going on for over three years, almost four years in Ukraine. So what I was going to say is, quite correctly, your logic in the matter of what it should be is a universal law that cannot apply to part of the territory of Donetské, Lugansk. That's why it's not just about cutting off and deterring armed aggression that we should use, but it's also about extending this bill to Crimea and the city of Sevastopol. These are the amendments we've been making since the beginning. And so on tomorrow's vote, let's really make a state decision and we'll use this law for Ukraine that applies to all occupied areas, exclusively Crimea and Sevastopol.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-17-m0.u173	The position was understood that the committee had already been clarified on this point, more than that, two amendments had been made to this paragraph and one of them had been taken into account, namely, the National Deputies of Vinnik, Pashinsky, Levus, and Savichenko, in fact, the amendment of the Committee, which is an alternative to the text of the amendment of the Honourable Deputy Krulk. But John Krulka and his correctional colleagues insist that it be defined in their authorship in this edition. And I'm asking you to identify yourself, please. [[12:49:37]] For-43 43 national deputies, not supported. Next, 559th. There is no insistence on the Self-Help faction, the author of which is subject to this amendment. Next, 561st. Moses insists. Please, the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-17-m0.u174	Ladies and gentlemen of the national parliament, the honourable reporter for this bill! This is the last amendment from the national MPs who are part of the interfractional "National Control" merger, and unfortunately, out of the 21 revisions, you've only counted one single amendment. So, of course, we will be determined today, I hope, by voting for these amendments. But our position is quite clear, and I want to sound it now. We're going to insist, in the final edition, on the date of aggression, on the prohibition of the movement of industrial goods (such as the goods you have there in general) and certainly not in the preamble, but in the very text of the law, the first point is, "Russia is an aggressor." Period. And it's not clouded the way you hide it around, except for the very clear phrase in the first article: the Ukrainian Parliament recognizes the Russian Federation as a country. The enemy and the aggressor. Thank you. Please put to the vote in full terms our latest amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-17-m0.u175	Thank you. Please, a representative of the committee. Give your committee position on this matter.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-17-m0.u176	Well, in fact, as far as the number of rights is concerned, the committee received 673 rights from over 100 deputies. We tried as much as possible to find a common vision to have a successful vote in the hall in such a way that it brought together all the political forces, and nothing separated us. With regard to the aggressor’s proposals, it has been determined by text that the Russian Federation has carried out an act of armed aggression. The "act of armed aggression" is a terminology widely used in international law, and we quote it in Ukrainian legislation. Yes, indeed, in our political speeches we can call Russia an invader, an aggressor, but for. We use the term "military aggression of the Russian Federation" for the purposes of this law and in further use in any international relationship, which I think is exactly the same as what you're saying. We certainly need to respect some of the norms that we apply when we write or discuss or improve drafts in correcting them for second reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-17-m0.u177	The position was also understood by an explanation of the committee’s 21 amendments, which were made by deputies, including Mr. Moses. And now we're voting for one of these 21 amendments that we've discussed before -- 561th. The committee has objected to this amendment, and I request that the hall identify itself. Thank you very much. [[12:52:51]] For-39 This isn't supported and this is one of your 21st revisions to the session room. Next up, 562nd National Deputy Skrum. Don't insist. 563rd. Her colleague doesn't insist. 564th, Olena Sotnik. Please, Mrs. Helena.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-17-m0.u178	Olena Sotnik, Self-Help faction. This amendment is like, in principle, and a lot of other amendments to "self-help," they related to the fact that the Constitution cannot be copied by law, even if this law on depopulation, reintegration or restoration of territorial integrity. Because the Constitution is the only guarantee of human rights. And even war is no excuse to usurp power in order to give the President powers that the Constitution does not provide for him. So the next time we insist that the President should address the Supreme Council in order to use the Armed Forces of Ukraine to protect our boys from any persecution. This should be consistent with the laws in force, which should be clearly in line with the Constitution of Ukraine. And the same applies to any string. These lines have, in terms of execution, use of the Armed Forces, these lines have to be clearly stated in the President's decree. And it's working.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-17-m0.u179	Let me finish, 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-17-m0.u180	Thank you. And the effect of this decree begins with the moment that the Supreme Council actually agrees. So I would like to support this amendment and support the logic of Self-Help, which is actually in the interests of a state that is actually in the interests of people, to prevent usurpation of power. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-17-m0.u181	Please comment to the profile committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-17-m0.u182	I understand that we can discuss, on the basis of the conformity or inadequacy of Ukraine's basic law, the Constitution of Ukraine, the text of the bill or the amendments to it. But I want to remind everyone that the only authorized body that can interpret the Constitution is the Constitutional Court. And I can't help but say that, unfortunately, I have a feeling that when we adopt this bill on the specifics of State policy on the protection of sovereignty in certain areas, there will be individual policies, perhaps citizens, perhaps citizens of other countries, who will try indirectly to challenge individual positions or the whole draft of this law, to recognize it as not in conformity with the Constitution of Ukraine and, accordingly, as inactive, as in inactive. We realize that we are under obligation to protect our nation, we realize that independence, Ukraine’s sovereignty, is above all. We also realize that during a special period in the course of the Russian Federation's armed aggression, the President.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-17-m0.u183	Finish up, please, 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-17-m0.u184	Under the authority of the Supreme Commander, these powers are laid down both in the Constitution of Ukraine and are followed by other laws: the Armed Forces of Ukraine, defence forces, other profiled powers of all forces and military formations that today protect Ukraine and Ukrainians. That is why we are asked to support the text of the bill prepared by the Committee in its second reading as one that is already needed by Ukraine today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-17-m0.u185	The position of the committee is expressed. The authors insist on including their amendment 564, and so this is a self-help amendment to the MPs -- I ask the room to be determined about this amendment. [[12:56:50]] For-34 34 national deputies supported it, without obtaining the required number of votes. Please take the next 565, National Deputy Krulko. Don't insist. 566. He insists. Please, Mr. Ivan's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-17-m0.u186	565th. Ivan Krulko, "The Fatherland" faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-17-m0.u187	I'm sorry, you're in.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-17-m0.u188	I just wanted 565.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-17-m0.u189	It's not the sixth, it's the fifth. Colleagues, back to 565 revisions. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-17-m0.u190	Thank you, Madam Chairman. I would like it to be supported in this amendment, it is perfectly logical, and it refers to article 2 as follows: "The military-civil administrations (which we have already created) are governed by the Constitution of Ukraine, the Defence Act, the Anti-Terrorist Act and this law and other legal acts issued in accordance with them." Obviously, in view of what we will have, I hope that tomorrow's new law, which applies to the temporarily occupied territories, the military-civil administrations in their activities should be subject to this law as well. And I ask that the Hall support the amendment that Boris Tarasyuk and I have made. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-17-m0.u191	Thank you for your clarification. Please put to the vote the amendment of 565 national deputies John Krulk and Boris Tarasyuk. Please make up your mind, because the session room has to be defined. It's a committee against it. [[12:58:32]] For-37 Correction not supported. 566. You don't insist. What's that? 63? Now let's see 563 amendments. Sure. Please have 563 amendments made by the national deputy Eutuszek. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-17-m0.u192	Sergey Eutuszek, "The Fatherland" faction. In 563 the amendment refers to the second part of the first part of article 1 of the Ukrainian Civil Administration Act. It is proposed that, after the words “in the composition of the Counter-Terrorism Centre for Security Services of Ukraine” be supplemented by the words “in the event of their formation to carry out the mandates of the relevant authorities in the area of anti-terrorist operations or in the form of a unified operational headquarters of the Armed Forces of Ukraine, in the event of their establishment, in order to exercise the authority of the relevant authorities in the area of national security and defence measures, sections, maintenance of the armed aggression of the Russian Federation in the Donetskian and Lugansk areas”. And the words "in the area of conducting an anti-terror operation" are replaced by the words "in the appropriate territory." This will increase considerably, I think, the content and weight of the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-17-m0.u193	Mr. Ivan, I would like you to express here the position of the Committee on Amendment 563.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-17-m0.u194	Well, we're actually in several places in the Military and Civil Administrations Act, where there's a reason for their creation today, including in the part that they're created in the area of anti-terrorist operations, we're changing the words "in the area of military aggression, particularly in the area of anti-terrorist operations." Because the anti-terrorist operation in the sense and sense it acquired in Ukraine is, in fact, also possible to be interpreted as a reflection of armed aggression. So all over the text, we've taken this whole thing into account, just in a different way, so there's actually no contradictions and contradictions. According to the Rules, it is rejected.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-17-m0.u195	I've got the position. Dear colleagues, there was an explanation for the amendment and clarification of the committee. I'm asking you to determine the session room for this amendment. [[13:00:58]] For-39 39 votes, no need. Next up is 567th. Olena Sotnik. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-17-m0.u196	Thank you very much. Olena Sotnik, Self-Help faction. I would very much not like to see the standards of this Constitution in the walls of this Parliament, the Ukrainian Parliament, where the Constitution was adopted. I'll remind you that the Constitution is not written for the President of Ukraine and it's not written for the authorities of the State, they all have to implement the Constitution. And the Constitution is a guarantee for people, for human rights. So if we're talking about a special order in the Constitution to somehow protect people from usurpation, from the possibility of using power, including the Armed Forces, including the power structures and others against humans, it means that the President and Parliament must respect the norms of the Constitution, and abide by them. And that is why any body, including as this article on the Anti-Terrorism Centre of the BAF, should only be established for a period of time, and this period is determined in accordance with the President's decision to use the Ukrainian Armed Forces. And with that decision, he goes to the Supreme Council and the dot.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-17-m0.u197	Please finish, give me 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-17-m0.u198	It's the norm of direct action, there's nothing to interpret here. We just have to read the Constitution, not try to rewrite it with special laws, because it's unacceptable in any state.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-17-m0.u199	Please comment by John Vinnick from the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-17-m0.u200	Well, obviously, the Constitution is not just written for the President, if you're being objective, it's more written for the Supreme Council. There's a separate chapter, "The Supreme Council," is a separate chapter, "The People's Deputy." And with regard to the conformity of the Constitution, once again, I stress that if something is to be denied in the context of adopted legislation, it can be brought before the Constitutional Court. By the way, this mandate is used separately by our deputies in completely different legal relations, completely different spheres, starting with electronic declaration and ending with land relations, codes, etc., the status of Ukrainian land. As far as the content of the rights is concerned, the essence of this bill block in the Transitional Situations is that appropriate military-civil administrations can be created in the area of conducting an anti-terror operation or in the area of action. And considering that during the anti-terrorist operation and during national security arrangements, there is a variety of military leadership verticals that make decisions and so on.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-17-m0.u201	Are you done or are you going to add it? 30 seconds to go, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-17-m0.u202	Whether any initiative to create a military-civil administration in the already liberated territories is coming from the head of a completely different military administration. That is why, given the need to correct acts of regulatory action that will need to be corrected in connection with the adoption of the Sovereignty Act in specific areas of the Donetsk and Lugansk areas, we are thus correcting, there is no contradiction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-17-m0.u203	Dear colleagues, we are moving to a vote on the amendment of 567 of our colleagues from the Self-Help faction who are asking the session room to take it fully into account. The committee rejected the amendment. I'm asking you to identify the hall. [[13:04:44]] For-38 The 38 national deputies supported the amendment. She doesn't get the required number of votes. Next 568. Mr. Eutusek does not insist. 569th. Helen Schrum doesn't insist, she's considered editorially. 570th, Eutusek. Don't insist. 572, Schrum. Don't insist. 573, Eutusek. Don't insist. 574th. Scram. Don't insist. 575th. Self-help. Don't insist. 576th. Eutushka. Don't insist. 577th. Scram. Don't insist. 578th. Cool. He insists. Please, Mr. Krulke's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-17-m0.u204	Ivan Krulko, "The Fatherland" faction. In this amendment and in the following, it was ultimately editorial in nature, and was proposed to add the words “the Chief of the Joint Operational Staff of the Armed Forces of Ukraine”. And in the following amendments it will also happen. But, as I understand it, the committee has chosen a different formulation of "the Commander of the United Forces." And that actually corresponds to what Boris Tarasyuk and I offered. I'm willing, in principle, to agree with this formulation of the committee. The amendment may not be submitted for confirmation, but I believe that this bill will still be needed tomorrow during its consideration in general to return once again to the question that its action should be distributed in the same way to the Crimea and the city of Sevastopol. It'll make sense, and that'll be fair. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-17-m0.u205	Thank you for your compromise position with the committee in fact, which coincides with terms. And Ivan Krulko doesn't insist on voting on amendment 578. He only made the point of the amendment clear. Yes. The next is Amendment 580 of Self-Help. Please, Mr. Semenach asks to speak on it. I'm asking you to turn on his microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-17-m0.u206	Semenha Roman, "The Self-Help Union" faction. Dear colleagues, honourable Ukrainians, because in order to stop this discussion on the mandate of the Constitutional Supreme Council on the approval of the decision, the President's submission to the Ukrainian Armed Forces, I would like to read throughout the country article 85, paragraph 9, of the Constitution, which expressly stipulates that regarding the powers of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the President of Ukraine's decision to use the Armed Forces of Ukraine and other military formations in the event of armed aggression against Ukraine should be approved. Excuse me, denying the right norm of the Constitution is absurd. So you either deny the Constitution or the external aggression against Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-17-m0.u207	Please take the committee's position on the 580th amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-17-m0.u208	Armed forces, as mentioned in the Constitution and in the Professional Law on the Armed Forces of Ukraine, are obliged to act directly in the event of aggression against it and, as soon as such aggression is fixed, this project is written around this ideology. As far as my comment on the bill is concerned. I would like to go back to the previous amendment and just quote part one, second article 2 as follows, this is explained to the second reading that the legal status of the temporarily occupied territories in the Donetsk and Lugansk region, the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, in the city of Sevastopol (i.e. all occupied territories for today), as well as the legal regime in the areas indicated by this law, the Ukrainian Law on the Protection of the Rights and Freedoms of Citizens and the Legal Regime of the Interimly Occupied Territory, other laws of Ukraine, international agreements, the consent of which is given to the Supreme Council and the principles of international law. Dear colleagues, in fact, in any occupied territory that is now in Ukraine -- whether in Crimea or in the Donetsk and Lugansk regions -- is expanding.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-17-m0.u209	30 seconds to complete, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-17-m0.u210	both the norms and measures and the positions, the powers that are accepted if adopted by this bill and the valid legislative acts. That's why we don't share the status or the date, and that's very important because it's the only assembly in Ukraine, even in the context of legislation, which, unfortunately, sometimes we don't have to discuss so properly here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-17-m0.u211	Dear colleagues, we're moving to a vote on amendment 580 of the People's Deputies of Self-Help, and the committee has rejected it, and we've heard the committee's position, their argument. We have also heard well-respected authors of arguments that insist on taking their amendment fully into account. I'm asking you to identify yourself. [[13:09:57]] For-32 32 revisions. Oh, I'm sorry, 32 votes just supported this amendment. The next one is 581. It will be represented by Mr. Eutuszek. 581th, Eutusek.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-17-m0.u212	Sergey Eutuszek, "The Fatherland" faction. Just as my self-help colleague, Roman Semenach, spoke of 85 articles in the Constitution of Ukraine, this is the authority of the Supreme Council. I also suggest in this amendment that we look at article 106 of the Ukrainian Constitution, the President's mandate to use the Armed Forces. Therefore, in part three of article 3 of the Ukrainian Act on Military and Civil Administrations, I ask that the words “the Chief of Joint Operations of the Armed Forces of Ukraine” in this law be replaced by the words “the Supreme Commander of the Armed Forces of Ukraine in accordance with the Constitution of Ukraine”. Thank you. Please put to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-17-m0.u213	Mr. John, will you comment?
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-17-m0.u214	Yeah, I'll comment. In fact, it's in the development of a previous comment. I'm going to allow myself to make some quotes from the Ukrainian Armed Forces Act, which I don't think raises any doubt that it's written and valid and in accordance with the Constitution of Ukraine. For example, the Ukrainian Armed Forces have taken measures to prevent and deter armed aggression against Ukraine, to protect the state’s airspace and underwater space within Ukraine’s territorial sea in cases determined by law, and to take part in measures aimed at combating terrorism. In article 1.1, "The right to use weapons and military equipment in peacetime." In peacetime, military forces and troops, including the Ukrainian Armed Forces, have the right to use and use military and military equipment to reflect the impact of aerial, underwater attacks on important state military objects, whose direct cover is being made. the cessation of violations of the State border by aircraft of military formations that do not carry out commands, termination.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-17-m0.u215	Please finish, 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-17-m0.u216	I won't finish, there's six more paragraphs. But the Armed Forces are committed and have full authority to act against and deter aggression immediately. They certainly use it to protect our nation. And here we have to count on it, and respect the decent and honorable work they do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-17-m0.u217	Thank you. Do you insist on voting? I'm voting on amendment 581. The committee turned her down. Whoever supports this amendment, please vote. [[13:13:01]] For-36 The decision is not taken. Next up, 583rd. The author does not insist. 584th. Don't insist. 586. Don't insist. 587. Don't insist. 588th, Levechenko. Don't insist. 586. Haven't we got to her yet, or have we? No, we're here. Please, 586 revisions. She's been rejected by the committee. Cool, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-17-m0.u218	Ivan Krulko, "The Fatherland" faction. This is actually my last amendment of many amendments to the bill. I would first like to express my appreciation to the committee for its very detailed work on this law. In fact, we held more than one meeting of the working group. This bill, from its original appearance, which the Fatherland, by the way, did not support, it has been substantially amended, it has been rewritten more than half, and, in fact, it is more or less, but answers, because it is necessary to protect Ukraine's interests from Russian aggression and to force the occupation to take responsibility sooner or later for the damage done to Ukraine's national interests. I believe this law will be passed tomorrow. And I call on all the national MPs to consolidate us, and the patriotic forces in Parliament have won this time, so that this law is passed. Thank you to the committee for working on this law.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-17-m0.u219	Thank you. Please, Mr. Ivan.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-17-m0.u220	It's hard to comment. In fact, I've already expressed my gratitude to the Fatherland faction for its constructive work. Indeed, the bill has become broader, larger, more effective. And this is probably the result of parliamentary work preparing projects for second reading. That's probably why there must be a Rules, a First, a Second, a Third Reading Procedure, to try, not to criticize anything, but to try, using constitutional powers, to improve it, and to work together. Because we have one country, and the future we have, I hope, in common. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-17-m0.u221	Do you insist on voting, Mr. John? Don't insist. Okay! 87th. They don't insist, there's a group of authors. 92nd. You don't insist, do you? 595th next, rejected. There is no insistence on the author group. 96th. Roman Semenha, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-17-m0.u222	Semenha Roman, "The Self-Help Union" faction. Dear colleagues, the next self-help issue is also going back to the constitutional field of authorization of the Supreme Council and the President. Our bill foresees that the Supreme Council should approve the President's decision to introduce martial law and a list of local self-government bodies in an area in which a state of war is established that ceases its activities in connection with the establishment of military and civilian administrations. At the same time, only since the approval of the Supreme Council of Ukraine by the President of Ukraine has the list of local self-government bodies in the territory in which the state of war has been established do they stop their activities, i.e. only after the decision of the Supreme Council. This right removes the discretion of the President in resolving matters relating to the introduction of martial law and prevents the President of Ukraine from making decisions that are crucial to the State alone without further parliamentary necessary control. Please be supportive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-17-m0.u223	Please, Mr. Ivan.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-17-m0.u224	We have no objection to the procedure for the introduction of the legal regime of martial law. It's not exactly about this, it's about the order of the establishment of military and civilian administrations or the order of authority of local self-government authorities that get other legal regulations in connection with the introduction of the legal regime of the state of war. Of course, if the legal regime of martial law is declared, the constitutional order will be fully respected, and there is no objection to that. Given this, we've rejected this amendment, because the proper order, it's sufficient. We don't see any discretion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-17-m0.u225	But you insist on voting, don't you, Mr. Roman? So I'm voting on amendment 596. It is rejected by the committee, but a group of authors insists on voting. Whoever supports this amendment, please vote. [[13:18:05]] For-32 The decision is not taken. Thank you. Next up is 598th. Don't insist. 599. Don't insist. 600th. The author does not insist. 601. Don't insist. 602nd. Don't insist. 603rd. Don't insist. 604th. Don't insist. 605th. Don't insist. 606th. Don't insist. 607th. He insists. Please turn on the microphone. Please go 607 on the right.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-17-m0.u226	Good day to you all! 607 revisions were rejected by the committee. I ask her to put it to a vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-17-m0.u227	Mr. Ivan, 607th Amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-17-m0.u228	It's about the order of import of vehicles for humanitarian purposes, it's a resonant discussion issue. Since so much humanitarian aid has been found by the recipient, it has increased our resilience. At the same time, unfortunately, there are sad cases of humanitarian aid moving across the customs borders of purely commercial goods. Therefore, once again, the question that falls within the legal regime for which the Committee responsible for the implementation of humanitarian aid, namely the Committee on Humanities, Pensions and Veterans, has been decided: individual issues related to the import of humanitarian aid, namely transport, regulation and analysis, and to review this legislation in the context of a separate working group, and not to impose legal regulation on this important legislative act by these derivatives. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-17-m0.u229	Thank you. But the authors insist on voting, and that's why, colleagues, I'm voting on the 607th amendment. The committee turned her down. Whoever supports this amendment, please vote. Please. [[13:20:43]] For-31 The decision is not taken. [[B in m in s a l in]] On the way back? [[B in m in s a l in]] There'll be a break, just a little more. 608 right. The authors do not insist. 610. He insists. A bird. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-17-m0.u230	Dear colleagues, with my amendment, I propose to introduce criminal responsibility for violating the order of movement of goods and goods across the borders of the temporarily occupied territory. Perhaps you know that today we have only administrative responsibility for such a violation. But the social danger and damage that is actually caused by such acts is essential and needs to be established in the Criminal Code. We've been working on this rule that's being proposed, an attachment to the Criminal Code, along with experts at the University of Shevchenka. And so this amendment suggests that we just assume responsibility for moving goods that are worth a lot. And more stringent responsibility in cases where these actions are done by a ministerial servant using his or her position of service. So I ask you to support this amendment and establish a proper level of responsibility for persons who smuggle or export goods from occupied areas. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-17-m0.u231	Thank you. Please, Mr. Ivan.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-17-m0.u232	Well, actually, there were a few of these, and I've already commented on the general logic of that. Amendments to the Criminal Code or the Criminal Procedure Code as a result. Either the Code of Administrative Offences or any other procedural moments in connection with the implementation of such standards we have adopted not to include in the Transitional, the End of the Project. And at the same time, by supporting the need for increased responsibility, by the way, not just for the intersection of the line of delimitation. We have major problems with the crossing of the state border, for which there is exclusive administrative responsibility. And unfortunately, there are very sad cases of neglect in general as a symbol of Ukrainian independence by the Ukrainian border on the part of individual foreign imported politicians. Clearly, then, the issue must be resolved, resolved consistently first by reference to the State’s border, as far as individuals are concerned. In particular, the Committee on Tax and Customs Policy will, sooner or later, pay attention to the issue of so-called smuggling, the illegal movement of goods, for which we are once again very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-17-m0.u233	Please, 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-17-m0.u234	Therefore, given that the temporarily occupied territories are clearly and imperatively considered to be the territory of Ukraine, taking into account that the respective priorities and statuses, starting from the state border, can be moved, including by increasing the responsibility for the breach of the line of delimitation. We support that logic because it is certainly a threat to national security, but not in this project. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-17-m0.u235	Thank you, but the author insists on voting. And I'm voting 610 of the People's Chamber of Birds. The committee turned her down. Whoever supports this amendment, please vote. [[13:24:25]] For-43 The decision is not taken. Next 611. Don't insist. He insists. Please, 611. Yes, Mr. Spiowakovsky warned. Please turn on Mr. Singerowski's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-17-m0.u236	Honourable Andriy Volodymyrovich, the honourable colleagues, this amendment applies to leaving the legislation that we have adopted with regard to the transferred heights, as well as those who study in higher education institutions, with regard to entry and training. But since these proposals are taken into account by the committee in amendment 665 of the People's Deputy Rybchin, we do not insist. But taking advantage of the opportunity, Andrija Volodymyrovich, we again turn to all the young people in the respective territories to enter these higher educational institutions. All preferences are reserved for them. Ukraine awaits them as students. Therefore, we suggest that 665 amendments be accepted and taken into account by the committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-17-m0.u237	Please, Mr. Ivan.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-17-m0.u238	Indeed, the issue of higher education institutions, the status of these institutions, and their students was violated by several national deputies. Indeed, Mr. Rybczyn has participated in the working groups several times. That's probably why it's taken into account. In view of the fact that other laws of colleagues regulated the same issue, they are formally regarded as being rejected. So there's no sense here, and the question that's been raised by colleagues is solved by taking account of another law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-17-m0.u239	So I think the question is settled and I'm not voting it. 612. 613. Who? Olena Sotnik, please, 613 revisions.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-17-m0.u240	Olena Sotnik, Self-Help faction. 613 amendment, I'm putting it on confirmation. It's just a genius of legal thought who could come up with such a thing that the prosecutor's office would authorize in the occupied areas during the period of national security and defence measures, and the deterrence and deterrence of the Russian Federation's armed aggression, we have a prosecutor's office in the occupied territory -- I want to understand how you see it -- will carry out a number of powers. Without hindrance to the premises of enterprises and institutions. How are they going to do that? Are they going to become invisible in areas we don't control? Some documents will be required by written request from authorities. This is how they're going to do it, please explain it to me. And there's still a whole list of powers that you actually wrote out of the Soviet Union code when we had a law enforcement agency. I remind you, you do not respect the Constitution, but according to the Constitution.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-17-m0.u241	Please, 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-17-m0.u242	Please turn on the microphone. According to the Constitution, we now have the prosecutor's office as part of the judicial branch of power. It does not exercise general oversight, nor can it demand anything, but it does so by requiring managers and other authorities to do something or stop some activity. This is absolutely absurd, I'm sorry. Please bet on confirmation.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-17-m0.u243	Please comment, Mr. John.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-17-m0.u244	In fact, this law came about at the initiative of the military prosecutor’s office. They actually said that they were going to and they wanted, to implement the proposals of article 8 of the project, to be involved by the General Staff of Ukraine to take steps to ensure national security, to effectively liberate occupied areas, to be part of a contingent with appropriate powers. I would like to point out that you correctly pointed out that language refers to occupied territories. I would like to point out that, according to the rules of this draft territory, they become so liberated when the proper submission by the Minister of Defence and the Minister of Internal Affairs is approved by the President's decree, until then those territories will be considered occupied. If the military prosecutors want to fight together with the Ukrainian Armed Forces to destroy Ukrainian enemies, I see nothing here.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-17-m0.u245	But you're proposing to confirm the amendment, right? So, colleagues, 613 rights. The committee is accounted for. I'm betting on her for confirmation, and the committee's asking for confirmation. So the committee's asking her to confirm it. Please vote. I'd like to make up my mind. [["13:29:28]] For-34 The decision is not taken. The next is 614, Taras Batenko. Turn on the microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-17-m0.u246	My colleagues, I have a question of up to 614 revisions to part of what it would say is "refused" even though it's counted elsewhere. This is a question for the chairman. We see that UKROP’s amendments are largely unaccounted for, and even those that are counted are prescribed as rejected. And in general, I have a question about Mr. Vinnik's correct conduct of this bill, which actually manipulates a lot of concepts, conveying the notion of a bill to the notion of a "political article," mixing the notion of "aggressor country" with "act of aggression." Excuse me, 15 seconds. I want to say that the recognition of an act of aggression under Ukrainian legislation is not a political statement, but a decision on military status. Then the need to define a separate political and legal act by Russia, which is an aggressor state, arises solely from the inability of the Ukrainian authorities to implement legislation in part of the reflection of external armed aggression. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-17-m0.u247	Thank you. Mr. John, I emphasize: Mr. Taras is saying that the amendment is counted, but elsewhere, but in the given why it is written as rejected. Comment.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-17-m0.u248	I'll comment. Indeed, the right to recognize such that the Ukrainian Act on the Establishment of the Free Economic Zone "Crime" has become invalid. We discussed this issue today in the Hall following the initiative of MP Pinzenik and agreed that, in fact, in this project, despite its resonant name, there are a lot of norms that are useful to Ukraine today. That's why we're going to be careful, and we're going to take into account editorially what we've done from the committee, actually. And at the direction of the Chief of the Supreme Council tomorrow, under the transcript, together with the authors of the objections, including the Fatherland faction and the Peter Prashenko faction, we will work out a text that we will read under the transcript and we will propose to include in the text of the project.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-17-m0.u249	Thank you. I would like to point out that, indeed, we have a discussion on the cancellation of the free trade zone and we have agreed that today, when the committee meets, a compromise will be found. And, colleagues, during the consideration of the bill many of the rights were rejected and it will obviously be important for a committee representative to make compromise proposals that will be able to work on the committee before the vote itself. So I think that the proposal will be taken into account, and tomorrow, the head of the committee will be able to read how this formulation should sound, because we all understand that the free trade area should be cancelled. And just who wants to take part in this discussion can get in touch with Mr. John, with Victor Pinzenik, and participate in a working group that will work out the only language on this issue. But nevertheless, 614 amendments I put to the vote, and the committee rejected it. Whoever supports it, I ask you to vote. [[13:32:55]] For-29 The decision is not taken. 615th, Taras Batenko. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-17-m0.u250	Colleagues, this is probably one of the most fundamental amendments to this bill, which will depend, including whether the Ukrainian MPs will vote in favour of this bill in general, unless we adopt hybrid law under the terms of the so-called hybrid war. That's why we insist, and we want the whole Ukrainian society to see who's going to vote now. Introducing article 11, we propose to add a new part to the following wording: "The Cabinet of Ministers, within a three-month period of validity of this law, initiate the dissolution of diplomatic relations with the aggressor country established in accordance with the 1992 protocol, the withdrawal of diplomatic institutions from the territory of the Russian Federation. And also to submit to the Supreme Council of Ukraine draft laws on the denunciation of treaties and agreements between Ukraine and the Russian Federation and the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of the Russian Federation." Please put to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-17-m0.u251	Mr. Ivan, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-17-m0.u252	Indeed, the question of breaking up diplomatic relations was being answered. I, by the way, was one of the initiators of this discussion, including on the committee. At the same time, we've come to the conclusion that diplomatic relations are one of the components of interstate relations that implements the executive branch of government to implement the legislation that operates in Ukraine. That's why, once again, we can't violate the division of power into branches of power -- legislative and executive -- we've decided essentially executive powers not to include in the texts of laws that have permanent, long-term action. In this regard, the law was rejected in part of a diplomatic relationship. And let the Ministry of Foreign Affairs define this, taking into account our nationals first and foremost, whether they have the right to exist. With regard to the denunciation of contracts, this is certainly to be discussed specifically.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-17-m0.u253	Please, 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-17-m0.u254	specific language. For example, a recent statement was made by a representative of the State of the Russian Federation, who, among other things, was banned from entering the territory of Ukraine, some of which proposed denunciation of the Treaty of Friendship and Cooperation between Russia and Ukraine in part of the recognition of the borders of the countries. Clearly, the purpose of this is to do so. This is done with the aim of legalizing the aggression of the Russian Federation in Crimea and in Donbas. Clearly, despite such a resonant situation, taking into account the current situation of our relations with the Russian Federation, the name of this treaty, it is de facto in this part of Ukraine that is absolutely necessary today. So such a breakup, denunciation of any treaties with the Russian Federation may not be necessary for our national interests, so we need to be careful. And when it says that we have to break everything up and not look at the meaning, we can't support that kind of thing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-17-m0.u255	Thank you. So the committee's amendment is rejected. Whoever supports this amendment, please vote. We vote, colleagues who support this amendment. [[13:36:32]] For-72 The decision is not taken. 616 law, Gavriluk. Six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six. Gabrieluk insisted on 616. Turn on the microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-17-m0.u256	616 revisions. The committee turned her down. I ask her to put it to a vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-17-m0.u257	Comment.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-17-m0.u258	Well, in fact, some of the provisions of this amendment are already in the law. It's about medical-psychological rehabilitation, free psychological counseling. But it emphasizes her responsibility. That is why we are obliged to count our rights and freedoms and to reject this right. It is already in force by the current legislation that makes a psychophysical, medical and psychological rehabilitation in Ukraine free of charge at the request of the person who wants it, such legislation has already been voted by the Supreme Council and signed by the President. That's why we rejected this amendment. At the same time, I would like to point out that the Committee on the Retirement of Persons with Disabilities, Military Workers, has put many important rights into this project, and to generally regulate the State's legal attitude towards war veterans, to social protection, to strengthen it, we have decided on a separate project.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-17-m0.u259	30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-17-m0.u260	which will result in the adoption of a possible document, a bill that will be a certain code of social protection for military personnel and any person who participates in the fight against our state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-17-m0.u261	Thank you. The committee explained, but the authors still insist on voting. And so I'm putting 616 to the vote, and the committee has rejected it, who supports it, I'm asking you to vote. [[13:38:55]] For-68 The decision is not made. 617. Gavriluk, please. Please, Gabrieluk, turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-17-m0.u262	617 revisions, and there was something the committee rejected. I don't understand why, though, it's a very good readjustment. It should have been taken into account. So I insist on putting her to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-17-m0.u263	Please explain your position, Mr. John.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-17-m0.u264	The committee agrees with the colleague's formulation that this is a good readjustment. We also agree that this issue needs to be settled. But using the general logic of the agreements that we have reached with the head of your committee, Mr. Gabrieluk, all of these things, it has been decided to pass into a separate bill that will be proposed, initiated, introduced to the Supreme Council, after we have adopted the Law on the Specialities of State Policy and to ensure Ukraine's State Sovereignty over the temporarily occupied territories in the Donetské, Lugansk region. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-17-m0.u265	Thank you. But the authors insist on voting. And whoever supports regulation 617, please vote, the committee has rejected it. Please be determined. [[13:40:30.]] For-63 The decision is not taken. The next one is 618. He insists. Please, Gabrieluk.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-17-m0.u266	And again, I insist, because once again, 618 revisions have been rejected. So I ask the committee to explain why and put it to a vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-17-m0.u267	Please, Mr. Ivan.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-17-m0.u268	I'm not going to comment in detail on this, but it's not really about the content of the bill submitted by the President of Ukraine, so we rejected it.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-17-m0.u269	Vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-17-m0.u270	Dear colleagues, we have now heard a proposal from our distinguished colleague, Mr. John Gabrieluk, regarding this amendment and the response of the committee. I ask that we respect all those who speak. Don't push, People's Front, we've got 20 minutes to go.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-17-m0.u271	So, colleagues, we need to determine how to vote. I ask everyone to vote in favour of Amendment 618 and the committee has rejected it. Whoever supports this amendment, please vote. [[13:42:14]] For-45 The decision is not taken. Next up, 619. The author insists on voting. Thus, 619 amendments are also rejected by the committee, but the authors insist on voting. So whoever's backing the 619, please vote, please identify yourself.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-17-m0.u272	Maybe I can comment.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-17-m0.u273	But let him comment. Stop voting. Please comment, Mr. John.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-17-m0.u274	We've actually settled this position, which is already proposed by this law, in actual legislation. It's about making changes to the Vacation Act, when a military officer comes home from the location of a military unit, when he returns, he's not included as a term of leave, and the cost of such a return, that is, transportation costs, they're compensated for. This is actually the same thing. It somewhat expands the list of individuals, but by military personnel, by those who today protect our nation, the issue is settled. So it was rejected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-17-m0.u275	Thank you. So this was 619 revisions, I'm putting it to a vote. The committee turned her down. Whoever supports this amendment, please vote. [[13:43:47]] For-50 The decision is not taken. 620 lashes. Colleagues, these are the same types of revisions, I see the whole block is questions that are from a group of deputies. It's a paper. From your committee, do you say they're one-of-a-kind?
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-17-m0.u276	No, they're different.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-17-m0.u277	It's different. Yes, please turn on the microphone, Gabrieluk.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-17-m0.u278	National MP, 95th District, Mikhailo Gavriluk. 620 revisions were rejected by the committee. But I still insist that he be put to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-17-m0.u279	Please, Mr. Ivan.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-17-m0.u280	This right applies to the rights of families, namely children, to the simplified order of admission to vocational and technical institutions, to higher education institutions, to the children of those who take part in national security and defence measures, is the legal regime against the armed aggression of the Russian Federation, which is proposed to be introduced by this bill. We didn't reject it because it's "familiar," as you say, but because, again, in agreement with the head of the committee, your committee, Mr. Trelliak, we decided to settle these issues in a separate project. That's why it's being rejected right now, but as an ideological committee, we support the need to regulate these relationships. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-17-m0.u281	Thank you. The authors insist on voting, and I place an amendment of 620 on the vote. Whoever supports this amendment, please vote. The committee turned her down. Please. [[13:45:47.]] For-50 The decision is not taken. Next up is 621. So he insists. Mr. Ivan, comment on the 621.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-17-m0.u282	621 the proposal by the authors from the profile committee suggests that the list of grounds for obtaining the status of a participant in hostilities be expanded by persons who have received an appropriate degree of disability who have participated directly in an anti-terrorist operation, national security measures in the Donetsk and Lugansk areas, during the course of public order duties, a fairly broad list of persons, including the elimination of the consequences of emergencies. We've discussed this issue, we don't want to discount the honorable status of a participant in hostilities by granting the same status to persons who may not have done the same positive thing in favour of the Ukrainian State, who are engaged in military, military, defending our independence and sovereignty. That's why we put this issue in a separate discussion, and we rejected it. At the same time, we do not deny it.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-17-m0.u283	Please, 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-17-m0.u284	We suggest that we discuss it separately in the working groups and make a full review of the list of persons who are entitled to the right to receive the right status and, as a result, the corresponding social guarantees of the State and the members of their family. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-17-m0.u285	Thank you. So I'm betting. That was 621st, right? So I'm voting on the amendment of 621 groups of authors. The committee turned her down. Whoever supports this amendment, please vote. [[13:47:52]] For-54 The decision is not taken. Next, 622. Likewise, immediately, Mr. John, comment on the 622nd cause of rejection. [[Noise Nodes]] Please, Mr. Ivan. Turn on the microphone?
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-17-m0.u286	Well, let's do it, then I'll do it.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-17-m0.u287	Please, Gabrieluk. Turn on Gabrieluku's microphone, 622.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-17-m0.u288	My friends, 622 amendments have also been rejected by the committee, and I urge the committee to explain to me why. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-17-m0.u289	Please, Mr. Ivan.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-17-m0.u290	The complex issue is that of Ukrainian citizens, who are now working in the temporarily occupied territories of Ukraine. And in fact, if you read the Constitution of Ukraine, the State guarantees pension insurance, at the same time they do not pay the only social contribution, which is the source of the fullness of the Pension Fund, from which citizens of Ukraine continue to receive pensions. Once again, on the one hand, it's not the subject of regulating this project. On the other hand, it is a complex delicate issue that needs much discussion. We have rejected this right, while preserving the rights and freedoms and guaranteeing the State of every Ukrainian citizen within the internationally recognized border of Ukraine, who live on the territory defined by the Constitution of Ukraine, this is a matter that needs to be settled by the Supreme Council in the future. We're going to work on this, so far this amendment has been rejected. But we also find her beautiful and do not deny her settlement in another draft legislative act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-17-m0.u291	Thank you. So I'm voting for the 622nd group of authors: Thirdman, Zagorius. Szuhevich, Ribczynski, Gavriluk The committee turned her down. Whoever supports this amendment, please vote. Please. [[13:50:08]] For-53 The decision is not taken. Next, 623rd. 623rd. Please, Gabrieluk.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-17-m0.u292	623 law. The committee turned her down. I did, but I still want to know why and I insist that she be put to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-17-m0.u293	Please, Mr. Ivan.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-17-m0.u294	This is about the question of subsidies, social assistance, and the basis for their provision. It is proposed to simplify the order as well as to reduce the thresholds of social benefits for persons involved in an antiterrorist operation and to extend the standards that are currently in force in the Law on State Aid to low-income families to those involved in providing for measures. Once again, this issue, which has a significant impact on both budget and local budget expenditure, has a certain balance in the relations between the state and the citizen, which have already come together and operate on the basis of valid legislation and regulations of the Cabinet of Ministers. And so that again we don't overload and be essentially and in the context of this project that we're looking at, we've rejected this amendment. Again, I confirm that she is beautiful and needs a settlement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-17-m0.u295	Thank you. So the 623rd right as a group of authors is on the vote. The committee turned her down. Although conceptually, he does not deny it. Who supports the amendment 623, please vote. [[13:52:09]] For-67 The decision is not taken. And, colleagues, 623 rights, we have 50 rights left. Let's look at one or two more, and the other adjustments we'll be able to consider tomorrow morning, so we can go to 10:40 -- 11th for the vote. Let's do one or two more. 624th, same group of authors. Gabrieluk insists. Please turn on Gabrieluku's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-17-m0.u296	624. The committee turned her down. And I urge the committee to explain and vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-17-m0.u297	Please, Mr. Ivan.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-17-m0.u298	This is an amendment to the Ukrainian Child Protection Act. In the list of persons whose children have the right to additional protection from the State, it is proposed that those who take part in national security measures be included. Again, given that this is a completely different legal settlement, we put it into a separate project. For the same reasons, it was decided to settle this separately. That's why this correction is now rejected. At the same time, the committee confirms the need to regulate these relations in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-17-m0.u299	Thank you. As far as I can see, there's a whole block of rights here, and almost all of them have been rejected by the committee not because of disagreements, but because they have to be regulated by separate legislative acts, if I understand correctly. Yeah?
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-17-m0.u300	Absolutely.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-01-17-m0.u301	And so, colleagues, let's still vote on this amendment, and then I'll suggest we move the next review of the rights to tomorrow. So the vote is now being voted on by 624 groups of authors. The committee refused, but the authors insist on voting. Anyone who supports the amendment 624, please vote. [[13:54:21]] For-56 The decision is not taken. So we're closing on the right hand side of 624. There's less than 50 lines left. And I have a big request to both the committee and the right-wing initiators to hold consultations by tomorrow, so that we can get an agreed final vote on the law. Obviously, everyone understands the great interest that this law has in Ukraine and Ukraine. And it's very important for us to be able to vote tomorrow. There are literally a few issues in this law. I think by tomorrow, including when the committee is sitting, we can already see which of the rights have been turned down, which of them have potential, and which of them have no support in the hall, and so I'm counting on the committee's work to work together. If necessary, I will join in this work, Mr. John, but please, Mr. John, as a representative of the committee, I ask you to do as much work as possible by tomorrow, so that we can come to an agreed decision and that you can read before the vote the points of compromise and consensus that have been reached. There are separate laws that balance the bill. At your suggestion, I'm going to make an offer to go back to their consideration, you just figure out their list so that we can work clearly and in harmony. And tomorrow, colleagues, I invite everyone to attend the meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine at 10 a.m. There's less than 50 lines left. I think within half an hour -- 40 minutes, we'll be able to look at them, and about 10:40, we'll be able to make a decision. In addition, I would like to read out an announcement that came to the presidency of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. So in accordance with part three of article 60 of the Ukrainian Act on the Rules of Procedure of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, I am reporting the withdrawal of the MP group "The Rebirth Party" nieciporenko Valentina Mikolajovic. And at this, colleagues, I declare the morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine closed. I want fruitful committee work, and I hope we can have a fruitful and effective day tomorrow. So thank you. Fruitful committee work. See you tomorrow.
