ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-25-m0.u1	Good morning! Please enter the National Assembly Hall and prepare for registration. So, are you ready to register? People's deputies please register. I'd like you to sign up. [[10:03:28]] There are 332 national deputies registered. The morning plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Dear National Deputies! Yesterday an international commission investigating the defeat of Russian invaders of the Malaysian Airlines aircraft finally declared that the plane had been hit by Russian military personnel from the 53rd Air Force Air Force Air Force Air Force in Kursk. The following commission was able to identify and prove in the smallest detail the circumstances of this horrendous crime. This confirms once again the position that Russian occupations have actually launched aggression against Ukraine in the Donetsk and Lugansk areas, and they will not be able to mask their involvement in crime and crime against Ukraine and the entire civilized world. And I want to remind the international criminal Putin that punishment is irreversible, evil will be punished. Dear colleagues, also today the last bell in all parts of Ukraine, our schoolchildren mark the last bell. And on behalf of Parliament, all the national MPs I want to welcome all the schoolchildren, their parents and graduates with the last bell. Let's welcome them. [[Applause]] I wish you confidence in yourself, zeal, and optimism. So we're starting an hour of questions to the government. I want to inform you that the Prime Minister of Ukraine is on an official visit to Brussels, and today the entire composition of the government is in the hands of Deputy Prime Minister Stepan Kubi. And we will be able to ask the question as we do every Friday, every government, but on the other side of Stepan Cuba will have to take place on the National Investment Board. And I think we can understand his position with understanding. I'll take it. Who's it gonna be? Paul Rizanenko will be, and all the ministers on the spot, will be able to answer all questions of the national deputies. So, as always, there'll be a speech from the government in the beginning, up to 15 minutes, then there'll be questions from factions -- 25 minutes and then questions from the national MPs. And we're starting an hour of questions to the government. And I invite you to the address of Minister of Youth and Sports Igor Alexandrovich Zhdanov. Please, Mr. Igor.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-25-m0.u2	Dear national MPs, journalists, Ukrainian community! Yesterday, the women’s football league of the UEFA 2018 finale took place at the Lobanovski Stadium. The match ended with the victory of the French "Lion" and was attended by almost 15,000 viewers. The stadium was filled with football fans. All the services and personnel: National police, stewards, volunteers, firefighters, medics, have worked very well. Starting in the 2009-2010 season, when the Women's League of Champions got its current name, only five countries took the final match. Ukraine became the sixth nation, with Italy, Germany, Spain, Portugal, and Britain. We can confidently say that we have managed this task. I think everyone also appreciated the high level of safety in the game for Europe's leading football club trophy. So let us thank all the organizers of this match for their fine work. At the same time, we have a lot to work on. Because yesterday's incident with the beating of Liverpool's cowards shows that individual provokers will do everything they can to destabilize the situation. Thank you to the National Police for the operational response and for the detention of those who organized the beatings. I look forward to an open and transparent investigation into such acts. I would like to point out that preparations for the finals of the League of Champions on the Ukrainian side did not take place at the last moment, as some might have thought. It was a systematic and tiny piece of work that lasted a year and a half and was coordinated at the highest level of government. In particular, in November 2016, President Peter Poroshenko of Ukraine signed the Order "On Preparation and Conducting in Ukraine of the Final Champions League of the UEFA and the UEFA Champions League among Women of the 2017/2018 season", which was approved by the Personal Composition of the relevant Organising Committee. To implement the President's Order, the Ministry of Youth and Sports, together with the Ukrainian Football Federation, developed a project to approve the plan of action for the preparation and conduct in Ukraine of the final matches of the UEFA Champions League and the UEFA Champions League among women of the 2017/2018 season. The plan of action was approved by the government on April 5, 2017. To implement paragraph 1 of the plan of action, the Ministry of Youth and Sports has established and approved a working group to comply with the rules of the Union of European Football Associations during the final matches of the UEFA League. It was formed by the submission of relevant ministries, other central executive authorities, and the Kiev City State Administration. The organization committee chaired by President Igor Reinin of Ukraine’s Presidential Administration was coordinating the entire process of thorough preparations for the finals of the League of Champions. At the meetings of the Committee, the whole set of preparations for the final matches was reviewed and resolved, not only by stadiums and security, but also by logistics, infrastructure, transport, customs, border issues - problems that required active participation by the Kyiv City Administration and the mayor of the capital, Vitalia Klicka. In particular, the reception and resettlement of the cowards in Kiev, the organization of the roadways to the race sites, the opening of the fan zone and the organization of the saturated program, cultural entertainment for the Chinese and guests of the capital. Tens of thousands of foreign tourists arriving in Kiev these days will leave their costs here, and the local budget and business will receive additional revenue from sports tourism. Taking this opportunity, I would like to thank all my colleagues at the Organ Committee for their fruitful cooperation as well as all the Chinese for their hospitality shown to foreign cowards. You remember when the hotels pushed prices to incredible heights, it was the Chinese who offered their hospitality to foreign cowards. The Supreme Council of Ukraine has made a very large and important contribution, which has led to the adoption of a series of laws aimed at ensuring the proper conduct of the 2018 League final matches from football in Kiev. The laws of Ukraine have been adopted to amend the Tax and Customs Code and the Act on Collection and Accounting of the Only Contribution to the General Compulsory State Social Insurance. The Law on the Protection of Intellectual Property Rights of UEFA was recently adopted. The president of Ukraine, Peter Poroshenko, Prime Minister Vladimir Groissman, gave great attention to the quality of the final matches of the UEFA League. Thank you to the members of the government, particularly the heads of the IMF, the Mincultum, the Mini Infrastructure, the KMDA, the Borders, the National Police, the BSS and all the others who were involved in the preparations for the final matches of the Champions League. In other words, it was a very good example of the command work of all authorities for a common and very positive outcome for Ukraine. As for the match between Madrid's Real and Liverpool, which will take place tomorrow. I'd like to tell you that the main stadium of the U.K. state of the Olympics, which is in the field of the Ministry of Youth and Sports, is fully ready for a historic football action. All the necessary preparations and repairs were done in a timely and complete manner. I was convinced of this personally on May 16, along with the generals when we inspected the stadium’s completion. According to the stadium repair project, the stadium lasted about four months. The government budget allocated 103 million bracelets, the entire repair complex, was completely open because it was made through the ProZorro system. The Youth and Sports Ministry and the UEFA team over the entire period carried out constant hard work monitoring in real-time mode. We were also very careful about the quality of our work. Repaired roofs, information and communication networks, engineering networks, power supply systems, water supply, hydro insulation, fire, ventilation, lighting and much more. The facilities and facilities of the stadium are well - arranged. Very serious attention has been given to stadium security, an updated control room, and video surveillance systems now have nearly 500 cameras that provide a very clear picture. Cameras are allowed to track and record all the hooligan acts and persons who do them, including their faces. All materials will then be sent to the National Police for appropriate measures. Before the repairs started, it was here. There were over 300 cameras here that gave low-quality images, and some of the cameras didn't work at all. Before the match, all the necessary internal testing of the stadium's network from our side and external stress testing from the UEFA side. I will point out that UEFA President Alexander Cheferin stressed that he was satisfied with the level of preparation of Kiev and Ukraine for the finals of the 2018 Women's and Men's League. He also stressed that in Ukraine, everyone is friendly and professional in preparing the finale of the Champions League. In advance of questions from the hall, why did you need repairs to the Olympics? Because without it, we wouldn't be able to conduct the finals physically. This would not allow us to do UEFA, which conducted the stadium survey and revealed a number of flaws. The stadium did not meet the technical and infrastructure requirements, the flow and damage to the engineering networks, the damage to the roof above the stands, and the lighting of the stadium’s arena. This situation was caused by the lack of proper and technical maintenance of the stadium, which was impossible because of the high debt, resulting from preparations for the Euro -2012. As you know, parts of Janukovich's regime have been hanged at the stadiums of all of us as taxpayers for more than 2 billion dollars of debt. During the last repairs, hidden flaws were detected in the stadium’s reconstruction to the Euro - 2012 Euro. For example, we repaired the hydroisolation, and it turned out that at some point she was not at all where she was supposed to be from the very beginning. Today, however, thanks to the activities of the Ministry of Youth and Sports, the Olympic teams, and the contractors selected through the ProZorro system, we have performed quality repairs. Its results are long after the final of the League of Champions will be enjoyed by our national football team, national and foreign football clubs, fans and viewers, and participants in the major sports and cultural events that will take place at the stadium. In particular, I would like to draw attention to the serious blow that has taken place in the country’s football mafia as a result of the long - term specialization of our forces. I fully support the zero tolerance policy of holding football matches with a predetermined result. Thank you to the National Police and Interior Minister Avakov for this large-scale special operation. Such an uncompromising fight for cleanliness in Ukrainian sport is a powerful example of the implementation of the law that was passed by Andriy Pavelko, who was approved by you, in the fight against contractual matches, and also signed by me as a minister and ratified by the efforts of a professional committee led by Arthur Palatno, the Federation of Football of the Council of Europe against manipulating sports competitions. Someone will say that such police action before the finale of the League of Champions is a blow to the country's image. No! No! On the contrary, it is a powerful testimony that Ukraine is really fighting corruption in sports and contractual matches. By the way, Ukraine has become one of the first European countries to ratify the Convention against Sporting and have already begun its implementation in practice. Match-fixing is one of the biggest threats to the purity of sports around the world. It should not be naive to assume that this applies exclusively to individual athletes and judges. The practice of investigation suggests that mafia structures and organized crime groups are involved in the match-fixing of hundreds and thousands of people. Not just money is involved, but often blackmailing the parents of athletes, threatening to kill, kidnapping children, and so forth. Sports corruption devours society’s worst form of corruption. This needs to be tackled systematically. He has always stressed that winning a competition is not fair, otherwise it is no longer a sport, which in the case of manipulating sports results, which is the case with the use of doping. Ladies and gentlemen, I am deeply convinced that the championships of the League will be one of the most spectacular events in the history of our sport. Despite some of the individual problems that have arisen on this journey, it has been far more positive. The main plus is that in times of war with Russian invaders, we demonstrate to the whole of Europe and the world that Ukraine's civilized European state is safe and hospitable. We owe the peace sky to our defenders on the front, and they made it possible to hold the finals of the UEFA Champions League in Kiev. Praise our heroic and unbreakable warriors! Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-25-m0.u3	Thank you, Minister. We're moving on to questions. First, a question from the factions. People's deputies would like to take their seats in the hall in order to participate in the recording. Please hold the recording. The People's Front faction is Bondar. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-25-m0.u4	Thank you. Bondar Mikhailo, 119th constituency. I have a question for the minister, Minister of Social Affairs of Reva Andrew. Mr. Andrey, my colleagues have been speaking from the rostrum recently and have been asking questions about the monetaryization of benefits for ATO participants, i.e. transports. I don't want to agree that for ATO participants, you also have to limit how much you move them, but the guys went through a bunch of wars, gave their lives, lost a lot of friends. I think they're in on it. They have to use their benefits to the full. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-25-m0.u5	Mr. Mikhailo Bondar, the honourable national MP, is not saying that there is something to be limited to the granting of rights, benefits, or anything else. It's a little bit different. When we talk about residential services, we don't give them as much as you want. We give them according to the social standards that are laid down in current legislation. In 2000, Ukraine adopted the Law on State Social Standards, the legislation that required the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine to define such standards not only in the housing and utility sphere, but in the field of medicine, which was implemented through the Medical Reform Act, which was adopted in this room, through appropriate decisions by the Government on transport benefits and so on and so forth. Therefore, the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine was fully established in accordance with the law on transport services. I'm paying attention, minimum standards. Because according to the law, the Finance Code has been translated into local budgets (this is the decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine) and therefore all the territorial communities should ensure that it is implemented. How much? The extent to which they have, but not less than, the standard established by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. This means that any territorial community can do it in different sizes and norms. And so there is no limit to the rights of the people who were on the front that protected our country in this case. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-25-m0.u6	Thank you. Question from the opposition block faction. The word is given to the national deputy Sážk.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-25-m0.u7	Sergey Sažko, Donetskina, 59 constituency. I have a question for the Minister of Energy, but I see the Minister is missing. Questions to Ministry representatives. The question is about the prospects for further work of coal companies in my district. There was information from the minister that by the end of March, the state would have set aside a billion dollars for the recovery of carbon. It's been six months, and there's still no result. Once again, there was a huge debt on the payroll of mines. This led to the second stop in a few months, the Selidivwügil company, the "Ukraine" mine, "Kotlarevsky", "1-3 Novogrodowska" mine, and the miners are blasting. They are thought to be joined by other coal miners to whom the state owes. And you know about this situation. Tell me, how do you plan to get out of the crisis, and how much longer are we going to go around the circle? The State cannot be a constant foreign observer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-25-m0.u8	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-25-m0.u9	Thank you. Dear National Deputy, the distinguished are present! The thing is, you really asked a very painful question about the direct "Seliv Coal." When it comes to funds, in terms of state support, yesterday all the documents have been drawn up, where they are in the treasury. I think today people are going to get their salaries directly into their personal accounts. So the sector reform predicted very substantial investments. The question is complicated, it has been very difficult for many years, but at last this week, the government has decided to provide State guarantees for the billion that you've been talking about to invest in the technological development of the coal sector, and in particular in the state-owned firm Seljidevogil. There's a pretty substantial amount, almost 300 million dollars, of which 200, well, almost 280 million of these tranches are going to go to Selidewwicil. In addition, the Ministry has created a state-owned company called the National Coal Company, which is to form and start a full-time job for 2-3 months, which is to optimize the governance structure and significantly improve the financial situation of enterprises. If we need more information, we can personally provide it, or we will meet, and we will report everything to you in detail. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-25-m0.u10	Thank you. From the "Unification Self-Help" faction, the word is given to the National Deputy Alona Babak.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-25-m0.u11	Dear members of the government! On Wednesday, on the Committee on Construction, Urban and Housing, it became quite clear that the government had failed two major reforms: water reform and heat and housing reform. We already know that on 10th June of this year, the Housing and Utilities Act will not be implemented, because the government has not prepared decisions and has not adopted what people can do to change managers, choose how to work with water and heat and how to manage water and heat in houses. Tell us, who will be responsible for the collapse of these major reforms in the government? And who will allow people to change the yoke of active management companies and competing companies that are now exhibiting 10 bracelets per square meter of housing service? Please give a clear date when the government will make appropriate decisions to implement two major reforms: resource reform and housing reform.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-25-m0.u12	Thank you. Who Will Answer? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-25-m0.u13	Dear colleagues! I wish there was such a reverse movement here. Directly housing and utility services, the law that has been passed, which has provided for the adoption of a large number of normative acts that are also related to the introduction into force of the Commercial Accounting Act. You know that we work together with both the National Deputies and the Committee. And on Wednesday we met on a committee and talked about all the issues that are directly related to the introduction of this law. If someone today wants to show that they are not aware, and just translates responsibility from one side to the other, because there are many differences in the law that we are today in the preparation of normative acts, we are trying to reconcile, including when we understand that only on December 10 people should be determined by the form of governance. And we already see the inadequacy when we realize that the law can take effect in June months, and only in December can people be definitively determined by the form of governance. And only after that will municipalities where they are not defined by the form of government be able to identify themselves and help to manage such property. So once again, we're stressing that there's a reverse movement. We also asked the committee to look at the proposal on the possibility of delaying directly into operation. the introduction of this law in view of the inadequacy, including the question of the definition of humans. That's the first one. What's relevant to normative acts. The normative acts of today, part of it is already in the secretariat, and it will be considered in the nearest government, part of it is in agreement in the central executive branch. But once again, I would like to point out that the law is very complicated, and we have up to five typical contracts: separate for hot water, separate for heat, separate for water supply. And the question for today is also from the local authorities, which.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-25-m0.u14	Please, 30 seconds, please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-25-m0.u15	Which understands how difficult it is not only to sign contracts, to take over the management of these buildings, but also to administer a billing that should provide utilities. So I'd like, you know, the authors of the law that I support and support, right? But just now, don't translate from, like, a headache to a healthy or a sick person, right? - and deal with it together. I think I'd like to go over it again.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-25-m0.u16	Thank you, Minister. I'll beg. Thank you. One more minute, Mr. Reva. But I very much ask the members of the government to also go into the regulations, because this is the "hour of questions to the government" mostly from the national MPs. Please, one minute for Minister Reva.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-25-m0.u17	In addition to what Hennady Grigorovich said, I want to say that we have already begun to adopt normative acts to implement this law in part to protect citizens' rights to pay for residential services. I'm bringing to your attention, Mrs. Alona, that 1022 decrees, as you said correctly, have allowed management companies up to 10 bracelets to record in a square meter, are now amended by 329 decrees and limited the cost of managing a multi-room house to 5 bracelets 41 cents, i.e. twice as much. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-25-m0.u18	Thank you. Welcome to the speech of the national deputy Eutuska from the faction of "The Fatherland."
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-25-m0.u19	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Sergey Eutuszok faction of the Fatherland. Mrs. Oksana Ivanovna, I'm asking you to consider my question a parliamentary inquiry. And I want to address my question to the Minister of Science and Education (I don't see), and if there isn't a representative. According to Appendix 10 of the Ukrainian Act on the State Budget for 2018, the first and third levels of accreditation were transferred to finance from local budgets. This is an insurmountable burden to maintain these facilities. I have in my hands the appeal of the working group of the Brezni Forest Technical College, which is in Plains, which clearly says that this is not even about maintaining a material and technical base right now. It's about people who work, 47 employees, five of them scientists, five postgraduate students, and all the others who release a lot of forest experts, there's no way to pay their wages. Please respond to this situation and make changes with the Ministry of Finance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-25-m0.u20	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-25-m0.u21	Paul Hobzey is the deputy minister. Dear National Deputies! We know this problem, which is, but it's a facility funded by the district budget. There's a much more dramatic situation with level one and level two higher education institutions, the first and third levels of accreditation that are in higher education institutions, and there are two thirds of them, and that's about three and a half billion dollars. And you remember that when the 2018 budget was adopted, these institutions, which were in the university’s structural units, were funded by the state budget, with no extra money. Last week a meeting was held between the Minister of Education and Science and the Minister of Finance of Ukraine. And it was agreed to close, at least in part, the holiday payments that would soon have to be paid. It has been found, within the expenditure of the Ministry of Education and Science, a billion, which we will ask the budget committee to agree on the transfer and remove the problem. In terms of funding the facilities that are in the district budget, let's find out, and I think the Plain area has that kind of income, it's just going to focus on other goals, and we're going to study it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-25-m0.u22	Thank you. From Peter Prashenko's Block, Klan Sergey Volodymyrovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-25-m0.u23	I have a question for the Minister of Social Policy. Mr. Andrey, please tell me that coal subsidies are made from the price of $2,000.300. In fact, the price of coal for today is 6,5 or 7,000 dollars. In the south of the Herson region, it's not gassed, unfortunately, there's no more protection strips left, because they're all cut out of wood, people are buying bucket coal. Last year I was addressing this problem, you said there would be an increase in the budget for solid fuel subsidies. The summer is beginning, and the peasants are always stocking up for coal in the summer, and they will ask the same question again, but nothing is resolved in a year. Will it be next year, next year, or is it possible for a price recalculation to subsidize solid fuel in the autumn? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-25-m0.u24	Thank you. Before you give an answer, an answer, think about who will answer. I mean, there's already a colleague of ours in the hall today, Borislav Rosenblatt. We welcome our colleague with birthday today, with birthday. [[Applause]] And I invite you to speak from the government of Rev. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-25-m0.u25	Thank you for asking. I mean, the last time we raised the cost of one ton of coal was last year. This year we plan to review the cost of purchasing one ton of solid fuel from October of this year, since calculations show that there is a interconnected process between a gas grant for heating and solid fuel. The more people buy solid fuels, the less they use natural gas, that is, there is a dependency that is essentially appropriate in terms of public interest. So now we're working on this issue and we're planning, anyway, we have plans from the new heating season of October 1st to review the price and accordingly increase the financing of the purchase of solid fuel by our citizens.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-25-m0.u26	Thank you. From the Radical Party of Igor Mosiychuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-25-m0.u27	Igor Mosiyczuk, Oleg Lachka Radical Party In our faction, it's a very direct, global question. Dear government officials, when will you stop being a drug addict? When are you getting off the International Monetary Fund druggie? You don't realize you're picking on the last scroll from the Ukrainians? Now, in the IMF agreement, you raise the price of gas, the corresponding price rises in stores, the Ukrainians still can't stand it, many people in the bed now claim the need to sell Ukrainian land, which is dominated by transnational companies. So the simple question is, do you want people to really take you out to the villas? Are you finally going to review the cooperation with the IMF and start working for the Ukrainian people? Cover the contraband on customs.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-25-m0.u28	Dear National Deputies! I want to say that in our interaction with the International Monetary Fund and other international organizations there is no room for blackmail, no threat, no ultimatums from international organizations to Ukraine is a normal, full dialogue. And believe me, the government of Ukraine in no way does any of its decisions work within the logic of anyone. Our main goal is to improve the quality and standard of living of Ukrainians. This is our general line that we've been going through in recent years. Of course, interaction with international organizations is not just about getting money, although this is very important today. Because you realize that, in particular, the loans of the International Monetary Fund of Ukraine. They're given to Ukraine at the smallest percentage that any way the state can get from other organizations today. At the same time, we are fully aware of our responsibility today. We're willing to be responsible for whatever actions we've done, for whatever things we're doing in the process of working with the International Monetary Fund. The question of gas price rise, the question of the introduction of the so-called land market, we understand very well that without the Supreme Council of Ukraine, these decisions are not made. That's why we're going to make responsible decisions with you in the interests of the Ukrainian nation, in the interests of the Ukrainian people, not anyone else. And in terms of social negotiations with the International Monetary Fund, I'm asking Andrew Reva to say a few words.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-25-m0.u29	Dear Mr. Igoru, from his 20-year experience of working in social politics and observing how to rehabilitate a drug addict, let me tell you this. If you immediately stop using drugs, forbid them, the drug may die. To get him out of this needle, he needs to be treated and rehabilitated. Whoever planted Ukraine on this needle, you know perfectly well, and they are also in this room. And what we're doing right now is called healing and rehabilitation. And after that end, then we're going to get off this needle. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-25-m0.u30	Thank you. From the "Will of the People" Group, Shahov Sergey Volodymyrovich. Turn on the microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-25-m0.u31	Sergey Shahov, the political power of Our End. Dear colleagues, there are unexploded terrorist attacks in our country today. Zitomirščina, Cherkaščina, Kharkivščina – more than a hundred children were hospitalized and dozens of children were reincarnated from an unknown substance, according to the Ministry of Health. Police for part one of the first 296 years of bullying have aroused criminal conduct. Please tell "Our Land" to contact the Ukrainian Security Service immediately to take this into consideration and remove the investigators from the police. These are terrorist attacks against Ukrainian children. Immediately, the Ministry of Education will place the tournaments completely in the schools by September. The Supreme Council has been set up, and everyone is afraid. And immediately, "Our Land" requires a report from the Ministry of Health on the date by which.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-25-m0.u32	30 seconds to complete.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-25-m0.u33	What kind of substance did our children use to poison Ukrainian children? Why is it that today we have not yet -- this question -- why is it that today there is not an appointed Ukrainian health minister whose children are being trained in Ukrainian schools, whose children are being treated in Ukrainian hospitals today? And I also want to say, "Our country" is ready to give 50,000 pharmacies to get Ulyana Suprun to go to her country. Believe me, volunteers will have the money to give these 50,000 pills today.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-25-m0.u34	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-25-m0.u35	Mr. Sergei, thank you for asking. It is extremely painful and relevant. If you keep a close eye, including the government’s activities, these are the issues. a whole series of negatives about scattering the right ones. The corresponding gas was raised and considered at the last government meeting in Ukraine’s schools. I want to tell you that there is a very clear position both for the Prime Minister of Ukraine and for the entire government as to the need for a detailed study of this issue. And most of all, today we are concerned about, of course, the health of those children who have suffered as a result. And believe me, we have all the basic measures, including the Ministry of Health, to get the children back to full training as soon as possible. But the second fundamental point, which the Prime Minister of Ukraine also spoke of in his speech, is to examine whether there is a link between all the events that have taken place in different situations. in various cities of our state. So there are appropriate orders for the Ministry of Internal Affairs, for the National Police to carefully study and examine this issue from the point of view of the systemicity of this process. As soon as the relevant decisions and the relevant conclusions of the Ministry of Internal Affairs, the National Police, the Ministry of Education and Science, the Ministry of Health, we are certainly communicating to both the National Deputies and society about this sad and unpleasant situation for us. Thank you for your questions, and you will surely receive them.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-25-m0.u36	Thank you. And the final question from the groups and factions is passed on to Kulinich, and then to the MPs, from the deputies of the question. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-25-m0.u37	Oleg Kulinic, 147th constituency, Poltavščina. I have a question for the Ministry of Infrastructure and the Ministry of Finance. So far, we've had a huge problem financing roads of territorial importance, so-called "difficulty". We count them in the country 30,000 kilometers, only in the Poltav region of such roads 23. Last Friday, I asked Mr. Omelan's minister why, under what resources would such a cost be financed in the current year? Sadly, though, I did not receive a specific answer. It's been a good summer for us to fix these roads. That's why I'm addressing Mr. Kistion's vice-premier. Vladimir Evseviyovich, take this matter under personal control, and I would like Minfin and the representatives of the Mini Infrastructure, if anyone is here, to comment on what resources, how the roads of territorial importance will be repaired in 2018. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-25-m0.u38	Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-25-m0.u39	Deputy Minister of Infrastructure Lavrenjuk. As you know, since January 1, this year, the State Road Fund Act has entered into force. Transferred to the balance of local district administrations all these roads you're talking about. They're financed by 35 percent of the road fund. But what do we have today that the minister has also stressed, and Deputy Prime Minister Vladimir Eusebiusovich Kistion? The fact that the district government is inefficiently using the funds that come to them as a subsidy. It's about the "heaviness" you're talking about if they're on the balance sheet of district government administrations. So control the areas so that the public administrations can make effective use of and start building these roads. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-25-m0.u40	Colleagues! Secretary of State Capinus, Ministry of Finance. I would like to point out that it was Parliament that created a road fund last year, and this is one of the most effective mechanisms, like me, for financing road construction. The specified mechanism foresees that funds are automatically distributed, channelled to provide appropriate work. To date, therefore, funding is provided in terms of the extent to which the law provides for it in its entirety. So efficiency is already a little bit different, and I think given that we have decentralization from this point of view, we need to look at it.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-25-m0.u41	Thank you. People's deputies, please prepare for the recording. It's a replica, 30 seconds, Kulinich. And prepare to be recorded for questioning.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-25-m0.u42	Dear colleagues, the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Infrastructure, speak along the road to territorial importance. They're not transferred to the balance sheet of district administrations. It's heavy. What are you talking about?Oh, my God! You guys get out of here. They're on balance in the state and they're financed from state resources. I speak for "hard." Comment on how you will finance these roads in 2018. There's no resources, that's what everyone's talking about.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-25-m0.u43	So please record a question from the National MPs. Please turn on the record. Let's see. Let's see. Is there justice? So, Igor Shurma, the First National MP.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-25-m0.u44	Thank the chairman for his justice. I have a question for the government. The World Health Organization Assembly is taking place on these days. I would like to remind you that the government has not paid $26 million in contributions, so Ukraine is one of the four nations of the world that is voted out of the Assembly. Mr. Rosenko, you'll answer because I'm not talking about the debt. You're the ones who were in debt, and you're still in debt. That's where the so-called. A minister with a political claim. At first on Twitter, she urged people to go to the Presidential Administration about the lack of work to free our hostages, which is really important. And then, when she put on the appropriate dress code in the form of a vest with the Sunshine, she made a political statement. I have a question. She represented Ukraine. Who put it there, at whose expense? And whether her political speech was in line with the policy of the Cabinet.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-25-m0.u45	I'll probably start with the last one. I want to say that the government, I think all the adequate people today have to do everything and support it as Oleg of the Shadow, who is already. began the second week, as he had announced hunger as well as the other tens, hundreds of hostages of one man’s sick ambitions, who somehow considered himself king of the world. And to do everything together, regardless of the power, the opposition, the public sector, so that these hostages are released, so that Oleg of the Shadows, who is convicted of absolutely political motives, is released and released immediately, like others, once again, of the hundreds of hostages of the Stalinputin regime. About the last ones. regarding the introduction to the World Health Organization, the Deputy Minister of Health, Paul Covtonjuk, will now answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-25-m0.u46	Thank you. Mr. Igor, I want to inform you that for the first time in all years this year, Ukraine has paid a contribution to the World Health Organization. This certainly raised our prestige there. Indeed, there remains a very old debt on this payment. And if. We've been asking the right budget request this year, it's not supported. We very much hope that next year Parliament will support the allocation of these funds. We are immediately counting on WHO in all previous years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-25-m0.u47	Thank you. His word is for Timothy's question, please. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-25-m0.u48	Good afternoon! Mr. Deputy Minister, I have a question for Mr. Paul Hobzey, Deputy Minister of Education. Yesterday we heard from Mrs. Lilia Greenevich that we had already found an understanding of two ministries – the Ministry of Education of Ukraine and the Romanian Ministry of Education. And is there a protocol on the intentions, or is the protocol already signed, or are they preparing to sign a protocol on the implementation of the language article of the Education Act? It seems to me that the entire beech community, the Odessa region, the Carpathians are waiting for this decision. Please explain to me the meaning, is it really today to hear what happened to this document, which decision? And did our side, the Ukrainian side, say, take note of the Venice Commission? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-25-m0.u49	Thank you for asking. Indeed, we are preparing to sign a protocol between the Ministry of Education and the Ministry of Education of Romania. The work is quite difficult. There is no final option, because constant negotiations and communication are going on. The Ministry of Education is also having a conversation with a Romanian-speaking community in Chernivitsa, personally I was two weeks ago, we talked. And today is a seminar of the Council of Europe, where the results of the Venice Commission are being reported by members of the Venice Commission, and we are looking for understanding. Article 7 accepted. The only thing we ask is for Parliament to support Law 8046 on the extension of the transition period, not to stop. We conduct and implement article 7. But in order to implement it, we need to extend the transition period from 2 to 5 years so that we can actually implement Article 7. I very much ask the deputies to support Law 8046. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-25-m0.u50	Thank you. To the question, please, Rybczyn Aleksei Mihajlovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-25-m0.u51	Alexei Rybchin, Fatherland, Doñecina. Dear government officials, there is one thorny issue, namely, the issue of the payment of pensions to internally displaced persons, or, more precisely, the failure to pay or the untimely payment of pensions. I just returned with colleagues from the Donetsk region, where we took the British delegation to Audiavka, Bahmut, Kramatorsk. So people, displaced people, complain to foreigners that the government doesn't pay their pension. This is due to the fact that the government has made a decision where there is a procedure for verifying the change. The pension has to be paid by the 25th. The 25th -- today, people's pensions haven't been paid, but there are individual schedules and pensions haven't been paid either on the 15th or the 16th. Yesterday people are on the phone and complaining that they're on the hotline, and they're there first, they're insidious and they're not finding out when there's a pension, and they're saying that there's a round that's going to be a verification procedure right now, right there in Minusty. Dear colleagues, for many displaced persons, pensions are the only source of financing and existence at all. There are a large number of displaced people who have left occupied territory since 2014.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-25-m0.u52	30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-25-m0.u53	There's a big category of people who went out in 2014 and they're no longer on the road, they don't move there. Can't people like that, I don't know, go to some separate verification list? Please, this is an important question for many, for the millions of Ukrainians we are fighting for, for hearts and minds, and the government is not helping us. Please explain the situation, this is a matter of concern to many. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-25-m0.u54	Mr. Alexia, thank you for asking. I want to assure you that the government has not made any decisions recently and has not made any decisions on the limitations of any of the rights of displaced persons who have been forced to retire. There's no such decision, we don't have to go around, well, raise, well, let's say, questions and speculate on those terms. There was, once again, no decision to limit the rights of forced displaced persons. The other one. Late payments for today’s pension payments relate solely to the change and unification of the pension schedule by the Ukrainian Pension Fund. All pensions for displaced persons will be paid in full. There will be no debt to the movers. I'm totally with you. I just want to convince you. Therefore, all the Pension Fund administrations have been shown to inform people of changes in the schedule and when pensions are paid on a new schedule. In the vast majority of areas of Ukraine, this issue has been removed today. If there are specific questions about the specific administrations of the Pension Fund, surely give this information to the government. If someone fails to prove a corresponding new pension payment schedule, it will be done shortly. But once again, I would like to stress that there will be no restrictions on the payment of pensions to the movers. And I'd like to give the floor to Andrey Alexiovich Revey to clarify the position.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-25-m0.u55	I'd like to draw Mr. Rybkin's attention. He said it right, make a separate list. So we have one and a half million officially registered internally displaced persons. Help as internally displaced persons receive only 300,000. This suggests that we have the status of a migrant and that someone is a displaced person. And when we talk about people in our controlled territory, they don't have any problems. And when we meet internally displaced people's organizations, if I hear "the main problem is housing," I'm sure they're the people who live here. And when they tell us "payment problems," that's the problem for those people who live there, who cross the border, the line of separation, and, accordingly, they have verification problems. I just want to say one thing, which was confirmed by the Deputy Prime Minister. The government has not made any separate decisions about restrictions or any other matter. But the verification process has been going on since the 16th.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-25-m0.u56	Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-25-m0.u57	And he'll be the one that'll last. All who are on ours.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-25-m0.u58	Yuri Solovay, 89 constituency, Gutzulščina, and Pocust. I have a question for the minister in charge of the Ministry of Health and also for the Ministry of Finance in connection with the critical situation that has arisen in mountain areas with regard to the payment of salaries to health workers. For example, today in the Kosovo region, only 20 percent of April's wages are paid. The same situation is true today in the Supreme Region, after paying the salaries of health - care workers. It's a disgrace! The last time was back in the '90s. I applied as a national deputy on many occasions, unfortunately there is no solution to this question. Dear Andriy Volodymyrovich, I also ask you, as a person who is very closely concerned with the problem of mountain areas, to include this in the solution to this question and for the next "hour of questions to the government" to include a profile report.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-25-m0.u59	30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-25-m0.u60	And the next thing you know, during "hours of questions to the government" is to include a profile minister's report on the pay situation for medical workers in mountain areas. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-25-m0.u61	Health care, what will it be, Hobzey? Turn on the microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-25-m0.u62	Paul Covtonjuk, Deputy Minister of Health and Ministry of Finance, Eugene Kapinus.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-25-m0.u63	Thank you. Dear Mr. Yuri, distinguished national deputies, the situation with regard to the financing of medical salaries is as follows. The medical subsidy payment is calculated for one person with a mountain coefficient in the mountain area and we have many mountain areas, including in the Lviv region, in the Cherniv region, in the Zakarpatsky region and in other areas of the Ivano-Frankiv region. However, when we get to the district level, this subsidy is already being distributed there, and we have no control over what particular hospital is going to cost and what principle is there, because today this funding system. There is only one hospital with which I communicate almost daily, and today the doctor has spoken twice about it. It's regional and it has to decide at the local level. We're going to make an effort to do that, and I'm going to let you know how the problem goes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-25-m0.u64	Please, Ministry of Finance.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-25-m0.u65	Capinus, Secretary of State. My colleagues, I would like to point out that, for today, adequate funding, as defined in the State budget for regional subsidies, is being made in full. So if there's a question there, that's the question that's at regional level from the state budget, full funding is being done.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-25-m0.u66	Thank you. Please make the most of your efforts to resolve this issue. I think we will be able to reach out at the workplace and consult on this. So that it can be dealt with more quickly. Thank you. The next Ischakin gives the floor to ask Oksani Jurinec, please, Mrs. Oksana.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-25-m0.u67	Oksana Jurinec, 117 constituency, city of Lviv My question sounds to the government, but there's no head of government, so I'd like to re-address it to the Ministry of Finance, which is, in fact, funding colleges, technicians, those that go into the structure of university higher education institutions. I know that Lila Mikhailna Grinevich's profile committee has asked the question that one and one of them won't solve the issue until August of the month. What goes on with those colleges is that before the budget was adopted, it was important that all these institutions of this level of accreditation at universities should be able to be funded. What is the situation and where the rest of the funds will be taken so that they will not be able to work until August, but at least by the end of the financial year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-25-m0.u68	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-25-m0.u69	Capinus. Thank you for asking. Ladies and gentlemen, as my colleague has pointed out, these decisions have recently been made and you have also confirmed that 1.3 billion have been directed to ensure that this issue is resolved as soon as possible. We agree that the issue remains open today and that funding will have to be proven in full. To date, the Ministry of Education and I are looking for ways to resolve these issues and by the end of the year it will be settled, all costs will be directed as needed.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-25-m0.u70	Thank you. Melnichenko Vladimir Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-25-m0.u71	My question to the head of the government, but he's not here, to the Cabinet of Ministers. In March 2011, between the PAT National Shareholder Company Naftogaz Ukraine and the Sokil Rural Council as a customer, an agreement was put in place for the execution of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine's decree on gasification of population sites. Almost 20 villages in the Kamenac-Podil district of the Hmělnice region were gassed. With this specification of contracts for the execution of a public order, in accordance with the rules of articles 12-13. 183 HK of Ukraine is that the State guarantees payment under such contracts. Thus, the Sokil Rural Council relied on a subsidy from the state budget of Ukraine to build a pipeline worth about 34 million dollars. According to the receiving act.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-25-m0.u72	30 seconds, complete.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-25-m0.u73	The Sokil Rural Council was transferred to the balance sheet of Pat "Hmielnickgaz". Naftogaz goes to court, the first one commits. The state does not pay the subsidy, does not repay the debt. The first instance decides that the Sokil Council should pay this debt, the appeal is dismissed, and the Supreme Court is satisfied. And today the Sokil Council budget is 34 million dollars a year and a year.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-25-m0.u74	Please, who will answer? Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-25-m0.u75	Good day, distinguished national MPs, indeed, we have such a problem within the state in our time. So in 2011, a decision was made by a government that wasn't implemented, which determined that NAC Naftogaz could fund the proper work on gas pipelines, but once again, I emphasize, the decision of the Government of Legal Power has not been taken. During the relevant period, work was done, and among the total amount of work done is part of the pipelines by which the works are carried out, part of the pipelines that are at the stage of the work. So today, after those gas pipelines that are done, where they are funded, where the NAC Naftogazu funded the works, NAC Naftogaz is fully entitled, well, given the financial institution that financed these jobs, to get these. this immovable property and ensure their exploitation and use. So I think that this question needs to be reconsidered and found the right solution in the context of the issue that you've raised. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-25-m0.u76	Thank you. Evlakhov Anatoly Sergiyovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-25-m0.u77	Anatoly Evlakhov, 207 constituency, Chernigovishte I have a question for Mr. Reva. Andriy Alexiyovich, I want to thank you for always caring for Ukrainian pensioners, but unfortunately, after the last increase in pensions, people in rural areas who have 40 years of experience who still remember the working days but who have a penny salary have not experienced this increase. I'm asking you and the government to prepare as quickly as possible a mechanism to increase pensions for people with tractors, milkmaids who have a great job, but unfortunately, they get a copy pension. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-25-m0.u78	Thank you for asking. We've heard this subject over and over and over and over and over and over and over and over again, we've talked about any reform that needs to be improved. The reform that was carried out, it's absolutely right, it's clearly dependent on it. retirement benefits from internships and earnings, but at the same time, it showed the injustices that existed before, which you are now absolutely right to say. And that's why we're working on this today. Because in our country, three million of these people, pensioners, of them 2.5 million, are women who have a full life expectancy of 30 years or more, but have worked, as you say, in rural areas, on farms, in colporteurs and have received a meager salary, including just chopsticks. And we're working on this problem right now, and we're planning a second phase of pension reform to solve it. In what way? I think we'll do it together with the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-25-m0.u79	Thank you. Please, Germano Vasil Ivanovich. Igor Shurmi, please, Mr. Igor.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-25-m0.u80	Dear citizens of Ukraine, it is very good that I have the opportunity to ask another question right now. I'm going to repeat it because no one gives a specific answer to my question. First. I am speaking to a representative of the Ministry of Health. Stop lying. You said you paid your membership fees for the first time in years. I remind you, Ukraine is responsible for 26 million dollars and has been denied voting rights, and in such countries, unfortunately, to 3 African additions to Ukraine. You've paid only a fraction and 20 million you're guilty to this day, tell the truth. And the other truth is not dependent on it, it's dependent on the Cabinet of Ministers. Let the Minister's office look for that kind of money. You're being helped, and you're still lying. And the second question is, I'm talking to Mr. Rosenck. For whose money did the so - called A minister who has second citizenship? What passport did she cross the border on? And is her political statement, which is in line with the President's unsatisfactory work of releasing hostages, accepted by the Cabinet of Ministers? Give a specific answer as to whose money and whether it is accepted.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-25-m0.u81	You've completed the question. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-25-m0.u82	Mr. Igor, I'm only going to repeat what I said before. There's a debt, I didn't say it was gone. It has been going since 1945, when Ukraine became a member of the World Health Organization, separate from the Soviet Union. And it's been a long time since Ukraine's successor to the U.S.S.S.R. did not become a lawyer, whether it should pay or not. This process continues. This year, Ukraine paid its first annual contribution for this year, which I consider to be a big step forward. And as I said, my colleagues in WHO appreciated the action. As for the second question, I think that each course should be used to raise the relevant issue for Ukraine internationally, and we urge everyone to do so.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-25-m0.u83	Thank you. And, colleagues, the final question. Bondar Mikhailo. And we end up with an hour of questions to the government. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-25-m0.u84	I will. It's just me. It was a personal matter. I ask you, Mr. Igoru, to explain your questions to the Minister of Health in the form of a parliamentary appeal, and we will certainly answer your question. As for the political position of the minister of health, I want to say only one thing that I am completely. That I fully support this position, and I'm saying once again, that no pro-proposal column would say that we don't have to raise the issues of the Sun and other hostages anymore, we don't have to politicize forums, conferences, festivals, etc. Let's do it! We'll talk. Let's talk at all levels. I am very grateful to the winner of the Cannes Festival, Sergey Loznice, who received the appropriate award that he said about Oleg Sentsov and his struggle at the highest pitch in the Cannes Festival. We'll talk on all the pitches. Let's talk about the absurdity of the travel-stalin regime and demand, at all levels, from this colossal work -- what the President of Ukraine is doing -- to all public initiatives for the release of Ukrainian hostages. Thus, the truth about the crimes of the Putin regime will be heard from all the rostrums of the world. And no one will shut us down, and we will talk about it while at least one hostage remains in prison.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-25-m0.u85	No, it'll be the last one. So, Bondar Mikhailo, the final final question from the National Deputies. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-25-m0.u86	Thank you. Bondar Mikhailo, 119 constituency. I would like first of all to thank the Cabinet of Ministers for these investment costs that have been allocated to the coal sector. But what I want to point out is that even though mines, government mines go out of their way, so-called "watchers" don't even let them work and develop. And literally yesterday, in Lviv, a commission made up of district council deputies came to visit the Lviv Coal Company to see how coal-enrichment work is done from state-owned coal companies. They were fed by dogs, stopped there, stopped the road, and flooded with rocks, and were not released. I demand that we figure this out and free our state-owned coal companies from those so-called "watchers." Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-25-m0.u87	Dear Mikhaylo Leontijovich, we certainly share your concern, but I want you to know that the Livia Coal Company is not within the sphere of the Ministry's administration, so I find it difficult to answer what happened there. We talked about this separately. But with regard to the provision of services by this coal company to our state-owned mines, Lviv-Ugil and Volinwogil, yesterday, together with the first deputy of the Lviv estate with Zamlinsky, I held a meeting with the leaders of the Lviv-Ugil company and the Lviv coal company. And there I think that everything will stabilize as soon as possible, starting even from today, I think these problems will no longer be about their mutual relationship with the provision of coal-enriching services. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-25-m0.u88	Thank you. And it concludes the "government hour" question from Irina Heratchenko. Please, Mrs. Irina.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-25-m0.u89	Thank you. Dear colleagues, it's a pity that we're not at our meeting of the distinguished Prime Minister for important reasons and other government officials. And I want to address you, not as the First Vice-Speaker of the Ukrainian Parliament, but as an active member of the "Equal Opportunities" interfractional union, which brings together almost all the women of the Ukrainian Parliament. I want to point out, my fellow Members, that one of the key tasks that we now face is our union, and that we are working very seriously with the Ministry of Health, is to strengthen the role of women in the Ukrainian army. I want to remind you that 25,000 Ukrainian women have signed a contract and are protecting our Fatherland, of which only 3,000 are officers, who are completely unresponsive to the professional and professional level of Ukrainian women. [[Applause]] And we thank you for the understanding of the Ministry of Defence here, but I would like to make a statement on behalf of our interfractional unification of indignation and request you to conduct a formal investigation into the official of the Ministry of Social Policy, who is the director of the department on terms of work and wages of Mr. Ryabokon. Because the Ministry of Social Affairs is now looking at norms that will allow Ukrainian women to take office in the Ukrainian army, which was banned yesterday. And we got an absolutely hammocked, frankly, letter from this official who said that he didn't think it was necessary to invite representatives, representatives of the Interfractional Union of Equal Opportunities, because it's a little-known and ineffectual union that essentially degrades more than 40 members of the Supreme Council. But even worse! This official in his office’s warm chair believes that certain physical features of women prevent them from working with snipers! So, I think we all think that certain male features of men in the back, officials, prevent them from being men. We're not going to let our women in the army be humiliated. We want to remind you that among the 25,000 Ukrainian women in the army there are snipers who work better than some men. And we demand both a formal investigation and a review of these Soviet directives, which do not see the obvious: Our women are no worse off than men are at war! And we'll protect them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-25-m0.u90	What will you say in your vindication, honourable members of the government?
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-25-m0.u91	I want to answer. Dear Irina Volodymyrna, on behalf of the Ministry of Social Policy, I would like to apologize to the women -- our deputies of the Interfractional Union of Equal Opportunities. What I'm saying is that this doesn't reflect, is that the position of individual officials doesn't reflect the position of the Ministry on this issue. We have recently considered on the International Policy Committee a denunciation of ILO Convention No. 45. We have presented an official position on these issues. And I want to say that this is the official position of the Ministry of Equal Opportunities for Men and Women. The only thing I want to point out is that Rybokon is not the head of the department, he's the deputy. But we're going to conduct a service investigation and we're going to inform you and the Supreme Council of Ukraine about the results. I'm sorry again.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-25-m0.u92	Thank you for such a position. We would like the government to be as progressive as the Ukrainian Parliament. And I think we'll find an understanding. Thus, the honourable colleagues, "the hour of questions to the government" is over. I want to thank all the ministers, the government, the vice-premiers for participating in this lively discussion. You will also be successful until the next plenary Friday. Thank you. Let's move on to the next issue of the agenda, according to the Rules, after the "hour of questions to the government" on Friday, we have 30 minutes to make inquiries. I ask all the national deputies to come into the hall and prepare to hear the parliamentary requests. And I give the floor to Irina Heratchenko. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-25-m0.u93	Dear colleagues, at this moment, 251 requests were received by Ukrainian national deputies. And I'm moving on to their announcements. So, Victor Razwadowski to the head of the Žitomir District Council, the head of the Žitomir Observatories for the capital repair of the road from the road derailed from the road to the territorial value of T-0618 to the villages of Bilka and Prutovka of the Romanov Region, the Žitomir Region. Alona Babak to the Minister of Social Policy on the misconduct of the Labour Administration and Social Security of the people of Kharkiv City Council. Andrija Lozov to the head of the Supreme Qualifications Commission of Judges of Ukraine, Head of the Supreme Council of Justice on the bias, objectivity and interest of the judge of the Ravenna District Administrative Court, Druzenko Natalia, in the case. Igor Shurma to the Prime Minister on the illegal use by the Ministry of Health of the eHealth Health System. Groups of National Deputies (Frolova, Soboljevo others; only 8 deputies) to the Authorized Supreme Council of Human Rights, Head of the Board, Henprocurorate for the use of urgent measures to protect the national producer of sunflower oil, a large taxpayer of taxes from the Private Shareholder Society of Plogov Oil Extraction Plant and its foreign investor, who financially support the Ukrainian army, from illegal pressure from individual representatives of law enforcement agencies. Michael Bondar, temporarily acting as director of the Department of Roads, Transport and Communications of the Lviv District Administration for the repair of the local roads of Kamyanka-Buzký, Radehovsky, Brodovsky, and Bouské district of Lviv. Michael Bondar to the Minister of Social Policy, head of the Lviv Observatories, to ensure that the firm of Lviv’s Criminal Experimental Enterprise is constantly operating, moving and prosthetics and paying off the debt from the salary. Vladislav Sevrukov, under the temporary responsibility of the Minister of Health for the order and procedure of financing of preventive medical examinations, vaccinations and medical and other medical care by doctors of secondary (specialised) and third (high-specialised) medical care. Vladimir Litvina to the Prime Minister for the allocation of funds for the continuation of the construction of the Novograd-Volin surgical corps of the Regional Territorial Medical Union. Vladimir Litvina to the Prime Minister, Minister of Defense for the Restoration of the Full Activities of the Novograd-Wallin Military Hospital. Vladislav Buhareva, head of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Budget, Prime Minister of Ukraine, on the allocation of funds from the State Budget of Ukraine for 2018 with the aim of acquiring a linear accelerator for the District Municipal Institute "Sumska District Clinical Cancer Scholar". Alexander Opanasenka to the head of the Ravenna District State Administration for violating the Ukrainian Act "On the Status of the People's Deputy of Ukraine". Alexander Opanasenka to the Prime Minister for the creation of a working group to develop changes to legislation. Anatolia Denisenka until the temporary duty of the Minister of Health to establish the National Medical Service. Anatoly of Denisenka to the Deputy Prime Minister - Minister of Regional Development, Construction and Housing on the need to provide social housing for a particular category of citizens. Vasil Guljava to the Prime Minister on the need to allocate funds from the State budget of Ukraine to complete the reconstruction of the No. 1 Gymnasium in the city of Montenegro, and to complete the construction of the educational complex in the village of Chlibodarska Biliyev Region of Odessa. Vladimir Gusak to Minister of Youth and Sports on the use of the budget programme "State Budget Grants for Local Budgets for the Construction/Construction of Sports Palaces". Irina Konstankevich to the Prime Minister for the implementation of the recommendations of the Education Section of the Ukrainian City Association. Irina Konstankevich to the Prime Minister on issues related to the allocation of land to anti-terrorists, members of the families of the fallen soldiers. Igor Shurma to the Head of the Constitutional Court on the inadequacy and irregularity of his position as a temporary minister of health of Ukraine. Igor Vasyunika to the head of the Žitomir oblast, the head of the Žitomir observatories for financing and construction work on the property of the forest bank tourist base. Arturo Martovicki and Igor Šurma to the Prime Minister on the inaction of relevant structures in the situation around the poisoning of schoolchildren at the Cerkas School of Public Education No. 8, No. 6 of Novomoskowska Dnipropetrovska oblast, Mikolaijev School No. 6, Kharkiv Special School No. 3. Artura Martovicki and Igor Šurma to the Prime Minister on undermining Ukraine's authority on the world stage in connection with the participation of representatives of the Ministry of Health of Ukraine in the 71st session of the World Health Assembly (city of Geneva, Swiss Confederation). Vadim Krivohatka to the Prime Minister, Henprocuror for possible abuses in repairs at Zaporozhye International Airport. Jacob Besbach to the Cabinet of Ministers, the Ministry of Education and Science of Ukraine, the Ministry of Finance for the creation of adequate conditions for safe nutrition in a professional public education institution. Sergey Rybalka to the Prime Minister, Minister of Interior, temporarily acting as Minister of Health for the treatment of Kardash Anastasia’s child. Sergey Rybalka to the prosecutor of Kiev regarding the inaction of the Obolon Police Department of the National Police in Kiev. Groups of Nardeps (Lopushanski, Doubenka, others, only four) to the Minister of Interior, Head of the Ukrainian Police on the need to optimize the Ukrainian National Police Department's terms of approval of the projects (scheme) of the road traffic organization, in accordance with the regulations of the Ukrainian State Road Service. Groups of National Deputies (Lopusian, Doubenka, others) to the Prime Minister, the Ministry of Education and Science, the President of the National Academy of Sciences, the Minister of Energy on the need to increase the funding of scientific institutions and the size of the salaries of scientific workers. Victor Razwadowski to the Prime Minister for the allocation of funds in the amount of 500,000 dollars to the municipal institution of the "Central District Hospital" of the Žitomir district of Žitomir district for the purchase of a computer tomographer. Dmitra Dobrodomov to the Minister of Culture of Ukraine, heads of the Lviv oblasta, heads of the Lviv observatija for the preservation and restoration of the unique defensive church of the Holy Trinity, located in the village of Sokolovka, in the Jewish region of Lviv. Dmitri Dobrodomov to the Minister of Culture, head of the Volin district government to resolve the critical situation of preservation of the historical and cultural heritage in Lutsk. Jury Bublika to the Prime Minister, head of the Ukrainian Institute of National Memory, Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine on acts of vandalism during the 100th anniversary of the Ukrainian Revolution. Jury Bublika to the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the pension provision of government officials and employees of local self-government. Sergey Kaplin to the Minister of Interior, Minister of Education and Science for the use of emergency measures to strengthen school security through mass poisoning by an unknown substance of children in schools in various cities. Sergey Kaplin to the Minister of Agriculture and Food on the use of urgent measures to address the critical situation that has taken place in the state-owned company Poltava Combine of Bread Products. Jacob Bezbeh to the Cabinet of Ministers, the Authorized President of the Rights of the Child, the Authorized Supreme Council of Ukraine of the Rights of the Child, the Ministry of Justice, the State Fiscal Service on the need for a comprehensive review of the long-term failure of the judgement on alimony and maintenance of a minor child that has a significant impact on the provision of her needs. Sergey Kiwalova to the Minister of Justice on the need for a proper and objective review of the appeal of a citizen of Kalina Valentina to resolve the issue of debt collection from the State Enterprise Special Design Office of Molnia. Vladimir Aresonkova to the Prime Minister for the provision of compressed gas to the population. Vladimir Aresonkova to the Prime Minister for the collection of real estate taxes other than land. Alexander Briginz to the Minister of Culture for the introduction into the State Register of History, Architecture, and Urban Buildings of Metropolitan Andrea Sheptické in the city of Lviv. Alexander Brigintz to the head of the State Aviation Service on the procedure for obtaining permits for small-air aircraft, a threatening situation with a decrease in the total number of airports in Ukraine. John Sporish to the Prime Minister for the transfer to the territorial community of the village of Lucinczyk Murovanokkurilovecka District of Winnitsk Region of land for public pastures. Victor Krivenk to the Head of the District State Administration of the Dnipropetrov region for the renovation of the Sulgiv educational complex. Victor Krivenk to the Security Service Department in Zaporozhye district to delay the investigation of fictitious accidents in the Public Shareholder Company Zaporozhaz. Oxana Korczynski to the Head of the Security Service, Director of the National Anti-Corruption Bureau, Attorney General, for the verification of the allocation of funds for the implementation of priority emergency measures related to the prevention of an extraordinary technological situation in connection with the sinking of the mines of the Pervomaysko-Stahanovo coal-carbon region of the Lugansk region. Ruslan Demchak to Prime Minister, Minister of Infrastructure, Acting Head of the State Road Agency for the redistribution of some of the public budget expenditure envisioned by the State Road Agency for 2018. Alexander Marchenka to the Prime Minister, Minister of Finance, Minister of Education and Science for the provision of funding for the Higher Education Institutes I-II levels of accreditation. Alexander Guerrega to the Prime Minister, the Minister of Justice for the protection of citizens' rights to reasonable terms of criminal conduct and judicial review by optimizing the terms of the trial. Alexander Guerrega to the Deputy Prime Minister, Minister of Regional Development, Construction and Housing, on changes in the administrative and territorial structure of the Hmělní region. Aunts of Bacheva to the Prime Minister on the safety of personal data for patients in the electronic health system. Dmitra Kolesnikov to the Prime Minister for funding in the full scope of the State Programme "Statistical Observations and Census" for the census of the 18th year. Dmitra Kolesnikov to the Prime Minister for reducing the number of general educational institutions and the lack of school buses. Andrea Galchenka to the Prime Minister on the non-fulfilment of investment commitments and conservation measures of the Public Shareholders Association "Arcelor. I'm sorry, "ArselorMittal Curve Rig." Alexander Nechayeva to the head of the Sumilian District Administration for an immediate solution to the question of proper payment of salaries for teachers at the schools in the area of the Sumli district. Alexander Nechayeva to the head of the Sumsky detainment on the urgent solution to the issue of the organization of a bus connection between the populated areas of the Grandpisar region of the Suma region. Sergey Ljowczina to the Prime Minister on the need to stop inflation and minimize its negative social consequences. Vitalia Gudzenka to the head of the Kyiv District State Administration for the allocation of funds in 2018 for the capital repair of the central dispensary of the general practice of family medicine in the city of Tarosa Kyiv district. Vitalia Gudzenka to the General Directorate of the Dergeokadastr in the Kyiv region for the allocation of agricultural land in the territory of the Stavishten region of Kyiv district to participants in the ATO. Olesia Long to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine on improving the standards of natural gas consumption in the absence of gas counters and avoiding the double cost of energy consumers. Victoria Ptašnik to the prosecutor of Kyiv regarding the inaction of investigators in criminal proceedings, discovered in connection with the fraud of a tour operator of the Society with limited responsibility of Idriska TUR. Sergio Melnika to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the settlement of the marginal cost of 1 square metre of total housing. Taras Shepherd to Minister of Interior, Attorney General of Ukraine, on the investigation into the death of Olievsky Vladimir. Maxima Burbak to the Prime Minister for financial security in the full range of higher education institutions, the I-II level of accreditation, which are structural units without the status of individual legal persons in higher education institutions, the III-IV level of accreditation. Groups of Nardeps (Gopco, Bilozoris) to the Minister of Education and Science on the need for unconditional compliance with the requirements of the Ukrainian Education Act on the Ukrainian language of education process, the provision of additional clarifications to institutions and educational bodies of the Ministry on this subject, the establishment of an active system for detecting and eliminating violations of citizens' rights to education in the State language. Irina Efraemov to the Minister of Environment and Natural Resources to verify the status of the construction of the "Libotin Municipal Waste Management Complex" in Kharkivsk district. Vadim Sidorczuk to Minister of Infrastructure, Minister of Interior, on the use of additional measures of State control to ensure road safety and reduce the level of trauma and death on Ukraine's roads. Vladimir Parasuka to Minister of Infrastructure, Head of the Lviv District Council, Head of the Lviv District State Administration for the Capital Repair of the Road General Use C142032 Dobrostan - Ivano-Frankov 12.6 km. Alexander Kirsch to the head of the National Police Department in the Kharkiv area of inactivity and capability. possible involvement in the "breaking" of illegal liquor sales near the Heroov Works Metro Station in Kharkiv by officials of the Kiev Police Department of the National Police in Kharkiv and Kharkiv Region. Alexander Kirsch to the Minister of Energy and Coal Industry of Ukraine on the situation of debt on a paid salary at the State Enterprise "Southerndust" and the possible involvement of the acting director in deliberately leading the enterprise to bankruptcy. Alexander Kodola to the Prime Minister for the payment of monetary compensation for living quarters suitable for war invalids. Alexander Kodola to the Prime Minister for the violation of the social rights of members of the military. Oleg Kulinić to the Cabinet of Ministers for changes to Cabinet Order No. 198 from March 20th, 13th. Andrea Illenka to the head of the Kyiv City Administration for the reconstruction of the football field in the Righteous District of Kyiv. Andrea Illenka to the head of the Kiev City Administration for the restoration of the asphalt cover of the inter-quartered passages near House No. 12 on Bratislava Street in the Righteous region of Kiev. Groups of People’s Deputies (Principal, Companion) to the Prime Minister, Head of the Ukrainian State Service for Food Safety and Consumer Protection, temporarily acting as Head of the State Environmental Inspectorate, Minister of Ecology for the Protection of the Right to Clean Air of the People of the City of Ternopil. Michael Golovka to the Head of the Security Service for Information Attacks and Destabilization of the State Enterprise for Air Traffic Services of Ukraine ("Ukraine"). Groups of Nardepts (Romanov, Beresuk, others) 12) to the Prime Minister for the destruction of vocational and technical education in the form of modernization. Anna Romanov to the Minister of Education and Science on issues related to the modernization of the network of vocational and technical institutions. Sergey Lechchenka to the Prime Minister for the application and cancellation of personal special economic and other restrictive measures (sanctions). Sergey Lechchenka to the head of the National Police on possible offences committed by officials of the State Enterprise "National Atomic Energy generating Company Energoat" and the Public Shareholders Association "Turbanboat" for the purchase of welded stainless pipes for the reconstruction of nuclear power plants capacitors. Paul Rizanenka to the Prime Minister for financing the construction of a highway in the city of Berezani, Kyiv. Roman Semenha to the Prime Minister on the issue of equipping natural gas users with individual gas counters. Roman Semenha to the Minister of Finance for the implementation of the State Budget Programme "Assuring the Housing of Citizens affected by the Chernobyl disaster". Tetjana Ostrickov to the executive responsibility of the Head of the State Fiscal Service for conducting public expertise at the request of the Public Association Business Help. Aunt Ostrichov to the minister of finance about the problem of blocking tax notes. Edward Matthewchuk to the Ministry of Youth and Sport, the Odessa Region, the Odessa Observatories regarding the objective consideration of the collective appeal of residents of House 57 on the street of the Academic William Kyiv district of Odessa on the need to provide a sports playground for the development of sport and to create conditions for the availability of a healthy lifestyle for the community of the area. Edward Matthewchuk to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, the Ministry of Social Policy, the Odessa Observatories, the Odessa Region, regarding the need for an objective review of the appeal of Romashko Ludmila, residents of the Kyiv district of Odessa regarding the need to provide all-round assistance in connection with the cancellation of the subsidy for housing and utilities from February of this year. Igor Lapina to the executive duty of the Head of the State Fiscal Service, Minister of Finance for Personnel Assignments at the Ternopil State Fiscal Service Customs. Sergey Rudika to the executive director of the Public Shareholders' Association for the restoration of the Smila-3 post office to relieve the social tension that was created among the inhabitants of the Small Jablonjka microregion in Smila and to provide postal services to consumers and other publicly available services Sergey Rudik to Deputy Prime Minister Paul Rosenck, Minister of Social Policy on the urgent settlement of the issue of the recalculation of pensions to pensioners — former civil servants and employees of local authorities of the Kamyan, Cherkasky and Smilian regions of the Cherkas region and in Ukraine as a whole. John Rybak to the Prime Minister, Minister of Infrastructure, acting as Head of the Government of the Public Shareholders Association of the Ukrainian Railways, on the non-admission of the "Chernovci" train. Ukraine." Oleg Osuhovsky to the Prime Minister, Minister of Justice, Head of the Ukrainian National Anti-Corruption Unit, Deputy Prosecutor-General of the National Anti-Corruption Office, Henprocurator-General of the National Fiscal Service, Henprocuror, Head of the Specialised Anti-Corruption Prosecutor's Office, Henprocuror of Ukraine for the illegal deprivation of the right of use of property. Oleg Osuhovsky to the Prime Minister, Vice Prime Minister, Minister of Regional Development, Construction and Housing, Head of the Plains District Council, Head of the Plains City, Head of the Plains Authority for the award of a subsidy for the construction of a kindergarten. Alexander Vilkula to the Prime Minister for parliamentary control regarding the use of international financial assistance from 2014 to 2018. Alexander Wilkull and Andrija Galchenk to the Prime Minister, Minister of Infrastructure, acting as Head of the State Agency for Road Traffic, Head of the Dnipropetrov Observatories for the use of immediate measures to repair roads from the Horn of Curve to the southern cities and villages of Ukraine: Genicek, Skadowska, village of Lazurnogo, village of the Red. As well as taking immediate steps to repair the road from the village of Radusne to the village of Mariánské Apostolic Region, which is completely destroyed. We're continuing our requests for announcement, colleagues. Groups of Nardeps (Batenka, Shevchenka and others; only 8 deputies) to the Prime Minister on ensuring national security and countering the aggression of the Russian Federation in the Azov Sea and the Kerchen Strait and minimizing the negative consequences of this aggression by the Ukrainian authorities. Julia Ioffe to the Prime Minister on the need to allocate budgetary funding for the capital repair of the road in the village of the town type Lower Pásnjan district of Lugansk Region in 2018. Julia Ioffe to the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the need to protect the constitutional rights of citizens, to settle the issue of the appointment and holding of the first elections in the Mountain City’s unified district community of the Pásnán district of Lugansk. Ruslan Demczak to the Head of the National Bank for the allocation of local budgets in banking institutions. Mikoli Veličkovica to the Head of the National Bank of Ukraine on the disappearance of funds from payment cards of clients of the Public Shareholders Association of the private bank of Private Bank. Mikoli Veličković to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the creation of an organizational committee to hold the World Cup of Ball and Stand Shooting in Lviv City in 2020. Groups of Nardeps (Kota, Lušnjak, others) to the Prime Minister for amending Cabinet Regulation No.197 concerning the provision of cash benefits from the payment of travel by all modes of transport for general use. Yurya Levchenka is acting as Head of the National Police in Kiev, Kyiv City, deputy head of the National Police in Kiev, prosecutor of Kiev City for the failure to destroy the unique and only in Ukraine of the Integrated Children's Sports School "Majak", which prepares rowing slalom athletes and takes action to transfer the school's property to the municipal property of the city of Kiev. Jury Lewchenk to the Attorney General for the submission of information to the Single Register of Judicial Investigations concerning the commission by the Kiev City Head of a criminal offence by Klick Vitali, provided for in part two of article 367 of the Criminal Code of Ukraine, which resulted in damage to the territorial community in a particularly large way. Sergei Vlasenka to the Director of the National Anti-Corruption Office of Ukraine, Head of the National Anti-Corruption Agency of Ukraine, Deputy Assistant to Henprocuror, Head of the Special Anti-Corruption Prosecutor's Office for Possible Corruption Crimes, Deputy Chief of the Ukrainian Administration, Alexija Filatov. Romana Macola to the head of the National Police of Ukraine, Henprocuror of Ukraine, for the verification of the circumstances of illegal land capture. Roman Macola and Andrija Shinkovič to Deputy Prosecutor Henprocuror of Ukraine, the Chief Military Prosecutor, for the conduct of an objective investigation into the criminal conduct of an unwitting disappearance of a military officer during hostilities in an antiterrorist operation. Jury Pavlenko to the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the holding of parliamentary hearings: "Security of Journalists in Ukraine: Status, Problems and Solutions". Jury Pavlenko to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, head of the Kiev City Office for the use of measures to complete the construction and operation of housing units No.47-59 on the street Eugenia Harchenk Darnitsky district of Kiev. Sergey Labazuk to the Cabinet of Ministers, Ministry of Economics, Economic Development and Trade, Ministry of Finance, Ministry of Agriculture Policy and Food for Milk Products. Sergey Labazuk to the Authorized President of Child Rights, Minister of Social Policy, Head of the Hmelnski oblast, Head of the Hmelnicka observation of the boarding school. Ruslan Solvar to the temporary duty of Minister of Health of Ukraine, head of the Kyiv Authority for Hepatitis with the necessary medicines guaranteed by the State. Ruslan Solvar to the Prime Minister, head of the Kyiv Observatories for the use of measures to complete the work on the capital repair of the bridge across the Skyrk River of the Skurir district of Kiev, which is in limited working condition. Ostap Odenak to the Head of the National Architecture and Construction Inspectorate of Ukraine for violations during the construction of multi-story buildings in the village of Tarasovka, Kiev-Svetoshin district of Kyiv region. Panels of Nardeputates (Shinkovica, Gerega, Macola) to the Head of the State Service of Ukraine for Food Safety and Consumer Protection, temporarily acting as Head of the National Environmental Inspectorate of Ukraine for the verification of waste poisoning of the Society's production with limited responsibility, Complex Agrolars (the trade mark "Gavrilovski chicken") of adjacent land, water and air, as well as violations of the health and health standards they have established in the area of the Visgorod region of Kiev. Andrija Šinkovič to the Head of Government of the Public Shareholders Association Hmelnickgaz for requirements to meet the legitimate needs of the inhabitants of house 63 on Shevchenka Street in Izaslav, in the establishment of individual gas counters. Irina Souslowy to Minister of Home Affairs, Henprocuror of Ukraine, for investigating the death of a minor named Matychuk Kim in connection with the improper performance of medical personnel in his professional duties. Alexander Marchenka to the Prime Minister, Deputy Prime Minister, Minister of Regional Development, Construction and Housing, Ministry of Finance for the provision of housing homes by (counters) commercial thermal energy calculation according to the law. Irina Lucenko to the Head of Government of Pat ZYTOMIRGAZ about providing information, copies of documents and clarifications. Dmitri Schenchev to the Prime Minister of Ukraine to address the problem of labour migration from Ukraine. Andrea Shipka is under the temporary responsibility of the Ukrainian Minister of Health to take steps to buy medical supplies on time. Andrija Shipka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the non-use of measures by officials of the Ministry of Health of Ukraine to comply with the requirements of Ukrainian Law No. 1662-VIII and to bring its legislation into line with this law. Alexander Suprunenka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Finance of Ukraine, Minister of Infrastructure, Kiev City Head, for the construction of a multi-level transport solution in Kharkiv Square in Kiev. Jurya Derevyanka to the Cabinet of Ministers on the need to repair the bridge in the village of Delatín of the region of Ivano-Frankov Region on the road to general use of the national N-09 Mukachevo-Lviv and the road to general use of the local value of O090802 Jablonov-Deletin. Borislava Bereza to the Head of the Ukrainian Antimonopoly Committee on Public Transport in Kiev. Borislav Bereza to the Head of the Ukrainian Antimonopoly Committee on Capital Repair and Restoration of Lake Almazne and Lake Gnilus in the Righteous Region of Kiev. Jaroslava Markevich to the Prime Minister for providing information on the main directions of budgetary policy. Jaroslava Markevich to the Minister of Finance for information on the implementation of the tax on the resulting capital. Mr. Vasil Janicki to the Prime Minister, temporarily acting as Minister of Health, head of the Plains Authority for the provision of medical supplies, the cost of which is reimbursed under the “Available medicines” programme. Vasil Janicki to the Prime Minister, temporarily acting Minister of Health, head of the Ravenna observatories on the need for adequate financial security for health care facilities in Vladimirecki, Dubrowitz, Zagodenski, Rokitni district, and Varas district within the limits of medical subsidies. Group of Nardeps (Bilozer, Berezi, only 14th) to the head of the Kyiv City State Administration on the need to ensure that capital repairs of Kiev City maternity house No. 1. John Melniczuk to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, the Authorized President of Ukraine from the rights of the child, the Minister of Education and Science, the head of the Chernigian Ombudsman, the Head of the Ichnian District Council for the provision of the needs of the municipal institution "Inclusive Resource Centre of the Ichnyan District Council of the Chernigiv Region". Jury Timoshenko to the Minister of Environment and Natural Resources for the implementation of the Environmental Action Project. Olga Bogolec to the Ministry of Education and Science of Ukraine, the Ukrainian Security Service, the Ministry of Internal Affairs, the Ministry of Health, on the use of anti-toxification measures among students and employees of Ukrainian schools of general education. Anton Kisse to the Prime Minister for the creation of a work plan for the continuation of the capital repair of the roads of general use of the state value T-16-08 Balgrad-Chervonoarmian-Arciz-Saratha (Sarata-Arciz) and T-16-27 CAT "Serpneuve" - Tarutine-Arciz-Tatarbunari" (in the area of Arciz-Tarutine). Victor Romanyuk to the Prime Minister for the fulfillment of the promises made to the inhabitants of the city of Vasilkow Kyiv region and the need for the immediate construction of a new school. Mikoli Palamarchuk to the prosecutor of the Kyiv district for a lengthy criminal investigation. Mikoli Palamarchuk to Henprocuror of Ukraine on improper criminal investigation. Valeria Pisarenko to the Prime Minister for the free provision of pregnant women with the necessary drugs for the full development of the child. Valery Pisarenko to the Head of the Nazcomisi, which regulates the state in the fields of energy and utilities in order to bring the Code of Gas Distribution systems into line with the requirements of current legislation. Paul Kishkar, Acting Head of the State Property Fund of Ukraine, Minister of Ecology, Natural Resources, Temporaryly Acting Head of the State Environmental Inspection, Head of the State Regulatory Service for the fulfilment of the conditions for the release of the public stock company ArselorMittal Krivi Rig. Igor Goose to the minister of infrastructure for the repair and construction of roads in Volinsk. Igora Guza to the Prime Minister on the issue of repayment of the debt from the salaries paid to the employees of the Volin branch of the State Enterprise "Regional Electricity Networks". Igora Lucenka to the Head of the National Bank of Ukraine for the provision of public information regarding the agreements made by the National Bank of Ukraine for the provision of the last legal (professional legal) assistance. Igora Lucenka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the urgent and appropriate response to the threat of the destruction of the cultural heritage object, the building, the architect's monuments "Hostinna dvor" by making the relevant decision of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine to transfer the property in question to municipal property. Jury Berezi to the Minister of Internal Affairs, Attorney-General for the Legality of the Use of Disability Children's Pensions by the former Director of the Municipal Institute of Verhnědniprovska boarding house No. 2 of Dniprovsk District Council Mr. Linik Vitali Alexanderovich and his deputy, Tertenek Sergey Viktorovich. Jury Berezi to the Minister of Interior, the Attorney-General of Ukraine for the falsification of the State Act on the Right to Permanent Use of Land and for the Legality of Use of Land, which was handed over by the Supreme Provost District Council of Nardeps, the Supreme Provost District Council of Deputies since 28 February 1992 to the Permanent Use of the "Cornobil" (the successor to the Supreme Provost District Division of the Public Organization of the All-Ukrainian Disability Society of the Union of Chernobyl Ukraine), and Gitular Sergei Ivanovic and his associates. Robert Gorvato to the First Deputy Prime Minister, Minister of Economic Development and Trade of Ukraine, to encourage the development of the electricity sector in Ukraine and to amend the National Classification of Economic Activities. Dear colleagues! I'm done announcing 251 requests from national deputies who for the moment have been registered with the Supreme Council of Ukraine. And we have 10 minutes until recess, so I'm not going to go straight to the amendments to our Anti-Corruption Court Act. I'll also remind the deputies present, I'll remind our audiences and listeners and journalists who are actively following up on the Supreme Council of Ukraine's review of this anti-corruption court bill, which the Supreme Council of Ukraine has considered over a thousand 200 amendments over the two days we've been working on the amendments. And we've got about 700 amendments left, and the next Tuesday we'll be back with you to look at them. So we're working with you now as follows, there's only a few minutes left before the break. As chairman, I received complaints from Ukrainian national deputies who were dissatisfied with the answers received from various authorities. I'm going to give the floor to these deputies under the heading "show up as disgruntled deputies." And then after the break, we're all going to go with you, all of us, wanted deputies, to the traditional feature of "The Difference." I now invite you to the word of Roman Semenich, then Igor Shurma and I look at which of the others are present. Yes, please, Igor Shurma, allow me to have a word with you. Mr. Roman. You're not registered, you're not registered. Only then is Mr. Shurma, we have received many, by the way, unsatisfying claims of dissatisfaction from the Ukrainian national deputies. So I'm asking very much of the authorities that are being approached by fellow MPs to give thorough, thorough answers. But only Mr. Shurm is present. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-25-m0.u94	Igor Shurma, Opposition Block. Honourable citizens of Ukraine, I, as Ukraine's national deputy at the Supreme Council meeting on March 2nd, received an advised request from the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the lack of original documents on education and citizenship on the basis of which Uljana Suprun was appointed the first Deputy Minister of Education. On March 19th, the Prime Minister gave me the answer that a statement was made, and the request was sent for consideration. Minister Suprun. April 11th I get from the so-called Under its signature, the minister refuses to provide a copy of the original documents on education and citizenship, stating that the information is confidential. I draw the attention of the Prime Minister of Ukraine and, above all, the leadership of the Supreme Council to the fact that no law prescribes that the addressee may redirect the application to the person for whom the information is required. A grave violation of the Ukrainian Law on the Status of Peoples' Deputies, articles 15 and 16. But the worst part is that the answer that I got from a significant breach of terms and from the performing duty of Suprun not only is not true, but also information that indicates the lack of knowledge of Ukraine’s legislation by this man. There was a decision of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine on 20 January 2012 in accordance with the resolution part of the decision is confidential only information about the personal and family life of the person and any information about him, but except for the information provided by the laws relating to the person in charge of the performance of the functions of the State. I would like to remind you that Suprun is now serving as a state. And it can't hide from national MPs who have access to a confidential secret. secret information, given information. What, though, is the information: the diplomat and the President's decree on the assignment of citizenship? It's clear. Also in the Ukrainian Personal Data Protection Act, which is referred to by the so-called Minister, it is stated that it is not a confidential personal information made by a person, it is already in the Personal Data Protection Act. And then, Madam Chairman, I pay attention. If we're considered fools, MPs, in a government bed, it's going to continue. It's not just me, MP, it's the Supreme Council's leadership, but if they're stupid, let's find the administration on them. I demand an answer to my question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-25-m0.u95	Dear colleagues, thank you. Please note that Mr. Shurma has used his right to speak in this section where we receive. By the way, a lot of colleagues are asking how to act as dissatisfied with the answer. This should also be an appropriate reference to the head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. It makes it very clear which question and which answer you are expressing your dissatisfaction, and only then do I have the right to give my word. Among these, honourable colleagues, there are also allegations of dissatisfaction, and there are statements from National Deputy Mustafa Nayem. Please, I give you my word. There's two of yours. There are two of your applications, but three minutes. Yes, we're pleased to welcome you to work, Mr. Mustafa. Please, three minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-25-m0.u96	Dear colleagues, I would like to address the urgent issue of conducting forensic expertise. You know, I recently became a participant in an incident that was followed by criminal conduct, and I went through this process on my own. So I want to let you know, I'm sorry for this example, but there are some real examples: if a person, for example, is raped on Friday, and the investigator is sending an expert report to the court, and the judges aren't working, because, secondly, there aren't complete judges, and secondly, they're not just on the spot, thirdly, the courts are now overwhelmed by these requests from investigators to conduct an expert, then the expertise can only be conducted in two or three days. An expert is on Monday, when nothing can be found, nothing can be registered. Such cases are numerous in all the districts of Kiev. Please go talk to the investigators, talk to the experts, and it's not just from somewhere, it's information that I've heard specifically from experts who can't conduct them right now. What does this lead to? That the raped people, the people who were beaten, the people who got into the crash, the people who were victims of the violence, are now in a situation where experts can't prove them. And all of this evidence in the court is inappropriate, because the expertise cannot be presented, and the main thing is that we in this room have accepted the amendment of our colleague Lozov, who is forcing investigators to appeal to the court for an expert. If this goes on, courts all over the country will start to refuse this expertise. In particular, in my case, we couldn't do an expert study for five days. And I'm stressing again, this is because they knew the whole situation, the expertise just didn't happen because the court didn't make the decision. Such situations are numerous in all regions. The battered, raped people cannot obtain evidence that something has happened to them. So we are again addressing our colleagues from the committee, Mr. Kožemyakin. I know that they are very inclined to do so and that they accept this bill. There is a bill that our colleague, Olena Sotnik, passed, is our bill, which we have also tabled to remedy this situation. We need to make amends right away. And what's more, everyone knows, I'm talking to Mr. Oleg Lalach, don't forget that all the investigators, all the experts, when raped, beaten people come to them, and they say: do the expertise, they say, please go to Parliament, where the Lozov amendment has led to this situation. So once again, this is just a little adjustment that we have to accept. And a bill registered in the Supreme Council. He's already passed the committee, and we just have to vote for him. There's no need for principle here, we just have to vote on this story. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-25-m0.u97	Dear colleagues, there are no other willing and, well, deputies among those who have made their pleas for dissatisfaction with the answers. So I'm closing this section of our statement of queries and statements. I'm calling a break for exactly 30 minutes, until 12:30. I very much ask all those who want to join the discussion under the heading "different," not to be late, to be on time. And we'll resume our session at 12:30.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-25-m0.u98	Dear colleagues, I'm sorry we're starting our meeting a few minutes later. We continue, more faithfully, our meeting. And now it's traditional at this time, Friday, for the deputies in the "different" section. I think they're all together. We're waiting another 30 seconds. Colleagues who stay in the towers and want to sign up for the show right now, I'm asking you to come back. And we're announcing a recording of the national MPs' performances under the heading "Rizzne." Please. I apologize again for the little things. Please, there is a list of those who have already wanted and who have fallen into our short list. And I'd like to invite you to the floor of the people's MP Martovitchki. Please, Your Honor, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-25-m0.u99	Dear citizens of Ukraine! Dear colleagues! As a national deputy, I have recently received numerous requests for violations of the constitutional rights of children with insulin - dependent diabetes. According to the parental references of such children, the main concern is that there is no law in Ukraine that would empower doctors of medical advisory committees to establish any disability for the sick at the time of diagnosis of incurable disease. In turn, Cabinet of Ministers Regulation No. 917 does not contain some questions about setting up a medical advisory board for children with disabilities, even though it is a vital requirement for children with diabetes, since without injections or insulin infusions, patients cannot eat or even live. At the same time, some medical advisory commissions in various areas of Ukraine still set up children who are diagnosed with diabetes, different groups of disability. Doctors, however, have different opinions about the same diagnosis, and as a result, parents of equally sick children receive different sizes of social assistance. For example, in Dnipropetrovska, it is a thousand 452 bracelets, and in Volina, the state pays 2,000,876 dollars. Thus, I consider this to be a gross violation of the constitutional rights of terminally ill children. I think a child with a diagnosis of insulin-dependent diabetes has the right to receive social assistance for children with disabilities under 18 years of age. Thus, taking into account the above-mentioned and the preceding International Day of Child Protection, I appeal to you, Reverend Vladimir Borisovich, first as the father of the children, and second as the Prime Minister of Ukraine, to address this issue and to initiate changes and additions to the Cabinet of Ministers Regulation of 21.11.2013 (No 917) in the area of the establishment of a clear procedure for the administration and mechanism of disability for children with a diagnosis of insulin-dependent diabetes. Please consider my statement as a question of parliament. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-25-m0.u100	Thank you, Your Honor. And the next performance, please, is by Igor Lucenko, conveys the word Alexia Rybchin. Please, Mr. Alexia.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-25-m0.u101	Alexei Rybchin, Fatherland, Doñecina. Dear colleagues, dear Ukrainians, I would like to report on the incident that just occurred on the "hour of questions to the government" when government officials were cynically lying about the non-payment of pensions to displaced persons. The question that concerns millions of Ukrainians who, back in 2014, came out in 2015, came out of occupied territory and lived in the unoccupied area of Donbas, in Dnipropetrovska, in Lvivska, everywhere. There are people everywhere who have moved because of the war. So, now, in May, the government stopped paying these people's pensions. There's a delay. These delays are due to the fact that the government has changed its Verification Order No. 365 and they are chemicalizing. Now, the government is chemicals, and people, for some pensions, are the only sources of existence in general, are not getting a pension. Officials now have a cynical lie. People in the unoccupied area were said to have no problem getting pensions. I had just returned from Donetsk, where my colleagues and I were with the British deputies in the freed Audiwka, where fighting is now taking place, unfortunately, in Kramatarski, Slovenia. People come, complain to Ukrainian and British deputies of power that they don't get a pension. And the government's cynically lying that these people are getting. I don't think we're going to make it through that kind of government. What does this have to do with anything? As far as we can tell from the consultation with colleagues, in government, they don't have enough money to raise. It's about minus five, minus seven billion of the planned. Who are the economists? Well, of course in the movers, because it's the most vulnerable social category, which, well, probably won't vote for this government. Or I don't know what the criteria are to bury these people. I just can't say otherwise. And you know what the cynical situation is? What the Europeans and Americans are always saying is, "You have to fight for the hearts and minds of your people on Donbassa. Without that, you won't win this war." So when we fight, when people here and the honourable Mrs. First Vice Speaker, I know how much she does when we fight for the hearts and minds of people on Donbassa, the government cynically ruins all of this work that we do. And I think I'm going to do everything, I promise I'll do everything I can to make sure that the G7 ambassadors and the Brussels Prime Minister meet with Mogherini, meet with Mr. Han and tell him that it's okay that the government is cynically lying. Moreover, I am collecting signatures and will register Mr. Reva’s release for the fact that the situation that has resulted in the respect of the social rights of internally displaced persons has resulted from the failure of the Minister of Social Policy to perform his duties. I already have a large number of signatures, signed along with the responsibilities of head of the Committee of Socialists, other colleagues: Mr. Chumak, Mrs. Novak, Mr. Eutusok, Ms. Weselova. Other colleagues are trying now, they'll be able to sign. I think it's only because of this, only because we have strong positions that we can defend the rights of internally displaced persons.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-25-m0.u102	Thank you for your performance. And the next one, please, is invited to the floor by the national MP, Levchenko. Please. Colleagues, we're going to be working up to 2 hours 15 minutes and, well, just to get a sense of it, those first 30 deputies that are on the list, you're going to be able to take the word. Please, Mr. Levchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-25-m0.u103	Lewchenko, Freedom, 223 District, Kiev City. I would like to act today as a Kiev Majorate who sees the power of Vitaliyk Volodymyrovich Klicka destroy our great capital every day. On November 13, 2013, the illegal Kyivrad Czernovecki, Popov, Gerega blocked access by the police borders to its opposing factions' premises and adopted a development programme, an update of the city documentation in Kiev for 2014-2016, which was in complete contravention of the requirements of Ukrainian legislation. Then, to break into that very famous session, which was blocked completely by the Berkut, the metal shields were tried by opposition activists, the MPs of the Freedom Party, the Fatherland Party and the Strike Party, by the way, which at the time made the appearance that was very much struggling with the Chernewsky. But, unfortunately, it's already done. On Wednesday this week, the City Council of Kiev, Vitalia Volodymyrovich Klicka, who is completely controlled by him and in which most of them, in fact, have his faction, along with the faction of Unity, continued this criminal program, which has resulted in the total illegal construction of the entire capital, continued it again. And you know, it's so absurd that even in this program, there's a link to Janukovich's "Affordable Society and a Competitive Economy: An Effective State." So no more Janukovic, no more Janukovic documents, but the Kyiv City Council in its documents still refers to Yanukovich, his documents. The Kyiv City Council of this Wednesday, not forcing the police, but forcing the robbed investors of Mr. Wyciekhowski, who became between normal deputies and the presidency, to push through this illegal, basically, program. The illegal program, which completely forgets about Ukrainian urban legislation, prescribes some internal position for Kiev, creates a separate republic from Kiev. And as a result of which, you will see, you will see, the adoption of hundreds of illegal detailed plans for areas where there were parks, where the heights would appear, where there were playgrounds, there would be shopping centers. And all of this, without asking you, is the venerable sneezes. This is, in fact, today’s so - called Kiev city authority. So I'd like to go to the kyans today with such a request and a call. Wake up, open your eyes, see what the Kiev City Council is doing under the leadership of Klicka. And realize that until you're out on the street until you get into this Kiev City Council, and you stop this vacchanal, every one of you is going to be there once a month, once a quarter of a quarter seeing you under a house, instead of trees, another illegal skyscraper comes up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-25-m0.u104	Thank you. Please, National Deputy Kirsch will take the floor. Please, colleague.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-25-m0.u105	Ladies and gentlemen! It has recently become known that the sad-known Shrimp plans to make rural people happy on the Internet. And that requires another 3 billion dollars from Ukraine's budget, even more than 3 billion dollars. It's the same Squire I get dozens of calls from voters every month from ordinary citizens about the absence of a fixed, normal, telephone connection. People have not had a fixed telephone service in years. If a person’s finger does not fall on the keyboard, he can’t even get an ambulance. Also, people don't have phones in their backyards, which is that people don't work for years, and they don't have fixed phones, and they don't have machines that have to work, but they don't work because they don't need them. As for the quality of the lead radio, which also provides the Shrine, you don't have to talk at all. Radios are not available in many residential buildings, but in some areas and in whole microregions. So the service provider actually took away subscribers from listening to the Ukrainian live radio. I regularly receive insolent patterns of answers, and no restoration takes place. They say that while we have a cable stolen or something like that, that is, all over the country, they have cables stolen, the cell phone doesn't work, the station phone in Kharkiv doesn't work, the street phone machines don't work, the radio doesn't work, and they still require 3 billion dollars of Ukrainian money. Under these circumstances, I think it is impossible to get any money from Ukraine's state budget until they significantly improve their work until the normal station phone connection, the street telephone machine, is restored until the Ukrainian lead radio is restored. Please consider my statement to be a parliamentary request to the Prime Minister of Ukraine. Please deal with the situation, force an irresponsible provider of services to perform their duties to subscribers, and not give any public funds to private shareholders of the Shretelekom. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-25-m0.u106	Thank you, Your Honor. And please welcome Gregory Timish. Please, Mr. Gregory.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-25-m0.u107	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Gregory Timish, 203 constituency, Cherniewec district. My dear voters, my dear, distinguished national MPs, my speech relates to these decentralization processes that are currently taking place in Ukraine. We actually took on, let's say, responsibility along with the government, along with the CBC, we MPs, and we started the process of decentralization. But what happened at the end? These populated areas, which voluntarily want to join the already existing united territorial communities, I stress that they are capable of, so it turns out, finding themselves at the border of adjacent areas. I mean, they don't have a real, legal possibility of joining in right now, and somehow their desire for the CLTC is ignored, both by the government and by the government. We don't understand right now what we have to do? Should MPs vote for a new law? Is the CTC supposed to make a decision? Or the government has to take some kind of decision to clear the way for these communities to join existing able communities. Voluntary association was laid down in the Law on Voluntary Unity of Communities. And why has this never occurred to anyone? That's why I'm calling on both the government and the people's deputies, and I'm calling on the CBC to find understanding. Ladies and gentlemen of this state, let's find a way to see if we are in the Supreme Council making this decision. Or the government by its decree will now just clear the way for these communities. I stood up for the Bukowski Congregation of the Hertzai district, which decided two years ago to join the existing united territorial community of the Tereblechen community in the region of the region of Czernovetsec. There is a desire in Tereblich, and there is a desire for Bokovka to join. And in accordance with its decision, the Montenegrin District Administration has already sent its decision to the CBC and has opened the way for the community to join. But the CIA, accordingly, is doing football, and it's going to get rid of this decision into the government, and the government is referring accordingly to some reasonable decision by the MPs. Let's, once again, encourage, find understanding and let these small, small communities join the very powerful Tereblechen community, which has already proven its ability. And according to monitoring, it's one of the most powerful right now that's being developed, communities, right now, in the region of the region of Czerniewice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-25-m0.u108	Thank you, Your Honor. And I now invite you to the speech of the People's Deputy of Sporish, please. He's arguing with John. John Sporish, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-25-m0.u109	Dear Chairman! Dear National Deputies! Of course today, we know that almost all schools in Ukraine have completed a school year, an extreme bell, and that is why we would like our children to be able to relax successfully in three months, pass the exams successfully, pass all of them, and pass the KNZ nicely. And I would very much like to see that by the day of our children's protection, as has already been said in this rostrum today, that our children are successful and worthy of our change. Today the minister of youth and sport spoke and how he could not be supported because we saw yesterday's fine match of the League of Europe between the teams. between the women's teams of France and Germany and we have been in pain together, and we would very much like our Ukraine to show its face. And yesterday's victory for the French is, indeed, a great holiday for all of Ukraine. I think we've been in pain for the French team, though most of us have, but it's very unpleasant that tomorrow the Real Liverpool match and it's very unpleasant that we saw this fight the other day in the masks that beat the Liverpool fans. It is very unpleasant for all of us, all of Ukraine and each of us must think and do everything to make more. I don't want that to happen. And I'm more confident that it's not easy for one of our Ukrainians, it's again, it's not something that's been sent to do everything to make things wrong in Ukraine, unfortunately. And, you know, there's one thing I'd like to say to you that if there's not one of the cowards in Liverpool-Real, where you can stay the night even today, I'll tell you that my room at the Kiev Hotel is free, you can go for two or three days free. This is also the face of our Ukraine. But the main thing that I wanted to say today is that we were with you at the beginning of our session when our first days were adopted. When the Supreme Council began to adopt the bill, we did not adopt the law to make the land that belonged to it. Lands that are outside the population did not move into the territorial communities. And today there's a big ladder of land, big. And I'm going to say one thing that I have the village of Lucinec in the Murovanokkurilovatski district on Winnitzkin, and there's the trouble that the lands that are outside the settlement are now being fished by the State Commission. Today, dozens of people are complaining, and I have a sea of questions. And I'm going to say, if we were to adopt such a bill, we would take that question down. And today, if you're in time. If it's decentralization. United communities already do.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-25-m0.u110	30 seconds to complete, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-25-m0.u111	Then I think he's coming. As long as we can unite all these communities, this land will be torn apart. So I would, again, like this to be my request from the rostrum, and once again, and once again, I would like to draw attention to the village of Lucinec in the Murovanokkurilovecka region on Winnichkin and put the order there so that only those who work on it, and not God knows from where there is not even possibly on the list or in the area – the Lord knows where it comes from. Except for those who have the right.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-25-m0.u112	Thank you. We ask you to join the Rules, dear colleagues. And now, your honorary colleague Vassil Germanko is giving the floor to Vladimir Litvin. Vladimir Mikhailovich, we invite you to your floor. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-25-m0.u113	Dear colleagues, as a disciplined MP, I observe "hours of questions to the government." I have the impression that the government is looking for a job together. There's no more important problem than how to talk about football today. There are no pension problems in the countryside, high wages, acceptable tariffs, normal transport connections, normal roads. They say just give us one question: football! What's going to be the result and how we're going to organize this game. Dear colleagues, we must go down to the ground, for these sermons, which speak to specific questions of government deputies, simply sow the ultimate disfavor in the human environment! I've repeatedly asked questions about the fact that there are no limits to the Novograd-Volinsky "Heatcommunergo" for gas. The deadline is over, the new limit cannot be set because there is no telling what the price of gas will be. With another gas supplier, they can't make a deal, because the Heatcommunergo has a debt, and in turn the government doesn't finance the subsidies that people are supposed to receive. All the answers are that this problem is solved. But it's decided at best by a third. And that's because it's a military city. By the way, yesterday a large number of military personnel returned from the zone, as we said before, of an anti-terror operation. What are they gonna do to these people? The second problem to be said is education. Subsidies for wages are funded only partially. Now we have to pay the holiday money. There's no money. The answer is one: From sources that are not prohibited by law, that is, search the local budget. According to the Constitution, Kiev can delegate authority to places along with financial resources. I'm not talking about pensioners anymore. Well, rural people were simply insulted and humiliated, not just by rural people, but by black people. Lifetimers are mostly black people, including participants in the elimination of an accident in CHAES, who have raised their pension by up to 300 dollars, and their prices have risen. I have not once appealed to the leadership of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, please give the commission to examine how parliamentary requests are being made. Well, it's just at best a write-off if they're on time. Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-25-m0.u114	30 seconds to complete. Excuse me, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-25-m0.u115	Sadly, this work has not been done. And I don't understand why MPs who write letters with parliamentary questions, and this is the cry of the human soul, are obliged to bring them to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. There is no answer. And I'm going to say, "Take these decisions, analyze them to see how the cooperation between the Cabinet of Ministers and the Supreme is going on."
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-25-m0.u116	Thank you, Reverend Vladimir Mikhailovich. And now I invite you to the floor of the People's Deputy Kaplan. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-25-m0.u117	Dear Ukrainians! Dear colleagues! Every performance today begins with the words that unfortunately we don't have enough money to retire, we don't have enough money to pay, we don't have roads, we don't have enough money to treat our simple, dear fellow citizens. We've devoted a few days to creating an anti-corruption court, an absolutely necessary institution, for which we and my colleague Sugonako and I will vote with two cards, two hands, and we're going to campaign everywhere for the creation of such an organ, because we think it's going to be a locomotive for a real anti-corruption fight. You can check it out somewhere. Plus two votes exactly in favour of creating an anti-corruption court. At the National Security and Defence Council meeting, however, a completely unprecedented decision is taken. Two companies, purely Russian companies of two Russian billionaires from the Alpha Group and Russian billionaire Boyk, are deleted from the sanctions list: an MSL company that deals in lotterys here has a multibillion-dollar turnover, and a company (pay attention! The name "Patriot" also has a multibillion-dollar turnover here and it's a lottery business. Over the past two years, the government budget is zero. And I want to remind you that the funds that make up similar structures are usually in civilized, normal countries, where anti-corruption courts have been created, where Parliament is as worthy of national deputies as Mr. Sporish, who has spoken that he has not missed a single session and no vote (the unique record, the Guinness record, 100 percent vote), all of these funds go to the Pension Fund. From lottery business, to the Pension Fund, to the pension of its citizens. Why these two companies were erased or lost on the sanctions list, and there are rumors, I emphasize -- rumors, I'm going to check them out, that one of these companies, 30 percent of them were written off to our National Deputy of Ukraine, who, as a matter of national security and defence, is the head of the National Security and Defence Committee, Mr. Pashinski. I'm not saying it, but I'm going to do everything I can to go over these facts in detail. I want my petitions to be considered a parliamentary request. I'm sure he'll be joined by all my colleagues, who are the patriots of their country and, above all, by the patriots of their pensioners. Because in the event of victory and legalization of this business in our country, in the event of the return of the monopoly on this business in the Ukrainian state, we're going to put these funds on pensions, on wages, on roads, on defense, on other security matters. I'm talking to Mr. Turkinov. I think it was a mistake, and you'll fix it as soon as possible, otherwise a healthy patriotic society, our political forces, the unions will come out.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-25-m0.u118	30 seconds, please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-25-m0.u119	They will protest under your windows and windows of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, all those who touch this decision. We will see to it that the lottery business in Ukraine serves Ukrainian pensioners, not oligarchs, abroad, the more Russian oligarchs. We will see to it that order is given, this sphere and this sector of the national economy is decorrupted. We will see to it that all those responsible are punished for this abuse before the Ukrainian law and the Ukrainian state. Glory to Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-25-m0.u120	Please welcome national deputy Igor Shurma, who is also almost the recorder of Guinness in our hall, present at all meetings.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-25-m0.u121	Honorable citizens of Ukraine, as our country today sees for themselves, you are yourselves, people as abroad. Please tell me the trust rating for the Supreme Council is 2-3 percent there. Well, how can we respect the Supreme Council? Now there are 20 deputies in the hall. Well, how can you? I'm ashamed. Most of all, all of this should be the responsibility of those deputies who come and work. And those who don't walk have it all in their noses. Do you think it's all random? And it's all because of the value of it, about licking it in front of other people's faces with all their mistakes. See how they can respect Ukraine? They're coming in yesterday, I'm going back to football. Here comes the Real team, world-renowned, coming out people with assets that have seen everything in the world. There are our border guards with the colors of the club. People are good! So, when we get a team from Africa tomorrow, you're gonna stick the balls in your nose, in your ears, stand up for straw instead of shorts? What does the minister of health do? What are we turning into? Do you think it's random? Dress code. The World Health Organization Forum, published by the U.S. Minister. Not many of us in the world laugh that it's the only state where a person without a higher education is a minister, with two citizens, and it also comes out in a T-shirt with political slogans. It doesn't raise the question that we gave you, an international organization, 12 billion dollars per drug, you gave it to us 7 times. And he says: "We saved 40 percent of the money." She doesn't even know math. 40 percent didn't put the money -- that's different things. Please tell me who in the world will respect us if they come from my beloved Georgia, 300 people, and give them positions as deputy ministers, and give them a pair of checkers. Where's the Zhuladze? Where's the Decanoid? Where are they? Where are our girls? One in France decides fate. The second one works in Georgia. One of them got kicked out. People good, finance ministers aren't ours, economy ministers aren't ours, cars aren't ours, railways aren't ours. Listen, if we can't find 42 million people in management positions, let's ask a question, does this state have the right to exist? Perhaps we should become someone’s satellite and change that. So little of what we accept is that no one else here can control it, and so can those who come without education. Without education, they become uneducated. This leads to young people watching and listening. What is the motivation for living in that State? What is the motivation here to live and work? I'm leaving it all unanswered. I'm leaving all this for our reflection. I just want to turn around.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-25-m0.u122	30 seconds to complete.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-25-m0.u123	I just want to go to the citizens of Ukraine and to the people who make the decisions. Well, this Supreme Council of Ukraine is in this warehouse, along with everyone, including me, we're exhausted, so we don't go to work. People are good, they accept an anti-constitutional, anti-corruption court law, this even anti-corruption court is not called the law, the court of Ukraine. He's talking about 60 people in the hall, and tomorrow he's gonna have that flock run over here.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-25-m0.u124	Thank you. Please give the next address, the national deputy of Yemen, and we invite you to speak.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-25-m0.u125	Thank you. Leonid Jemetz, the People's Front faction, the city of Kyiv, the constituency. Guys, I wanted to talk to you about an anti-corruption court right now, but before that, I'm going to continue what the speaker said to me. There's actually 19 people in the room out of 450, I remind you, and it's clear that these 19 people who work, they can't make decisions, because that takes 226 votes. And unfortunately, the situation will not turn into a better one until we change electoral legislation. Because those people who, through corruption, bought a mandate by handing over to the people of Greece, taking millions of party leadership, came here to continue spreading corruption through the adoption of laws, they don't go to discuss those laws that don't have their corruption component. These people aren't interested in fighting corruption, they're afraid that, God forbid, there's going to be a court in the country that's going to judge corrupters, they're willing to continue fighting corruption, but to imagine that there's going to be a victory over corruption, that's the most terrible dream they have. Therefore, the Anticorruption Court Act, which is now being considered in Parliament and will be decided next sessional week, is the cornerstone of our country’s future. We want to live in a country where there will be a bright future, where there will be no corruption and the country will be a strong country, and our people will be happy to live in a country where there is room to make decisions, not on corruption, but on their merits, on their justice, on their knowledge. Friends, without an anti-corruption court, we are facing an extremely catastrophic situation. It's not just about taking a visa or not lending to the International Monetary Fund, as whispers in the government are already saying, could lead to a default. Defolt means that the state ceases to fulfil its obligations, including with regard to the budget. You realize that this prospect for our country, which is a weakened war with Russia, is, well, an extremely terrible, catastrophic situation. We can avoid such a scenario. We need to pass the Anti-Corruption Court Act. But it has to be a real anti-corruption court. It's not a tabloid, it's a real trial. And here the only key question is the veto for international experts. And when they talk about compromises today, there can't be compromise here. This is an effective anticorruption court or not. And the International Council of Experts has the right to dissipate anyone who has a questionable reputation but wants to come to an anti-corruption court. There can be no compromise in the number of corrupts we bring to an anti-corruption court. What is compromise? 10, 5 corrupts in an anti-corruption court? Then it's not an anti-corruption court, it's a corrupt court. That's why.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-25-m0.u126	30 seconds, please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-25-m0.u127	The right of the unconditional veto in that law that we are going to vote on is the answer to the question of who in this Parliament wants to win corruption and to fulfill the promise of the Ukrainian people and who wants to leave a corrupt element in the life of our nation. We'll get an answer by name next week. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-25-m0.u128	Thank you. And I am convinced that next week the Ukrainian Parliament will vote in favour of an anti-corruption, anti-corruption constitutional court, 100 percent, there is no doubt. Dear colleagues, may I have our colleague Yuri Lucenka's word, please? Yuri Lucenko, please. Ah, Igor Lucenko, Igor, please. Igor Lucenko, we invite you. See, by the end of the week, he's not a deputy now, not an MP.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-25-m0.u129	Dear colleagues! Dear colleagues, I would like to turn from this rostrum and repeat those words that the Kyiv public spoke very loudly to Mr. Groysman yesterday, to Mr. Prime Minister. To this day, the public, the national deputies, individually, have achieved that such a pearl of the city of Kiev, below the Guestyard, was restored to the property and authority of the State. May 8th, the Supreme Court of Ukraine placed the final dot in the lawsuits. Now there is good reason for the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine to finally take immediate decisions on the transfer of this object to the property of the territorial community of Kiev. It is obvious to all of us that there is no one at the national level who has the desire or the ability to engage in this object and its rebirth. So now literally every day of the stop is extremely harmful, because every day it means that every day this building is destroyed. Second, very important, it's also a question for Mr. Groisman, it's also a question for the State Property Fund and the Attorney General's Office. It is to immediately account for the damage caused by the commercial structures of Janukovic's former capital, which destroyed the Guest Court, to calculate these damages and to contact the firm that leased and destroyed this yard in order to compensate the state. Once again, if the D.A. is doing nothing now, and the Cabinet is doing nothing, and the Holding Fund is doing nothing, that means the state is ready to lose, lose the battle for the Guest House. You can't let that happen, because... I'm sure Mr. Kravec and his colleagues are preparing a lawsuit for the state of Ukraine. If we lose that time, if he first takes us to court it will be extremely difficult, it will reduce the chances of getting compensation for destroying this unique object of Kiev. So once again, I'm addressing Mr. Groissman, Mr. Groissman, let's not delay this process. I am sure that such an experienced corrupter as Yanukovich’s former provost has every opportunity to infiltrate Minjust, Minfin, the Holding Foundation, and halt this process. So without political will, without a political decision by the Cabinet of Ministers, nothing will work there. If there is no political will, forgive me, then you will go out, play on the other side. I call once again to Yuri Lucenka, to Mr. Groisman, to the head of the Ukrainian State Property Fund, which we need to act very quickly now, because this is hundreds of millions of dollars, hundreds of millions of dollars of government money. Please don't be too long, don't be on Janukovich's side of corruption. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-25-m0.u130	Thank you. And, next, the national MP, Derevyanco. Please, Mr. Yuri.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-25-m0.u131	Yuri Derevyanko, "The Movement of New Forces". Dear Ukrainians, honourable deputies! Today, too bad, there is a resuscitation of Yanukovic’s principles in Ukraine. The same greed, the same cynicalness, the same usurpation of power, the same clanism of government. And if we don't leave this situation and stop this situation, it will continue as it did after Yanukovich. And it doesn't matter what the next name of the new president is, this name will be Janukovic again, in paws, of course. Today, 64 national deputies have actually challenged the system that Janukovic built that is now being preserved by Poroshenko. This is a challenge to the system when it is up to each of us, honourable national MPs, to investigate any possible crime committed by any president, including Peter Poroshenko? It is up to you, in accordance with the Constitution, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure Act, that your signature under this written initiative depends on whether this procedure begins. And today 64 national deputies have already challenged this system. I would like to remind you that neither the Security Service nor the Attorney General's Office nor the NABU has the right to investigate the possible crimes of President Dustenk. This is the challenge of all political elites, and when I'm told today that there is no faction decision, what I'm going to think is that there are other fears or risks. Friends, each and every one of you has sworn an oath to the people of Ukraine. The faction did not swear allegiance to the people of Ukraine, but to each of you. Each of you has sworn to do what the Constitution and laws of Ukraine will do. And now it is up to each of you whether these crimes will be investigated or whether they will be covered. I'm sure most of you here have no relation to these crimes. But the President of Ukraine is accused of several very resonant crimes: Panamanian offshores, Rotterdam Plus, military corruption. Information that's published and validated in video Oneshchenka, the pipe of Kurchenk so-called, bribes from Zločevsky and many, many others. So, honourable colleagues, this moment of truth, I think this is a test for every national MP who has to say that I'm a new politician or an old politician. I'm in charge of changing the system, protecting it, and not destroying it in any way. Dear friends, dear Ukrainians, please keep an eye on every signature of the National MP, draw conclusions and it is important for us to have a changed system, not to preserve it. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-25-m0.u132	And the next speech by the National MP, Michael Papiew, is to invite you to the floor.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-25-m0.u133	Thank you. Honorable National Deputies of Ukraine! Dear citizens of Ukraine, who are watching us on TV and listening on the radio. It's strange that you know so many Ukrainian national deputies here, and somehow I look so much, that these very young people, who first call, these new faces, some optimists or something, but something I don't see, I don't see. They are so concerned about the people of Ukraine that they are not even visible on the day of Parliament’s work. If a person does not go to work on a workday, he will expect to walk somewhere with his promises. It's totally not true. And I very much wanted the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Mr. Parubai, to realize first that the Supreme Council of Ukraine, in accordance with the Constitution of Ukraine, is a higher body of the state in our parliamentary-presidential country. But such contempt for the Supreme Council of Ukraine, which happens on the eighth call, I, frankly, have not seen even during the presidential-Parliamentary Republic. The last question we had was parliamentary questions. Perhaps one of the Ukrainian national deputies might say that he had received at least one answer to a parliamentary request that would give clear and clear answers to questions he had asked, that would satisfy him and satisfy the electorate whose problems the Ukrainian national deputy was concerned with. No! No! I have a question to ask the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine: why these officials who come here on "Government Day," why none of them have been heard from this rostrum, have made no decision on his release, so that we can restore responsibility and restore the respect of officials to the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Clearly, people have no respect for the Supreme Council of Ukraine because the Supreme Council of Ukraine does not make the decisions that people expect. We're going to be doing this for two weeks now, and by the way, today, two of my colleagues were talking about what they call an anti-constitutional anti-corruption court. You want a line. [[B in m in s a l in]] That's what Mr. Shurm said. And you know, it's true. Can you imagine the Ukrainian Law, which does not contain the word "Ukraine"? Well, there must be an anti-corruption court in Ukraine. There's no name! There's no word for "Ukraine." And this clearly and clearly confirms that this court is not created by Ukraine. And when they say there are proposals from the Venice Commission, don't believe it! This court writes the International Monetary Fund, and that is to be said openly. And by this law, our nation is finally under external rule. And I think there will come a time when the proper qualifications will be given to these actions, because we under the Ukrainian Constitution are not allowed to usurp the authority of others.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-25-m0.u134	30 seconds to complete, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-25-m0.u135	I refer once again to the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and to the transcript: this week, I officially passed on the request of the National Deputy of Ukraine that, on another occasion, the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Mr. Parubius, violates the Rules. We have no choice but to turn now to law enforcement authorities so that their actions can be qualified as abuse of a position of service. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-25-m0.u136	Next performance by Yuri Solovay Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-25-m0.u137	Yuri Solovay, 89th constituency, Gutzulščina and Poksi. Honorable colleagues of the national MPs, a respected Ukrainian society, of course, that the Supreme Council, when it works, examines laws, there is no unimportant law that is passed in the walls of Parliament. But to my profound belief, those bills that become laws should go hand in hand with time and meet the challenges that are present in Ukrainian society today. And if we ask people what they care about, first of all, it's an economic issue. And, to my deep conviction, it is this very sector in the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, unfortunately, that has been placed in the final and completely unpriorityal place. If we look at today's agenda or yesterday's is a housing-communal issue, today we're looking at an anti-corruption court, tomorrow we're going to raise the Central Electoral Commission's issue. But we are absolutely not in the walls of Parliament looking at systemic strategic and economic reforms, which we have long considered. which Ukrainian society and Ukrainian citizens have long been looking forward to. I want to say that in four years, the Ukrainian Parliament has never been able to make systemic strategic decisions on total privatization of public sector enterprises. Unfortunately, we have not been able to approach the structural reform of our national regulators to depoliticize these structures and enable them to develop competitive markets. Unfortunately, we haven't done any tax reform through the introduction of tax on capital output, we've talked about this a lot, we've talked about any real structural things in the reform of tax legislation we've never done. Unfortunately, populism does not allow the Supreme Council of Ukraine to carry out one of the key and global reforms is the land market. But we are very close to implementing one of the key socio-economic reforms that the Ukrainian State has been looking forward to for decades. And this reform has become a driver of economic development in many countries around the world, a cumulative pension system. We, I want to remind you, have decided that since January 1, 2019, it should work in Ukraine. But unfortunately, we still can't consider Bill 6677 by authorizing more than 60 people's deputies, which regulates and regulates how the cumulative pension system will work in Ukraine. And so from this high rostrum, I turn to the leadership of the Supreme Council of Ukraine in the next plenary week as one of the priorities of the day-to-day Bill 6677 on the introduction and functioning of the mandatory accumulation system in Ukraine, starting with.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-25-m0.u138	Thank you. Thank you for your performance. And please, Sergey Sazko will take the floor. Please, Mr. Sergei.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-25-m0.u139	Sergey Sažko, 59th constituency, Donetskina. Dear colleagues, dear fellow countrymen! I want to raise a very painful question about the situation in Ukraine’s state coal industry. Sailors haven't been paid a salary in months. On the six state mines in my district, the total debt is more than 140 million. The miners do not get full wages even in March, and the yard is already May. This forces them to take extreme action. During the first days at the Mine "Ukraine" of the State Enterprise "Celidivwügil" and later at the mines "Kotlarevska" and "1-3 Novogrodowska" the workers announced a strike. A similar situation had already taken place in a mine union in February. At that time, the miners and their families went out to protest “Selidewowwood. ” People can be understood. What are their living expenses? But this problem is not solved. Some will say that these problems have accumulated for more than a year, and I agree, but this does not take away our responsibilities, because we have something to do. You can't put everything into standard hole patch. The shafts have to be made profitable, inhaled into life, and have total uncertainty and enormous debt. On May 15th, a lava was launched on the South Danube mine, but in order for this company to work in a stable way, it takes two of these lavas. So we look forward to real steps from the Ministry of Energy and the government in coping with this crisis. In addition, Energy Minister Igor Nasalik, during our last meeting with miners, promised to come to Selidova and personally address the problems of miners. I think it's time people are waiting for him. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-25-m0.u140	Thank you. And I'd like to invite national MP Victor Krivenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-25-m0.u141	Victor Krivenko, National Movement of Ukraine. What happened this week? Once again, they were disgraced in the international arena. And on Tuesday, instead of voting on a reduced procedure, look at the names of these deputies, and look at the laws that have no resistance in the hall, they were all supported, after an hour and a half by full procedure, just to delay the discussion of the establishment of an anti-corruption court. They gave two weeks to Russian propaganda to show, "Look at these Ukrainians. They promised you, the European partners, that they would pass the bill in May." We're done, now it's going to be June at best. And the main thing is that both the anti-corruption court and the NAB, which is actually the only body fighting high corruption, will all be destroyed by the next Supreme Council if we don't change the electoral system. The electoral system gives a majority. Yes, there are ten percent of normal majors among them, but the rest are those who are always sold to the authorities, sold because of influence, because of pressure. And this is the root of evil, we need to change this electoral system. I call on all political forces to come to the Supreme Council on June 21st. I hope that each of them will be able to bring at least five hundred members, not supporters, supporters, but their party members under the walls of Parliament. And if there's 10,000 of our fellow citizens under the walls, we're going to have more serious success and more serious positions with the change in the electoral system. The next thing I did was put the Supreme Council in charge on Monday at the Conciliation Council, and I think the question here is not in them, but in the profile committee, I've submitted a proposal to consider Bill 7190, which is that, according to the volunteers, we'll have to look at it this week. Once again, the full procedure was followed by drafts that could be considered peacefully in 15 minutes and look at the names of those deputies who did not vote in favour of the reduced procedure and who were unable to lay down an important law. 31 The victim’s family can’t get an apartment because we can’t compare our volunteers to those involved in combat. And I urge you to consider this bill in the next plenary week, we're going to start collecting signatures, from my colleague Lewchenko, other colleagues have submitted this bill, it's very important. During this week, the National Movement of Ukraine supported the demands of the Ukrainian Entrepreneurs’ Association, more than 600 companies, and it unites with the government in economic policy. We have a two-point discussion on how to do this, so we support that we have to do this, all the 10 requirements that are listed there. But on two points, we have a discussion, exactly how to do it, but that's what we have to do. Look, in a single treasury account, 2 billion dollars, it's a critical situation why they both agree to an anti-corruption court, and why would they agree to that requirement if our international partners and the change in the electoral system were to take over. 2.3 billion dollars to give agroholdings in one hand.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-25-m0.u142	30 seconds, complete. 30 seconds, complete.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-25-m0.u143	Instead of giving four hundred companies that would build cows, pigs that built, creating jobs in every village, and not one big complex that we also need, we're not against big farmers. Let us be honest about the support of large farmers. Instead, the government of Groysman distributes it in one hand as it was that year, when a billion 200 actually got one company. They've made a run for it. Now we need to change the electoral system, create an anti-corruption court and move on. And a very big request for the leadership of the Supreme Council.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-25-m0.u144	Thank you, Your Honor. I would also like to remind you that during his speech, the national deputy Kirsch asked him to make his speech as a parliamentary address. I'm going to the Secretariat, please do this. And now the word is given to the People's Deputy, Dmitri Lubintz. Please, Mr. Dmitri, allow me to have a word with you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-25-m0.u145	Thank you. Dear colleagues, well, at least those who remain, respected citizens of Ukraine, Lubinets Dmitry Valeriyovich, majority constituency No. 60, Volnovsky, Nikolsky, Mangushsky district, southern Donetsk region. I would now like to raise a question that concerns all of Ukraine. But for the Donetsk region, these are the ways of life. I want to talk about road Mariupol Zaporozhye. This road is key to the viability of the southern Donetsk region right now. The 167 - mile [167 km] road turned into a huge hole. And most of all, the answers to "The Stork" are amazing: "Well, really, we understand how important this road is and we're going to repair it, but we're going to do it for four years." Think about it! You can't go on this road right now, and the official answer to "The Stork" is to repair the next four years. Now near the settlement of Novokrasnivka in the Nikolai region, a section of the road was completely removed by the graders. You can't even go through any traffic there. Settlements such as Nazareth and Calchinka are now completely cut off from civilization. Think about it. Even a school bus doesn't go there. And people walk 7 to 10 kilometers every day. I can say that in order to show how important Mariupol is, how important the Donetsk region is now in war conditions, it is essential that separate funding from the government is quickly approved and done, and this road is shown. On this road, the military are on their way, sending our wounded heroes from the Donetsk region. This road is by no means called the way of life. Similarly, in the Donetsk region, there is also a road near Melekine’s inhabited area, which needs to be repaired quickly. Just about four kilometers down the road, which actually blocked the development of the tourist south of the Donetsk region. I'm addressing the Prime Minister. The roads and the Donetsk region, and the road of Mariupol-Zaporozhy should take special control. The road system itself in the Donetsk region, it's not in very good condition either -- it's mildly speaking. And it's not because the governor or the local authorities don't invest. The main problem is the craziness of overload. They're called karandashi, which travels south of Donetsk to the ports, to Berdjanski and Mariupolski, and they just crash, even the roads that have just been repaired. So it's the only thing that can do them.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-25-m0.u146	30 seconds to complete.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-25-m0.u147	The only thing that can save roads is not even the billions of dollars to invest, but then watch who's driving these roads. It is necessary that at each port, at every large populated point, weighty complexes should be placed and clear - looking, if overload is available, that mad fines be paid. If we can overcome this, it is only then that the roads will be in good condition, in our Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-25-m0.u148	Thank you. And the next performance, the national deputy, Helen Sotnik. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-25-m0.u149	Thank you, Madam Chairman. In fact, you know, the farther I go, the more I see that this Supreme Council, this Parliament, is completely cut off from the realities that people live in and what happens. And very often, and more often, the decisions made in this room, people start to say that we would rather not make any decisions at all because they only make things worse. Today, National Deputy Mustafa Naijem has mentioned the situation of changes to the Criminal Procedural Code, which this Parliament, in particular, has expanded, along with the Opposition Block, the Peter Prashenko Block, the People's Front and the Radical Party, has adopted. They have accepted that today, instead of investigating the case and investigating the crimes, investigators are in line to get feedback on the expertise. I am already silent that there are vivid examples of serious crimes, such as rape crimes, when an expert needs to be done within seven hours. Unfortunately, that's how the courts don't work and it takes at least 2-3 days for the investigator to make that decision. Thus, the investigation is effectively blocked by the national MPs today. I have two stacks of papers in my hands, this table of amendments to the anti-corruption court, which was discussed during this week, the amendments, and will be considered in the next plenary week. Although again, you and I are very well aware that this is another campaign. Because I'm a national MP who's been making a lot of amendments to this document, and I realize that the committee wasn't going to work with my proposals or with other colleagues. And unfortunately, what's going to happen in this room is not going to stand a chance either, because real negotiations about whether there will be an anti-corruption court at all are going to happen, unfortunately, not in the walls of this House. And this is not the first time that MPs have forgotten that we are a parliamentary-presidential republic, that Parliament has to make the right decisions and, above all, take responsibility for these decisions, and as long as I hear from the rostrum that someone is guilty, someone has to make a difference. Colleagues, you and I are parliamentarians -- the highest, highest authority in this state, and only parliamentarians can change the situation in this country, all we need is responsibility and we need to understand that Parliament and the Presidential Republic are key. Having self - respect, dignity, and remembering that you represent the interests of the people, not individual economic groups and oligarchs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-25-m0.u150	Please give the next speech, Yegor Sobolev, and I invite you to speak.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-25-m0.u151	I want to use the parliamentary rostrum to draw people's attention to the problem of two gardens in Kiev. A story that tells a lot about the challenges of today, two gardens functioned well, and then one was handed over to the Pension Fund as a result of the land found itself in the hands of a construction company. Many objected, there is no way to build without threatening the lives of children who remain in another garden. There you cannot build without violating the rights of people living around you. Praise be to God, the city council has come to realize that the decision to dedicate this land to the developer’s company is a fraud and has decided to restore the garden there. It would seem like a great story, nothing to worry about, but a construction company that hides under the beautiful name "Remboudmontageservis" decided to appeal to the Kyiv Master Court and used the Pension Fund to do so. The same institution that neglected the kindergarten facility, the same institution that put the land in the hands of the developer’s company, in the hands of the Master’s Court, and says, give it all back to me. I repeat, this is the Ukrainian Pension Fund, one of its administrations in Kiev. I'm sure it's fraud, I'm sure the judge of the Kyiv Olga Glaucus, who's looking at this complaint, has all the legal authority to defend the land for the community. I ask all of Kiev’s inhabitants, particularly the famous area between Ebaz and Lviv Square, to follow this story. It is clear that I will do this alone, along with colleagues from the Kyiv City Council, that we must stand firm for this scum for our children.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-25-m0.u152	Please give the next speech, Igor Mosiyczuk, and I invite you to speak.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-25-m0.u153	Igor Mosiyczuk, Oleg Lachka Radical Party Dear colleagues! Dear Ukrainian people! For about 10 days, the entire Ukrainian society has been fooling around, the cry of crocodiles from all screens, the televisions of all kinds, from this rostrum, that tomorrow the end of the world will cease to exist, if the Ukrainian Parliament does not pass the bill on the Supreme Anti-Constitutional Court. I just have a proposal before we vote, let's change the name, the only amendment: the transfer of Ukraine to the external administration. Actually, it's true. In fact, those who vote in favour of this anticonstitutional law do not have the right to call themselves patriots or nationalists, the defenders of Ukraine, for they will give up some of the sovereign rights. And after this vote, Parliament will be able to transfer to the IMF a representation or an embassy of the United States. It's actually a very bitter truth because instead of restoring the economy, instead of reviving the agricultural economy, Parliament is now trying to give parts of Ukrainian sovereignty to foreigners to then raise the price of gas, which is another requirement of the IMF. And most importantly, to sell Ukrainian land just for the sake of the free, chaotic market of the land, this story with the Supreme Anti-Constitutional Court has been overturned. And I'm convinced that Europeans and drug addicts who are sitting on the government's IMF golf course have gone wild: one needs a tranche of IMF to steal and eat them, and the other is probably on the payroll of foreign representations if they're going to this easy. So I'm talking to all the conscious Ukrainian people's deputies, before I push the button and give up at least part of the state sovereignty that you've done absolutely nothing to choose, remember those who fought in prisons, camps on the front and fought for the state sovereignty of Ukraine. You can't sell it. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-25-m0.u154	Please give the next speech, National Deputy Zarko. Please, Mrs. Valeria.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-25-m0.u155	Valeria Zarzko, radical faction. The faction of the Radical Party of Oleg Lášk. Respectable citizens of Ukraine, respected colleagues! The famine returned to Ukraine. And that, unfortunately, is not an exaggeration. I emphasize that today, in the 21st century, in the very center of Europe, here in Ukraine, there is a real crime: people are starving, 8,000 employees of the state-owned Ukrainian firm Selidowogeel are starving, their parents are starving, their children are starving, they are starving. People literally have nothing to eat, nothing to pay for utilities. And most of all, they have nothing to feed their own children. Every day, I get a bunch of letters from government employees, and I stress Selidivwowiel's businesses, and I get terrible details about starving children, pregnant women and elderly parents. For this reason, Mr. Nasalik answers us. It answers, unfortunately, not here, because it doesn't go to the "government hours" several times, but it does in its own Facebook. I quote, "Celidewogil": coal was raised by 20 million, and the wage fund was 85 million. So the grant is 65 million dollars. It's not manufacturing anymore, it's social services." What I want to say about that. Over a year, Sir Nasalik, stands ready to develop a lava — a new lava — which is not allocated by the Government. It's your direct duty to make the state-owned enterprise profitable, it's your direct duty to choose the real energy dependency of the country, it's your direct duty to take care of the employees of the state-owned Selidowogil company, because, as Margaret Thatcher once said, "There's no government money, there's taxpayers' money." So, Mr. Nasalik, the taxpayers' money is money, including the employees of the Selidowogil State Enterprise, who pay you your salary, you probably forgot about it and don't pay attention to it. We need to share this business. And I'll remind you of that every time. I want to say that the faction of the Radical Party of Oleg Laska is always fighting for the rights of the people of work. We are for every Ukrainian citizen, every man of work: miner, metallurgy, peasants, to receive a decent salary, to live in decent conditions, so that their parents do not think about feeding their children or going abroad, to Poland or to other countries of Europe, to feed their own family. We are proud that they are Ukrainian.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-25-m0.u156	30 seconds to complete.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-25-m0.u157	so that we have real energy-generating in the country, not simulations of energy-generating, energy-independent, anything. We buy coal anywhere: in Russia, in Kazakhstan, in Africa, in America, and we have to buy our own Ukrainian coal and pay our own Ukrainian miners. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-25-m0.u158	Thank you. Dear colleagues, allow me only. Dear colleagues, allow me to address all of us, all of us, with one request. Nope. There are words, there are words -- concepts and historical tragedies that cannot be devalued and levelled. And Holodomor is one of the biggest Ukrainian tragedies. It doesn't need to be devalued, too, and it doesn't need to be leveled. Please. Please, Mrs. Ostrikak.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-25-m0.u159	Good afternoon! Aunt Ostrikova, Self-help. Last week, the government submitted to Parliament a budget resolution for the next three years, which is the plan on which the budgets of Ukraine will be built in the 19th, 20th and 21st years. And what do we see there? In the Tax Policy section, the government is only going to increase excise duties, increase them to inflation levels, and negotiate separate tax avoidance agreements. As for the tax on the capital output, the government is going to work on the possibility of continuing to study the issue. How much longer can you study if everyone has made the necessary calculations? And it had to be written directly and simply that the 2019 budget should be calculated without income tax and on the basis of the tax on the capital. Instead, the Tax Policy section does not mention either the reform of the DFS or the reform of customs. In the government, there's nothing to reform, they don't think. There is no need to establish a powerful customs administration, build a customs post-audit, establish a common transit control system with the European Union and fight for intellectual property protection. The government has broken all Ukraine’s Euro-Integration Commitments under the EU Association Agreement. The adoption of all laws on a customs basis has failed, and the Government has been in the process of introducing such bills. Against this background, we see a systemic crisis unfolding in public finances, respected Ukrainians. And if the government doesn't do anything in the near future, you and I can just all look at the gap between inflation and devaluation. Treasury statistics show that in the first quarter of 2018, the general budget of the State budget will not reach 8.6 billion dollars. The failure took place on the rent per nadra, on excise duty, on internal VAT and on import VAT. The government’s first - quarter government loan plan was also broken. Of the $2 billion needed, zero came in. A failed privatisation plan. Of the projected $34 million in the first quarter of the billion. Next. In 2018 alone, we need about 320 billion dollars, 11 billion dollars. And instead of taking care of the accumulation of these funds, the launching of investment tax programs on the outstretched capital of infrastructure projects is once again planned to borrow money and make each Ukrainian borrower a debtor. Self-help requires a government report: why he didn't get a budget in the first quarter; what is the government's debt restructuring strategy; where and what percentages the government is going to borrow money from. I ask you to consider this our MP's request.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-25-m0.u160	Thank you. I ask you to form as a deputy address for Mrs. Ostrickov's national deputy. Please welcome me to Paul Costenko's word. Yes, Paul Kostenko came out, joined us later. Please welcome National Deputy Bondar. Please, Mr. Mikhailo.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-25-m0.u161	Thank you. Bondar Mikhailo, 119 constituency. Six, right?
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-25-m0.u162	There, please, for six minutes, because a number of performances were combined. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-25-m0.u163	Thank you. 119 constituency, Kamyanka Buzki, Buski and Brodivsky, Radehiv district First of all, I would like to join the greetings that were made today in connection with the last bell, to welcome the graduates with the graduation, and to wish to join the higher schools, the higher schools, and the higher schools they planned. The inspiration of them, the best of all. And for those who remain in school to rest well for these summer vacations, to gain strength and a new, even greater desire for learning to come to school and learn. Today I've been asking this question on an hour's notice to the government, and I want to continue it a little bit. This is also related to the questions that my colleagues from the Radical Party and Selidewwicil spoke about and other mines that are there. First of all, I want to thank the government that they've already taken 23 decisions on investment projects for more than a billion dollars. It's really necessary, including for Selidewwogil, and for Wolinwogil, for Lviv-coal. Because there are said to be new lava, and all we have to do is finance it. But we know very well that, and I'm from my experience and communication with the heads of the different DPs, that these investment projects don't give so-called "lookers" that we've raised on more than one occasion, that's the question. That is, they impose their vision; they offer some corrupt schemes to implement. And if there's no cooperation with, for example, heads of state enterprises, they're each blocking coal mining or, for example, taking Lviv-coal DP, where it depends, for example, on a wealth-rich factory, on a Lviv coal company, not taking coal for enrichment, and thus creating that coal in storage, it loses its quality during the summer, it can also be fuelling that coal. And on the same issue, there was a briefing here in the Supreme Council, where representatives of trade unions and independent tradesmen and Ukrainian miners came and also expressed themselves. That's what I'm talking about. Also, after hearing this, the members of the Regional Council of the Lions set up a committee that had. He's got to study this. And here's what I want to read briefly. I thought they saw it with their own eyes. "May 23rd, the Special Committee of the Lviv District Council of the Heads of the Igor Grabinsky in the presence of the journalists of the First West held a field trip meeting for the Lviv coal company and the Pat "Lviv coal company" to explore the interaction of these companies. Lately, PAT, the Lviv Coal Company, has stopped shipping and re-manufactured coal mines. As a result, it's piled up in mining warehouses today that's 80,000 tons, there's no realisation, there's no cost of pay and there's no technology. In addition, the quality of the produce is lost, and at high temperatures there is a danger of occupation. Without any obstacles, the MPs examined the mines, communicated with the directors of the mines, received detailed information from them about the coal mine, the wages paid in the amount of coal production available, the supply of wagons, the removal of coal to the PAT "Libyan Coal Company". Next, the Special Committee of the Lviv Archery went to the objects of the Lviv Coal Company. On the transition, they were recommended, and they presented their certificates. The guard opened the slugbaum and the deputies on their cars crossed over to the territory that the guard had taken off on his phone. Having looked at the process of processing the so-called "mole," that's what I was saying, what's left after the coal enrichment, and it's also a coal product that's supposed to be given to miners, the technology that was there. We wanted to talk to the workers. Instead, they were threatened with lowering their dogs to journalists who were doing their job. Then, on leaving the territory, the passage was blocked onto a well by a sleazebag and a subway pile of rock. The MPs and journalists had to call the police, and a protocol was drawn up. So we see how the PAT of the Lviv Coal Company works, which is driven by the "watcher" by Andrew Wengrin. Again, I emphasize that we have repeatedly raised this question. This person doesn't work for the Lviv Coal Company, but according to what I'm saying, he's doing some consulting services there. So once again, I want to go to the law enforcement agencies to investigate these facts with the committee of the Lviv district council that came, to give them a proper assessment and to inform me. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-25-m0.u164	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I'm continuing our meeting for 15 minutes. For all who are in our list of presentations to have the opportunity to speak from the rostrum. I very much request the presentation of the national MP, Mr. Michael Bondar of the Secretariat, to form a parliamentary address. I invite Mr. Jarinich to the floor. Then there's the people's deputy, Behreza. Then the National Deputy of Fishing and the National Deputy of Golovko. And we will conclude our meeting. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-25-m0.u165	Jarinic Constantine, Kirovgradina. Dear Irina Volodymyr, distinguished national MPs! Dear students, their parents, medical graduates! Regrettably, I again have to turn from this high rostrum to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the failure of the Ministry of Health to act in accordance with the Constitution and the laws of Ukraine. And the question is about cancelling the mandatory three - year work by young doctors after graduation. I would like to remind you that for almost four years now, since July 1, 2014, this legislative rule on mandatory work has been repealed by Parliament. On April 15, 2015, the Cabinet of Ministers, with the aim of bringing a government decision in line with legislative changes, abolished the obligation to work for teachers, legal, economic, and agricultural professionals. But he left this obligation to medical professionals. In this regard, I was brought before the Constitutional Court of Ukraine about the inadequacy of the provisions of the government decree. At the same time, along with the colleagues at the Committee on Science and Education, we developed a draft of Law 3312-d, which, in addition, has been clearly established that graduates of higher education institutions are free to choose their jobs. And on October 6, 2016, the law was passed. And finally, on October 31st, I apologize, on May 31st, 2017, we were able to cancel Government Order 992, for all, without exception, specialties. But the Ministry of Profiles, until now, has failed to comply with the current legislation with its Order No. 367. Initially, it was reported that it was the area of responsibility of the Ministry of Education of Ukraine. We are now hearing another interpretation that, in order to bring the MOH's order into line with the Constitution and the laws of Ukraine, they have been hampered by the President's decree since 1996. However, if the Ministry had examined the jurisprudence of the Supreme Court of Ukraine, in particular the ruling of February 7, 2017, which clearly states that Decree No. 7796 was issued during the constitutional agreement between the Supreme Council of Ukraine and the President of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-25-m0.u166	30 seconds to complete, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-25-m0.u167	Accordingly, Decree No. 7796 is not the norm that makes it mandatory for medical graduates to work for three years. Therefore, once again, I urge the Prime Minister of Ukraine to ensure that the Ministry of Health is brought into conformity with the current legislation of Ukraine. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-25-m0.u168	Thank you so much for your performance. And I invite you to the words of Borislav Berezu, please, colleague.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-25-m0.u169	Good afternoon, Ukrainians, good afternoon, colleagues! It’s very hard to say when you’re overwhelmed by emotions, it’s very hard to hold back when you want to say it so that everyone understands it right away. You know, in general, when I hear from the Supreme Council's rostrum about what we have is "lookers," and it's no surprise to anyone, it's for everyone at all the norm, it's "lookers," it's probably corruption, it's already the essence of this state, it's probably thieves who are already working in the legal field in this state. Because to me this is nonsense, the rule of law is the basis for it. And if that's what's going on here, maybe we're doing something wrong with you, not at all. I like it when they say we should have a championship game in Kiev. Yeah, and no one wants to worry about the kyans, no one wants to say that they've been without hot water for a couple of months now, no one wants to say that the conditions they live in aren't comfortable at all? Well, the Chinese are less important than the guests who come to us, no, it's important, but the Chinese are probably waiting for the kyans who live in Bykovna. I want to make it clear that now the Kiyevradi deputies are trying to damage the Kyiv City Administration, as well as the Chinese 81 million, 982 thousand, 112 dollars -- that's the kind of damage that the city's prosecutor's office looks like. I agree with that. But until they vote in favour of a decision to have a Forest Tale 2 building in Bullock, that's a pure assumption, and after the vote, that's a crime. And accordingly, the people who voted for it, the people who today are proposing to vote in Kievrad. Regardless of whether it is the mayor or the deputy of Kyivradah, they will be thieves. I want you to understand, on the land commission, the representatives of WFP, Fatherland and Unity voted for it. We see, when there is a land issue, perhaps politics goes backwards. I want to address everyone who wants to live in this country, don't destroy trust in MPs, any level, or Kiyevrada, or the Supreme Council. Work for your constituents, not your own pockets. Don't look at you running into a state, no. You will answer before the law, in this country, I promise you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-25-m0.u170	Thank you, dear colleagues. Next statement by the National Fisherman, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-25-m0.u171	Good afternoon, dear fellows! Good afternoon, dear Ukrainians! I'd like to take this opportunity to welcome all the children to the last bell, from the whole party of radical Oleg Lachka. I want them to rest during the summer, to enter the educational institutions in which they set themselves a goal. They finished them, worked with pleasure and received a decent salary. What should we do as legislators? There is no doubt that reforms are being carried out. Yes, the anticorruption court and the fight against corruption are certainly important. But let's see what's going on in the banking sector today? More than two years ago, on the basis of our committee, we developed with experts, with deputies, with colleagues a strategy for developing the financial and banking sector for the next five years. There are still a number of drafts based on this strategy, and other bills have been drafted on the basis of our committee. And what is happening today? For almost a year, these bills lie within the walls of the Supreme Council, passed through a committee and are not considered in the Supreme Council. How can we carry out reforms? How can we get rid of the status of the "country of raw materials" when we have the National Bank of Ukraine Act for almost a year in the walls of the Supreme Council. The Deposit Guarantee Act is also developed and ready, the Insurance Act is also not adopted by the Supreme Council, the Lombards and Lombardy Act, which we do not have in Ukraine today, is not being considered either. The Credit Associations Act last week, though it was. All the factions were willing to vote for him, and because of the banal absence of deputies in the sessional room, it was also ruined. A clear example is the Credit Export Agency, which was adopted and signed by the President in 2016 on the initiative of the Radical Party faction. May I remind you what a credit-export agency is? It's the same agency that supports the state, the percentage. which should compensate businesses, manufacturers, I stress, exporting producers in order to make our production competitive, competitive, and we could sell it for export outside Ukraine. Since 2016 this Credit Export Agency is unfortunately only available on paper. And this week, the government introduced its bill, which was intended to flatten all the criteria of the Credit Export Agency, to allow interest to be compensated to those enterprises that supply raw materials, and we firmly opposed it, to remove the deadlines when this agency and a number of issues should work. I am very glad that we voted almost unanimously against recommending to the Supreme Council to vote in favour of this bill and to give the government a handover. I want to encourage everyone to adopt financial-bank reforms and make our country.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-25-m0.u172	Thank you. And the final speech for today's distinguished colleague, Mr. Golovk. Please, Mr. Michael.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-25-m0.u173	Mikhailo Golovko, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union, Ternopolishte. Dear fellow MPs, dear Ukrainians! I have repeatedly referred to the leadership of our country, to the head of the Cabinet of Ministers, to Prime Minister Vladimir Groysman, for the inadequacy or harmful and anti-Ukrainen activities of the Head of the Trubarov State Property Fund, who, during his reign, is causing enormous damage to the State. In the past year alone, Ukraine has not received about 20 billion dollars for renting. State property, including land. What I'm saying is that unfortunately, in a criminal way, they've changed the estimate, it's not clear from what circumstances, the strategic enterprises that the state wants to sell today, which the government of Groysman wants to sell, is the skynergo. Odessablanergo, this is Sumioblanergo, this is Donbasobelenergo, this is Centrenerego. The difference between the prices of these objects over the past year and this year is 4 times the order, 6 times the order, and even 9 times the value of some objects. If the object was worth 690 million, it is now offered to sell for 150 million. Well, it's not privatization anymore, guys, it's already called "the robbery of Ukraine." I don't understand this logic of the Prime Minister, who says that the state is a bad manager who can't manage state property and strategic enterprises, and so the goal is to sell 3,000 strategic enterprises. In fact, it is a crime against the nation. In our independence years, the state sold 29,000 factories, factories, and businesses for money -- think about it! -- just 64 billion dollars, that's less than a million dollars for this object. Where are the factories, where are the businesses? And they're just almost everyone, most of them cut, destroyed, they don't work. People have lost their jobs, and today Ukrainians are making massive searches for money to feed their families and loved ones. And it is clear that this is, in fact, a declared economic war against our nation. So we're doing war in the East, plus our leadership today is doing everything we can to finally turn the nation into beggars: sell out strategic enterprises, including Ukrainian land. So Freedom strongly condemns such actions, and we believe that a government that has not built any factories is an emphasis! – not one in years, not in the last years of independence, 27 years of independence, but yelling that we should sell everything we have. It's not politics, it's stupid to sell out. It's not politics. They couldn't do it. So Freedom offers to get the country out of its knees, we need to get the economy out of the shadows, we need to eliminate this oligarchic government, we need to adopt a package of anti-oligaric laws in Parliament that are proposed by Freedom, and accordingly, the funds will be in the budget, we need to recover those looted offshore funds. And of course, there will be a rich society, and then Ukrainians will live in abundance, and there will be work, and no one will have to go to work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-25-m0.u174	Dear colleagues, the national MPs have finished speaking under various headings. Let me remind all of you who are here, as well as our colleagues who work for the Supreme Council of Ukraine, that next week we have to work with the voters and encourage all the national deputies to visit our districts, to work very actively with our electorates. I remind you that the next plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine will take place on Tuesday, June 5, will begin at 10 a.m. and will begin by considering amendments to the Law on the Anticorruption Court of Ukraine, which must be adopted the following week. And the morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine today I declare closed. Thank you all very much. And good-bye.
