ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-02-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished national deputies of Ukraine and guests of the Supreme Council! I'm asking the National Deputies to prepare for registration. I'm asking you to register, colleagues. Please register. [[10:01:16]] 318 national deputies registered in the session hall. We may, we shall begin the morning plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, I declare it open. Dear colleagues, today is the birthday of our colleagues Vladislav Danielin of the People's Front. Let us welcome Mr. Vladislav, age and health to you! And Andrija Shinkovič, Mr. Andryu, also our colleague from the Petra Prashenko Block, welcome you, age and health! Colleagues, we have a traditional "questions to the government" class today. And in the plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the members of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine are in charge of First Vice-Prime Minister StepanCube. I would like to welcome our distinguished government. And we also welcome you, colleagues. And I would like to remind you that the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Andri Volodymyrovich Parubay, along with the parliamentary delegation today, is on a mission in Chisinau. Likewise today, our distinguished Prime Minister, Vladimir Groissman, is on a mission. So today, in our plenary session, I and my colleague, Mrs. Oksana Siroid, preside. Actually, we're starting an hour of questions to the government, and the rules are going to be next. Address by the Cabinet of Ministers of Regional Development, Deputy Prime Minister Gennady Zubk, then Minister of Justice of Paul Petrenko. Then questions from MPs and groups. And then questions from Ukrainian national deputies. But two factions came to the fore, both from Peter Prashenko's Block and the People's Front. And our colleagues are ready to replace this break for the performance. I give the floor to Mr. Burbaku's head of the People's Front faction. Mr. Maxime, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-02-m0.u2	Dear colleagues, honourable presiding, distinguished people of Ukraine! Yesterday, he was speaking out of this rostrum and congratulating everyone on his victory, with Stockholm arbitration taking the side of Naftogazu and we won the second lawsuit against Gazprom against the aggressor country. And the amount of money that won't be taken out of Ukrainian pockets and gone to the aggressor country is over $60 billion. But see what Russia has done? Yesterday, pressure was reduced in the gas pipe and supplies to Ukraine were reduced. This is the same response from the Kremlin gang who are doing everything they can to freeze Ukraine in these cold days and tighten the smudge on Ukraine’s neck. But we will not give in to it. Yesterday, a statement was made by Naftogazu. I think every Ukrainian should support the Naftogaz of Ukraine. Every Ukrainian must support our Fatherland with us fighting with the aggressor country. So we need to save all of us now and for three or four days, that was the supply of Naftogazu, and I'm dividing it, and I also encourage you all to do it, by one or two degrees to reduce the temperature in your gas boilers so that we can go through the heating season peacefully. We have enough gas in our gas depots, but we all have to take the single front against the gas monopolist Gazprom, who uses gas to blackmail as a weapon. Again, I am addressing our European colleagues. Some of them are so eager to support the North Stream 2 construction that they're willing to even lift sanctions from Russia. The gas for Russia, I repeat, is weapons and blackmail. That's why Ukraine was released, thanks to the government of Arsenius Yatsenuk, who initiated a lawsuit in the Stockholm Arbitration in the 14th year. We got rid of the gas storm. Don't go in there! The main thing is that Ukraine remains a reliable partner and gas transitor. So I urge all Ukrainians once again: let's all unite against the actions of the aggressor country and the gas monopolist. So we're lowering the temperature in boilers by 1-2 degrees, we're going to go through this test together for 3-4 days, and we're going to fight. And the following victories will await us too. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-02-m0.u3	Thank you for your timely presentation. Dear colleagues, it is the government that is informing us that after the speeches of Vice-Prime Minister and Minister of Justice for 2 minutes, Anatoly Korzun, Deputy Minister of Energy, is asking for information on the state of energy for today. And indeed, on behalf of the Ukrainian Parliament, we would like to thank the entire Ukrainian team, who defended Ukraine's interests in the Gazprom court, and to thank Prime Minister Volodymyr Groissman, President Peter Prashenko and Prime Minister Arsenija Yatsenuk, his team, who also started this trial. You're great, everybody. Colleagues, and in a few hours, we are waiting for good news about the release of two Ukrainian Kremlin political prisoners. As soon as they're in Ukrainian territory, you and I will be able to greet them with applause. I now invite you to the floor of Deputy Prime Minister, Regional Development Minister Hennady Grigorovitch Zubka. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-02-m0.u4	Dear National Deputies! Respectable Ukrainian citizens! I'd like to say a few words about the situation that really happened yesterday after the Stockholm Arbitration Decision and the decision was made in favour of Ukraine, and there was a reduction in pressure. And today, we have an emergency power station. I think Mr. Korzun will give a report on this issue on how anti-crisis actions are taken to reduce once and for all the pressure on the Ukrainian gas transport system and thus not be dependent on suppliers that are, well, sorry, unreliable. Once again, I would like to emphasize that in order for Ukraine to be energy-dependent, we need to look again and again at how we need to reduce energy consumption. I would like to report again on the fact that the Supreme Council, thanks to its decisions, through the joint work of the Committee on Fuel and Energy, the Committee on Housing and Housing and Construction and other National Deputies, which have been actively involved in this work, has made a very important legislative breakthrough last year by adopting several laws that have completely changed the relationship between the consumer, the provider of services and the ability to reduce energy consumption. I would like to point out that it is the five basic laws that have been passed, which have been voted, that have been followed by two basic principles. First of all, it's the formation of a responsible consumer: the 417th Law, the Housing and Utilities Act, which specifically allows you to manage your property, manage your services, choose who will provide these services, and, most importantly, clearly distinguish where there is responsibility, where there is rights, where there is responsibility for both the service provider and the consumer. Also a very important law that was passed, the Law on Commercial Accounting, which sets out specific terms, specific limits, and specific compliance with the setting of heat and water counters. By the end of the 18th year, we're practically going to have to go to 100 percent of the heat. Two laws on energy efficiency of buildings and the Energy Efficiency Fund Act. These are just two tools that should virtually allow not only to assess the state of the house, the recommendations that should be implemented, which should allow any household to get reduced energy consumption, but also to allow technical and financial support to households that want to reduce their consumption. Which is very important. It was according to these laws that more than 50 laws were drawn up. The implementation of these normative acts is now under way. And I would like to thank once again our national deputies who actively participated in this process -- Alona Valeriyovna Babak, Alexy Ryabchin, Alexander Dombrowski, Dmitri Andryewski -- who joined in drafting these laws. But most importantly, the European Union's strong support for energy efficiency reform today. You know, the great team of the European Union, the big team of the German government, which has also joined in the development of this legislation, and the implementation of directly normative acts, and we are now looking forward to the signing of the financial agreement between Ukraine and the European Union, which will provide 100 million euros in financial and technical assistance to finance the energy efficiency fund directly. The government made an offer to the Supreme Council. The Supreme Council, in its 2018 budget, decided to direct 1.6 billion dollars directly to fund the fund. For us, it is very important that this week we have implemented normative acts that allow us to start the work of the fund, to start selecting the Supervisory Board. The Supervisory Board, which will then take away the directorate, both the technical and the financial directorate of the fund. And so we can start a fund to provide technical and financial support to our households. What's very important is that by the time the fund is put in place, we've developed a program on "hot loans." And from this program, 200 million dollars are aimed at supporting and implementing energy-efficient measures in the multi-story sector, in the FSB. So I'd like to invite our joint owners to get involved in the work, prepare to be able to prepare not only project documentation, but to be able to conduct a home survey. And also to see how these measures can be implemented to make it possible to reduce to 50 to 60 percent of the energy. I would like to show the map of Ukraine right now and thank all our partners, local governments, international partners, majority national MPs. Those working on this issue are the question of creating a union of joint owners. You know, in 2015, when we started, there were only 12,000 households in Ukraine that were already united and that took over the management function, and they wanted not only to manage their property, but also to reduce consumption. Today we have more than 20, almost 28,000 households that are in control or in union with co-owners, or these are residential-communal cooperatives. What's very important to us, too, is the Law and Housing Services, the law that was passed at the end of last year, which also allows us to select a manager to manage our property and also to introduce another form of joint property management. These are virtually all our households that can potentially be consumers, both financial and technical support from the Energy Efficiency Fund. It's a multi-surface sector, the joint ownership itself is chosen as the ultimate target for energy-efficient measures directly for the Energy Efficiency Fund. Now you see the graph, how we see the launch directly of the fund. But once again, before the start of the Fund, Ukreximbank, Ukreximbank, Private Bank is a hot-credit partner who is ready to provide financial support to the FSB, who are ready to engage in credit for energy-efficient measures. I'd like to say two words about how the fund is going to work. I have already talked about financial support from a state budget of 1 billion 600 million, as well as the support we are looking forward to getting from the European Union of 100 million euros. But what is important to us? It's not just the financial support provided by the European Union, it's the agreement that will be in place for five years, and for five years we'll be accompanied by the best European Union experts, the best energy auditors, who will help introduce modern technologies in Ukraine to modernize the housing sector. Once again, in the European Union, standards allow energy consumption to be reduced to 50 kilowatts per square metre per year. The Ukrainian now consumes more than 200 kilowatts per square metre in the housing sector in the current year. What is important to us? Bring our consumers closer to consumption levels, as in Eastern Europe, 80-50 kilowatts per square metre. It is technical, financial support that should motivate people to invest in money, support from the state financially, and also financial support from our international partners, thus reducing their energy consumption. I wanted to point out once again that this project is being implemented jointly, so directly with our international partners, we have determined that it will be in parallel with the Energy Efficiency Fund created by the Multi-Donor Fund, which will be directly involved in the Energy Efficiency Fund, and directly co-finance energy efficiency measures from households. One of the representatives of our European partners will be part of the Fund's Supervisory Board, not yet signed, but it has already been determined that it will be an IFC International Financial Corporation that will be part of the Supervisory Board. This is also very important for us to see both the transparent work of the fund and the possibility of involving modern technology decisions and the involvement of finance in the fund. Once again, the corporate management of the fund has already been developed. We've already adopted the government's first normative acts, and I invite all the active willing professional, professional experts to join the selection competition with the Supervisory Board.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-02-m0.u5	30 seconds to complete.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-02-m0.u6	Can I have three more minutes?
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-02-m0.u7	Three minutes to complete. But the government will answer questions from deputies and factions in 20 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-02-m0.u8	I'd like to emphasize once again, you know, the work of the fund will act as a support to the multi-story sector and households. But the road map of energy efficient measures is not very simple. I'd say it's very necessary to be a professional person in order to take energy-efficient measures. So I would like to emphasize once again that we need such a large communications company, that we need to do the OSB in order to first understand the state of the house, to get the recommendations, to get the power company, to do the project work, and, most importantly, to make effective use of the costs of both their own and the costs that can be provided to support the state and the multi-donor fund. Thus, simple products that can help you to take a few steps will be first developed. The first step is to set up an ITP, to regulate the heat supply, to heat up the general use areas directly, but then take the second and third steps to complete the building's modernization, and this is not only about the warming of the outside structures, but also about the modernization of the engineering systems inside the house. I'd like to show again now the model of calculating the return on investments that are being invested in households. If you can return a slide that shows that not only is it possible to recover money from the economy, but it is possible to spend it annually, but it also means to have an economy to save the family budget. So it's very important for us to make the direction of the energy economy a general trend in Ukraine. Do we realize that 80 billion subsidies that our country is spending this year? –it's a huge amount of money that's spent and not coming back. And we would very much like to see that the funds that are now going towards energy efficiency are just the investments that will make it possible to reduce energy consumption that will enable us to become independent of our state and that will allow us to show that Ukraine is a reliable partner not only in different directions in the European Union, but also in particular in the transit of gas consumed by the European Union today. Thank you for your attention, ready to answer your questions.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-02-m0.u9	Thank you, Prime Minister, please go to your workplace. And please invite me to the floor of the Justice Minister of Paul Petrenko. And then he joined the government team of Energy Minister IgorNasalik. We will also give him the right to speak for information about what is happening today in Ukraine’s energy system in connection with the latest destructive activities of the Russian Federation.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-02-m0.u10	Good afternoon, distinguished national MPs, distinguished Ukrainians! I would like to inform you today of the implementation of the legislative initiatives adopted by the Supreme Council at the end of last year. As the famous French writer and public figure Victor Hugo said, it doesn't matter to me whose side of power it's what's on whose side the right is. And a number of legislative initiatives that were developed jointly by the Ukrainian government and the Ukrainian Parliament last year, which are specifically related to the protection of Ukrainian rights, have taken effect. I would like to begin by thanking the leaders of the factions of the Ukrainian Parliament: Maximu Burbak, Oleg Ljaška, Arthur Gerasimov, Irina Lucenko and many of the many deputies who supported their vote last year, an extremely important law that strengthens the responsibility of the wicked alimony underpaid to their children. This law works a little less than a month, and we see a huge push forward and crazy results that confirm that those children who have lost parental care, those children who have been victims of their parents' actual irresponsibility, have begun to receive that minimum social support in the form of alimony owed to them by their parents. This is about 600,000 children, 600,000 Ukrainian children who did not receive food, clothing, and regular education each month. Just at the beginning of last year, the Ministry of Justice of Ukraine, on the basis of these valid laws and the money that we have adopted with you, was brought to the benefit of Ukrainian children about half a billion dollars, 450 million dollars, and it's about 441,000 children. I want to remind you of the innovations that have been accepted. These are a series of restrictions and prohibitions for those who are malicious alimony counterfeiters who have not paid alimony to their children for more than six months, banning going abroad, banning transportation, hunting and gun use restrictions, and community service. I would like to inform you today that during these three weeks of work, 160 million dollars of the new law have been collected for the benefit of Ukrainian children. We have opened a public register of alimony payers as a board of disgrace, where there are all the parents who have forgotten their children, regardless of their status, position, and assets. This register and these measures are applied to all of us, whether it's the deputies, whether it's the officials, or the entrepreneurs. And I want to say that Ukrainian mothers and Ukrainian children say thank you. Let me give you a few examples. These are specific examples that we now have from the Ukrainian regions, the Ukrainian regions. Throughout the country, the Ministry of Justice has launched mobile groups that carry out court decisions on alimony. A few examples. For example. Kyiv district. Two of our citizens told us that parents did not pay alimony to their children for several years. One of these parents is a member of the city council of one of the parties, the other one is a famous entrepreneur in the Kyiv region. Imagine, this entrepreneur, in order not to pay alimony, took a driver to his deputy friend and got a minimum wage. Public recorders learned about their property and counted their alimony debts for half a million dollars for two. Now all the property and all the assets of these poor parents are under arrest. Another case. Odessa District, Bilgorod-Dnistrovsk Region. The mother of two underage children has been trying for eight years to pull alimony from her father's grief, and he owns such a small transport company that he's transformed all the cars into his founding people. State contractors on the basis of the standards that you have voted on have been arrested, and 31 000 euros have been collected for the benefit of these children. Another case. The city of Kiev. My father owed 600,000 dollars to his three children. Because of these standards that you have adopted, he had taken away a paceboat that he used to ride and drive on Dniper, and he had a debt owed to young children. There are a lot of these cases, and it's your merit, because it's the first time in 25 years that you've paid attention to this problem, which is really the social pain and social problem of Ukrainian society. As a minimum, three million Ukrainian children grow up in single - parent families. Three million Ukrainian children do not have full parental care. These are the kids that we're actually supposed to take care of with you. This law has come into effect, and it gives first results. There's a lot of hysterics in some grieving parents who say that their rights are being violated. I want to turn to them: the disrespectful parents, the men who don't pay alimony, stop complaining, go make money and pay your child, and then you will do exactly your moral and human duty to that child that you gave birth to this world. I want to inform you the same way that we won't stop at this money. And we now have a series of initiatives as a Ukrainian government that will be geared towards raising child support social standards. At present, there is too low social standards at the level of the law for children who receive alimony. If the father is unemployed or has a minimum wage, he only pays about 900 dollars for the child’s benefit. We have the initiative to raise this amount to at least 2,000 dollars, and for that we have all the reasonable calculations. Similarly, it is suggested that parents who raise and invest in their children be stimulated by appropriate tax and social benefits. I'm talking to the national MPs, the co-authors of the previous laws. There is an opportunity to unite with the government and the Ukrainian Parliament, and in March months to work and submit to Parliament a series of legislative initiatives that will continue our topic and our project "No Strange Children." Hundreds of thousands of Ukrainian children are now telling us thank you because they are actually getting the money that they've been owed over the years. The second important initiative that was adopted in the Ukrainian Parliament is the Mask Show Stop Act. He also began to work from the end of last year. I'll remind you what were the innovations under this law. This is a ban on arbitrary searches against business representatives, mandatory video-refinition of all investigative actions, prohibition of recrimination of criminal cases in order to pressure, extort bribes from Ukrainian entrepreneurs; and criminal prosecutions in criminal cases in connection with enterprise searches. This law has come into effect. Yeah, he's giving the first positive results, so, less searches, so, all the search operations on the video started to be fixed, so they started letting lawyers in. But as a Ukrainian government, we find that certain law enforcement agencies are engaged in "creation" (in paws) to circumvent this law and continue to exploit Ukrainian entrepreneurs. We fix cases where law enforcement continues to open up the same criminal cases on the same plots, change a few words in these criminal cases, and push entrepreneurs to get bribes from them. When such entrepreneurs go to court, the court says that, sorry, the law enforcement agency, yes, indeed, the same criminal case, is the same story. But two words have been changed in the story: instead of "business director" it says "business director and accountant." I think it's a disgraceful phenomenon and a disgraceful fact that we're fixing. I want to inform you that, since yesterday, a special commission has been working on the basis of a law led by the Prime Minister of Ukraine, which will monitor this kind of thing and give a strict assessment of the activities of the law enforcement agencies and their leaders. But I'm addressing you, Ukrainian parliamentarians, people who really systematically support the Ukrainian business. We propose as the Ministry of Justice a series of additional technical changes to the Criminal Procedure Code, which will make it impossible even for our legal guardians to be creative. I'm very much asking that we put these changes to the table in March, and we voted with you. At the same time, we have made a board of disgrace to those law enforcement agencies and those specific investigators and prosecutors who continue to profit and gain, in fact, looting, over Ukrainian entrepreneurs. You and I have a lot of work to do. And I sincerely want to thank the Ukrainian Parliament once again for its support and in fact for taking such important initiatives that affect hundreds of thousands and millions of Ukrainians. And I believe that only by working together, only by bringing together topics such as alimony debt, wage debt, supporting the Ukrainian real economy, supporting those active Ukrainians who are now creating the future, and supporting our Ukrainian children who will be creating the future after decades, will we make a successful Ukrainian state. It will certainly be successful and will defeat any external and internal enemies. Thank you. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-02-m0.u11	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear colleagues, please pay attention now, because IgorNasalika's Minister of Energy is very relevant. I'm asking you to turn on the microphone. And then we sign up for questions. Please provide Parliament with information on how secure our gas transport system is today and how much the Ukrainian government is now ready to provide the population, citizens, Ukrainians with the necessary electricity, gas and other important things. Please, you can come from the rostrum, three minutes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-02-m0.u12	Good afternoon, distinguished national MPs! Good afternoon, Ukrainians! First of all, I want to say that according to NAC's head of government Naftogaz Ukraine, which was reported yesterday, in connection with the failure of Gazprom to fulfil its contractual obligations, which were determined by the Stockholm Court, and the return of the prepayment paid to NAC by Naftogaz of Ukraine, NAK Naftogaz of Ukraine faced an imbalance in the overall balance of our state order of 15-20 million cubic metres of gas. Yesterday, this issue was raised by the President of our State on the National Security and Defence Council. A crisis headquarters, headed by Stephen Ivanovich of Cuba, was held with the government yesterday. As a result of this meeting and in accordance with article 6 of the Law on the Market in Gas in Ukraine and the order of the Ministry of Energy and Coal Industry, the protocol commission of the Crisis Committee introduced a plan, the National Plan of Action. This morning from nine o’clock to ten o’clock, I conducted a selector with all the district authorities. What I'm saying is that we're all working today without exception in a state-of-the-art mode. The plan of action that is foreseen from this day forward is that of transferring the generating companies from gas to oil. This will give us an opportunity to save 15-20 million cubic metres of gas per day. In order to introduce this decision, the ministry in the mid-1990s turned to the European Secretariat and informed us that for five days, for the term of the National Action Plan, we would be using oil. The other one. We have introduced, starting today, recommended, more faithfully, not recommended, or even told to completely stop work at preschools, schools, and higher education facilities by March 6. At the same time, check that the temperature regime in these facilities is in minimally permissible standards. And the third position. We called on the production facilities to review the production plan with the condition of the gas economy. According to the balance sheet, the problem is the order of March 5-6, we'll continue to work on the balance sheet. But the plan of action that's supposed to be, I think, is making things worse.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-02-m0.u13	30 seconds. Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-02-m0.u14	Because the system is going to work in standard, state-of-the-art mode. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-02-m0.u15	Thank you for information on the government's actions against the hybrid war of the Russian Federation against Ukraine. And now I'm asking my colleagues from the factions to sign up for a question to the Cabinet of Ministers, to our esteemed government. Please, from the Radical Party, the faction of the Radical Party is asking questions from the national deputy Lášk. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-02-m0.u16	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. From the Radical Party faction to the government. Mr. First Deputy Prime Minister, Ukraine won Stockholm Arbitration, and we have to get $2.6 billion from Gazprom. How are you going to spend that money? How much will it cost to increase the production of its own gas in order to buy less imported gas? And what does the government do to reduce the cost of housing and utility tariffs for Ukrainians? I hope you know that people pay for the last one, and then there is no money left to feed the family. We're asking you to support the Radical Party Action Plan by lowering the price of gas, by lowering the cost of tariffs, energy modernisation, increasing the production of your own gas, and that's as a result of independence, increasing the income of Ukrainians, and less stealing from people on the utility. What you do to make people smaller.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-02-m0.u17	The question is understandable. Please, StepanCube, First Vice Prime Minister, please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-02-m0.u18	Dear Oleg Valeriyovich, first of all, thank you very much for the questions.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-02-m0.u19	Microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-02-m0.u20	Thank you for asking. Yesterday, the President of Ukraine on the National Security Council and Ukraine gave clear thanks to all the deputies, the government of Arsenius Yatsenuk, Groysman, and the team of lawyers of the Ministry of Justice and Naftogazu, who showed the right side of the issue. 2 billion 200 is a large sum for Ukraine, especially during the period of energy independence and system building. You can see that the winning itself today has awakened the "north beast," which is doing all the fighting with the neighbors about energy security. Yesterday, under it. At the request of the Prime Minister and the President of Ukraine, a meeting was held to ensure energy independence during a period of severe temperature reductions reported by Minister Nasalik. The second important question is that GennadyZubko and Minister of Energy Nasalik have done the right work with district administrations on the correct distribution and use of those funds for energy independence and modernization, and the minimum cost for energy. The other one. The second and the important. I heard your speech today by one of the deputies, who, Mr. Victor Galasuk, was clearly asking a question today on live air about how to use it. Costs will be spent and, more faithfully, invested to implement the government programme, the President and the Supreme Council, which are approved for 2018 through the budget, and programs that today carry three-year budget funding and macro-indicators. This will be designed to improve a person’s life. With respect to tariffs, Mr. HennadiZubko. Igor Nasalik. Igor Nasalik.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-02-m0.u21	Please, 1 minute, 1 minute, Mr. Nasalik, because many questions from colleagues. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-02-m0.u22	Oleg Valeriyovich, thank you so much for asking. And it has to say that 90 percent of what you've offered will necessarily be done and reviewed in the gas sector development programme, which is expected to get rid of exports in 2020 at all. So I'm going to say two numbers all over Ukraine today. Ukraine has a protected gas supply of 1 trillion, and the production rate is only 2 percent. At a time when the average in Europe is 7 percent and Norway is 14. What it says is that Ukraine can get at least 80 billion cubic meters of its own. If this process goes as envisioned by the government, I am more than convinced that the issue of tariffs will not stand. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-02-m0.u23	Now, questions are coming from the MPs, and then they're going to be from the MPs, because the colleagues were clarifying this point. Please, from Self-Help, Mrs. Romanov. Ah, Mr. Semenha. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-02-m0.u24	Semenha Roman, Self-Help Unit. Dear colleagues, the government has made a grave mistake in calculating the amount of pensions. With pensions in the fourth quarter being upgraded by several billion dollars. Notice what happens in January. The government is wrong again, and the Ukrainian Pension Fund is again seeking a loan of several billion dollars for January. We still don't hear public explanations from the government, the Ukrainian Pension Fund, why this happened. Whether the banal inability to calculate or the huge decline in the number of payers in a single social contribution has led to a banal downturn in business. Instead of taking immediate action to stimulate the economy, the government is actually putting 1104 daggers in the back of business, especially small and medium-sized businesses. This is about effectively canceling the moratorium on business checks. So I'm pointing out that instead of taking immediate action to carry out liberal tax reform, the government is back in the pocket of small and medium-sized businesses. Self-help requires an immediate liberal tax reform.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-02-m0.u25	Please answer this question by Rev’s ministers. Please, Anatoly Revie's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-02-m0.u26	Your Honor, the People's Deputy of Semimenach! In fact, it was not the government that made the mistake of declaring such information. The Pension Fund’s budget consists of both its own income from the sole social contribution and the state grant provided by the State budget. The plan for this year provides 208 billion dollars of the pension fund’s own income and 139 billion dollars of government revenue. Compared to 112 billion dollars in 2016, a government grant of 145 billion dollars. Last year, 2017, own income of 159 billion, government grant of 141. This year, as you can see, the government grant decreases by another 2 billion, and the pension fund's income increases by almost 50 billion dollars. During January and February, the State Treasury paid the recalculations only on the European Union’s account. Thus, the European Union has received more than 3.5 billion dollars of the plan. You can make sure of that by raising the figures of the Pension Fund and the Treasury. At the same time, Ukraine’s State Budget did not finance the Pension Fund’s spending, and the Pension Fund borrowed a loan from the Treasury. So to talk about the fact that the pension fund's problems because someone went into the shadows don't correspond to reality. And about liberal reform. In 2016, liberal reform, which was carried out by the EU from 38 to 22 percent, led to 65 billion dollars being transferred to a large business that had forgotten to reimburse people. And today the problems of the Pension Fund have arisen as a result of thoughtless so - called liberal reforms. So I ask you to be careful and be objective when assessing the situation in the Pension Fund. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-02-m0.u27	Ladies and gentlemen, let's make some lines. Dear colleagues, did you ask your question, two factions? Seven more factions await their turn, five more loyally. Act properly, as in the Ukrainian Parliament. Now, a question from the Rebirth Group and Anton Yatzenko asks him, usually we ask these questions from the place. Do you want out of the rostrum?
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-02-m0.u28	Thank you very much. Why from the rostrum? Because, unfortunately, questions were asked several times from the site, and they do not find the answer. Questions first to Mr.Cubby and Minister of Health, U.S.A. What exactly is done about Arina Silentyuk? You know, this child who needs treatment. Question two. There's this drug that treats oncology, and now kids all over Ukraine don't get it because someone can't buy it and they promise only in the third quarter. Mrs. Suprun, how did it happen that children today have no treatment, no clarity, please? And the last question is, it applies to the minister of finance. Ukraine's budget for this year is not in the 2301400 programme, it has not been proposed by the Association of Heartship Surgeons to increase its funding to 100 million dollars for the purchase of state heart implants, okluders. And it also applies to children because they are needed for children.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-02-m0.u29	Please, the question is clear. Please, Mrs. Suprun, answer. We already have a lot of questions, colleagues. Dear Mr. Oleg, we do not have a theater, but Parliament, please take your seat and give us the responsibility of minister. Please do not interrupt your colleagues, but honor your colleagues. What is it?
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-02-m0.u30	Good afternoon! The drugs that were purchased in 2017 are already being delivered to Ukraine. Most of the medicines needed for the treatment of sick children are now in hospitals. As is not the case in the hospital, where the child who has approached you, Mr. National MP, we can redistribute the medicine from other hospitals or oncospancers. Please ask yourself exactly what medication is needed for a specific child so that we can help someone who needs help. And I want to answer the questions of the Occluders, because my colleague at the Ministry of Finance can answer about the finances, and I can answer about the need for the same librarians that you're asking about, for the children. In 2017, our doctors, who are subordinated to the Ministry of Health, gave us a need for 523 containers. We're buying them, they're going to be delivered, but in a smaller number, because each of these bonds is going to cost between 50,000 and 100,000 dollars. The remains are now in place, 43 of them have not even been used since 2016. Second, to understand that the Ministry of Health does not buy medical supplies for the National Academy of Medical Sciences, we purchase them at hospitals that are subordinated to us. How the National Academy of Medical Sciences wants to join the purchases that we do, we can help them buy teacups for their hospitals. And we have leftovers for 43 patients who haven't even been used yet. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-02-m0.u31	Thank you. One minute, please, Mr. Daniluk, who will provide information on financial matters and the purchase of drugs.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-02-m0.u32	Actually, the question was about the budget. We've just talked about it, it's just about changing the budget when the budget changes happen, whether it's possible to consider it. It's going to be a possibility. There should be an appropriate proposal from the Ministry of Health, and of course we will consider it and do our best to find an opportunity to include it in the budget for this year. At this point, money really isn't predictable, because, well, on the scales that you're talking about, because, according to all the suggestions. We balanced what was in the frame of opportunity, we included what we didn't, we're going to settle, we're going to look at in the first half of the year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-02-m0.u33	Thank you. Please, Mr. Spivakowski from the Peter Dusty Block, your question.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-02-m0.u34	Good afternoon, dear fellows! I have a question for the Minister of Finance of Ukraine. Dear Alexander Alexander, during the adoption of the budget and the Budget Code, we clearly agreed that the technicalities and colleges within the university structure would be financed by the state budget. At this time, we have information from the Ministry of Education and Science of Ukraine and from a part of universities that costs are not actually enough. We agreed that 1.9 billion dollars would be allocated in addition, but no funds. Universities began to fund these techniques and colleges themselves, even spent and a component that went to general secondary education. So I have a question: is the Ministry of Finance planning to strengthen the Ministry of Education and Science of Ukraine in order to close this hole and allow universities not to spend their own circulation costs on financing technology and colleges? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-02-m0.u35	Please turn on Mr. Daniluku's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-02-m0.u36	Thank you for asking. And also thank you for our common position during budget formation. With regard to reforming this area and transferring these institutions to the university administration, we can now have only one answer in the budget: it's getting closer. If the Ministry of Education comes to us with appropriate suggestions, we will look for such an opportunity and approach it so that it does not stop this process. Already in the second half of the year, we're going to decide where to find the additional resources. But now only one answer is approaching, and we're ready for that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-02-m0.u37	Thank you. Please ask a question from the People's Front. He also wants to ask from the rostrum. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-02-m0.u38	Dear Mr. Kubi, distinguished Vice Prime Minister of Humanitarian Affairs, Mr. Rosenko! I would like to highlight the situation in which we are now in the wake of the Constitutional Court's decision to repeal the so-called "Kivalov-Kelešnicka law." Of the 28th number, not only has Kiwalova Koleschenka's law been revoked, but the old law, adopted in 1989, doesn't work now, it hasn't entered into force, you know that. Thus, when we talk about language legislation, we should point out that we now have no language law, only an article of the Constitution, which guarantees, calls the Ukrainian state state, guarantees the development of Russian and other languages of the Natzmaine - dot! There is Law 5670-d, there are laws and other laws passed by the Supreme Council. I very much ask the Cabinet of Ministers to consider these bills urgently, to make a statement from this point of view, because if we don't adopt the Language Act before the start of the electoral race, then we will enter into history by this Parliament and that government that actually deprived us of any protection of the Ukrainian language. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-02-m0.u39	Please, in a minute. Rosenko will answer, two minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-02-m0.u40	Dear Mr. Mikolo, and you know that there is the position of Prime Minister of Ukraine, and this is a consolidated position of government, which has said literally recently that for the government, no matter who is the subject of the legislative initiative that is to be approved and supported by the government in Parliament. So in this situation, given the criticality of the situation, I think it would be right for the government not to do its own legislation, so to speak, but to join the committee's work together. Indeed, we need to work together on a basic bill. One of these bills, I'm sure, can be taken as a basis, and we need to move on. So I fully support the idea that in the next literally plenary week, and my request to the Supreme Council of Ukraine, these bills should be introduced and considered in the Hall. And on the basis of the committee, the parliamentary bill has to be finalized and approved. Once again, there should be no fight for leadership in this process. The situation is not easy. Indeed, the law has been annulled by the Constitutional Court, but the previous one does not mean that it works, so we have the shortest time to correct this situation and make a consolidated decision. Adequate orders for the active participation of personally ministers in committee meetings will be given, and I am confident that we will be able to remedy this situation together.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-02-m0.u41	Thank you. Please, from the Opposition Block, Mr. Doubenkov wants to ask a question. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-02-m0.u42	Respectable Ukrainian citizens! In the halls of this Parliament, they're very reluctant to listen to questions that are a little bit unacceptable, a little bit inappropriate, uncomfortable. But I have a question for the Minister of Social Policy, the Deputy Prime Minister for Pension Insurance. Now, I've heard such a beautiful tirade about the fact that we have an effective state policy in the area of retirement. I have a question. In 2015, a million internally displaced persons were retired, and the cost was 28 billion. Thanks to the humiliating verification procedure initiated by the government of Groysman, the number of pensioners who received the pension has already decreased by 400,000. Expenditures from the Pension Fund amounted to 11 billion, not 28 billion. Minus 17 billion. According to Rosenk, it's an economy. Or according to the report of the Pension Fund of Ukraine. I have a question. Do you take into account this debt and when you return it? 13 billion people a year don't get 600,000 citizens from Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-02-m0.u43	Thank you. The question is understandable. Please, Mr. Reva, you have a microphone, an honorable minister.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-02-m0.u44	Dear People's Deputy Dolzhenkov! I'm asking you to publish some numbers, to publish them correctly. The point is that a million 100,000 pensioners were living in an uncontrollable and now in accordance with the Ukrainian law, which was occupied in 2014. When the government that is working today came to power on April 14, 2016, they officially received a pension from those who were retired in an unsupervised territory, they registered as internally displaced persons, about 400,000 people. At the time the government came to the realization of its responsibilities, some 200,000 persons who had the status of internally displaced persons were not granted a pension because they were not in the controlled territory of Ukraine according to information provided by law enforcement authorities. It was through the government that 365 decrees were adopted that allowed these people to renew their pension payments, and today they receive some 530,000 internally displaced citizens. Thus, the number of people who receive a pension increases as people move to Ukraine’s controlled territory. With regard to the responsibility for the situation in the occupied area, according to the law adopted by the Supreme Council, signed and published, the occupying State is responsible for the situation there. And please, I would ask you very much to be the kind of claims that you are now presenting to the Ukrainian government, even if once a public statement was made to the occupying people, to those who occupied our territories: Putin, the Kremlin and other of their graves, who exercise control over this territory on their behalf. As for payment of the debt, I want to remind you as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-02-m0.u45	30 seconds. 30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-02-m0.u46	As soon as this territory passes under Ukraine's control, as happened in the two villages of Travneve and Gladosov recently, people were paid all their pension debts. And this is the practice that the government is conducting. As soon as people either move in with us or the territory is freed, they are paid in full the amount of pension they have been entitled to since such payments were suspended. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-02-m0.u47	Dear colleagues, this is the answer to a specific question. Dear colleagues, asked questions, no mention of names and factions, no offense. I very much ask the ministers not to mention the name, but to say "honorable national MP." There were no recollections. And that's not the exchange of replicas. We're wasting our time. Now, here's a question from the last of the faction block, the "Fatherland" faction. Mrs. Kugel, you have the floor. Thank you, colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-02-m0.u48	Thank you. I'm asking the First Vice Prime Minister to consider this as a parliamentary request from the Fatherland faction. We're calling for an immediate order at the State Enterprise Crucifixion, which has now made a decision and shuts down the Crucifixion Department in all the villages. In addition, give the commission to check the size of the salary paid by the state - owned enterprise to its employees. We get information, they get up to 1 February 0.5 from the minimum wage, and now they get 0.3. The second question. Mrs. Suprun, can you tell me when you're going to give up American citizenship? Because we've got a couple of tough guys who left us a situation like this with a reformed debt, and now we have a ruling from the European Court of Justice on the part of the faction of Fatherland saying it's illegal.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-02-m0.u49	The question is understandable. I also ask the MPs to correctly formulate your question. Answers, please. [[B in m in s a l in]] Colleagues, we still have questions. You're taking time from your colleagues. Please, Mr. Kubi. Then there's Mrs. Suprun.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-02-m0.u50	Dear Alexander Volodymyrna, we accept your request, but please give more specific details in the offices you own the information, what we've spoken to you, and we'll give a particular answer in each department that is closed. As for the efficiency management system, Mr. Longan, deputy minister, will answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-02-m0.u51	Thank you. Please turn on Ulysses Suprun microphone. And then. Excuse me, Mr. Dougan, then Mrs. Uljana Suprun. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-02-m0.u52	Thank you. In fact, a restructuring program is being carried out in the public stockholder company Krašta, and some departments are to be closed. Well, unfortunately, this is an objective situation, and the financial situation of an enterprise does not allow a single letter to be kept for several months. Regarding wages, well, this problem isn't really new. And in view of raising the minimum wage, the company gradually raises the full wage of its employees.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-02-m0.u53	Please, Mrs. Suprun's minute of reply. And then questions from the National MPs.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-02-m0.u54	I am a Ukrainian citizen, and with my citizenship everything is done according to valid legislation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-02-m0.u55	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I'm asking you to sign up to the Ukrainian National Deputies for your questions right now. We've got 15 minutes left. Because of these cover - ups and the exchange of unkindness, we have lost a few minutes of precious time to communicate with the government. And please be correct in your questions and answers. It only adds respect to both parliament and government. Please, Mr. Didic, your question.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-02-m0.u56	My question to the acting minister of Ulyana Suprun. In this room in December, we approached the deputy minister of security about the issue of letters of invalidity by the primary health facilities of the territorial communities. This is the Dnipropetrovsk oblast, the Krinichan district and the Solonian region. To this day, the letters of disability do not appear, and this creates social tension within groups. We are waiting, and people are awaiting a solution. I'm waiting for an answer and people.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-02-m0.u57	Mrs. Suprun, your answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-02-m0.u58	Thank you. All sheets were passed on to the area level. From the district council, they have to be distributed among the areas. I think that this issue should be referred to the district council and the health department in your area. Because they have leaves. And you can redistribute between areas to have them. There's plenty of them. And they're in your area. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-02-m0.u59	Andrew Illenko, your question. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-02-m0.u60	Andrew Illenko, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. Minister of Foreign Affairs, I would like to ask you about the situation with the absolutely hammocked statements of the Minister of Foreign Affairs of Hungary, who allowed himself in connection with the decision of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine to annul the disgraceful anti-Ukrainen law of Kivalova-Keleščnik, when, in fact, this official of a foreign state allowed him to instruct Ukraine because he had actually annulled the decision because it had been falsified because the Rules and Law had been grossly violated at the time of his adoption, and thus simply restored the normal state of things, which caused another such brutal attack on Ukraine by the Minister of Foreign Affairs of Hungary. Will there be a response? Are we going to keep quiet and wait for the next blow and not react to this obvious haughtiness again?
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-02-m0.u61	Answer, please. The answer. I'm sorry, Andrey, Mr. Andrey, your question was addressed. Ms. OlenaZerkal represents the Ministry today. Please, Mrs. Helena.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-02-m0.u62	Good afternoon. The point is that we are constantly responding to all the statements made not only by the Hungarians but also by the Poles, and we continue to do our work on the legislative settlement of both the language issue and the education issue. With regard to the Foreign Minister’s statements, Siarto, this is an understandable policy that is not surprising to anyone. So we immediately responded and made our statement. And in addition, we continue to ask questions that our legislation is fully in line with the Venice conclusions and we are moving in the direction of developing our language policy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-02-m0.u63	Thank you. The next question is Tetjana Ostrova. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-02-m0.u64	Continuing the topic of strong pressure on business. The government is actually doing little to ensure that we have a strong and separate customs office that will really protect Ukraine's customs security against smuggling. A series of European regulations and accession to the Convention on a common transit regime have already been implemented. This week, however, the government narrowed down the grounds for the BSI to carry out customs checks and inspections. That's good, but that's not enough, that doesn't remove the reason. Because everyone knows that the work of the Customs Department is destructive. And in order to really stop their massive business blackmail, a long-standing reform of the BSS is needed. They need to be removed from their economic units, completely eliminated and anticorruption. So I want to point out to the government that we need to pay more attention to a strong independent customs office so that they don't fear the forces to promote business in international trade. And I want to ask the government how you feel about the reform of the BSS. It is the only body that is not reformed today that exerts massive, forceful pressure on business, especially on customs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-02-m0.u65	StepanCube microphone, please turn it on.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-02-m0.u66	I would like to thank the honourable national deputy for asking and to say that the situation today is a clear programme in the Ukrainian government, as reported by the Prime Minister of Ukraine, on the reform of the fiscal and other authorities that are currently in control. We're talking about reforms and fiscal services, we're talking about reforms today in the entire economic bloc of the Ministry of Internal Affairs, the Ukrainian Security Service and, including tax police issues. You know, when the President of Ukraine and the Prime Minister met with business, this plan was presented and properly discussed in the working group. First, we invite you to join us. The other one. Regarding the reform of the Ukrainian Security Service. The Ukrainian Security Service is now under the authority of the President of Ukraine. But having had a conversation with the head of the Ukrainian Security Service, this literally conversation was a few weeks ago and the last one yesterday, Vasil Sergiyovich was totally set up for change, for reform. And the situation on the market today is that the situation in Ukraine, in eastern Ukraine, the situation in Ukraine as a whole, poses new challenges and new threats to us, including the reform of the Ukrainian Security Service, including the K Service, as you know. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-02-m0.u67	Next question from the Amélchenka People’s Deputy. It's from Mrs. Parrance. Please, Armored. I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Mrs. Victoria.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-02-m0.u68	Good afternoon, reverend government. I have a question about the State Enterprise Selidogol. It was a question to Mr. Igor Nasalik, Minister of Energy and Coal Industry. But if he's not here, I'm going to refer to Mr. Kubov. The State Enterprise Selidowogol consists of four mines: Kotlarevska, Novogrodovska, Ukraine and Kurahivska. Sailors won't get paid in January, 74 percent won't get paid in February, nothing gets paid in February. In the region, it's the basis for a social catastrophe. There is no kilograms of coal that is a paradox for the coal - mining region. People were forced to come to Kiev, and trade unions were hungry here, with Minister Nasalik, for nine days. Think about it, nine days ago, people were starving -- and he didn't find time to meet with them, even to talk and tell how this issue would be resolved. Today we see that.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-02-m0.u69	Thank you for asking. Please respond, Mr. Kubova. And I, Mrs. Valeria, apologize for talking to you about your name, and I remembered it.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-02-m0.u70	Ladies and gentlemen, today the government of Ukraine, like the entire Soviet space in the past, is talking about those mines that were formed in Soviet times. Reforms over the course of 23 years have not been carried out in the coal sector. Today, from the management of Soviet methods for the past four years, we have moved on to market relations, transparent relationships, and those commitments of reform lie in the plane of modernization and innovation that we must provide. This is transparency, a competitive price on the market and use that affects the corresponding residual cost and price policy that is based on the energy sector. Today, more than 37 percent of the businesses you mentioned are done. And as deputy minister of energy, he informed me that these commitments would be fulfilled within two weeks. At the same time today, we should remember that today we are sad to mention the tragedy on the Stepanova mine that took place. And this presents a new responsibility and challenge for accelerating mine reform today in the state of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-02-m0.u71	Dear colleagues! Let me make an announcement for a moment. Only recently did the Ukrainian Security Service and the Ukrainian Border Service report to the President of Ukraine that two of our border guards, BogdanMarzon and Igor Dzubak, who were kidnapped by the Ethiopians in October last year, were returned to Ukraine. I greet the mothers, the wives, the children, the families of our hostages! [[Applause]] Dear Games and Bogdan! We're happy you'll be in Kiev in a few hours. On behalf of Parliament, we thank the President, our diplomatic service, the Ukrainian Security Service, the Minsk Humanitarian Service, all involved. And together, we continue to work together to free everyone else. Hooray! This is very happy news. And I now give the floor to the National Deputy Volodymyr Litwin.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-02-m0.u72	Dear colleagues! Dear Stephen Ivanovich! I'll address the question to you. First. Subsidies to teachers and medical professionals, especially in the unified territorial communities, are completely under-funded, even on the basis of the criteria, the proportions determined by the relevant laws of Ukraine. There is a steady impression that this is done in order to optimize schools and health care facilities. That's the first question. And the second question. Municipal enterprises don't get benefits that citizens have, and then they have huge debts, and Naftogaz-Ukraine neatly, systematically and regularly prints fines. The first example, Novograd-Wolinski, where almost 60 percent, is a small town of military pensioners.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-02-m0.u73	Please respond. 15 seconds to complete, please, and answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-02-m0.u74	. have a disaster for utilities. And I'd like to give specific answers, if you're saying that everything is okay, let the members of the government go and tell them that it's okay and people will give them an assessment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-02-m0.u75	Please respond.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-02-m0.u76	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! I want to say that this year local budgets have been given more opportunities for development. But decentralization itself today is putting new challenges in front of the communities. I want to inform you, and in general the national MPs, that the local budgets totalled 12.9 billion dollars, plus 6 billion to support the ODG, 1.9 that will allow us to meet a number of demands and challenges that we face today. I accept the second part of your question that needs to be taken care of and not answered formally right now, and, according to my mandate or even under my head, there will be a meeting, and I invite you personally, and we will respond accordingly to every problem that you pose, both in the field of education and in the field of medicine. The other part is Mr. Daniluk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-02-m0.u77	Mr. Daniluk, one minute, please respond.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-02-m0.u78	Regarding debt on subsidies? We're working on this right now so that, for a maximum of two months, this issue will be resolved and everything will be resolved. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-02-m0.u79	Thank you. Please ask the following question from the national deputy Žolobecký. Please turn on the microphone. I've announced your question, Mr. Zholobecki.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-02-m0.u80	Dear First Deputy Prime Minister, the honorable government! Stepan Ivanovich, I would like to personally thank you, Prime Minister and all the government for their position on the principle of the former leadership of Ucroborprom. First. Secondly, Stepan Ivanovich, but today's problem with the 61-communary factory, and today it's the Mikolai Shipbuilding Plant, it's not solved. For three years, people do not receive a salary. Today, debt accounts for more than 60 million dollars. Let's work this out with you. That's the first one. Secondly, Stepan Ivanovich, let's address the issue of the Ukrainian cruiser, which has not been resolved in the last 30 years. Let's make a decision together. And third. Stepan Ivanovich, Ucroprom over the last few years has shown himself to be an inefficient manager of this company. Let's think together -- and maybe it's the only state-owned shipbuilding enterprise in Ukraine that we can reorder and transfer it to second-hand leadership. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-02-m0.u81	Please answer, Mr. Stephen.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-02-m0.u82	Dear People's Deputy! I want to thank you for asking. I'll start with the third, and the President of Ukraine, and the government has felt and felt today that there is a need for a sharp change in the Croatprom. There's a board of supervisors that's clearly presented today's vision of the Ucroborprom reform, The other one. Regarding the replacement of the head of the Ucrobanprom. And the new manager set out a clear position on the performance of debt to factory employees. And at the same time, you and I have held two meetings that have allowed us to identify the concrete action that will reduce or even remove the debt to the plant. And finally, I want to say that you and I have agreed that next week, a joint meeting with the new head of Ucroborprom will provide a real tool for financial resolution of the problems. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-02-m0.u83	Thank you, dear colleagues. Let me ask you one last question for the government, Mr. Revie's Minister of Social Policy. Dear Mr. Reva, more than two months ago the Ukrainian authorities were able to free Ukrainian hostages from occupied territories. And the government made a decision, and it was the Ministry of Social Policy that announced that they would receive adequate monetary compensation. And so far, this money has not been paid to freed recruits, and we get as Ukrainian national deputies constantly asking questions. When will this be paid? Please answer the questions.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-02-m0.u84	Dear Irina Volodymyrna, you're absolutely right about what the government has decided. According to the established order, we need to obtain lists from the Ukrainian Security Service in order to pay the funds provided for by this decree. And when these lists come to us, they're transferred to the region, a person is writing a statement, representing a passport and an individual tax number, and they're being paid for by the budget reserve fund. Now, as soon as they arrive, the Ukrainian Security Service will finish its work, and we will be ready to pay those costs to our people waiting for them.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-02-m0.u85	Thank you. I think this is a consolidated opinion of the Ukrainian Parliament. We're going to the Ukrainian Security Service, to the government, to the Ministry of Social Policy, to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. temporary occupied areas: please agree to these lists as quickly as possible and pay compensation to people because it is wrong that we cannot pay compensation longer than the people in prison. I would like to thank, on behalf of Parliament now, our honourable government for participating in today's session, for your answers. Thank you, fellows of honor! And then I give my word to Mr. Bondar, "The People's Front" asks for a word. Thank you, Your Honor! Good-bye! Fruitful work today.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-02-m0.u86	Thank you, Mrs. Irina! Bondar Mikhailo, 119 constituency. Unfortunately, at the moment, when the country is fighting, our boys are dying not only on the front, on the east, but also on the energy side. It's the anniversary of the death of the boys at Stepova Mine. This is the Sokal district of Lviv, where 8 miners gave their lives. I would ask Parliament, the government, in a moment of silence, to mention those guys who, a year ago, fighting for the energy independence of our state, put their heads down.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-02-m0.u87	Thank you for mentioning the tragically lost miners. I ask for a moment of silence to honor the miners who died a year ago during the tragic events in the mine. [[A Minute of Silence]] Thank you, dear colleagues. Thank you. And we're continuing our meeting. In accordance with article 25 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine regulations on Friday, we have 30 minutes to announce requests from Ukrainian national deputies. And at this time, colleagues, there were 248 requests from Ukrainian national deputies. And now I'm going to move on to the question-and-questions announcement.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-02-m0.u88	Thus, Victor Razwadowski, until his temporary duty as Minister of Health of Ukraine, head of the Zitomir District State Administration for the allocation of funds for the operational treatment of the aortic valve of Saprikin, Sergio, a resident of the city of Zitomir. Viktor Razwadowski to the Prime Minister about the situation that took place in the area of public pastures near the village of Verasie in the Zitomir region, in the Zitomir region. Igora Lucenka to the head of the Kiev City Administration on systematic violations of the law and abuse of her official duties in the form of criminal activity by representatives of the Kiev City State Administration. Igora Lucenka to the minister of culture of Ukraine regarding the criminal inaction of officials of the Ukrainian Ministry of Culture and the removal of obstacles to the exercise of the right of state ownership in respect of a monument to the cultural heritage of national importance. Alexander Marchenka to the Prime Minister for the acceleration of the right of natural gas consumers to install individual gas counters and to organize the operation of external and internal gas pipelines. Jacob Bezbach to the Cabinet of Ministers, the Ministry of Education and Science, the Ministry of Finance, for the provision of financing for a professional educational institution. Olesia Long to the Cabinet of Ministers for the renovation of the Museum of Vasil Sukhomlinski Olesia Long to the Ministry of Education and Science on measures to mark the 100th anniversary of Vasil Sukhomlinski's birth. Igor Aleksiev to the Rector of the National Penitentiary Service Academy of Ukraine on the development of a national model. Valeria Pisarenko to the Prime Minister for the immediate introduction of an effective mechanism and order for the monetaryization of benefits and housing subsidies for co-owners of apartment buildings. Paul Rizanenka to the temporary duty of head of the State Geology Service and Nadr Ukraine, acting as Head of the State Fiscal Service for the non-payment of UKRBUDTRESTSERVIS' rent for the use of local nadrama in the Brovar region of Kiev. Groups of National Deputies (Petovka, Lunchenka, Gorvati) to the Prime Minister for the repair of the highways and tours of the Zacarpathian region. Groups of National Deputies (Petovka, Lunchenka, Gorvati) to the Prime Minister to resolve the issue of the 17th - century monument to the architecture of the city of Uzhgrad. Sergey Kiwalova to the Prime Minister for the development and approval of the State Target Program against Cancer. Igorya Shurma to the Prime Minister for the lack of original documents on education and citizenship based on which she was appointed First Deputy Minister of Health Suprun Uljana. Igorya Shurma to the Prime Minister on the inaction of the Ministry of Health in providing Ukraine with novel anti-tuberculosis drugs. HanniGopco to the minister of culture for the modernization of the Ukrainian library network and the introduction of a single electronic system. ArthurMartovicko and Igor Shurma to the Prime Minister on the incompetent decisions of the MoZ Ukraine to prohibit the use of Priorix as a vaccine against measles, parotis and rubella. Victor Galasuk and Victor Vuka to the First Deputy Prime Minister of Economic Development on Ukraine's passive position at the 11th World Trade Organization Ministerial Conference. Alexia Dustenka to the executive responsibility of the Head of the State Road Agency, Head of the Road Service in the Vinnitsk Region for financing the repair of the public road T-02-02 Mogilov-Podilski-Yampil-Berszad-Ouman. Alexia Dustenka to Minister of Internal Affairs, Attorney General of Ukraine, on the situation of the removal of members of the civil service at the address: Vishneva Street, 5-A in the village of the town type Voronovice of the Vinnitsk Region. Irina Herashchenko to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the use by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine of urgent measures for payment to persons released from captivity, the provision of legal and social assistance to Ukrainian citizens who are illegally detained in the territory of the aggressor State and/or are being prosecuted for politically motivated charges in the territory of the temporarily occupied Autonomous Republic of Crimea. Groups of National Deputies (Gerashchenko, Ionova, Frez, Lucenko, Kondratjuk) to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the use of measures aimed at preventing the entry into the external markets of Ukrainian enterprises in the temporarily occupied territories of Ukraine, where the "external administration" of the Russian Federation is introduced. Vitalia Gudzenka to the Prime Minister, Minister of Finance, on the need to allocate funds (subsidies) from the State budget of Ukraine for the reconstruction of the station of decontamination of the Ulašov water collection II queue in the city of Tarosa Kyiv district. VitaliaGudzenka to the head of the Kyiv District Administration on the transfer from the balance sheet of the Main Directorate of Capital Construction of the Kyiv District Administration to the municipal property of the territorial community of the village of Vasilikh Stavishtensky district of the Kyiv district of the unfinished construction project, Vassilika school. Dmitra Dobrodomova to the Prime Minister for the proper social protection of citizens affected by the Chernobyl disaster. Dmitra Dobrodomova to the Prime Minister for adequate pensions for citizens affected by the Chernobyl disaster. Vladislav Buhareva to head the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Budget Issues, Prime Minister, on the allocation from the State Budget of Ukraine for 2018 of funds for the capital repair of the road of the state importance of R-45 Sumi - Krasnopil - Bogodów. Vladislav Buhareva to the head of the Cabinet of the Supreme Council, excuse me, to the head of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Budget Issues, Prime Minister on the allocation from the State Budget of Ukraine for 2018 of funds for the capital repair of the road of state value T-19-13 Roma – Lipova Valley – Lebedin – Tristanec – Mesenovka. Igor Popov to the executive responsibility of the head of the government of the public shareholders association "Ukrainian Railway" to ensure the principle of competitiveness in public procurement. Michael Bondar to the head of the Lviv District Administration, Director of the Department of State Architecture and Construction Inspection in the Lviv Region, for the removal of detected defects in the repair of auxiliary facilities for the I-III level U.S.S.A., on the 2nd Street of Selezinkov, 1 in Radehov Lviv district." Michael Bondar to the head of the Bus District Administration of the Lviv Region, head of the Bus District Council of the Lviv Region for the rehabilitation of the pharmacy in the village of Toporov of the Bou district of Lviv. Helen Sotnik to the head of the National Council of Ukraine for Television and Radio Communication on the provision of information on the implementation of monitoring of Ukrainian legislation in the field of radio broadcasting. Yuri Solova to the minister of infrastructure in charge of the headship of the State Agency for Motorways for the financing of the current repairs of some of the Snitinski, Kosovo, and the Supreme District of Ivano - Frankiv region, at the expense of the state budget. Yurya Solovya to the Deputy Prime Minister for Regional Development for the financing of certain objects in the region of Snitinski, Kosovo and Vrchovina, at the expense of the State Regional Development Fund. Vassilijanicko to the head of the Committee of the Supreme Council on Budget Affairs, Prime Minister, temporarily acting as Minister of Health, Minister of Education and Science, Head of the Ravenna District Government for the full payment of the salaries of the staff of the Dubrovnik and Rokitnov regions of the Plain region. Vasilyanicki to the Prime Minister, head of the Ukrainian National Food Safety Service, head of the Antimonopoly Committee, first deputy minister of agricultural policy to regulate the pricing mechanism in the agricultural product market. Alexander Dechtirczuk and Vasil Janicki to the Prime Minister, temporarily acting as Minister of Health, head of the Ravenna District State Administration for the treatment of cancers in the Plain region. John Balloga to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the construction of sewerage networks. Oleg Musia to the Minister of Internal Affairs for the pre-trial investigation of criminal conduct and other matters. Oleg Musia to the Prime Minister for the modernisation of the pensions of civil servants, officials of local self-government. Igora Lapina to the Prime Minister, Minister of Justice, to provide information on the activities of the state specialized court-experts. Sergia Kiwalova to the Prime Minister for the ratification by Ukraine of the 2006 International Labour Organization Convention on Maritime Navigation. Anatolia Denisenka to the Prime Minister for the development of a compensation mechanism for individuals who have set up individual natural gas metering machines in their own dwellings. Anatoly of Denisenko to the minister of politics on youth employment. IgoryaGuza to the Minister of Agriculture and Food on details of the implementation of the Government's "Just Help to Farmers" programme. IgoryaGuza to the head of the Department of International Police Cooperation of the National Police, Attorney General, on speeding up the extradition procedure from the Republic of Slovenia suspected of killing Catherine Litkina. HanniGopco to the Prime Minister on the need to designate at the national level the 100th anniversary of the liberation by the Ukrainian forces of Crimea and other territories of Ukraine from the Moscow-Victor occupations in April 18th. Group of National Deputies (Ariev, Riccovo, Berezi) to the Director of the National Anti-Corruption Bureau of Ukraine, Head of the Security Service of Ukraine for information published in the Arab publication "Asharq Al Awsat" on the release in 2010 by the regime of former left-wing dictator Muammar Kaddafi 4 million euros to then Prime Minister of Ukraine Yulia Timoshenko for her presidential election campaign. Victoria Ptašnik to the First Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine on the report of the deadlines for submission by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine of the bill on the creation of a national intellectual property authority instead of the decommissioned State Service and the non-implementation of the Mine Economics Concept for the Reform of the State Intellectual Property Protection System in Ukraine, approved by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine on June 1, 2016 No. 402. Paul Rizanenka to the Prime Minister on the need to make changes to the "How to conduct public hearings to take public interest into account in the development of urban documentation projects at the local level". Groups of National Deputies (Fraz, Kondratuk, Ionova, Lucenko, Heratschenko) to the Kiev City Head on the use of the Kiev City Council of Action to Rename the Street of Mikoli Semashka in Kiev to the Streets of an outstanding Ukrainian philosopher, the Academy of Sciences by Miroslav Popovic. Groups of National Deputies (Ionova, Heratchenko, Lucenko, Kondratjuk, Frez) to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the provision of the necessary funding in the 18th year for the repair of the road T-13-09 Lucky Shirokino in the Luhansk region. Groups of National Deputies (Ionova, Heraszczenko, Kondratjuk, Lucenko, Frez) to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the use of necessary measures to address the urgent socio-economic problems of the Lugansk Region, which was affected by fighting in the course of an anti-terrorism operation. Igor Kotwiczki to the Prime Minister on the need to allocate funding to the Scientific Research Institute of the Ukrainian Institute of Environmental Problems. Valeria Pisarenka to the Prime Minister for the promotion of the activities of the state-owned enterprises of NAN Ukraine through a reduction in the share of income transferred to the State budget. Irina Lucenko is under the temporary responsibility of the Minister of Health to provide information on the suspension of medical treatment abroad. Vladimir Litvina to the Prime Minister on compensation for the costs spent by peasants on gasification of their population. Vladimir Lithuania to the Prime Minister for the reform of the social language. OrganiaLabazuka to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, Ministry of Finance, Ministry of Social Policy for the Recalculation of Pensions to veterans of the Ministry of Finance. AndrijaJurzia and Helen Stotnik are headed by the State Treasury Service of Ukraine for the budgetary compensation of the added tax on the basis of the provisional register of claims for reimbursement of the amount of budgetary compensation. AndrijaJuriya to the Minister of Finance in charge of the Head of the State Fiscal Service of Ukraine for the formation of the Temporary Register of Refunds. RomanaMazoli to the Prime Minister on ensuring the viability of the functioning of the territorial communities and guaranteeing the settlement of legitimate rights and interests. RomanaMazoli and Andrija Šinkovica to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Social Policy of Ukraine, for not allowing further reduction of social standards for the use of residential services. Irini Konstankević to the head of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Culture and Spirituality, Vice-Prime Minister of Ukraine Vijacheslav Kirilenko, Vice-Prime Minister of Paul Rosenk, Minister of Culture of Ukraine, on the 90th anniversary of the birth of Eugen Sverstuk. Irina Konstankevich to First Deputy Prime Minister for Economic Development, Minister of Agriculture Policy for Financial Support of Farming through the Ukrainian State Fund for Agricultural Support. Andria Lopushanski to Minister of Culture, Head of the Lviv District Council, Head of the Lviv District Government for the Financing of Restoration and Restoration in the National House of Sambor in Lvivsk Region. Andrija Lopushanski to the Minister of Social Policy, head of the Lviv Observatories on the issue of reform of the State Employment Service in the Old Samobrian Region of Lviv. Yuri Berezi to the head of the Dnipropetrov District Council for the allocation of funds for the capital repair of the T0429 highway, about a mile [2.5 km] from the town of Verkhovts. IgoraArtushenka to the Head of the Ukrainian Security Service on the facts of organized acts of secession and anti-State activity of individuals in the Bogoduch district of Kharkiv. ConstantineJarynica until the temporary duty of the Minister of Health to ensure that patients with chronic renal insufficiency can be adequately treated in the town of Kropivnitsky Kirovograd. ConstantineJarynica to the Minister of Defence of Ukraine, Kropivnitski Mishni head, on the use of measures aimed at ensuring adequate housing for families of military personnel in the town of Kropivnitski Kirovograd. Edward Matviychuk to the Ministry of Social Policy of Ukraine, the Ministry of Temporary Occupational Affairs, the Odessa District Administration, the Odessa City Radictosional need for an objective review of the appeal of pensioner Greenishak Lydia, who has the status of internally displaced person and currently resides in the Kyiv district of Odessa on the need for comprehensive assistance from socio-economic issues. Edward Matviyczuk to the Ministry of Temporaryly Occupied Territories, the Ministry of Social Policy, the Odessa Observatories, the Odessa City Council on the need for objective consideration of the address of Suslov Svetlana, who has the status of internally displaced person and currently resides in the Kyiv district of Odessa with regard to the need for universal assistance and housing and other matters. Julia Ioffe to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the need to protect the interests of the inhabitants of the Luhansk region, to establish a more suitable timetable for the citizens of the passenger train No. 609/610 Kharkiv-Lisichansk. RuslanaDemczak to the temporary duty of head of the Ukrainian State Service on geodesy, cartography and cadastre to change the deadline for the transfer of land to the united territorial communities in the 18th year. Groups of National Deputies (Demchak, Jurika) Total 6) to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the allocation of local budgets in banking institutions. Yurya Bereza headed by the Dnipropetrov Regional Administration for the allocation of funds for the reconstruction of the roof of the JówoOleksandrov Public Education School, I - III, graduated from the Fifth District Council of the Dnipropetrov Region. Dmitra Kolesnikov to Prime Minister of Ukraine for the creation of a test site for a vacuum train project in Dnipro and the construction of an international airport in Bila Church. Dmitry Kolesnikov to the head of the Court of Auditors for the performance review of the Ministry of Youth and Sport of Ukraine. MaximaBurbaka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the allocation of funds to complete the construction and the opening of the Krasnoilski and Djakovci passes in the 18th year. MaximaBurbak to the head of the Kyiv City State Administration for the provision of permanent space for the World Hangover Day. OlegKulinich to the Minister of Social Policy on the granting of status as a person subject to the Ukrainian Act on the Status of War Veterans, the Guarantee of Their Social Protection, the mother of a deceased military officer. OlegaKulinich to the Ministry of Defence of Ukraine for the status of a participant in hostilities is postmortem. Tetjana Bacheviy to the Director of the National Anti-Corruption Bureau of Ukraine, Attorney General, on the ineffective use of funds allocated by the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development under the project "Improvement of Public Health". The Bachelor's aunts to the Prime Minister for inclusion in the list of doctors who provide primary medical care, dentists who work in rural areas and on other issues. Alexander Nechayev to the Kiev City Head for the immediate elimination of violations of environmental law by the management of FanPlit and the non-toxification of residents of the Dniprov district of Kiev. VadimKrivochatka to the Attorney General on the inadequacy of the position of prosecutor of Zaporozhye District Valerija Romanova. Alexander Kirsch to the Minister of Finance for the continuation of the property tax benefit for the State Science and Production Company of the United Communicator. Jaroslava Dubnevich to the head of the National Police of Ukraine, Deputy Prosecutor-General of the Military Prosecutor-General for providing information on the results of an investigation into the death of military officer Pohnczuk. Jury of Macedonia to the Attorney-General, temporarily acting as Minister of Health, Head of the State Service of Ukraine from Medical and Drug Control to systematically violate the requirements of Ukrainian legislation by the leadership of the DP "Food supplies" in part of the failure to comply with the licensing requirements of economic activity. Valeria Davidenka to the Attorney General, temporarily acting as Head of the State Service for Geodesy, Cartography and Cadastra on the issue of the permanent use of land by the State-owned enterprises DG AF "Hope" of the North East of NAAN and "DH "Iskra" of the North East of NAAN, located in the Romanian district of Suma, and the cessation of pressure on the listed enterprises from the General Administration of the Djergheokadastro in the Suma Region and the law enforcement authorities. Dmitri Lubinz to the director of the National Anti-Corruption Bureau of Ukraine for a proper investigation into the possible bribery of judges of the Supreme Court of Ukraine. Alexander Kodola to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, acting as Director-General of Pat "Krošta" for the inadmissibility of reducing the offices of the post office of Pat "Krošta" in the rural settlements of the region of Chernigiv. John Melniczuk to the Prime Minister, the Attorney General of Ukraine, on the use of urgent response measures to ensure payment of arrears from salaries to members of the KP "Guemernavodokal". John Melniczuk to the Prime Minister, Minister of Agriculture Policy for the Restoration of Production Activities of the Governmental Alcohol Plant. SergeyLyvočina to the Prime Minister on negative trends in external trade. Sergio Melnika to the Prime Minister, acting as head of the government of the Ukrainian Railway Association of Public Shareholders for the provision of railway freight cars to the DP. Sergey Melnik to the Secretary of Defense to improve the living conditions of citizen Alexander Stolarchuk Ruslana Solvara to the Prime Minister, the Minister of Social Policy, the head of the Kyiv District Ministry for the Protection of the Rights of Persons with Disabilities and the resolution of the issue of ensuring their technical and other means guaranteed by the Ukrainian legislation. Ruslana Solvar to the Prime Minister, acting as Director-General of PAT "Krošta", the head of the Kyiv District Administration, the head of the Kyiv Arch, the head of the Fastov District Administration, the head of the Fastov Paradise for not allowing the closure of the Olenów Department of the Pat "Krošta". John Rybak to the Prime Minister, temporarily acting as Minister of Health, head of the Montenegrin District Government for the provision of medical assistance to a sick person in the town of Kitzman in the Cherniew region. John Ribak to the Prime Minister, Minister of Infrastructure, acting as Head of the Ukrainian State Road Agency for the provision of State funding for construction and repair work in the areas agreed by the "Kravtodor" in the region of Cherniewsky for 2018. Groups of National Deputies (Head of the Contingent of only five deputies) to the Prime Minister, Minister of Finance, Minister of Infrastructure to allocate additional funds for the reconstruction of the Ternopil International Airport complex. Mikhail Golka to the Minister of Internal Affairs for the address of the head of the Peace Panasa 29/1 housing cooperative in Hmelnicky, on the basis of a solution to the problem of the construction of the second line of residence on the street of Panas Mirnoj, 29/1 in Hmielnickýk. Andrea Illenka, head of the Kyiv City Administration for immediate action in connection with the unsatisfactory work of elevator equipment in the Righteous Region. Andrija Illenka to the Minister of Infrastructure of Ukraine, acting as head of the government of the Ukrainian Railway Association of Public Shareholders, to improve the efficiency of seasonal summer passenger transport by rail. Juriya Pavlenko to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the transfer of powers to the territorial communities under the administration of the agricultural assignment. Jury Pavlenko to the Prime Minister, acting as Head of the National Bank of Ukraine for the provision of information by the National Bank of Ukraine and for the resolution of water management problems in the town of Malin Žitomirsk. Mr. Alexander Gehrega and Mr. Andrija Shinkovič are to the Minister of Internal Affairs for the investigation of the death of a Ukrainian citizen after being tortured by police officers in the Hmelnicki district. Alexander Gehrega and Andrija Šinkovič are under the executive responsibility of the Head of the National Bank of Ukraine on the proposal for a review of the settlement of the requirements of cash discipline. SergiaVlasenka to the head of the National Shareholder Company Naftogaz Ukraine for providing true information on the Stockholm Arbitration Tribunal's decision in a dispute between NAC Naftogaz Ukraine and Pat Gazprom on a contract for the transit of natural gas. Ms. SergiaVlasenka to the Attorney General of Ukraine, Director General of Media Holding "1+1 Media", Head of the National Council of Ukraine for Television and Broadcasting, Director-General of the StarLightmedia Group, Director-General of Private Shareholders of Teleradia Lux, on the provision of information on the so-called social promotion of the Office of the Attorney-General of Ukraine and on the participation of Jurija Lucenka, Prosecutor-General of Ukraine. Andrija Galchenka to the Prime Minister for violations of the constitutional rights of women working in harmful working conditions to adequate retirement. Andrija Galchenka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the systematic underfunding of the vocational and technical education sector. DmitraTimczuka to the Defence Minister on the possibility of signing contracts for the conduct of service in the Armed Forces of Ukraine for military officers with secondary education. Igor Popov to the director of the National Anti-Corruption Bureau of Ukraine for improving the activities of the NABU Sergey Leshchenka to head the Kyiv City Office for Construction Works in the Central Historical Area of the Podil district of Kiev. Sergey Leschchenka to the Ukrainian Defence Minister for the Exploitation of the Armed Forces of Ukraine's Tor-D helomoclesic "Tor-D". Vladimir Aresonkova to the Minister of Social Policy of Ukraine on the social protection of citizens who have the status of victims as a result of the Chernobyl disaster of category IV. Vladimir Aresonkova to the Prime Minister of Ukraine to regulate the financing of local budgets. Sergey Rudik to the Defence Minister on the urgent solution to the issue of the construction of the first and second row of the 129th residential building in Cherkasa on the street of Gruszewski, 97/3 for soldiers of the Armed Forces of Ukraine. Sergey Rudika to the Minister of Ecology and Natural Resources of Ukraine, temporarily acting as Head of the State Geology Service, and to address urgently the issue of the uninterrupted operation of the WaterGeo utility in Smil of the Cherkas region. Sergia Kaplina to the head of the National Regulatory Service of Ukraine on the verification of violations by the executive committee of the Poltava City Council of the Ukrainian Law on the Principles of State Regulatory Policy in the Field of Economic Activity, with the increase in tariffs for public transport in Poltava. Sergia Kaplina to the deputy head of the National Forest Resources Agency of Ukraine for the regulation of hunting activities related to hunting dogs and the control of preparing dogs for hunting. Oleg Osukhovsky to the Attorney General of Ukraine, the Ministry of Interior, the head of the National Agency for the Prevention of Corruption, the Minister of Justice for the Restoration of the Property Rights of Persons with Disabilities. PaulDublika to the Prime Minister, temporarily acting as Minister of Health for the total deficit of vaccines in the treatment and prevention facilities of the Žitomir region. PaulDublika to the minister of ecology and natural resources to address the critical situation of the formation, stockpiling, storage, processing, disposal and disposal of waste. AndriaShipka to the Minister of Social Affairs, the head of the Pension Fund's government for the establishment of a fair pension. Alexander Brygintz to the Prime Minister, the head of the General Directorate of State Food Services in Kiev, the Kiev City Head on gross disregard for Ukrainian laws and the moral and ethical principles of society in advertising tobacco products at public transport stations. Alexander Briginca to the Prime Minister, Minister of Infrastructure, acting as Head of the Government of the Public Shareholders Association of the Ukrainian Railways for the improper equipment of pandas for the movement of suitcases by passengers at the stations of Ukraine, in particular the Capital; improper ventilation in trains in winter and spring periods; problems with the language situation in communication with passengers. RobertaGorvato Minister of Foreign Affairs of Ukraine on legal and diplomatic assistance, protection of the rights and freedoms of Ukrainian citizen Chicos Edward. Andrija Pomazanova to the Prime Minister on the implementation of measures to ensure the repair of the highways of Zdolbonov-Glinsk-Steblika in the area 4+300 km - 8+400; O-180804 Half-Mozoch-Kopitka in the area of Mizoch-Povce; O-180804/M-06/Glinsk-Zdobitsa-Novosilica in the area of 7+200 km 9+500. Alexander Wiekula to the National Bank of Ukraine, Minister of Finance of Ukraine, on ensuring parliamentary control over the structure and dynamics of the increase in Ukraine's external debt and possible irreversible negative socio-economic processes. Alexander Wiekula to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Social Policy for Parliamentary Control of the Implementation of the Cabinet of Ministers Order of 21 February 18 No 103 on the Recalculation of Pensions for Persons Released from Military Service and Certain Other Categories of Persons, and on the Legal Right to Recalculate the Pensions of All Categories of Military and Veterans. Jaroslava Markevich to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the provision of prompt, full, objective and impartial investigation into criminal conduct. Jaroslava Markevich to the director of the National Anti-Corruption Bureau of Ukraine for information. Borislav Bereza to the minister of justice for inclusion in the liquidation mass of the building, which includes a protective civil protection structure. Alexander Dombrovski to the Prime Minister for the installation of personal gas accounting devices for domestic consumers. Mikoli Palamarchuk to the deputy head of the National Police Department of the National Police in Kiev regarding the lack of notification by a police representative of his name, office, special rank, and no official identification. Groups of National Deputies (Shinkovich, Gerega, Macola) to the head of the Hmelnick district government on the need for funding from the 18 - year district budget for the capital repair of the section of the road in the village of Shekerinz of the Hmelnick district. Groups of National Deputies (Shinkovica, Gerega, Macola) to the Minister of Infrastructure for the restoration of the Shepetovka-Johno-Frankivsk-Shepetovka train. Groups of National Deputies (Conditions, Besbach, others) In total, 79 of our colleagues) to the Prime Minister, who is temporarily acting as Health Minister, the Minister of Finance to increase spending on the purchase of conglomerates needed for endovascular treatment of congenital heart defects. Pavlov Kishkara to the Attorney General for the enforcement of legislation by the investigators of the Kharkiv district of Kalinya during the pretrial investigation. Jury Bublika to the Minister of Education and Science of Ukraine on the non-derogable rights of teaching staff in Poltava and the allocation of additional public education subsidies needed to pay them back for the prestige of pedagogical work to the right level. Anna Romanova to the Minister of Education and Science of Ukraine on the non-admission of an innovative educational program called the Intellect of Ukraine. Anna Romanova to the Minister of Culture concerning the activities of state-owned tourism enterprises subordinated to the Ministry of Culture of Ukraine. Maxima Polakov to the Attorney-General for the verification of the legality of the provision of services on a free-of-charge basis by government agencies and enterprises. Groups of National Deputies (Lucenko,Fraz,Condratuk,Herashchenko,Ionova) to the Prime Minister of Ukraine to remove obstacles to the restoration of pensions and other social benefits to residents of the villages of Travneve Bahmut district and Gladosov Gorlova district of the Donetsk region. Groups of National Deputies (Condratjuk, Friz, Heratschenko, Ionova, Lucenko) to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the monitoring of the effectiveness and transparency of the use of international technical assistance funds provided to Ukraine by the European Union and international financial institutions during 1991-2017. Victor Romanyuk to the Attorney General of Ukraine, director of the National Anti - Corruption Bureau of Ukraine, on the inaction of law enforcement authorities in investigating criminal conduct opened with regard to the group of persons involved in the creation of the criminal regime of Viktor Janukovič. Victor Romanyuk to the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine for forcing students of the National Medical University of the name of Bogolits to participate in the strike, led by the university to preserve existing corruption schemes and flows. Vladimir Parasyuka to the Prime Minister, Minister of Social Policy to review the size of State social assistance for persons with disabilities from childhood and children with disabilities. Vladimir Parasyuka to the head of the Ukrainian Presidential Administration, Prime Minister, Deputy Prime Minister, Regional Development Minister Gennady Zubk for the implementation of the mechanism for monitoring and overseeing the decision of local self-government authorities. Oksana Bilozer to the head of the State Office for Special Liaison and Information Protection of Ukraine, heads of the Security Service to assess possible threats to the destruction of infrastructure objects that provide stationary telephone communication and to avoid risks to Ukraine’s national security. JuryaTimoshenka to the Secretary of Defense for the status of a member of the fighting. JuriyaTimoshenka to the minister of ecology and natural resources for the environmental security of the citizens of the village of Piedica Jury Derevyanka to the executive responsibility of the Head of the State Fiscal Service on the need to provide copies of the order of the General Directorate of the State Fiscal Service in Ivano-Frankov Region 11th of January 19th, 2018 "On the use of measures" and the Plan of Action on the organization and conduct of control and verification of the management of the activities of the citizens' mass rest sites during the New Year's/Christmas holidays 2017/2018. Victoria Vojcietsky to the executive responsibility of the head of the State Property Fund of Ukraine for the contract for the purchase and sale of Pat "Dniproenergo" and DTEK HOLDINGZ LIMITED. Dear colleagues, here I have completed the announcement of 248 requests from Ukrainian national deputies, which are now registered in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. We have five minutes to break. And we've got two petitions, sorry, three petitions from the Ukrainian people's deputies that they're dissatisfied with the answers to their questions. I now give the word to Lechchenk Sergei, 3 minutes, and then to Igor Shurmi, 3 minutes. Sergey Leschenko's got two, but please bet in three minutes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-02-m0.u89	Good afternoon, Ukraine! This is a story when I met with voters at the settlement of the Kyiv-Svetoshin district at the end of last year and participated in an event that actually involved fraud, counterfeiting by the country's head, the decision on the territorial community. This took place right on the steps of the village council, when the village head did not even let her, her community, into the premises they owned to prevent her from being exposed. I was directed to address, to conduct things openly. Similarly, the district administration of the Kyiv region has not legalized this decision, and today the issue is being investigated by the police in the Kyiv-Svetoshin region. This is another example of the ability of Ukrainian citizens to unite, to deal with protests, and to always worry about citizens, to stop fraudulent decisions, and to change lives for the better in both the community and Ukraine. Well, taking advantage of what I have to say today, I also wanted to inform the Ukrainian citizens that, as promised, we have a bill on depriving the Ukrainian Special Service of its own functions. A bill on institutionalizing the ability of the BSS to deal with matters that the Security Service should deal with in a civilized European country. So that she doesn't engage in a racket of business, so she doesn't ask for money, so that she doesn't do searches on Ukrainian chivalrous people who are valued worldwide, who are invited everywhere in the world. And instead of creating the most favourable conditions for Ukrainian Ayahs, they are given masks, searches, removals of technology, removal of money and everything else that makes it impossible for Ukrainian companies to work. So remember Bill 8057, which was signed by a group of MEPs, is a code of access to fair and fair services. And we have the support of the NATO Office in Kiev bill, which, directly in its letter, has also said that they demand to limit the functions of the BSS to what the services of the civilized world are doing, so that it has nothing to do with criminal business, with the so-called financing of terrorism, because under this article they are simply demanding money. And you know what happened after that? Then it was signed by the lawyers of the first deputy head of the BUILDING, and criminal conduct was discovered on me. I'm not afraid of it, I think it's a recognition that our efforts to protect the Ukrainian business are working, that the discovery of the unkind activities of the U.S.S.S.A., they're working to make it stop. And so I think it just increases our position. So, please, we need to unite around us in order to transform the BSS into a real service of the European country. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-02-m0.u90	Ladies and gentlemen, I'm going to resume the meeting of the Supreme Council for two minutes. And the word Igor Shurmi is now being given, which is the same as Sergey Lechchenko has applied for the verdict that he is dissatisfied with the answer to his parliamentary request. Please, Mr. Igor.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-02-m0.u91	Dear citizens of Ukraine! The government is supported by the people, and it is respected when the interaction between the President, the Cabinet of Ministers and the Supreme Council is being eluded. conduct with mutual respect. What do we have today? Can the Supreme Council count on the respect of people if there is no respect for the MPs in the Cabinet? How can it be said that at the parliamentary request of April 12, 2017, which was announced from the Supreme Council’s rostrum that there are reports from hospitals, hospitals, medical institutions, that pro-term drugs are being supplied that cannot be used? This request is answered in two months by the Ministry of Health that international contracts provide a minimum of 15 months or 75 percent of the total eligible term. Then a year later, 10 months later, an answer comes from the Ukrainian State Audit Service. And now we understand why everyone was so silent. A number of violations have been committed by the Ministry. No adequate monitoring of the level of health care and redistribution facilities has been performed or replacements have been carried out for the remainder of the medical supplies that have been limited. And this has led to the destruction of drugs in health care facilities or state - owned factories worth 18 million dollars! Accordingly, the State Audit Service sends all its documents showing violations to the National Police Chief Investigation Authority of Ukraine, informs the General Directorate for Counter-Intelligence Protection of State Interests in the Field of Economic Security of the Ukrainian Security Service, to the Office of the Attorney General of Ukraine. Where are the answers?Oh, my God! Where are the answers? You can imagine, for today's proterminated drugs. There's nothing to treat. The more I tell you, it's not random. In 2017, no drugs were taken from the money that was allocated for 2017. No drugs! Children are waiting, waiting for adults, and unfortunately, they die too much, and there is no cure. And there's no reaction. Because of a lack of respect for what has been revealed, they are not called to account. As a result of the so - called A minister who has no citizenship or education reports on the provision of measles vaccines. Remember when a child died in Kramitarsky? And now, yesterday, a child died in sums. And who is responsible for this? This is a request to those who control the Ministry.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-02-m0.u92	Dear colleagues, this is the end of the performance under the heading "Victory" of our colleagues. I now announce a 30-minute recess in our session. And immediately after the break, a recording of Ukrainian national deputies with a desire and interest today will begin. I also inform you that after the adjournment of the meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, my colleague, Madam Vice-Speaker Oksana Siroid, will continue. Break for 30 minutes. And then we meet for the extension of our meeting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-02-m0.u93	We're continuing our work. I'm asking all the deputies to come into the hall. Now, now. Well, the MPs are still coming in. Give me a few more minutes. Yes, please get the deputies ready, please record the performances on "Virgin." I'd like to invite you to the floor of the People's Deputy Barna.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-02-m0.u94	Praise Jesus Christ! Dear Ukrainian people, we can talk a lot about patriotism, but the higher degree of cynicism is the fact that, by concealing European values, the vector of choice, some pseudopathies are sold at the expense of the Moscow-Asian horde. When they speak of patriotism themselves and finance shares in the split of Ukraine at the expense of the white oligarch Yanukovic and the Russian FSB, and his gravel of Kurchenka. When spoken very beautifully of parliamentary ethics, they openly lie to their colleagues and manipulate the Ukrainian people. When it comes to the priority of military security, there's a lot of respect for military personnel, and at that time they're calling, mating or throwing stones at our ATO veterans and law enforcement officials. When it comes to the fight against corruption, the independence of the judicial system, and at the same time the courts are suing the Attorney General for exposing the criminal scheme, financing anti - Ukrainian actions in the center of Ukraine at the expense of the Russian FSB. So, obviously, this congregate, which is before the Supreme Council, which has covered the street of Gruszewski, is not the will of the Ukrainian people. Look in the tents, how many people are there. I think we need to decide what to do and how to get them out of the tent. Because we can see there's no one there. As it has been halted, Ukraine's special forces have blocked the flow of financial resources to that paid-out stock and to those paid-out Cossacks that are there, a covered channel by Ukraine's special services, which was delivered by separatist mail called Dangadze, the funds here in Ukraine. And so now we just have to invite the Chinese to line up the center of the capital for the normal lives of our people. And after all, I was approached by teachers who taught military and patriotic education, who lacked tents to play the Sokol Military Patriotic Game. Or let's get these tents organized and handed over to our military personnel who will be conducting combat training on the Ukrainian ranges. And that's exactly what they're going to want. Because Ukraine is us, not those who scream and split our state. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-02-m0.u95	Thank you. Welcome to the speech of the People's Deputy Vuka. He was given the word by the national deputy of Lensky.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-02-m0.u96	Victor Wolf, the faction of the Radical Party of Oleg Laska. Ladies and gentlemen, during the winter session of the OSCE Parliamentary Assembly last week, special debates took place on disarmament and non-proliferation issues. These debates reflected the growing concern of the world community about the possibility of a nuclear conflict in the world, particularly in the context of North Korea and Iran’s nuclear programmes. As noted during the debate, the nuclear clock, which countdowns time to the nuclear apocalypse, returned in the cold war to the 1953 mark. In this connection, as a representative of the Radical Party of Oleg Láska in the Ukrainian delegation, I stressed the need to understand history lessons and reminded parliamentarians from 56 OSCE countries of the historic lessons of nuclear disarmament in Ukraine, the failure to fulfil commitments under the Budapest Memorandum on Security Safeguards to Ukraine, the de facto undermining of the non-proliferation regime resulting from Russian aggression and the distortion of international law in this area. After the collapse of the Soviet Union, Ukraine inherited the third largest nuclear potential in the world, 2.5 times the nuclear potential of Britain, France, and China, combined. Aware of Russia’s existing threat, Ukraine agreed to surrender its nuclear weapons only in exchange for security assurances against the major nuclear powers — the United States, Britain, and Russia. So Russia’s aggression against Ukraine actually undermines the global regime of nonproliferation of nuclear weapons and causes other nations vulnerable to external threats to view nuclear weapons as legitimate means of deterring external aggression. What signal does this send to North Korea, Iran, and others? Because the fundamental question of the Budapest Memorandum was nuclear non-proliferation, the most important aspect of collective security in the world. How can the seriousness and importance of this fundamental document be questioned in general? Who will trust the international community when it calls upon nations seeking nuclear weapons to give up this goal in exchange for a guarantee? International co-operation should strongly support the implementation of the Budapest Memorandum and Russia's commitment to responsibility, because otherwise international law in the field of non-proliferation of nuclear weapons will be completely discredited as well as the idea of security assurances as a means of preventing the proliferation of nuclear weapons. Oleg Láska’s radical party is firmly convinced that it is not possible to deal with the issues on which mankind’s fate depends. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-02-m0.u97	Thank you. Welcome to the speech of the Galasuk People's Deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-02-m0.u98	Victor Galasuk, the faction of the Radical Party of Oleg Laszek. Dear Ukrainians! The government's weak economic policy has led the country to a state that we've begun to dictate from abroad, what should we do with our land, what should we do with our language, what should we do with our taxes in our country? This needs to be corrected, it needs to be placed in place for Ukraine’s economic policies to work in the interests of the Ukrainians. What does the Radical Party faction do for this? Remember the Law on the Moratorium for the exports of roundwood, so that unprocessed wood will not be exported from Ukraine. When we stood up for this with Oleg Lášk, with our team, with our fellow thinkers, who were fierce, fierce critics from both sides of the European Union, and the President promised when we had already chosen to adopt this law to abolish it. But let's look at the results today, it's not just environmental protection. In the previous year alone, the first and full year of work of the moratorium, 2 billion dollars of additional investment came only into this timber industry. Tens of thousands of new jobs have been created throughout the country, 4 billion dollars have been increased, and I emphasize that raw wood-processing exports have added half a billion dollars in taxes to the budgets. This is a real example of successful pro - Ukrainian industrial policy. And we urge the entire Parliament and the government to pursue such policies, not as an exception, but as a rule. Another example of successful industrial policy is the metallurgical law initiated by our team of the Radical Party: raising three times the rate of export to scrap metal. He allowed more than 30,000 jobs to be saved to Ukrainians, saved over $1.5 billion in foreign exchange, and thus secured the stability of the currency, and prevented it from falling relative to the dollar, and not giving prices to increase in stores. Today we hear the same harsh criticism with regard to the bill "Buy Ukrainians, Pay Ukrainians". And this criticism is totally unfair, because this law will give legal, honest, fair, economic advantage to Ukrainian production. As the United States has done since 1933, as in Europe today, when minimum levels of localization are set. You want to sell for government purchases - build a factory in the country or make your product cheap. It'll cost imports, it'll give more investment to the country, it'll bring more revenue to the budget, it'll make the economy stronger, not weaken it. Today, the economic policy of the State needs to be completely changed. Not to borrow from the IMF, but to build a strong own industry and raise the real income of citizens. That's what the Radical Party team is offering. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-02-m0.u99	I'd like to invite you to the floor of the People's Deputy Dolzhenko. He was given the word by the national deputy Miroshnichenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-02-m0.u100	Dear colleagues! Dear citizens of Ukraine! First of all, I'm addressing you because the room is almost empty. But I would like to draw your attention to a very important issue: the pension of Ukrainian citizens. In 1996, the State of Ukraine adopted the Constitution, which states that the State guarantees pension insurance. And any manifestations of discrimination, discriminatory attitudes towards citizens, regardless of their property status, political expectations, religious expectations will not happen. Sadly, though, the said position is merely a declaration. Regrettably, he is forced to point out certain, rather egregious facts that are overlooked by the authority in force and do not even want to listen to us. During the 2014 armed conflict, there were 1.2 million pensioners living in uncontrolled areas, with an extra 28 billion dollars. The Yatzenuk government evacuated state institutions and demanded help, including pensioners. Of the 1.2 million citizens, 950,000 were made, and in 2015 they received a pension on the basis of evidence. But the government of Groysman, not too long thought, decided that too much was being paid by the state of Ukraine to the stated population category, and actually initiated the verification procedure. What does that mean? This means that if a citizen of Ukraine who has the right to a pension but who does not reside permanently in a controlled territory does not have the right to a pension. Thus, with an easy hand, 400,000 pensioners were deprived of their pension rights by adopting the relevant Decree 356 of the Ukrainian Ministers’ Office in 2016. Nobody talks about it here. 400,000 pensioners are 13 billion dollars, according to Rizanenko and Reva, the economy of the Ukrainian Pension Fund. They were so boastful of the conviction this year. Overcoming own revenue is 50 billion dollars. And there's an economy of Ukrainian citizens. This is the attitude of the real government, this is the order to the really urgent needs of Ukrainian citizens. Regrettably, the current authorities divided the Ukrainians and placed them on a permanent basis. But are the guilty citizens of Ukraine who are elderly, who cannot be physically mobile and move to a controlled area, or are they guilty of living in these areas and being in the midst of these events? Regrettably, though, the current authorities have reversed the practice of making payments on the basis of evidence and demand a humiliating one.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-02-m0.u101	Thank you. Welcome to the speech of the People's Deputy Golovka. He was given the word of a national MP.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-02-m0.u102	Mikhail Golovko, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. Dear fellow national MPs! I am outraged by the fact that not only me, but also by many deputies, that the whole world is trying to help Ukraine, to apply sanctions to the enemy, to the aggressor, to Moscow, and our Ukrainian state, our Ukrainian authorities, on the contrary, is growing trade and economic relations with the Russian Federation. In the past year, this trade has grown and, unfortunately, Russia is now the largest trading partner, accounting for 37 percent of all trade relations with our nation. So the whole world is using sanctions, and our power is supporting the economy and development of the Russian Federation, their aggressor. I want to say that there is a clear threat to the destruction of the entire sector today, since there is no step on the part of the authorities to protect their own manufacturer. Today, Moscow is actively beginning to take over the chemical market in our country, sending here the saltpeter and the ammonia minbliavos used for our agriculture are practically destroyed today by almost all factories in the Ukrainian state that are practically at the closing stage, 50,000 Ukrainian families may lose their jobs. Because Russian companies, which are already practically monopolies, like EuroCheem, Uralhim, today make up almost 50 percent of their products in Ukraine's markets, that's what they've been through. Despite the fact that we were required to impose sanctions, virtually dumping or even though the anti-dumping prices, the anti-dumping sanctions, on Russian goods, unfortunately, had not been made by this authority. The Echelons continue to travel to Ukraine. Ukrainians are out of work, we're out of taxes, 2 billion dollars has been lost by the government in the past year, that's how it's inaction. We raised that question on Cabmine. There's a decision by the Ministry of Economics, but unfortunately no one's closing their eyes. Realizing that these companies, the Russian companies, are involved and, by the way, the BSS has given the answer, which is involved in financing terrorists, they're all closing their eyes. It is unacceptable that today the entire chemical industry is being destroyed, as Russia in its time destroyed the oil industry, now on the turn of the chemical industry. And we're going to lose this industry, people are going to be out of work, there's not going to be any taxes on our budget. And all the money today, billions, is being exported from Ukraine to the Russian Federation. So we call on the National Deputies to immediately introduce anti-dumping measures because Ukrainian goods cannot compete with Russia because they cheat codification. Moreover, the price of their natural gas is $70, and unfortunately our gas costs 310, so our production is not competitive compared to them. So we have to take anti - dumping measures, ban their imports into Ukraine, protect our own manufacturer, protect our working Ukrainian families, and pay taxes to the State Budget.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-02-m0.u103	Thank you. And I invite you to the speech of the People's Deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-02-m0.u104	Dear leader, distinguished national MPs! Of course, I wanted to start my speech with the newly completed press conference from Moscow by our fugitive Yanukovic, to say a few words, because four years as he fled the country and four years he couldn't give up. And you know, this is the kind of thing that just happened. Which we've been looking at through our channels, I think it's really a disgrace to everyone. And I'd like our Ukrainian public to understand correctly that the person who has escaped today is throwing dirt on Ukraine and sitting there in Moscow, and I'd like us to judge him anyway. And very much. I think the protection he was with him, he's not so mean either. He is not fulfilling his duties, but he is serving in Ukraine. That's my impression. But I'd like to come to us national deputies, because we don't go to work. Let's say, yes, we don't go to work. I'm going to say that we, the people's deputies, are post-Majdan, and it's a shame that we received a comment from the speaker yesterday. And yesterday, right, and we're not going anywhere, the speaker broke down, but. And this is what we saw, and all the channels started showing -- well here, I think if this is going to go on like this, then, God knows it, let's do it then, really, maybe the elections are needed. We should not be held in the Supreme Council today, and that is correct. Well, that's what I'm saying. That's fair. But at the same time, we're all going to work on both the committee and the county today. And the first thing I'd like to do today is we've heard our government, and I'd like to make some comments and suggestions. Yes, today I had to approach the vice-premier of our Hennady Grigorovitch Zubka with a request that ours, my area in Winnitzkin, this is the Cherniewice region, where some villages are Breezovka, Mazurovka, the Chernovci themselves, the district center, have been invested in the land for years, 92 percent of the costs have been invested, gasification carried out, and so on, but we can't raise a few kilometers of gas pipeline. I think today he promised Gennady Grigorovich, I'd like to thank him very much for paying attention to my district. And we do have people receiving subsidies today, and the gasification of villages in relation to subsidies is convenient, no matter what we say. Because it's hard for people to smoke wood, too. Let us look forward only to the work we have done, unite and work together for the benefit of our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-02-m0.u105	Thank you. Welcome to the speech of the People's Deputy of Teteruk.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-02-m0.u106	Madam Chairman, honourable fellow members of the national parliament, the distinguished Ukrainian people, could be dedicated to the achievements we have, and we will win the courts in the Russian Federation as an aggressor country, and we will not pay those shameful $50 billion under the "take or pay" contract. We can talk about providing us with air weapons, but it's all this politics. I would like to go directly to those citizens who are still hesitant and who are not going to start speaking in Ukrainian -- a country where so many important people, talented people, lived, created, loved, wrote very wonderful stories. And now there's this moment where we're going to be adopting a bill on national Ukrainian language. But without the efforts of each of us, without our own desire to learn the English language, this process will simply not be progressive. And taking this opportunity, I'm very much asking to start with myself, day after day, word after word, the most absorbing language in the world, the most charming language. Enrich your daily vocabulary and learn Ukrainian. Your life can play with completely new colors, and you will understand how wonderful it is to use Ukrainian in everyday communication. I cherish the hope that this process will bring you pleasure. You will be happy to know that you are able to do so. But remember, take steps each day. Learn English. Love her. And let it bring you a lot of satisfaction. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-02-m0.u107	Thank you. I'd like to invite you to the floor of the People's Deputy Rudik.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-02-m0.u108	Dear voters, I address you first, because I've talked about this more than once to colleagues who are almost out of the room, there's nothing to talk about in large numbers. In a very important matter that concerns the absolute majority of the largest city, 198th district of Smyla. Literally two weeks ago, from this rostrum, I was speaking on chronic breaks in the supply of heat, then garbage, and finally, we got to the water. Thanking God and the weather conditions, there was no heat cut during that time, because it would be a cattle thing for people to cut off heat at such negatives. But this morning, at 7:30 a.m., I received a message from my assistant that water had been shut down until the end of today. Do you know what it's all about? Because the Ministry of Social Policy has been blaming 4.3 million dollars since the 15th century for differences in population tariffs! There's not much in the hands of the Minospolytics since December 17th to February 18th, there's now another debt of 1.6 million dollars to be paid by the Ministry of Finance, Income and Subsidies. Do you have any idea what it is like for a town in the water to have a debt of 4.6 million and 1.3 million dollars?Oh, my God! Who is suffering? And people are suffering. And today the City Council -- and I understand why it's doing this -- is looking for a way out of this situation. Option one: Proposed to raise the tariff. It's not working. Option two: It is proposed to turn on the water at 2 a.m. and at night. It's not working. We started to check on the company. By the way, from Monday they're starting to check out an enterprise that provides water and water services to WaterGeo. God will give them the answer to the question: Where is the money going? Dear colleagues, I turn to you with opportunity. I understand that there is no Minister of Finance or Minister of Social Policy here. I'll meet them separately next plenary week. Do not lead to sin. Pay off the state's debts to local self-government, which so-called Smila lives in that city. Taking advantage of the opportunity, I appeal to the city’s authorities, in the city’s district. The heads of the Synth Constantine and all that's done. You're going to have a six-number session. I know you're willing to raise the tariff. Please don't do this. Humans should not be held accountable for the inadequacies of power. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-02-m0.u109	Thank you. I invite you to the floor of the People's Deputy of Aresonkov.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-02-m0.u110	Dear Madam Chairman, distinguished colleagues of the national MPs! I want to go back to December 2017, when in the midst of preparations to discuss the adoption of the 2018 budget, an event that caused dissatisfaction, destruction of many people, citizens of our state, forest workers. It was a so - called strategy or a new concept that the government wanted to adopt and that pertained to further public policy in the field of forestry. I want to remind you that one of the positions in this strategy or concept was the involvement of the private sector, the private capital in the activities of forest enterprises. There were rallying, there were caring, there were discontents. And so far, I have not understood the position of government, so what kind of strategy is it going to be? And I'm reminding you today that the President's decree, which was adopted, has only suspended these actions. But in the government, as far as I know, there is an expert group that is still preparing this new strategy. And I would like the public to be familiar with it, because the thesis that was in this strategy, that unnecessary public discussion, I find absolutely unacceptable. Next. I know that there are political factions in this session room that support the position of strengthening the social protection of citizens affected by the accident at CHAES. And I thank those who are the authors, co-authors of the bill, and I now address the faction leaders and ask you, on behalf of the Association of National Montenegrin Deputies, on March 12th, March 19th during the Conciliation Council, to insist on the introduction of daily bills that support citizens affected by the crash in CHAES, especially the issue of child nutrition regulation (you know, today it breaks down in a number of areas), pension insurance and so on. Another thesis, dear colleagues. Road to Belarus. Yesterday it was reported that we were intensifying contacts between Ukraine and the Republic of Belarus. Tell me, are we going to fly exclusively by helicopters? Because the Mogilov-Hmelnicki route is no longer allowed to go through it. And to the end. Dear fellow MPs, I urge you -- and this is the day before March 8th -- let's be tolerant, let's honor our women. Yesterday, what was on 112 doesn't look like a man.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-02-m0.u111	Ten seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-02-m0.u112	There have been accusations, but in such an intolerant, unbecoming form to the address of our fellow MPs. I mean, men of honor.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-02-m0.u113	Thank you. And welcome to the speech of the People's Deputy, the Radical Party. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-02-m0.u114	Igor Musiyczuk, Oleg Lachka Radical Party. Last week, our iron team drove the country and met with voters. Oleg Ljasko visited Kharkiv, Mariupol, Zaporozhye, Dmitry Linko – Ivano-Frankivsk, and I visited Ravenshina, Žitomirščina. We met people everywhere. Most of the time, I met people in rural areas who had two of the most painful issues. One question is what to do with milk and cow. Because, despite what the government has continued to do more faithfully, the introduction of the EU’s association’s provisions, according to which milk cannot be accepted into peasants, is still a matter of insistence, and the villagers are indignant. Our team therefore insists on the need to introduce a national program to protect Ukrainian dairy, Ukrainian peasants, and Ukrainian cows in every yard. It's overwhelming. The second question is ownership on the ground. A variety of apherists, skatzyki schmocyki, in the form of agrarian parties, are creating politically-friendly projects whose main task is to go to the Parliamentary Hall and sell Ukrainian land. That's what I'm saying. Our job is to make the Ukrainian land belong to the Ukrainian peasant, the Ukrainian farmer. And for this reason, according to the initiative of our Radical Party faction, Oleg Laska has registered changes to the Constitution, which predict that agriculture in the country will be exclusively farming. Another important meeting that took place last week was with my colleague at the Radical Party of Oleg Laska Valeria Zarbojko meeting with miners from Selidovo. There was no minister here today to answer to anyone. But people are desperate, people are starving, people are self-inflicted, and really wild things are happening. Because the huge layers developed are owned by Janukovic's son, then passed to other misunderstood persons, not developed, and Ukraine bought coal in America and Russia. They talked about the aggressor country and the increase in trade balance, that's the increase. And finally. A press conference by citizen Yanukovic from Moscow just ended. I'm officially asking you to consider my words as a parliamentary request that the Security Service verify all the publications, all the TV channels that broadcast it. Because it was informational.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-02-m0.u115	Ten seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-02-m0.u116	against the Ukrainian State. And this hippo, who fled to Rostov, drowned the country with blood, has no right to be on the air of Ukrainian channels and the media. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-02-m0.u117	Thank you. I'd like to invite you to the floor of the People's Deputies of Kirsche.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-02-m0.u118	Alexander Kirsch, the People's Front, the city of Kharkiv. Ladies and gentlemen, as we know, at the end of last year, we passed a law prohibiting the installation of counters that are essentially Communist, that is, when the gas counter works alone on the entire approach or one on the entire house. But there was a new problem. Prior to the entry into force of this law, gas suppliers had already been able to establish a large portion of these colgasborous counters. My constant references to "Harkovmiskgas," the officials of this company say that these counters are not going to be dismantled. And poor people are unable to pay for gas, more gas, in other words, not the highest quality, for their rich neighbors, who do not save at all. Even when someone in the house is self - cooking, the bills increase for all residents. Yes, of course it doesn't have to be. In the near future, I will present a bill obliging gas suppliers to dismantle all such public buildings or public gas counters at their own expense, that is, at the expense of this enterprise, not at the expense of the people. I invite all those who wish to join this legislative initiative, since this situation has taken place not only in Kharkiv but also throughout Ukraine. I'd also like to inform the residents of the houses where the so-called clocks are already installed. In the event that such a counter is public or public, suddenly something is out of order or someone is accidentally damaged, the gas company is not allowed to install such a blockage counter. I also want to raise another important problem for the city of Kharkiv. They're going to close the specialized health section No. 13, located in Kharkiv, in the territory of the Fifth. At present there is information that this medical facility can be closed and passed on to the Ministry of Education and Science of Ukraine. What is the point of education and science when the only medical facility on Fifth Street is closed that is very separate from this city? On February 9th, I sent a parliamentary request to the Prime Minister, the Minister of Education and Science and the Acting Minister of Health for not allowing such closure. Part 13 provides medical care to some 10,000 people, and Fifth Street is a fairly remote area of Kharkiv. Therefore, if this medical facility is closed, people will not be able to get to another hospital quickly. Please take note of my requests, take into account the interests of 10,000 Harkians, and do not allow the closure of Special Medical and Sanitary Section 13. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-02-m0.u119	Thank you. May I have the floor of the People's Deputy Kirichenko, please? I've got Kirichenko written. Excuse me, Kuprienka.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-02-m0.u120	Dear colleagues, yesterday the whole of Ukraine bowed its heads to the memory of the world’s worst tragedy, the most terrible tragedy of civilization. In 1943, 75 years ago, fascists were burned to death, wiped out from the face of the earth a whole town, the town of Koryukowka, and more than 7,000 people were burned alive, tortured, shot. I was born and raised in the village of Smach, Snovsky, once a district in Dzorsky, about 25 to 30 kilometers away, if directly from Koryukka, in the distant 1970s, when I was a little boy, a schoolboy was going on a field trip to Hatin. Grandma asks why Hatin, why not Koryukivka? I'm saying, what's in Koryukowica? She said she was burned, I saw it. Tell me, Grandma, and she tells me how at the end of the winter the Germans said they were going to burn Coryukowka, nobody believed. On March 1, a burning fire so that it could be seen within 30 kilometers, burning for a week, and in the air there was a reserve of a burning body. They hid everywhere, my six-year-old father was buried under a stove, waited for them to come, didn't come. Do we remember all of this? We remember our obligation to remember. And we owe this memory to our offspring, our children, our grandchildren. The worst tragedy in history. Over 7,000 civilians, mostly children, elderly people, women. Children were shot while breast - fed, thrown into flames, and burned. Can this be forgotten? No, it's not. Is this to be permanent? Yes. This authority began to work with the building of a memorial, and the work was not finished. Today, 50 copies from every citizen of Ukraine are not enough to complete this memorial. I ask the Supreme Council's Office to present my statement to the Minister of Culture, the Ministry of Finance, the Committee of Budget, the Prime Minister, the President of Ukraine on the allocation of funds for the construction of the Korukow Memorial of all victims.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-02-m0.u121	Please finish. Please, let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-02-m0.u122	All the victims of Ukraine. And there's a few hundred of these towns all over Ukraine. The people that you do not remember have no future. We remember. We will remember. We'll live. Long live Ukraine! Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-02-m0.u123	Thank you. I'd like to invite you to the words of the national deputy shurm. Shurma, please, National Deputy Shurm.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-02-m0.u124	I'm addressing my fellow MPs, Ukrainian citizens, perhaps an unpopular subject: why is there no respect for the Supreme Council today, for the deputies of the Supreme Council? Because if people are watching this report, who are they to respect? It's a desert hall! Who's to be respected if there's nothing in the room? Why are there no deputies here? But for the reason that this rostrum and this hall did not become a venue for professional discussions, for making professional decisions, for intelligent speeches, and for mutual respect. Because there are people here. What do we have instead? You won't get on any air. Today, television, you know, has become the magnet that pulls people for the sake of a piano on the screen to say the most to offend them. What do we have as a result? This rostrum, instead of being the subject of discussion and discussion, serves to receive and discuss medical reform in two minutes. And now the people who voted for her say, "Mamma Mia! They close the establishments, they shorten the doctors!" Why? Because there was no discussion! Yesterday. We're saying that Ukraine has 135 seats in 140 countries in corruption -- an over-corruption state! Today, this subject — corruption — should have sounded here from the rostrum. People need to hear that at least those deputies want to end it. What's wrong? In two minutes, we discussed anti-corruption law, and as we threw stones at the Presidential Initiative, we voted for it. This is how we discuss laws, and we accept them, and then we have these consequences. What comes later? Later, the level of culture and contempt falls into the balance. You think. Many talked about Governor Moskal’s comments regarding the pre - U.S. minister. I'll tell you, everybody knows who's watching that I'm not. I know I'm like that. He's also the health minister's opponent. And being in agreement with the fact that he said, I absolutely don't support this form, it's unacceptable. Why did this become possible? Because in that bed all over Ukraine, the Prime Minister of Matoma turned to the deputy. So if the math sounds like it's in the room, the level of the general culture of the MPs goes down to the plentuse. I'll tell you what happened yesterday on 112 channels is a continuation of all that, it's all people listen to and you can't let this happen. You know, it would be nice if this composition of the Supreme Council were to admit that we've exhausted ourselves, we have to live, not for today, but for the future, let's take a better path.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-02-m0.u125	Thank you. I'd like to invite you to the floor of the People's Deputy Ostrikov.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-02-m0.u126	Good afternoon! Tetjana Ostrova, Self-help faction. Today the government is reporting to us in its 17-year report that Ukraine has gone up in the DoingBusiness rating for four points. Question: Who among humans has experienced this positive dynamic? Where is the main expected result of these unprecedented reforms, economic growth, and human well - being? Where is the middle-class formation? Only the oligarchs, the top corrupters and the masters are growing. Today, the obstacles to economic development and free enterprise are a few things: it's an unfinished tax reform, it's a terrible VAT administration blocking tax returns, it's a discretionary income tax. The oligarchs have. They draw their own damages and spend their expenses offshore, pay just as much as they agreed on the tax. Medium-sized enterprises minimize as they can to survive. Small businesses split into FOPs and ask us: How long will this last? The answer and the recipe are very simple, and they're cancelling the income tax and moving to income distribution taxation, voting immediately in Parliament on the tax bill on the capital. As long as the money made by the company works in business, they don't tax, they do. Taxation takes place only when the owner distributes dividends. Worked by experts, the bill should be immediately submitted to the Council and immediately approved by us. What is happening in the area of VAT administration today with tax notes? Despite the fact that Parliament shut down this system in December, because it was just a massively small, medium-sized business that was blocked and cut off the circulation costs. Last week, the government quietly takes a decision with a new lock-in order. The order in the form, it doesn't contain the basic essential conditions that the criteria will be specific for blocking tax receipts, it's hidden and transferred to the buyback of the State Fiscal Service. I am officially warning the government: if this decree is published by you in the Government courier, we, as a parliament, will no longer react and correct your mistakes. Let the entrepreneurs carry you. The next problem is to intervene in the business of the power structures. Experts estimate that fiscal losses from various tax evasion schemes now amount to 100 billion dollars. Instead, I looked at official statistics in law enforcement agencies: $1.6 million, $480 million, $111 million, the National Police. It's ineffective. So all of these units have to be immediately eliminated and the pressure on business has to be stopped. We need to create an immediate single analytical body of financial investigations, the financial police. The relevant bill is already in Parliament. To sum up, liberal tax reform, tax on.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-02-m0.u127	Ten seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-02-m0.u128	Tax on the capital outlay and the sole body of financial investigations with complete rejection of the pressure on business. That's what's going to create the middle class and people's well-being. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-02-m0.u129	Thank you. I'd like to invite you to the floor of the People's Deputy Kocheljev.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-02-m0.u130	Dear Chairman! Dear Ukrainian people, fellow national MPs! Today, I want to draw your attention to the unfair situation that has arisen with the calculation of pensions for military personnel as well as for those who have served in internal affairs. By the end of 2016, in view of the numerous appeals made by civil organizations and individuals, I had, through the Supreme Council’s professional committee, addressed the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine on strengthening social protection and pension security for war veterans and former military officials. But unfortunately, the Ministry only issued formal notices to my MPs and, in fact, none of the officials took any responsibility for the failure of social policy. And what do we have as a result? Such unthinkable actions by government officials have led to mass rallies of citizens throughout the country. Why should those who have given their lives and health so as to protect the territorial integrity, peace and tranquillity of our country go to such extremes and choose social protection and pensions from their own state? By promoting military service and ensuring the role of national and patriotic education in society, what example do government officials set for the young generation, young people and girls who are desperately fighting for the independence of our country and protecting our borders? Although the government's decision is to enter into force on 1 March 18th of the Decree 704 on the Retirement of Persons Released from Military Service, this issue is not settled in a comprehensive manner and no legislative initiative has been given. I call on the government to submit an appropriate bill, guarantee the military and veterans proper social protection and adequate pensions. The Radical Party insists, and our initiatives propose a change in social policy in terms of protecting and raising social standards not only for military personnel but also for all Ukrainians. Provide jobs, provide housing, and develop adequate support for the Ukrainian army. The Radical Party has a clear plan, designed by appropriate legislative initiatives to ensure the decent life of citizens in our home country. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-02-m0.u131	Thank you. Welcome to the speech of the People's Deputy Vojtsiecki.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-02-m0.u132	Victoria Wojcietsky, Self-Help Unit. I want to stress that Russia has opened another front in our war -- the war with Ukraine -- since yesterday, it's the gas front. Using anomalous colds, despite Ukraine’s overpayment under the contract, Russia reduced its supply of gas. In fact, these actions are directed not only against Ukraine but also against Europe, for most of the gas is intended for European consumers. It's vulgar gas terrorism. But this situation gives Ukraine a chance to demonstrate to Europe that the "North Stream - 2" planned to build gas supplies from Russia to Europe is the biggest threat to European security since the Molotov-Ribbentrop Pact. But Ukraine is silent. And that's why I'm calling on the government to immediately inform our European partners of the Russian aggression against them and to demand that Russia stop the gas blackmail. I also want to remind everyone that recognition on the paper of occupied territories should result from a specific action in the energy security sector. We use knowledge of how Russia is transferring debt for the gas consumed by its puppets to countries that have become victims of Russian aggression. This is what happened in Moldova, where Gazprom now requires $6.5 billion for gas consumed by the occupied territories of Moldova, called Transnistria. You don't have to be Nostradamus to understand that Russia's similar strategy will apply to Ukraine. But we also have to realize that the government has to act in this situation, and it is the government that has to ensure that the gas consumed is properly accounted for in our territory, exactly what we control, and separate the volumes consumed in the occupied territory in order to transfer all of these costs to the aggressor country. This debt should not be used as blackmail. And we understand that this debt can amount to tens of billions of dollars. And that's totally unacceptable. I also ask the government instead of constantly talking from the rostrums of everyone about what Ukraine has to provide with Ukrainian gas, moving from words to specific things. The State institution of Derjgeondra is an example that does everything to ensure that Ukraine does not invest, does not attract investors, does not increase its own output. And a corrupt and completely bureaucratic system for granting permits.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-02-m0.u133	Ten seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-02-m0.u134	It shows that on paper we see one thing, and in government action we see another. So I really hope that as our Ukrainian government, yes.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-02-m0.u135	Thank you. I'd like to invite you to the floor of the National Fisherman.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-02-m0.u136	Dear Ukrainians, dear colleagues! We haven't seen the Head of the National Bank in our workplace in 10 months. I think in a country where there's three devaluations, in a warring country where there's such a crazy "bankopad," we can't afford that. And what do we see this sessional week? As promised, according to the Constitution, the President filed for the release of Mrs. Potter and the appointment of Mr. Smolius as Head of the National Bank. But we didn't see that question in the morning this week. Why? Because as far as I'm concerned, there are banal trades between coalitions. They cannot divide the position and appoint the Head of the National Bank. The "Radical Party" faction requires: first, the release and report of the Head of the National Bank, Mrs. Guntareva, and the immediate appointment of the Head of the National Bank. If there are no votes, let the President file another file. The Radical Party faction has a strategic vision of our country's development. With regard to the financial and banking sector, we have a strategy for the development of finance and banks in terms of industrial strategy, education, health care and other directions. And we demand that today there be a reform plan, a reform plan and a reform plan. Rather, we see the reluctance to do so today. We see that we don't have an updated CBC in our country today, not an updated Court of Auditors, a few ministers, committee heads. The country is moving into the country at all. The other question is the question of our fighters on the front. If anyone's forgotten about it, we need to go to the front like our leader, the Radical Party, and our faction. A week later, Oleg and I were in the city of Dnipri, where we were at a military hospital. We see how many are injured and how many are there, and they need treatment. In 2017, 7,000 patients, think about it, went through this hospital. But there's no repairs, there's no equipment, and the equipment that there is, it's out of date. Oleg Lazko this week appealed to the Defence Minister with a strong request to allocate 128 million dollars for repair and equipment. I want my speech today to be considered a parliamentary request and to appeal once again to the Minister of Defense to allocate this money from the state budget. If this is not possible, changes must be made so that our fighters are protected, healed, and know that if they are on the front, their rears are protected. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-02-m0.u137	Thank you. I'd like to invite you to the floor of the People's Deputy Borislav Berezu.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-02-m0.u138	Good afternoon. This morning I was driving by the palace, the palace of culture, or as it is now called, once he called the Palace of Pioneers and Schoolchildren of the name Ostrovsky, which he now has a name, I do not know.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-02-m0.u139	And now he's got a name, and I'm told, the Palace for Children and Youth. You know what I was thinking? How many new palaces are being built now, something like that? Please tell me, how many new places are there now where a child can rest or develop, or go to groups? I remember going there and studying there at the school of young archaeologists, then modeling, and then there were some groups. But where do the children go now? And then we ask, What do we have to do to keep young people from leaving the country? But we have to do something for the young to stay here. Not only does she have the opportunity to drink a bottle of beer, go see a movie, and then come home. You have to give children and young places to relax, places to do things. It's not that hard. I want to explain. In some Scandinavian countries, when the big issue of youth alcoholism and drug abuse was raised, they didn't raise another question, "Let's talk about it." They decided to make sports parties right away, and they popularized chess, football. And for example, right now we can see what Iceland has achieved in football, and we can see how Norway has seen the world's chess champion. What does Ukraine do? Ukraine continues to say that we need to find a way to solve the issue, discuss, meet, talk, but do not solve anything at all. And now we see young people fleeing from Ukraine. Not to work in Poland or Germany anymore, but to live there. Yesterday, there was information that nearly half a million Ukrainians would be receiving pensions in Poland. Don't you think that's scary? I'm more than terrified. In order to do something, it takes straight paths. First of all, propose a plan of action that will leave young people behind. Secondly, offer a youthful building. Thirdly, don't tell us what we need to think about, where to make new jobs, but do these places, give new economic policies. Because there's no new economic policy. Without what we can offer the young, she will really run. So, ladies and gentlemen, let's get this over with. And, Your Honor, it's time to build something in the country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-02-m0.u140	Thank you. I'd like to invite you to the floor of the People's Deputy Soboljev.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-02-m0.u141	I would like to draw the attention of the people's deputies that tents are being folded in Marien Park. The people who came out of Parliament on October 17 with very simple requirements, which most of the people here promised the people in the election: cancel the parliamentary immunity, run open party lists and create an anti-corruption court -- it took more than four months for people to get their first decisions from parliament. It was only yesterday that we, thank God, voted on the basis of a project to create an anti-corruption court. And this is a project where there's a lot of trickery to get corrupt judges to the anti-corruption court. So I want to welcome everyone with this decision and thank all the guys who, in the face of the cold and the constant attacks on the security forces, are seeking these decisions. But what I'm saying is that we, as a Parliament, have a very good opportunity with honor and success to get out of this situation. To that end, we need to pass the Anti-Corruption Court Act with the veto of our international partners to corrupt judges who are quietly passing through the Ukrainian Supreme Council of Justice into as if new courts. And the second decision that must be made in this law. We have to write that the anti-corruption court only deals with cases of top-corruption. No drug cases, as the President suggests, are any other cases except those investigated by the anticorruption office and the anticorruption prosecutor’s office. After that, and we've talked about it with the boys, there's going to be a blocked movement on the street of Gruszewski. However we are called, from the Kremlin agents to the people who demand attention through the pyar, I advise everyone to stay in the tent, or to stand a couple of times when the special forces attack, and to understand what a political pyar is. Whatever we're called, we've actually gone to Parliament to help Parliament make decisions in the interests of the state. And I'm sure there's a chance that these decisions will be made.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-02-m0.u142	Thank you. I'd like to invite you to the floor of the People's Deputies.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-02-m0.u143	DmitriLenco, the Radical Party. Dear colleagues, dear Ukrainians, I would like to draw your attention to the real catastrophe that is affecting Ukraine. I want to talk about the demographic crisis. Experts are already alarmed, and the latest statements by the NBA on Wednesday that in the next 2-3 years the labour migration of Ukrainians will only increase, say that there will soon be no working population, especially men, in Ukraine. Just listen to the latest information and statistics on the subject. 55 percent of Ukrainian youths who are talented, highly educated, want to leave or leave, or they want to work abroad as soon as possible. At the same time, 35 percent of those who leave today and have left are people, especially men, under 30 years of age. 70 percent of those who have left are men. Today the problem of Ukrainian women, and we know it, and the day before March 8th, the biggest problem of Ukrainian women is that their husbands left their families and went to work abroad. We study Ukrainian youth, they get education here at Ukrainian National Universitys of Education, they get a bachelor's degree, they get a master's degree for Ukrainian money, they go to Poland, they go to Portugal and they rebuild the economy, they work for other countries. So what's the state's strategy here? We're going to spend taxpayers' money on studying our young people, and they're going to go abroad? It's totally unacceptable. And if we don't start changing state policy today, we're going to lose our best shot, and tomorrow we're not just going to be, our businesses are going to be deprived of their jobs. That's why we demand a radical party strategy. First. These are jobs and wages for young people. In order to create normal jobs here, we have proposed an industrial reform package that will bring innovation to Ukraine, which will lead to an investment that will create conditions here so that the economy can be modernised. None of the young people want to go to old businesses. They want, they know how to work, they want to do something new, but there's no way to do it. Next. It's housing lending. The biggest problem for young people is that it's not possible to buy housing in Kiev or in any big city or district today. So it's a requirement for the National Bank and the National Bank to reinstate housing loans for young people, to develop youth policy programs. Education. Today's biggest need for businesses is precisely the labor professions that release PTU. PTU has been transferred to finance local budgets today, and they are actually at the brink of bankruptcy. Because PTU and education in general, this has to be government funding, this has to be state position, and that's why we need to solve this problem. Last one. We demand that we finally create social embroidery for young Ukrainians to work and run Ukraine's Ukrainian youth. And not the foreign feuds that the authorities are offering us today to send or appoint judges here will be foreigners and will be working abroad.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-02-m0.u144	Ten seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-02-m0.u145	We suggest we change that. We suggest that Ukrainians manage and work in Ukraine. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-02-m0.u146	Thank you. I invite you to the floor of the People's Deputy of Semenich.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-02-m0.u147	Dear colleagues, dear lady presiding, dear Ukrainians! Over the last two non-plenary weeks, talking to people in the Kharkiv region, in the Lozov region, in the Novovolas region, you have to admit that the first thing people are talking to you about is survival, living on those minimum pensions, the one-and-a-half thousand bracelets that people are asking about. This is the most difficult question to ask for an answer to both the Parliament and the government. Because it's primarily about people who, working in villages, in small towns and villages, with 35 plus years of insurance, actually got a little bit of modernity, and the re-indexation only touched 75-150 bucks. Moreover, ever - growing inflation eats up even those developments that the government issued at the end of last year. I think if the government doesn't want to lose the rest of their confidence in themselves, we need to get out and publicly explain to those people who worked in the countryside, in villages for 35 years and more, when, in what way and by what means these people will be added to the pension. Next question. You know that it was under the pressure of military pensioners that the government recently decided to issue an average of one and a half thousand dollars. However, I remind all colleagues in the Supreme Council that the so-called paphosically voted pension reform has provided for a separate law that will work since January 1st of this year. But there is still no Supreme Council, not even registered, in line with the Military Retirement Act. When talking to the people in the Chugui district of Kharkiv, where many of them live in the army pensioners, people are banal about why ordinary people have been recalculating pensions since October 1, 2017, the worse we are, why we still haven't counted, why there is no new law. Next. I am sure, and how do these people feel today, the officers of the Professional Service who are fighting for Ukraine today? Because it is these people who still do not know the conditions under which they will retire. I am convinced that the government must immediately submit an appropriate pension bill to the military pensioners. At the same time, though, the question arises: What will make this happen? Self-help during the 2018 budget review focused on the fact that the budget is based on unrealistic macroeconomic indicators. Only by making mistakes in the IV quarter did not make 12 billion dollars, as the government had predicted, but 22 billion. What is more, today I asked the Minister of Social Policy, Revie, and did not hear a conscious answer. Because already in January, the Pension Fund applied for a loan because it was miscalculated, and more than that, the government doesn't respond to how much the payers of the only social contribution went down. So I think the government has the shortest time to give a public assessment, get out and admit its mistakes and immediately.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-02-m0.u148	Ten seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-02-m0.u149	to immediately offer a model, how to save the Pension Fund today and, most importantly, when and in what way a second, accumulation level will be introduced. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-02-m0.u150	Thank you. And I invite you to the speech of the People's Deputy Silantiev.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-02-m0.u151	Dennis Silantiev, faction of the Radical Party of Lacha. Dear citizens of Ukraine! From this main rostrum of our nation, I want to raise the issue of humanitarian policy in Ukraine, namely, the health of children. But I want to start not from the fact that the government or the ministries of profile, knowing the full information about the health of our children, our teenagers, and the situation is really terrible, completely alienated from the solution. No! No! I want to start with that radical party initiative that was launched today, which is to create conditions for our children to be healthy, strong and safe with you. I'm talking about the fact that we're now developing a program for the development of grass-roots complexes in Ukraine. Why is this important? But because the health situation can be characterized by the following words: complete humanitarian defolt or genocide and abuse of the population of Ukraine. Why do I say that? This is because, according to experts in the Kyiv Institute of Physical Sciences, 25 percent of children who go to school have different health problems when they graduate from school, this percentage goes up almost three times -- 70 percent of children have different health problems, ranging from scoliosis to cardiovascular diseases, and school graduates, when they graduate from school, have a 45-year-old health condition. So what we see is that teenage physical degradation of the population is progressing. And only 7 percent of children have satisfactory health — less than 1 out of every 10 children. The data I have given answer to the question is, Do we still have too many physical indicators in schools or do we have physically weak children? Given that in 90 percent of cases of illness, physical culture and sports are the first prevention, it automatically comes to the fore and becomes an extremely important development in the direction of popularization in our country. And knowing all this data, the government is not taking any initiatives to remedy this situation. But the Radical Party faction cannot stand apart when it comes to our children with you, their health, their lives, and their future. We've already made laws that will help preserve and develop sports infrastructure, and we're going to make sure that the government adopts, in the second half of this year, a programme for the development of cross-sport complexes. And in the end, I want to say that the Radical Party faction has always stood and will be in the vanguard of all those ideas, initiatives and bills that are aimed at protecting human rights and developing our state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-02-m0.u152	Thank you. I'd like to invite you to the floor of the People's Deputies.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-02-m0.u153	Dear fellow MPs, dear Ukrainians! I would like to give my speech to development and application, and to the function of Ukrainian. At this very moment, a round table is held on the street of Gruszewski. This round table discusses one question. The government is preparing to introduce to the session room a bill amending the Education Act, which you and I voted for. These changes. The bill itself, as has often been the case in the Supreme Council Hall, bears a very large title: a bill amending the Education Act to clarify certain provisions of the bill. This bill proposes to modify the functioning of the Ministry of Education in view of the fact that the National Agency for Education Quality Control has not yet been created because of a number of problems. And the second point, the second change in the Education Act is the change in the terms of the entry into force of article 7 of the Education Act, which refers to the use and application of Ukrainian language in secondary school. That is to say, it is proposed to be moved from 2020 to 2023. Clearly, we view this as an inadequacy of Ukraine and of the Ukrainian Parliament, as a pressure on us, especially on the Hungarian government. No one gave our superiors, our ministers, a mandate to postpone the application of this language article. So now this bill is actually being discussed on the round table, and I'm asking my colleagues and all Ukrainians to keep a close eye on it. It would be understandable if the government were to offer us a program related to the fact that in some regions of Ukraine: in Zakarpatski, in the Chernivsky region, there are simply teachers who can teach physics, chemistry, mathematics, geography, or other subjects in Ukrainian. It would be understandable if changes were made to the budget in order to give teachers a service home there so that they could go there so that the best Ukrainian university graduates could actually satisfy the educational market. Unfortunately, we don't see it, we see a desire to continue stagnation again. So let us be vigilant. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-02-m0.u154	Thank you. I'd like to invite you to the floor of the People's Deputy Alona Shkrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-02-m0.u155	Good afternoon, dear fellows! Alona's splinter, Fatherland faction. Today I want to draw your attention to another very important law, which unfortunately is not being considered in these halls for more than a year. It's the Law on Service in Local Self-Government. This is the bill that we have in the Coalition Agreement, which is written in the Government's Action Programme, which is written in our European commitments to international partners, which is written in the sad "strategy 2020" of the President of Ukraine, and this law was passed by this Supreme Council on the second reading of February 7, 2017. After that, this bill was positively adopted by the Council of Europe, our international partners. A beautiful piece of information has been put forward that the Committee on State Building and Local Self-Government and I, as the head of the State Service Subcommittee, have carried out this bill, considered it, and thousands of amendments have been made, worked with European experts, and, unfortunately, President March 22, 2017 promises this bill and returns it to the Council, although it is our international obligations and obligations of the BPT faction of the President's name in relation to the Coalition Agreement, it returns it to the Council. It has been almost a year since the President's commitment to this bill and he's dedicated it only with two remarks. The first observation is financial resources. The president demands that the minimum wage of employees in local self - government agencies throughout the country be tied, not to the minimum wage that the government now seems to have raised, but to the minimum minimum wage. We agreed with that observation, although it is clear that we can talk about what reform and raise the minimum wage at that time. The second point is absolutely political. The President wants to order specific mayors of cities and demands that the deputy mayors of cities large and small, as well as village heads be chosen for competitions, be civil servants and not given by mayors, by political arrangements not to vote in the Council, as it is now. We heard a report from the Council of Europe and the experts of the Council of Europe on this Presidential warning that blocked the full service of local self-government and the new European Reform Law. And experts from the Council of Europe, Mr. Popescu, did a report and analysis for us on this Wednesday, where very black and white and very specifically said that this President's warning does not correspond to the charter of local self-government, does not meet our international obligations. And unfortunately, there's a risk of destroying local self-government because of such warnings when the deputy mayor becomes a civil servant and is going to compete with certain competitive procedures that will be prescribed, I understand, in the President's Administration. This is a totally unacceptable story. I demand that, as head of the public administration reform subcommittee, this law be finally unlocked. At last, to unlock the work of local self - government and not to hostage any political ambitions, the interests of Mr. President to order specific measures or to argue with specific measures all the local self - government of the country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-02-m0.u156	Thank you. And I would like to invite you to the floor of the People's Deputy, Oleg Lacha. He's got six minutes. He was given the word of two colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-02-m0.u157	Thank you, ma'am. Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Dear Ukrainians, I ask you to pay attention to the House of Parliament, and you will see that there are only one deputies left here, one. But you'll see in the full composition of the Lalach team, the faction of the Radical Party of Oleg Lalach. Why are we working, why are we here in the hall? Because you're paying us a salary because you voted for us because you're asking us for work, honesty and responsibility. Because each one of you in the morning, when there's work, gets up and goes to work. And who, unfortunately, has no job, dreams of finding a job. Many of the national deputies who have a job do not go to work, do not work, earn a decent salary, do not scold, like people in a farm or in a field, or metallurgy, or miners, sitting in warm chairs, in cozy conditions. But they don't have a conscience and there's no responsibility to show that you have to come and work on your salary and work on your trust loan. My team has this responsibility. My team has a conscience. My team has an obligation for you to work out your trust and your support. I want you to see this best, most powerful, most professional team. And compare it with those who are in power today. This is heaven and earth. Today, people who care solely for their own wealth, their own future, and their own children are in power. They'll be replaced by us as the Easy Team. People living in their home country who are not going anywhere, who are tying their children’s future to our country. And so we want this to be the most successful, strongest, most developed country in the world. We don't want to get married. We don't want to have a President who, at his annual press conference, boasts that he's the only president who's received five tranches of International Monetary Fund loans. I don't want a president like that in Ukraine. When I'm president, I'm going to, hopefully, we'll all do it together to boast that Ukraine doesn't have a penny of debt, that Ukraine is capable of earning its own money, feeding its own people. In a press conference, President Prašenko complains that his assets have decreased, as he said, it is difficult to work in the presidential office. President Lazko will be bragging about how Ukrainian wealth has grown, how many Ukrainians have been given jobs in their country, how many Ukrainians have returned from abroad, without their children, their women for years because they have been forced to make money abroad. President Lazko will boast of the growth of the Ukrainian economy and of the sale of Ukrainian products, not of Ukrainian raw materials or of Ukrainian national interests that are being traded by today’s authorities. President Lazko and the Light Team will make the whole world respect our country! We will not allow from the East or from the West to humiliate Ukrainians, impose on us a Constitution, a language, a state or a territorial arrangement, a church, or a language in our family. We will live in a country where Ukrainians will earn a decent living, where everyone will respect Ukraine! Because we're not going to fight, we're going to make money, we're going to have a strong army, we're going to have strong diplomacy, we're going to have strong social protection, and we're going to have respect for people who work. Because it's people who work -- workers, colporteurs, metallurgy, miners, builders, teachers, doctors, artists -- who create the economy, gross and domestic product, who create powerful states. When the authorities tell us about economic growth, economic growth is impossible without respect for people's jobs, without reliable social protection, without high incomes, wages, which will ultimately give them a decent pension and a dignified old age. When the authorities tell us about the movement to Europe, the movement to Europe is respect for human rights, it's high social standards, it's respect for the law, and it's respect for the Constitution, not the mess, the anarchy, the mess we see today. And finally. Most in Ukrainian society are women. What Is Missing From Ukrainian Women? Ukrainian women, among other things, lack the main thing: love and warmth. Because they do not see their husbands or husbands evil because they earn little. We want Ukrainian women and we give them both love and warmth, we return men to Ukrainian women, we reunite families, we provide family comfort and wealth in Ukrainian families. Dear Ukrainian Coasts! Love, warmth, family comfort, loving men. And talking to men. Say hello to the woman, love her every day, not just on March 8. Kiss, respect. It's the best we've got. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-02-m0.u158	Thank you. And we actually have time for the last performance. Please, National Deputy Lapin. [[B in m in s a l in]] Please, one last speech. And please give me the video date. Now, right? Please turn on the video.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-02-m0.u159	Dear colleagues, good afternoon to all who have not been seen. I want you to pay attention to that little story that's going on in the Lutsky City Council on the fucking ground. It's about a recording in the first hour of the night. You can see the fights, the screams. What's going on in my city? This is my district, Lutsk, 22 district. Bardak in the Lutsky City Council, the derby of the land, baseless refusals to give land to the atochniks and, at the same time, to give hectares of land to their people. Illegal capture of power and removal of the secretary. Courts and criminal cases against the sheaths of the oligarhat c.o. The city's head, Polishchuk and Desert. For inexplicable reasons, the Office of the Procurator of Volin County in cases of failure to execute court decisions in part of the illegal disenfranchisement of the former secretary and the seizure of power does not give rise to suspicion to the occupying local authorities, nor does the period of sanctions for the cases of aunts for the crimes of organized groups, the monitoring of national MPs of all levels, the burning of car activists and MPs. Now, look what the opposition in my city is doing when we use different "carcases," and we know that carcases are bad for any parliament, for any city council, for any MP Corps. We remember all of us going out to a rally under the ODA on Volina, giving us a sense of confidence in the forces, and demanding that justice not be brought to justice. I would like the Attorney General's Office to pay attention to what has led to the inaction of the procedural leaders in my area. And my statement please consider it a question from the rostrum. Undeclared suspects in a criminal case, they're leaking the feeds. For the extension of the terms. And this is done only with the silent consent of the procurator's office in Volin County, including. So please consider my statement a request from the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-02-m0.u160	Thank you. And we have a few more announcements before we finish our work. In accordance with article 60, marked 1 of the Ukrainian Act on the Rules of Procedure of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, I report on the creation of the Eighth Interfractional Union of the Agrarian Council in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The heads of this association were elected Ukrainian national deputies: Ležka Dmitr Volodymyrovich, Podobraznak Vadim Ivanovich, Labazjuk Sergija Petrovich, Miroshnick Ivan Volodymyrovich, Ivchenka Vadim Evgenovich, Klanya Volodymyrovich. Similarly, in accordance with article 60, marked 1 of the Ukrainian Act on the Rules of Procedure of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, I report on the creation of the Eighth Interfractional Union of Security and Development in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The heads of this association were elected Ukrainian national deputies: Levus Andrija Marjanović, Hopko Hanna Mikolayevna, Danchenka Aleksandra Ivanovich, Denisenko Vadim Igorovich, and Jurinec Oksana Vasilovna. In accordance with article 60, marked 1 of the Ukrainian Act on the Rules of Procedure of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, I report on the creation of the Eighth Interfractional MPs Association "Protection of Children of War" in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The National Deputy of Ukraine, Kaplin Sergija Mikolaiovich, was elected head of this association. And the final announcement. Again, in accordance with article 60, marked 1 of the Ukrainian Act on the Rules of Procedure of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, I report on the creation of the eighth interfractional parliamentary association "For Hersonschina" in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The leader of this unification of the elected National Deputy of Ukraine, Alexander Volodymyrovich, is Vinnik Ivan Yuliyovich. That's all the announcements for today. You and I are shutting this down. Let me remind you that next week the national MPs are working on committees, commissions and factions. The next plenary meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine will take place on Tuesday, March 13, 18th, at 10 a.m. The morning meeting of the Supreme Council is closed.
