ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-06-m0.u1	Good morning, dear fellows! Please come into the hall and prepare for registration. So I'd like the national deputies to sign up and ask them to sign up. [[10:03:32]] There are 346 national deputies registered. The morning plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Today is the birthday of our colleague, National Deputy Semin Igorovich Semenchenka. Welcome to our colleague's birthday. [[Applause]] Also today, Ukrainian journalists celebrate their professional festival. Journalist's profession is very important in every democratic society. Welcome! [[Applause]] Journalists don't just spread information, they're freedom of speech fighters. And on this day, I especially want to thank the war correspondents, who work under enemy fire every day, risking their lives, so that Ukrainians can have honest, balanced information. Welcome! [[Applause]] On behalf of the entire Supreme Council, we thank you for your professionalism, competence and patriotism. We wish you success, happiness, health, and new achievements in your field of journalism. With a holiday, my friends, we welcome you to the professional Journalist Day! Welcome! So, colleagues, you remember that on Wednesday we start our day with speeches by national MPs. But before I do the recording, I ask you to prepare for the recording, I give the floor to the First Deputy Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Irina Heratchenko. And I'd like everyone to prepare for the speech.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-06-m0.u2	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I just want to go on with the important topic that our distinguished speaker, Andri Parovia, has begun. Joining, on behalf of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, also the most sincere words of thanks, primarily to military journalists, who today similarly film the new history of a tragic, dramatic Ukraine, and calling upon all executive authorities to create a single register of injuries, deaths, captures of Ukrainian journalists. But it is obvious that today cannot be a holiday as long as Roman Suschenk, illegally detained and sentenced to 12 years of age, is held in Kremlin. He can't be a holiday while there's a Ukrainian journalist, a young man, Stanislaw Vasin in the shadows. I know there's a channel 5 in occupied areas, it's 1+1, and I want to show Stanislaw if he sees us. Stas, we're reading your book right now, your essay "In Isolation." We want to thank Radio Liberty and your fellow peers who created this book. And believe me, we're doing everything we can to get you fired. Friends, imagine that Stanislava is being held not even in prison, not in the Donetsk SSO, as his colleagues have informed him, he is being held in a secret prison, which is also in a former space called isolation. And in Minsk, we don't get information about where Stas is being held in the work of our humanitarian group. He was never admitted by doctors, and he was not admitted by the OSCE, the International Committee of the Red Cross. Obviously, all of this is unacceptable. Similarly, in Russian prisons today, four Ukrainian citizens, including Oleg Sentsov, are starving. And that's why we really need to welcome not only Ukrainian journalism today, but, first of all, to make every effort to free journalists, what we have to do here with you. On my desk is a postcard from Roman Suschenk. And it will be there until we release it, and the Ukrainian authorities are doing their best here. But so today, we appeal to the world where the OSCE, the Council of Europe, the UN, the International Committee of the Red Cross, Amnesty International, Reporters Without Borders are told that Ukrainian voters, including journalists, are not allowed by the Ukrainian Consuls, the International Committee of the Red Cross, where they are required to be released. That is why this topic will be crucial to the Ukrainian delegation in June during the meeting of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe in July during the meeting of the OSCE Parliamentary Assembly. Together, we will make every effort to free every Ukrainian. Ukraine doesn't abandon its own whether it's a journalist, whether it's a civilian or it's a military. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-06-m0.u3	Thank you. Colleagues, I'd like you to record a statement from the National Deputies. Please sign up. Kupry Vitaly Mikolayovich. Gives the floor to Taras Batenko. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-06-m0.u4	Good day, dear colleagues, a respected Ukrainian public. Thank you, Mrs. Irina Heraszczenko, who had just begun a discussion with Ukrainian political prisoners. Representatives of the Ukrainian Union of Patriots-UKROP in Parliament, as well as our representatives in all the district councils and local councils of Ukraine, join in the efforts made today by Ukrainian civil society, Ukrainian international law-enforcement organizations to liberate Ukrainian prisoners of conscience from Russian prisons and, in particular, Oleg Senzova, Ukrainian film director. As you know, it's the 20th day or the 20th day since he's been starving. I think these are the critical days that Oleg S. S. lives today. And we know this history of Ukrainian hunger in Soviet and Russian prisons in the '50s, '60s, '70s, '80s. Volodymyr headquarters, the village of Kuchino of the Perm district. Basil Stus, Alex Tychius, Yuri Litwin, Valérie Marchenko And we know how we got them back in the early '90s. We don't want to, we don't want to return in this way our heroes, who started today's shares of solidarity hunger in Russian cassettes, to the potinian cassettes. This is Oleg Sunszow, and this is Alexander Kolchenko, and this is also Roman Sushchenko, and this is about 100 Ukrainian prisoners who are now ready to continue the campaign in Russian prisons. We have to ask ourselves whether the Ukrainian authorities, whether the President of Ukraine, or the Ukrainian Parliament, or the Ministry of Foreign Affairs are doing everything they can to get these people out of Russian prisons? We have to ask ourselves: does international society today raise this issue of protection of citizens' rights and freedoms, and when have they always raised this issue even above the protection of national political sovereignty, as is the case today in Ukraine and the continuation of Ukrainian sanctions? Because we see how today the world’s partnership begins to croak with Putin in some high forums and does not raise the issue of human rights as it has always been. I think we welcome the efforts of the Ukrainian delegation of the Parliamentary Assembly, which is making every effort not to allow the Russian delegation to the Council of Europe. And I think Russia is no place in a civilized world today. Today, we must call on the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Ukraine to continue to increase diplomatic pressure on the Russian Federation within the United Nations, the Council of Europe and the OSCE to condemn the policies of oppression and persecution of dissidents in Russia, as well as the liberation of the Kremlin's Ukrainian captives. We need our national heroes alive, not dead. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-06-m0.u5	Ivchenko Vadim Evgenovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-06-m0.u6	Vadim Yvchenko faction of Fatherland. Dear colleagues! It's just... it's... it's... In recent years this country has begun to thrive. There are three species. The first is corporate raiding, which is impossible without the intervention of law enforcement or judicial authorities. The second is enrollment through registers when, accordingly, owners change and are directly responsible for those who have a bearing on the relevant registers. The Supreme Council is no longer considering Law 8121, which has been developed by associations that have been developed by manufacturers, where we resolve almost 90 percent of the issues of the merger of two registers: the registrations of the FTC and the rights of the goods, and how notionally to continue leases so as not to sign papers, and the producers did not use this as an extension of the lease for the next 15-20 years. We're here to protect the landowner. In addition, raiding occurs “individually. ” "Individually" is when they come and just pick up crops. When an already harvested crop is taken simply because of arrests, certain elevators are arrested. Because of the law enforcement agencies, and because of the relevant Criminal Procedure Code, they don't give it to those who have grown up. This is true when they simply come to the field and question what they have planted. Farmers from the Odessa region, the Podil district, arrived yesterday. And I want to look particularly at the factions of the coalition and especially the people that touch the agrarian sector. In the Podil district of Odessa, one of the heads, one of the deputy heads of the presidential faction, who had previously called for Russian peace and was in the Party of the Regions, was directly involved in hiding that: (a) contracts with farmers were broken up in a timely and direct manner without auction, with nothing to give to the structures, the deputies of the district council, Parashchenk. And then, without waiting for people to collect the osmia, they just pick up, they just question the crops, they plant the sunflower, and they actually take away the money they spent on sowing. I want to talk to everyone, colleagues, it's a mess, that's not the way to do it. There are appropriate authorities to react, raise suspicions, and, directly, continue criminal matters. I'm talking to that faction, especially the agrarians, let's condemn these actions, let's work together and help. "Paternity" is already involved and we'll talk about it, and write, and protect the farmers of the Podil district of Odessa.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-06-m0.u7	Thank you. Please, stepan barna, please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-06-m0.u8	Praise Jesus Christ! I'm arguing with the MPs, as well as the people of Ukraine, who, as a result of the unthinkable and unprofessional actions of the Ministry of Finance of Ukraine, have been in a situation where the State Executive Service of the Ministry of Finance, under the direction of the DFS, has fully arrested the accounts and assets of the state firm Ukrispirt, on the basis of a fine reduction of 186 million. And please note that this is due to the violations that were discovered in 2012-2013 when the Januković-Yvanyushchenka call was directed. As a result, the alcohol industry is paralyzed: more than 5,000 workers are unemployed and unemployed. The conversion of alcohol to bioethanol and other fuels that can be exported abroad has been halted, and this is the day before the harvest season, when agrarians are expected to make profits, to implement grains, corns, particularly on local liquor plants, and this is the most felt by Western Ukraine. It should be noted that alongside this, the Ministry of Finance is blocking bills submitted by members of the Petra Prashenka and others faction on the removal of excise duties from the technical types of alcohol, solvents, alcohols that are used for perfumery, vinegar. These alcohols are now being imported, imported into Ukraine by more than a million tons into the total amount that comes out of Ukraine's budget, by 1 billion 300 million only because the internal production of these alcohols is more expensive because they have excise duties and there are no imports. Please tell me, can we let our own 21 liquor factories that can produce the technical production of alcohol stand, and at this time we import from abroad, giving jobs and funding to the foreign economy? So I think we should pay attention to the improper activity of the Ministry of Finance. If we can't capture foreign markets right now, we need to do everything we can to save the internal market. We also need to control the assets involved in the production of alcoholic beverages, especially those that are uncertified and illegal. And if we took all of this under control, the budget would be worth tens of billions of dollars, and now we're arguing about what money is in the budget and what it's not. So, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to speak to the minister of finance, whether it's malpractice, non-professionalism, or deliberate harm.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-06-m0.u9	15 seconds to complete, 15 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-06-m0.u10	And who is the Ministry of Finance working for, and where is the Ministry of Internal Affairs and the police when more than 40 percent of the illegal vodka is involved in the trade, and that fills the budget? And besides.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-06-m0.u11	Thank you. Thank you, time is up. And please, Victoria Vojcitsicka invites you to her word. Dear colleagues from Self-Help! Please. Irina Sisoyenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-06-m0.u12	Dear colleagues, the fight against corruption in our country is transformed into an endless series in which we can fight corruption. It's perfectly safe for corrupters. It is therefore extremely important that this week Parliament finally adopts the anti-corruption law on anti-corruption courts in our country. Regrettably, corruption exists in vast numbers, including in medicine. Kyiv district. Kyewovo-Svetoshinsky district. In April-month, I was approached by representatives of the city of Boyarka, where the chief physician of the Central District boar hospital, along with the heads of the Kyevo-Svetoshin district district district administration, simply turned the hospital into a private, family enterprise. During that time, I made 16 appeals and asked the law enforcement authorities about the tests. There are already two corresponding results. The results of the test, and I want you to point out the main results that were not even included in the 10 pages of the text. First. The results of the examination indicate that the chief physician of the boor hospital was assigned to the position with the violation and does not meet the qualifications, even for bribes from the very beginning. It is also this chief physician who feels so unpunished and supported by the leaders of the Kyivo-Swietoshin district district district district administration that he releases a person of higher rank from the post of head of the gynecological department, a man, a surgeon who is supported by women of the city of Boyarka and the entire Kyiv-Swiatshin district. Why? In order to assign their own wife to the position of head of gynecology, they essentially turn the hospital completely into a personal income of their own, what they do is blackmail patients. There are three charitable funds in the hospital that are under sole control of the chief physician. I would also like to point out that the medical equipment purchased at the expense of the districts is now used exclusively by the wife of the chief physician and only by the doctors who are allowed to do so. I was approached by a patient who could have just died from a hemorrhage that was refused, this lady, in medical care. And it is good that at least the doctor who was released was able to save the woman’s life. So the massive violations established by the verifications show that corruption in medicine, corruption in the Kyevo-Svetoshin region is extremely high. Unfortunately, all of this is covered by the district administration. So I want to point out that neither I nor the self-help team of the Kyiv-Svetoshin district, nor the representatives of the city of Boyarka, the city of Vishnu, will continue to be reconciled with this medical-corruption claim.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-06-m0.u13	Thank you for your performance. And please, Oksana Korczynska will take the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-06-m0.u14	Praise be to Jesus Christ. I remind the hall that there is a war in the country for the fourth year in the east. It doesn't matter what it's called by the country's leadership right now – the ATO or the OOS, there's a war going on in the eastern part of the country. And the lives of our soldiers and volunteers are saved by military doctors. They're medics, they're paramedics, they're paramedics, they're paramedics, they're military medics, they're life-saving people, both in stable hospitals and in mobile hospitals. For four years our military hospital in the city of Pochrovsk has been living in tents. Our nurses, our doctors do not have normal living conditions solely because our Kabmin has not yet voted on the question of transferring the railway hospital of the city of Pokrovska to the balance sheet of the Ministry of Defence. In this regard, we cannot provide all the help we need, and medical personnel still live in tents. 65th Hospital, the city of Time Yar, the so-called mayor of Reva, or the man who, even I don't understand his position, because he doesn't currently head the civilian military administration, has been doing everything for three years so that our hospital doesn't work in the city of Bahmut, offering us destroyed military parts that have been destroyed for over 20 years, that is, Soviet times. Our highly specialized hospital, directly in its presence, cannot move into the city of Bahmut to save thousands of lives of military personnel and to provide highly specialized assistance to the entire population of the city of Bahmut and around, because, I recall, there are no vascular surgeons in the city and around the town, no neurosurgeons, no specialized doctors. These doctors are at our military hospital, and it is their leader, Reva, who does nothing to help the local population and the military. This complicates our maximum evacuation route for the wounded. This has disengaged our team of highly specialized military doctors into a separate group in Bahmut, where they live in a dormitory and at a military hospital in Time Yar. I'm calling now, and I'm asking you to consider this an official parliamentary request that if we have a medical day with you soon, we will all welcome, please don't forget, the military medics who save thousands of our boys' lives every day and have saved more than 10,000 Ukrainian citizens. Give them the right conditions to work and save our heroes on the front. The glory of Ukraine! And glory to all the warlords, volunteers and military personnel!
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-06-m0.u15	In accordance with the requirements of the National MP, I ask you to make the speech as a request of the National MP. And here's a word to your honorary colleague Valery Karpuntsov. Please, Mr. Valeria.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-06-m0.u16	On this day, I want to join all those nice, good greetings that sound to journalists and all those who touch this profession. I personally wish you both professional takeoffs and your own personal lives. Thank you for your work. And also my speech, my address will be related to this. With pain in my heart, I'd like to announce this statement to you. Every member of Parliament will understand my call. Moreover, Parliament has made the most possible legislative base that allows for the protection of journalist's rights at the right level. The question is to implement this legislation. But also, colleagues, I would like to ask you to stop the process of eliminating the Voice of Ukraine, the voice of Parliament. Unfortunately, unlike our European colleagues, unlike European parliaments, here, I hold the poster of the European parliaments, their newspapers, their official editions, we can leave our vote to Parliament. Sadly, it has been so sad that in connection with the implementation of the Law on Reforming State and Municipal Media, on December 31, we will have to say goodbye to our parliamentary official publication. And what can I say. All those powers of the talented team, their talented commander Anatoly Fedorovich Gorlova, are aimed at highlighting our work in order to explain Parliamentarianism, the publications of our official work may be destroyed. Do we want to lose this opportunity? Is that what a good host does? Nevertheless, I urge the labour force to be heard and still to make changes to the law that will enable the Ukrainian Parliament to have its official publication. And have other official editions of the public authorities. This is normal European practice. This is an opportunity to report on our work to ordinary voters, Ukrainians, citizens and those ATO fighters, things that are free of charge to the Voice of Ukraine, defending our independence. I'm calling you again, please! With a holiday! And the glory of Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-06-m0.u17	Thank you, colleague, for your timely presentation. And I invite you to the word of Oleg Lacha. He is now given the word of his colleague, Mr. Skuratowski. Please, Mr. Oleg.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-06-m0.u18	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. For most Ukrainians, there is a huge problem: unavailability of medicine and unavailability of drugs because of their cost of space. The drugs in Ukraine are outnumbered by the neighbouring countries 5-10 times. Even pharmacies, near one pharmacy, another pharmacy, sometimes the cost of the same drugs, vary by 200, into 300 bracelets. Millions of people who go to pharmacies are usually pensioners who have worked hard all their lives and have received a cash pension. And once you get into the pharmacy, you leave your pension there, and there's nothing left to do. Sometimes I go to my mom's pharmacy to buy medicine for pressure, 200 bucks, 250 bucks a week. What to say for other people who don't have the ability to do that. So we announced a crusade against the pharmaceutical mafia that benefits the health of Ukrainians. And as I promised, here's the first bill that our team prepared. I call on all concerned MPs, faction leaders, colleagues to join in supporting this bill and to be immediately admitted to Parliament. We suggest that a life sentence be imposed for the sale of counterfeit drugs. When people take the last one out of their pockets and sell it. Instead of quality drugs, they sell chalk, put it in jail for life. And let someone who takes money from their grandparents, from their children, take billions of dollars for human poisoning, because they don't have access to drugs. This is the first step to establish a strong dragon's responsibility for the sale of counterfeit drugs. Next, it's a plan of action to lower the cost of drugs. First and foremost, our demand for power is to restore state regulation and reduce the cost of medicine. There can't be one who buys a pack of pills overseas for $5 and sells us here in the pharmacy for $50. They earn 300 percent on one package. The Ukrainians are paying for it. State regulation should be restored, the most stringent price control, drugs, cost-effectiveness restrictions, up to 10-20 percent, but not 300. Cancelling VAT, expanding the list of free medicines under "Available medicines," including oncology, antibiotics. Man, God forbid, he's oncology and he's taking the last one out of the house. They go into huge debt, sell everything in the world to heal themselves, and some idiot in the Ministry of Health tells us that you don't have to treat those who have cancer, they're going to die anyway. We demand the resignation of this team from the Ministry of Human Health and Ukrainian access to medicine and medicine.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-06-m0.u19	Dear colleagues, we invite you to the words of the national deputy Andrew Pavelek. Please. He's given the right to speak by a colleague of Shahov.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-06-m0.u20	Dear national MPs, despite the differences in ideological beliefs and the heated discussions that are taking place in the walls of our session hall, fortunately, there are things that unite everyone: football. Recently, on May 24 and 26, in Kiev, the final matches of the UEFA Champions League took place among women’s and men’s teams and the winners of Europe’s most prestigious club competitions were identified. The organization of this historic football festival for Ukraine was a serious test for all the authorities involved in the preparations for the finals of the League of Champions and the Federation of Football in Ukraine. The President of Ukraine, the Supreme Council, the Cabinet of Ministers, the Kyiv City State Administration and law enforcement agencies contributed a great deal to this most important project. The Organization Committee, created by the head of State, coordinated the work of all those involved in the organization of this football festival of structures. The joint work of parliament and government has helped to develop and adopt a series of bills in the session hall that have allowed for a substantial simplification of the preparations for the finals of the Champions League and the commitments made by Ukraine to UEFA. Through the professionalism of our law enforcement officers and special services, tens of thousands of cowards, our country’s guests have been able to enjoy genuine Ukrainian hospitality and feel safe during their stay in Kiev. In summary, our work together has received the highest marks and thanks from UEFA and personally the president of Alexander Cheferin’s organization, who conveys words of gratitude and admiration by one of the best finals of the League of Champions in the history of this prestigious tournament. About 300,000 guests of Kiev on the day of the match and more than a billion viewers in over 200 countries watching the NCC Olympics broadcast on May 26, the whole world watched the result of our work together. I hope that this measure has had a positive impact on Ukraine's image and will contribute to the improvement of the investment climate and will certainly increase its budget income. Thank you very much for your fruitful and successful cooperation with all the deputies, the President of Ukraine, the Cabinet of Ministers, the National Police, Kiev leadership and all those who have provided a wonderful football festival. Also, I would like to take this opportunity to welcome all Ukrainian journalists to a professional festival. Wish for creative success and as many interesting and positive news as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-06-m0.u21	Thank you. I don't think Parliament will deny it if we really thank where there is for what, and the central government, and the Kiev Capital Authority, our strong structures for successfully holding the football championship. Thank you all for your time. And now the People's Deputy Mosiychuk is invited to the floor. Please, Mr. Igoru, give you the word of your colleague Mrs. Handsome.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-06-m0.u22	Igor Mosiyczuk, Oleg Lachka Radical Party Yesterday I had the privilege of participating in the plenary session of the Ternopil District Council. And frankly, I was just shocked. With what? One-and-a-half thousand inhabitants, one-and-a-half thousand -- think about it! - the people of the Ternopil district came to the district council. They came to demand the voluntary, emphasising, unification of the territorial community of the village of Bill and the surrounding villages, including the village of Głboczko. What happened? The Prime Minister is on his way to Ternopolska, and he says that for decentralization, we did everything we could to decentralize. The president's coming, he says we're for decentralization. And the faction of the President does not vote for the unification, the voluntary unification of people. Why doesn't he vote? And it's very simple because there's an agreement with those who for all their lives thought they were the owners of Ternopletian, with one ultra-patriotic, seemingly ultra-nationalist party that "fell below the plentous" yesterday, because its faction was running from a district council session, and it was running away from the community. And they went to the provocation, and they sent me a cripple who wanted me to beat him, a district council deputy, but the provocations didn't come out. On Friday, there will be an extension of the session of the Ternopil district council. And by the commission of the faction of the Radical Party of Oleg Láska in the Ternopil Cloud, the Fatherland faction, the Self-Help faction, the Civil Position faction and the UCROP faction, I claim and submit a statement by these factions that if the community of the village of Bila is not formed, these factions, which form an absolute majority in the district council, will initiate the self-deployment of the Ternopil district council. And tomorrow, I call on colleagues and representatives of the parliamentary factions to make an appropriate decision for Parliament's consideration, for Parliament's consideration, as the will of the community must be above all else. And there's nothing to be afraid of. If people don't trust you, take your coat and go to the polls. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-06-m0.u23	The next performance is the national MP, Andri Illenko. Welcome to the floor, Mr. Andrey.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-06-m0.u24	Andrew Illenko, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union, the city of Kiev. Dear Ukrainians, I would like to raise an important question today, namely, the need for approval in the Supreme Council of Ukraine of the proposed "Freedom" of the anti-oligarchy package of radical transformations, which is the only one today who can bring Ukraine out of the crisis, break out of this cycle of poverty, allow it to develop the Ukrainian economy, destroy the foundation of corruption, the oligarhat. And I'd like to inform the Supreme Council that now 113, think about it, 113 local councils across Ukraine have approved an appeal to the Supreme Council of Ukraine, to the President, to the Cabinet of Ministers, requiring the approval of an anti-oligarchy package of radical transformations. In general, it's 113 local councils from 19 districts of our state plus from Kiev, it's 5 district councils and the Kiev City Council also plus that, it's 11 city councils. In fact, we have the representation of all Ukraine, which today combines with the requirement of immediate adoption of these decisions by the Supreme Council of Ukraine, so we urge it to do so. Likewise, I would like to inform you that we have been assembled, and the deputies of Freedom have gathered 151 signatures from the Ukrainian People's Deputy who are calling on the head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Andria Paruba, to put to the vote two bills from this anti-oligarchy package. These are Bills 0001-1 and 1112, which are related to the most important issue, which is actually proposing to solve this package, namely de-outshorizations, to stop billions of dollars in offshore jurisdiction, and finally this money was sent to the Ukrainian budget. These signatures are, and today we will certainly pass this on to the Head of the Supreme Council, Andrey Paruba, so that as soon as the issue of the anticorruption court is concluded, these questions will be put to the vote at the request of the people’s deputies, and more than 100 local councils throughout Ukraine will be required. So we think that this is the most urgent issue today. We believe that there is no longer anything to delay, to carry out, and to carry out, the promises taken upon us, and to show every national MP, particularly on whose side he is on the side of the Ukrainian people, or whether he is a servant of the oligarchs, who continue to rob the Ukrainian state today, which leads to poverty, which leads to corruption, which leads to millions of Ukrainians going abroad, leading to the fact that Ukrainians today are actually being led to begging. So only the adoption of these laws will be real changes, real reforms that will prove that Ukraine can become one of the richest countries in Europe. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-06-m0.u25	Thank you. The last performance on the National Deputies block. Please, Olga Cervakova, who is given the right to speak by her colleague Mr. Schwerk. And then, colleagues, we have three statements from different factions that are willing to replace them with performances. We'll give the first word to the representatives of the Opposition Block, and then, on the order of the day, the applications for the Presidium will come. Please, Mrs. Ola.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-06-m0.u26	Dear colleagues, the Petra Poroshenko Bloc, strongly condemns the words of Deputy Health Minister Alexander Linchevsky, who recently spoke at the Court of Auditors’ meeting at the address of cancer patients. To remind me, he said that it was not appropriate to continue to finance the state’s treatment program for cancer patients abroad because he said that all would die. The Ministry of Health then tried to correct this and said that these words were out of context. But let's see what the context was. World statistics show that 80 percent of cancer patients are fully cured if they are properly diagnosed and have access to timely, proper, and professional treatment. In Ukraine, there is a program of treatment for cancer patients abroad for patients who are unable to help in Ukrainian medical institutions. The program has treated 200 patients over the last two years. It's 200 saved lives that have been given a chance to live. Could there have been more? Yes, indeed, it could. This may not be much, but there may have been more. On what does this depend, and why were there no more? Because the commission that decides who will go abroad and who will not go is headed by Mr. Lynchevski himself. And it doesn't sit for months, from 4 to 8 months, people stand in line and wait for the commission to decide, and some of them die in these queues, and that's what the Ministry of Health should be ashamed of more than the words of the deputy minister. I mean, it was about money. In fact, the money is useless because last year 200 million dollars from the cancer treatment program have returned to the state budget because the ministry has not been able to use it. And another 300 million bracelets were used ineffectively. These are the records of the Auditorium. I want to remind you of the story of Oncological Journalist Inna Žmut, who was just kicked out of the treatment program for oncoids abroad on the basis of the conclusion of a fairy expert. You know what he wrote there? The same as Mr. Lynchevski said that she should not be treated because she would still die. And now she's back in Ukraine alive and almost healthy. She works as a senior editor on one of the TV channels. And I welcome you, Inno, with a professional holiday and all your colleagues. And thank you for inspiring cancer patients by your example. Dear colleagues, what I'm talking about is actually the criminal irresponsibility of our officials.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-06-m0.u27	15 seconds, complete.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-06-m0.u28	We don't need Putin. Ukrainian citizens are exterminated by the irresponsibility of Ukrainian officials. The Peter Prashenko faction requires the government not only to conduct an investigation into Mr. Linchevsky's statements, but also to investigate his activities in office.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-06-m0.u29	Thank you, Mrs. Olga. The faction's position is understood, it's supported by most of the session room. I'm asking you to come back to your place of work. And once again, my dear colleagues, three statements from different factions have come to the fore, and our colleagues are ready to replace them for the performance. I give the first word to Mr. Shurma, who will speak from "The Opposition Block." Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-06-m0.u30	Igor Shurma, Opposition Block. A decision was made yesterday at a meeting of the National Security and Defence Council of the Ukrainian Cabinet of Ministers on the staffing of the Ministry of Health, resulting in risks to the safety of Ukrainian citizens. The committee also calls on the Prime Minister, the Cabinet of Ministers, to consider the appropriate position taken and the legality of Linchevsky's stay. If only the whole thing were in Lynchevski and his words. "The Opposition Block" today calls for a stricter requirement: to immediately release Linchevsky and bring him here for consideration of Decree 5642 on the appropriateness of the occupied Suprun position. The question isn't that the words "cancer, that's what's gonna get everyone killed." This is the system of the Ministry, the central authority of the executive branch. An example. In November 17, Suprun, who was in the home of the President and the Prime Minister in Winnitzkin, asked the chief doctor of oncodipenser’s funding, said that in 2018 there would be no funding for an oncology program. Today, Lynchevski says that everyone will die. Do you want to move on? On May 15, this year, Suprun Order 928 allows clinical research into a drug that is banned from testing in the United States because of the death of a child. And we're going to be going through these trials at OHMATDIT, in Lviv, in Odessa. Do you know what kind of order for 2018 from the Ministry? The antidepressant, which increases the child’s suicidal inclinations, is banned in the United States. We're calling for a 4074 bill here that opens up access to clinical research. Why is this happening? Because there are no professionals, because public activists work there, they have turned the Ministry of Health into a public organization. Counsellors who go to Geneva are tried three times for theft. This is the entire level of professionalism for today’s Ministry of Health. It's a run-down institute of top specialists. No college was held in two years. You guys are talking about Linchevsky today, you're trying to channel him and you're talking about irresponsibility. And political irresponsibility is the irresponsibility of punishment. And now the Opposition Block is turning to the coalition. The same position will be taken with regard to the thousands of suicide cases of the atolls, to them. Do we have to put a cross on them, too? You're worried about them, aren't you? And now the personnel question is your responsibility, your political responsibility. If they're in the Suprun and Linchevsky position, that means your password in the election is "cancer, they'll all die." And it will follow you until you make that decision in this room.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-06-m0.u31	15 seconds. We all give 15 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-06-m0.u32	As for the personnel decisions, I'd like to remind you how you're going to make them. The minister of health of the Nazi party at his convention said that the nation’s recovery was to destroy incomplete elements of disease.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-06-m0.u33	My colleagues, thank you. Please, it was a performance from "The Opposition Block" and "Rebirth." And now we have the same right to speak from two MP groups. Also, please, Mr. Kulinich.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-06-m0.u34	Oleg Kulinic, 147th constituency, Poltavščina. Dear colleagues! Dear voters! Once again, I would like to draw your attention to an extremely important subject, which is the problem of repairing our roads in our country. If roads of international and regional importance are more or less repaired, the roads of territorial importance in 2018 are virtually out of funding. The name of these roads starts with the letter "T." We have about 30,000 miles [30,000 km] of roads. There are 23 roads in Poltavska alone. And as a Marjorie MP, I'm very concerned about the roads that go by, the territorial significance, in my 147th constituency. This is the road of Opišna-Zynkow-Gadzic (T-17-06), Mirgorod-Popovka-Comishna-Gadzic (T-17-18), Rešetylovka-Pokrovské-Dikanka (T-17-25). During the last plenary weeks, I have raised this question about financing the territorial roads during the "hour of questions to the government", first before the minister of infrastructure, who said that since January 1, 2019, these roads will go to the ODA balance, but as they will be financed this year, the minister has not explained to me, for example, I don't understand. Last Friday during the "hour of questions to the government" I also asked representatives of the Ministry of Infrastructure and the Ministry of Finance how will the roads of territorial importance be financed in 2018? I was impressed by the answers, to put it mildly. Representatives of these ministries said that roads should be financed from the road fund and controlled in areas, namely, in places. Ministry officials said there was absolute incompetence in this matter. They should know that most of the roads of territorial importance so far are on the balance sheet at the Kravutodora, and that's why they have to be financed from the state budget. And the district government doesn't have any funding, they don't have any roads. Today these roads are on balance, I repeat, at the Stododora. The funding mechanism itself should be offered by the Ministry of Infrastructure and the Ministry of Finance. Once again, this is an extremely important problem and this is a huge problem that is in the state today. The Ministry of Infrastructure does not have a clear position on financing these roads in 2018. At the Minfin level, this question is just being blocked. That's why I think I'm asking you to consider my statement as a request to Prime Minister Vladimir Groysman. Dear Vladimir Borisovich, please take this matter under personal control and unlock its resolution at the level of the Ministry of Finance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-06-m0.u35	Thank you. At the request of the National MP, I ask the Parliamentary Secretariat to formulate his speech as a parliamentary address. Colleagues from Self-Help came up and asked when we were going to move on to the amendments to the Anti-Corruption Court Act. Now, colleagues, we just have one more statement from two factions: from the Radical Party and the People's Front, to the show, to the last. Victor Halasyuk? He's not in the hall right now. Then we will return to the presentation as soon as it appears, so I understand that it is about 12 o’clock. My colleagues, so that's when we finished our speeches. And in the traditional section, we've got speeches by the people's deputies every Wednesday, and we've also declared all statements by the factions that our colleagues are making. There were applications for a break and they agreed to replace them for the performance. And now we're moving on to the amendments. We invite you to the podium of the representative, the head of the profile committee of Ruslan Knazevitch. Please, Mr. Ruslan. I also ask you to return to the session room of all your colleagues, the authors of the amendments that will now work. And we go back to our very important law, the anti-corruption court bill. So if I'm not mistaken, Tuesday you and I stopped at amendment 1657. Right? Is that right? That's right. It's great that we didn't forget all of us together, what kind of adjustments we're going back to. So, a fellow amendment of 1657, from which we are now starting work on the draft Anti-Corruption Court Act, is an amendment to our esteemed colleague, Mr. Lapin. And I'm asking you to turn on his microphone. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-06-m0.u36	Dear colleagues, I believe that this amendment is more relevant to questions about the authority and election of the investigating judge, so I'm asking you to support it.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-06-m0.u37	Please comment by the distinguished Ruslan Knazević.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-06-m0.u38	I said, in principle, on this point already, we had a common position on the committee, Mr. Igor knows. I want, if you'll excuse me, to take this opportunity to say that we've actually started a new chapter, "The End of Positions," and now the Chief Legal Office is reading the bill in parallel. And since it has already read in this section, it has offered us a series of technical rights that the committee thinks should be taken into account. And if you let me, I'll just text them, they're purely technical, because that allows for, let's say, clearing up this bill, because there's really some disagreement. For example, we're counting some kind of an amendment, and we've forgotten to remove some part of it, etc., or we've removed some part of it. So I'm just going to sound them so that we don't have to re-transport them technically, but now we have the opportunity to take these changes into account, if you please. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-06-m0.u39	Thank you. Mr. Igor, you insist on voting or. Yes, you insist. Please, Your Honor, I ask you to determine for amendment 1657. The committee turned it down. People's MP Lapin is asking for support. I'd like to make a statement. [[10:56:01]] For-49 49 votes for. The correction is being rejected. The next amendment is 1658. Melniczuk doesn't insist. 1659. No one on the copyright team insists. 1660. National Dove MP, please. It's the Zlatchuk Correction, Dove.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-06-m0.u40	Thank you. Well, first of all, I want to welcome all the journalists and all the people who touch on journalism with their professional festival. And with regard to my amendment along with my colleague, Light Petrovna Zalitchuk, she is of a technical nature. And with regard to the order of validity of the bill, we propose, inter alia, that the law takes effect from the day following its publication, except for paragraph 2, paragraph 2, of this section, which takes effect from the day the Supreme Anti-Corruption Court was established by the general courts of judges of this court. It's about making changes to the Ukrainian Criminal Procedure Code, because it's absolutely logical that the moments that we're introducing in the bill, in particular with regard to the procedure for the implementation of appeals and cassational powers, should be changed once the Supreme Anti-Corruption Court is directly in place. So I'm asking you to support this amendment, it's technical enough.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-06-m0.u41	Please, Mr. Ruslan.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-06-m0.u42	Well, I can tell you that, in principle, in the opinion of the committee, we, by determining that language goes beyond sub-paragraph 2 of this chapter, which takes effect from the day the Supreme Anti-Corruption Court began, have proposed a more optimal model. It's similar to the model that was in the procedural codes, the model was already working, we, well, objectively, there's no, let's say there's no complaint at her address. So I think it would be a good idea to play it now. This is the position of the committee, and let the session room be defined.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-06-m0.u43	Thank you. So you insist on voting. And I'm voting on amendment 1660. The committee turned her down. Anyone who supports it, please vote. [[10:58:28]] For-35 The decision is not made. 1661. Don't insist. 1662. Sergei Vlasenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-06-m0.u44	Thank you, Your Honor Andrey Volodymyrovich. This is a principle amendment that applies to the procedure for the selection of judges of an anti-corruption court. If these judges in all the vetoes, without a veto of two thirds, are not going to choose the High Qualifying Commission of Judges and the Supreme Council of Justice, then we will have what we have today with the Supreme Court, which is completely drugged by the loyal to the Dusty of Men. Yes, there have been decent people there, but their vast minority in this court. So we're talking about what the selection should be done by the commission, not by any Higher Qualifications Commission of Judges. This is in full harmony with the conclusion of the Venice Commission, particularly paragraph 43 of this conclusion of October 9, 2017. We therefore insist that the selection of candidates should not be carried out by the CCW. The UKCC now belongs to the private property rights of Peter Poroshenko, and an independent commission composed of four representatives of the Ukrainian legal community and three representatives of foreign organizations with whom Ukraine has respective contracts. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-06-m0.u45	Ruslan Knazevich.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-06-m0.u46	Thank you. Sergey Volodymyrovich, I will not comment on your political statements. I think that, with regard to the procedure, you understand very well that the Supreme Council of Justice is a constitutional body that is the only one that has the right to make decisions under the Constitution regarding the appointment or release of judges, and the Higher Qualifying Commission under the Judicial Act is the only body that has the right to make a qualified assessment of judges. Therefore, given that the fundamental, as it were, legislative acts provide for the essential role of these two constitutional institutions, I would ask that I leave the editorial work supported by the committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-06-m0.u47	Thank you. So I'm voting on amendment 1662. The committee turned her down. Anyone who supports this amendment, please vote. [[11:00:46]] For-31 The decision is not made. 1663. Sergei Vlasenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-06-m0.u48	Thank you, Your Honor Andre Volodymyrovich. I would like to quote paragraph 43 of the conclusions of the Venice Commission. The above-mentioned mechanisms, and it is the establishment of a competitive commission, that meet the requirements of Article 128 of the Constitution according to which judges are appointed by the President of Ukraine for the submission of the High Council of Justice in accordance with the established law on the basis of competition. The proposal is then fully in line with the conclusions of the Venice Commission, and according to the conclusions of the Venice Commission and the Constitution of Ukraine and so on. Yes, indeed, the conclusion was a little bit about another commission formed by three representatives of the President, the Cabinet of Ministers and the Supreme Council. However, the Commission’s very principle is not denied by the Venice Commission. That's why we can talk about how such a mechanism can exist, it's approved by the Venice Commission, it's in the opinion of the Venice Commission that it's consistent with the Constitution of Ukraine and can be applied in such an exceptional case as the creation of an anti-corruption court. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-06-m0.u49	Please, Mr. Ruslan.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-06-m0.u50	The point is that, in accordance with Law 6011, a draft law that had been revoked, which was the subject of consideration by the Venice Commission, was indeed foreseen for the creation of a non-Citizen Council of International Experts as a subsidiary institution at the Higher Qualifications Institute. A higher-level commission for judges to be evaluated as judges of the Supreme Anti-Corruption Court, which was called a "competition commission". And then, indeed, the Venice Commission allowed representatives, including the public, including representatives of associations, professional associations, and so forth. And now we just call this board "The Commission of the Public Council of International Experts," as the Venice Commission then recommended. So I think we're just talking about different institutions here. In conclusion, it is clear that the role of WCC and GWP must be decisive, as this is provided for in Ukrainian legislation. And given that otherwise such an assignment would contain, let's say, such a great amount of unconstitutionality. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-06-m0.u51	So I'm voting on amendment 1663. The committee turned her down. Who Supports? Please vote. [[11:03:30]] For-38 The decision is not made. Next, 1664. The author does not insist. 1665. 1666. Please, Odarchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-06-m0.u52	Yuri Odarchenko, Fatherland, Hersonian. Dear colleagues, nearly a year ago, the appeals courts concluded that in cases of administrative offences, the charges could not be appealed against. This means that if a corrupter is acquitted by a district court, there is nothing the prosecutor can do about it. So any corruption to avoid responsibility is enough to bribe one district judge. This was due to the inadequacy of judicial reform, which changed the rules of current legislation without taking into account the consequences of such changes. I propose renewing the prosecutor's right to file appeals against court orders in matters of administrative misconduct, otherwise corrupts will be able to avoid liability. Please put my vote to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-06-m0.u53	Please, Ruslan Knazevich.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-06-m0.u54	Thank you, Your Honor Yuri Vitaliovich. The committee didn't support the appeal because it was directly, let's say, about the powers of the Supreme Anti-Corruption Court. But if this problem really exists, I hope that you haven't just labeled it that way, and you really have enough signals, then I ask you to send it to our committee, and to the Committee on Law Protection, as far as I know, and they're conceptually preparing a law on making changes to the CPC right here in this part, and so our committee is gathering, and will try to generalize the practice of applying new procedural codes that already exist during the last half of the year. And I think we can find a common language with the Law Enforcement Committee, we're ready, even if we give up our own initiative, to forward our proposals there, ready to join both experts and at the level of a joint meeting to resolve these.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-06-m0.u55	Thank you. So I put the 1666 amendment to the vote, and the committee rejected it. Whoever supports this, I ask you to vote. [[11:06:20]] For-29 The decision is not taken. I put my hand up on the previous 1664, Vadatursky, and then I'll give you your next one. Please, Vadaturski.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-06-m0.u56	Dear colleagues, I'd like to draw your attention to 1664. We suggest leaving article 172 in its original form, an active article sounds like "The illegal use of information that has become known to a person in connection with the performance of official duties." And it makes sense that a person does not have the right to make public service information. But to complement this article with the phrase "or other defined by law" is another uncertainty. Who will determine what information is available and which information is not available? These will be constant disagreements and evaluation judgements, and laws will contain comprehensive norms, clear standards. So please support this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-06-m0.u57	Please, Mr. Ruslan.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-06-m0.u58	Well, if you don't mind, I can't agree to the end of your claim that this will create chaos and uncertainty. On the contrary, the terminology of statutory powers means that these powers must be clearly defined in the law. Why did we write that? Because a special article does not necessarily contain these responsibilities. They may be contained throughout the body of the law, but the person who will apply them, as it were, should fully understand the logic of the law. And on the contrary, the words "defined by law" mean that all others that are not defined by law will not be applied. That was the logic, because if we don't write it, then they can theoretically apply any one that isn't defined by law. On the other hand, we want to make a comprehensive list of laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-06-m0.u59	Thank you. I'm voting on amendment 1664. The committee turned her down. Anyone who supports it, please vote. [[11:08:39]] For-34 The decision is not taken. 1167th, Odarchenko. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-06-m0.u60	Thank you. Yuri Odarchenko, Fatherland, Hersonian. Dear colleagues, we all understand that the Higher Anti-Corruption Court was created only for top-corruption workers. But the city's head or governor is no less top officials than ministers or deputies, so I suggest we establish that the extremely rare cases of administrative corruption that may result in the dismissal of the official, the Court of Appeal is the Higher Anti-Corruption Court. Such matters are heard individually. During the past year, about a hundred of such cases have taken place. But in a situation where, in fact, the position of the city’s head or head of administration cannot be left in place, it must be transferred to an entirely isolated local court, on. This can be avoided when voting for our amendment. Please place it.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-06-m0.u61	Please, Knyazevich.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-06-m0.u62	Thank you, Your Honor Yuri Vitaliovich. The point is, the logic supported by the committee suggests that the jurisdiction of this court will be consistent with that of the National Anti-Corruption Bureau, and therefore, all those cases that are not under investigation by the National Anti-Corruption Bureau, which are now before the courts, including the local courts and courts of the first instance, cannot be considered in this court. That's the first one. And the second. I'm paying your attention, we've talked about this many times before that, that the Appeals Chamber of the High Court of Anti-Corruption, it's going to appeal exclusively to the rulings of this court as a court of first instance. And that's the logic of this law, and the system of anti-corruption courts, and it's provided for in this law. If we now allow the outcome of the trial and the jurisdiction of this court, it seems to me that we are overloading his work so much that there is no point in creating such a court in the end. This is the principle of the position and the Venice Commission, and the committee fully supports it. This court should only deal with cases that follow the NABU and where it was the court of the first instance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-06-m0.u63	Thank you. I'm voting on amendment 1667. The committee turned her down. Whoever supports this amendment, please vote. [[11:11:28]] For-21 The decision is not made. 1668, Vlasenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-06-m0.u64	Thank you, Your Honor Andre Volodymyrovich. Amendment 1668 was found in the text of this law. It refers to the definition of the status of experts and the amendment of the Criminal Code of Ukraine. To my profound belief, this rule has nothing to do with the functioning of an anti-corruption court, it defines the status of experts. Should the status of experts be clarified? Yes, of course. Should the Criminal Code be amended? I don't know, maybe, but that's definitely not the law. This must be done in a separate law and systematically address the problem. To my conviction, this right has nothing to do with the substance of the Higher Anti-Corruption Court Act. And two words after the previous amendment. When the committee chairman spoke and said that it was another institution in Law 6011, no, it was an institution that would choose to hold an anti-corruption court competition. And this is a key question, including this law and our discussion: whether the competition will be conducted by Dusty or by an independent body. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-06-m0.u65	Knazevitch.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-06-m0.u66	I did, because. I'll take the line, right? Sergei Volodymyrovich, on the matter of what was clearly written in Law 6011, in the decision of the Venice Commission that a competition commission is an auxiliary body in the Higher Qualifying Commission, which will help it to exercise certain powers regarding the qualification of future judges of the High Anti-Corruption Court. So I think we need to be correct. And in that sense, it doesn't make any difference, as it's now called, whether it's a competition commission or a public council of international experts. The name of the Public Council of International Experts, proposed by Venice, should, as it were, first emphasize that it should be aliens, as would the Venices, with great experience, who are really capable, as an auxiliary body, of helping the WCC to carry out such dual powers.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-06-m0.u67	Thank you. So the committee's calling for support? Confirm the amendment, right? The committee expressed its position and handed it to me in private. So, colleagues, I'm betting on confirmation of 1668. And the committee's asking her to support it. So whoever supports the committee is voting for this amendment. Please vote. [[11:14:11]] For-54 The decision is not made. 1669, Sergey Vlasenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-06-m0.u68	The situation is exactly the same. Once again, this bill has absolutely no relevance to the functioning or the establishment of an anti-corruption court. And they're re-imposing a rule that applies to a clearer regulation, already in this case in the criminal code, the status of an expert. Once again, the status of an expert needs to be more clearly prescribed, and his responsibility needs to be more clearly prescribed. It may be necessary to amend the Criminal Code, perhaps not. But this needs to be discussed separately from the issue of creating an anti-corruption court. And there's no relation to this norm to functioning, to creating an independent anti-corruption court. And the main dilemma of the Anti-Corruption Act. One of the main dilemmas of the Anti-Corruption Court Act is who will form this court: whether Peter Poroshenko or an independent body. If this is done by the UCC, that is to say, Peter Dustenko. In another way, unfortunately, it doesn't work in our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-06-m0.u69	Mr. Ruslan!
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-06-m0.u70	Well, I don't know if the other part is worth it, I've already made a comment. Let me do the first part. The point is that these amendments, which our colleagues had already raised at the committee meeting, and everyone who was present had this opportunity to discuss and it was supported by both the committee and the Venice Commission. The logic of these rights is that in any criminal proceedings, including anti-corruption cases, the expert, as it were, should be given a witness, i.e. being questioned, only by an investigating judge in a court of law. That's the logic of these rights, which is basically supported by a committee. And neither of those present, and the Venice Commission, and any party, as it were, had objected to allow investigating judges, including the High Anti-Corruption Court, to question experts in a court of law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-06-m0.u71	Thank you. So I'm betting on confirmation of 1669. The committee's asking her to confirm and support it. Please vote. Whoever supports the committee votes in favour. Please. [[11:16:38]] For-58 The decision is not taken. Next, 1670. Don't insist. 1672. Lapin, turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-06-m0.u72	Dear colleagues! I'm sorry, Andry Volodymyrovich, 71st, would you say, mine?
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-06-m0.u73	Yours and 71st and 72nd. Then we start with 71, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-06-m0.u74	Dear colleagues! This amendment refers to the authority of the judge regarding the exercise of justice. That is, it speaks of something that cannot be done by a person. one-person case-law concerning officials and in cases of compulsory collegiate review. That's why I'm asking you to back me up. It's 1671.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-06-m0.u75	Please, Ruslan Knazevich.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-06-m0.u76	Well, I've, in principle, explained this position. We discussed it on the committee, and the committee did not support Mr. Lapin. I think we should leave it as it is in an editorial supported by a committee. And I don't see a big deal if that's how it's going to be done with these high-ranking people. At least so, the committee believes it is more logical and will allow more speedily and quickly in accordance with the law, the Criminal Procedural Code, to solve those tasks that will be dealt with from the point of view of the Criminal Procedure Code before the courts. On the other hand, let me say that in paragraph 20, there, what I'm talking about, lawyers are offering braces other than the words of the "High Anti-Corruption Court," delete because we've cleaned up. And to write further, as we have discussed, that the Appeals Chamber is solely concerned with the decisions of the Supreme Anti-Corruption Court approved by the Court of First Instance. Redouble here, in this situation. Thank you. Please take this into account.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-06-m0.u77	Okay. I'm betting on the 1671 vote. The committee's been rejected. The person supporting the amendment, please vote. [[11:18:43]] For-50 The decision is not taken. And the next one is 1672. Lapin.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-06-m0.u78	Dear colleagues, it is proposed to support this amendment. This refers to the amendment of the Criminal Procedure Code, which the College of Judges of the Criminal Court of the Supreme Court of Ukraine is conducting in criminal proceedings concerning the judge of the Supreme Anti-Corruption Court. That's why I'm asking you to back me up.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-06-m0.u79	Please, Knyazevich.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-06-m0.u80	Well, I'll do it again if I can, I'll do it again, I'll bend to what I said. In this court, the Court of Appeal of the High Court of Anti-Corruption will only deal with those cases, which, more specifically, have been tried by the Supreme Court of Anti-Corruption, which was approved as the Court of First Instance. I'm going to point that out again. So let's not have this discussion anymore. And so the editorial will end up saying, "The Court of Appeal is the appropriate Court of Appeal, within the territorial jurisdiction of which is the Court of First Instance, which passed the judgment under appeal, as well as the Appeals Chamber of the High Court of Anti-Corruption, solely with regard to the decisions of the Supreme Anti-Corruption Court, which were approved as the Court of First Instance." Guys, this is already a comprehensive answer, and I don't know what additional comments to make. Thank you. Therefore, I ask the members of the committee who supported this position not to insist again on its review. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-06-m0.u81	Thank you. The next amendment is number 1673. Don't insist. The next amendment is number 1674. National MP Vlasenko. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-06-m0.u82	Thank you, Reverend Oksana Ivanovna. We're going back to the amendment that in some way affects the system of anti-corruption courts. I talked about it yesterday, I keep talking about it today. I don't understand why the committee, with all the possibilities to change this situation, by the way, in the conclusion of the Venice Commission, I didn't see a strong warning against it, I carefully read it this evening on a first date. So I don't understand why, having basically two courts in the first instance, the Court of Appeal, the Committee supports this hybrid, some kind of model that never existed in Ukraine, which has never been applied in Ukraine, which will definitely lead to chaos in the work of anti-corruption courts. In addition to the fact that the committee also supports the position that judges will be selected to be subject to the UCC and ICC, which are subject to the full subjective criteria for the selection of candidates for judges. All of this together says that this bill will not give us an independent anti-corruption court, but it will once again give us a controlled Dust Institute, which is likely to be used in the same way that it uses the judicial system today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-06-m0.u83	Thank you. I'd like the committee to comment.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-06-m0.u84	I, Sergey Volodymyrovich, have had many discussions on this subject, and I think we have remained in our previous positions. Let me also say in paragraph 22 the word "general." The point is, it was written in the first edition of "local court." And you know that the name of these courts is now appropriately changed, the local general court. And so the paragraph will read as follows: "The Court of First Instance is a local general court that has the right to pass a sentence or to rule a pass on the closure of criminal conduct, as well as the Supreme Anti-Corruption Court in criminal proceedings on crimes referred to in this Code, and the Court of Appeal in the case provided for in this Act." In view of the change in the name of the courts, some terminology was correctly noted by lawyers. I'm asking for an editorial that I just read as a technical paper.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-06-m0.u85	Thank you. Next amendment number. Oh, I'm sorry. The National MP insists on voting, please vote. [[11:22:49]] For-27 For -27. The decision is not made. The next amendment is number 1675. A national MP does not insist. The next amendment is number 1676. National MP Vlasenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-06-m0.u86	Thank you, Reverend Oksana Ivanovna. I will not stop this discussion, because this debate is very important for the creation of a truly independent anti-corruption court. Just like when we're looking at these ridiculous codes that we've adopted right now. We then spent four days trying to communicate our position. And we were able to bring this position to, well, at least part of Ukrainian society. So I'm going to keep talking about that I don't understand why we are. You've baptized in one court, in fact, two courts that are divided between each other organizationally, financially, subordinately and so on, but you call it one court. I don't understand why we're doing this, but it's going to lead to a certain period of time to legal colleges, just as it will lead to the existence of two Supreme Courts in Ukraine today, which have already been created by this Supreme Council, I'm talking about the coalitions that have already been created by this Supreme Council. So I'm asking you to support the 1676.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-06-m0.u87	I'd like the committee to comment.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-06-m0.u88	Well, I basically had this discussion, I think, on my part, as much as I could, I'm exhausted. I just want to say that 23 points are the same thing as lawyers are proposing the word "general" and the technical-legal committee will take that word into account, complement it. Instead of the word "appropriate appeal" you should write "appropriate appeal court, (whom) of the local general courts." And I think this is a proposal that should not be supported, but should be supported as a technical observation of legal administration. We're very grateful to them, they've been working very professionally on the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-06-m0.u89	Thank you. Please vote. [[11:24:56]] For-32 For -32. The decision is not made. The next amendment is number 1677. National MP Vlasenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-06-m0.u90	Thank you, Reverend Oksana Ivanovna. In this direction, the authors of the bill, me and Julia Volodymyrna Timoshenko, insist that these two courts should be divided. You split them up financially, you split them up organizationally, you even put them in different houses to do justice. Buildings send justice. But for some reason, they are all called the same court. And once again, these things come back, you know, according to the legal boomerang theory, they come back. Just as we will all be returned to the absolutely non-wiglash law that created in Ukraine a system whereby there are two Supreme Courts in Ukraine: the Supreme Court of Ukraine, which is in the liquidation phase, and does not administer justice and the Supreme Court, a new one that they created. That's why I'm against such legal collegiates, especially according to the amendments that there are, all of these collegiates can be removed. And this will not lead to any fundamental change in this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-06-m0.u91	Thank you. I'd like the committee to comment.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-06-m0.u92	Thank you, Sergey Volodymyrovich, for an interesting new question. I will, with your permission, reconfirm the position of the committee. The committee believes that the concept of the bill in accordance with the Rules of Procedure Act is fixed by the vote in the first reading, at least that's what the law says. And in the second reading, we can only make changes that no longer change the concept of the bill. If we want to change the concept of the bill, obviously we need to write a new law and write down from the very beginning the mechanisms that you've proposed. I'm not saying they're wrong, they're totally true in terms of your concept, and if the concept were different, they should be in the body of the bill. But the concept is the first question, not the second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-06-m0.u93	Thank you. Please vote. [[11:27:10]] For-27 The decision is not made. The next amendment is number 1678. There's no insistence on a national MP. 1679, National Deputy Vlasenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-06-m0.u94	Thank you, Reverend Oksana Ivanovna. You know. I remember calling from this rostrum to vote in favour of this bill in the first reading, telling them that all the amendments would be discussed, all the issues would be resolved. Well, this has been the case repeatedly, including unfortunately, in matters related to legislation that regulates the functioning of the judicial system. As a result, Ukrainian citizens who in three years of reform have never received an honest, just, independent court have not received a single court practice on the most painful issues have received nothing. So once again, there are all sorts of ways to make changes today, to take the second reading into account. They don't change the substance of the law, they change the structure of anti-corruption courts, and there's no problem with that. You can either use the rights of your colleague, or you can use my and Julia Volodymyrna Timoshenko's rights. But these must be different courts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-06-m0.u95	I'd like the committee to comment.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-06-m0.u96	Thank you. Thank you, Sergey Volodymyrovich, for the interesting question. Let me. Thank you, I don't drink water, thank you. If you don't mind. The point is that, of course, the committee can be accused of not accepting certain rights, of not changing the concept. But the committee is also limited in its capacity in terms of the Act on Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. I'm not saying that when we vote on the first reading, this concept, let's say, was so, let's say, uncontroversial. She might have been the subject of a discussion, but after the discussion was over and the session hall supported such a concept, the committee can no longer continue this discussion, it's not our mandate. This was to be discussed when this concept was discussed in the first reading, every MP, every faction had the opportunity to take part in the discussion and express its position. And probably considering the outcome of the discussion.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-06-m0.u97	Thank you. Please vote. [[11:29:54]] For-28 The decision is not made. The next amendment is number 1680. There's no insistence on a national MP. 1681. Don't insist. 1682. Don't insist. 1683. National deputy Yemen, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-06-m0.u98	Thank you, Reverend Oksana Ivanovna. In fact, dear colleagues, this right should give rise to the status of judges provided for in this article, for if we are talking about three judges, one of whom is at least 5 years old, we are artificially dividing them into two classes and two categories: judges who have five years of service and judges who do not have one. I'm sorry, this question had to be resolved at the competitive selection stage, and after they became judges, they have absolutely equal rights and powers. So I propose that we bring this room into line with the status of each of these judges, which should not be divided into two classes and two categories, respectively, by the judges of the anti-corruption court. And unfortunately, I'm forced to put this amendment in place for confirmation. Sadly, why? Because I see that the votes in Parliament are obviously not enough, but the Ukrainian voters have to see who is present in Parliament and who is participating in the session. Please confirm this amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-06-m0.u99	This amendment number 1683, please comment on it.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-06-m0.u100	Dear Leonide Alexanderovich! That's the right thing to do. And you see the column "the committee didn't define," it's among the lines where we agreed that we wouldn't be looking at them right now until we finally talk about them and discuss them. And given these circumstances, I'd like to ask now, if you can, the chairman of these amendments just not look at them, to put them in a way that we haven't all of the rest of the amendments considered on this issue, and move them to the end of the discussion. I hope that by then we'll be able to figure out, find the compromise that exists, because these are two interconnected things. What Leonid Aleksandrovitch said in that case, should a five - year - old judge be present in a trinity or not? This is a discussion and it exists. That is, there should be at least one person who has a judicial experience or should not be any human being? There is no practice anywhere in the world. No matter where the college is formed without judges. There is simply no such thing, even in those countries that we are encouraged to follow. On the other hand, this is the second unspecified thing that is predicted.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-06-m0.u101	Please let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-06-m0.u102	which is stipulated in the law that if, by rating results, several candidates or at least two have the same number of points, the advantage is given to the one in which the greater judicial experience. This is precisely what was written in order to form this possibility in every three judges. If this is possible, it will not be necessary at the end. I mean, from this point on, let me just move it if we can't have this discussion at this point. I think we're going to find a compromising vision, I've already talked in principle, and I see that we can make this compromise. And that's why the committee can't form a position right now, because it's not defined at this point. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-06-m0.u103	Thank you. But, Mr. Chairman of the Committee, I can only avoid these amendments with the agreement of the deputies. I mean, you don't deny it, because I do. [[B in m in s a l in]] Yes, but the following amendments are also yours. You agree, don't you? Leonid Alexanderovich, you don't deny it. Okay. Then, with the permission of the deputies. [[B in m in s a l in]] So this is actually the same correction. I mean, the MP insists. Please. 1684. The Dove People's Deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-06-m0.u104	Dear Ruslan Petrovich, I am convinced that you, as I am, are the adept of the full and unwavering observance of the Ukrainian Law "On the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine" where every national MP can insist on his right if he is rejected there, whether the committee has not been determined, no matter what decision the committee has taken. That's why I want to support this amendment, it duplicates what your first deputy Mr. Yemen has just said. Because we're already high enough qualifications and professional requirements for future judges of the High Anti-Corruption Court, that we're additional sorties. I think it's completely wrong. Another thing, I don't understand, is five years. Why not five months or ten years? That's why people who are going to work in the Supreme Anti-Corruption Court, I think that's actually enough professional people are going to (I'm just convinced of this), so it's unnecessary. Whether to make any restrictions or do everything possible to block in any way in the future the High Court of Anti-Corruption, I wouldn't do that. That's why I'm proposing.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-06-m0.u105	Please, 10 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-06-m0.u106	I therefore propose to systematize the general legislation and to foresee that the court of first instance is in a collegiate court.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-06-m0.u107	Please, the committee, comment.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-06-m0.u108	Thank you. First of all, I want to say, where did the five-year figure come from? It came from the Law on Courtship and Law, which we voted on. The point is that a qualified requirement is for judges who can participate in a job competition. The judge of the Supreme Anti-Corruption Court predicts that there will be a 5-year probationary period. It's from where. [[B in m in s a l in]] From there this figure came. About what you're saying. I do not object to your putting to the vote. But if this amendment is not supported, it will be rejected. And I'm telling you, as a result of this discussion, it seems to me that we can support it in some way. And that's why it seems to me that it would be in your favor just now not to lose it, because then it's impossible to go back to it as it is to a rejected amendment. But it's your right, I'm not going to do it in any way in accordance with the Rules of Procedure Act, as you said, because I am truly a great adept with you in this law.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-06-m0.u109	Thank you. The next amendment is number 1685. Don't insist. 1686. Don't insist. 1687, People's Deputy Dove. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-06-m0.u110	Dear Ruslan Petrovich, a rather interesting discussion took place on the previous side. You just said that the minimum, one of the criteria that the Supreme Anti-Corruption Court should have in the future is 5 years. So why duplicate it further? The proposed amendment already regulates the procedure for dealing with cases at the appeal level. We are again trying to impose additional restrictions. That is why, Your Honorable Ruslan Petrovich, I do not insist on my right to vote, but let us make some single systematic law so that there is no variation. I think there'll be completely professional people there. Moreover, decisions are made in a collective way. Well, that would be one, of course, having a greater judicial experience, and the other would not. That's what I'm talking about. I just don't understand the logic of why the author of this bill put it that way. So once again, let's systematize, remove this requirement in the presence of a minimum of five years in order for the meeting to take place. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-06-m0.u111	I'd like the committee to comment.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-06-m0.u112	Well, first of all, I want to say that in countries where there's a practice of involving people who don't have a professional judge, there's a lot of practice that doesn't exist in all countries. But where it exists, for example, in Portugal, there is a definite provision for legislation in triads, in colleges, at least one professional judge with experience. Let me tell you more, we have an interesting story in Portugal at all, because a number of provisions of the Supreme Court Act have been recognized by the European Court of Human Rights as violating the relevant positions. So they're pretty neat, and in this part they've been able to take this position. But I might end up on this, if I say the next sentence. I don't think this discussion makes any sense at all, because we don't understand who the judges or not the judges are going to be chosen as a result of the competition, and now it's impossible to say that. And that's why we need to come up with a formula that will allow, as it were, usually to set up such a thing. And if that is not the case, it may be that as a result of the competition, there will be no former judge.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-06-m0.u113	Please, let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-06-m0.u114	Whether there will be no judges or there will be no minorities. And we will have to form. So let's, if we can, postpone this discussion. I hope that we will find the right wording that will enable us to get out of this situation perfectly right. Because there is a need to preserve logic, such as the decisions of the European Court of Human Rights, and to ensure that the court functions properly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-06-m0.u115	Thank you. The next amendment is number 1688. There's no insistence on a national MP. 1689. Don't insist. 1690. Don't insist. 1691. Don't insist. 1692. Please, National Deputy Lapin.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-06-m0.u116	Dear colleagues, please support this amendment. Complementing. This amendment complements the list of persons who are being criminalized in the Supreme Anti-Corruption Court and the rule that criminal conduct against judges of the High Anti-Corruption Court during pretrial investigations is carried out by a panel of judges of the Supreme Court of Cassation in the number of three judges and, in the event of charges, by the Grand Chamber of the Supreme Court. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-06-m0.u117	Thank you. Committee, please. Will you comment? No, it's not. Please vote. You insist, don't you? Please vote. [[11:40:24]] For-36 The decision is not taken. Please, national deputy Yemen, next amendment. We missed one of the amendments. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-06-m0.u118	Dear colleagues, let's just say that since we started this discussion about this five-year internship of one of the college judges, let's do this in order for our voters to understand what we're talking about, let's put, well, some final of this discussion. Again, if we are talking about what must be included in a college of judges with experience in work, we recognize that the Higher Qualifications Commission, during the examination of candidates, has allowed for a victory in a competition of people who do not have sufficient professional skills to do justice properly. I think that we're putting some conceptually wrong things into the bill because the Higher Qualifications Commission is obliged to allow judges of the High Anti-Corruption Court to work only those who are professionally qualified to perform their duties, regardless of whether they worked before it or worked as lawyers or scientists. If the High Qualifying Commission skips a man who can't.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-06-m0.u119	Please, 10 seconds, please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-06-m0.u120	she cannot fulfill her duties, she has violated her obligations and functions. So I think that by setting this standard, we conceptually allow gross distortions of the outcome of the competition.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-06-m0.u121	I'd like the committee to comment.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-06-m0.u122	I think it's a more professional discussion that would be worth more. Leonid Aleksandrovich, let's meet on the committee today, for example, and we'll talk about it. And it'll be better for me, a more professional course, because not everyone understands what's going on. But again, I am sending you to what is already the practice of the European Court of Human Rights, including in various countries of Europe, where it has been quite clearly stated, which is recommended for perspective in a case where, as an experiment, not former judges are involved in the formation of a court, but still form colleges and chambers of this court in such a way that judges are represented with experience. This question is questionable, and you say it is optional. And I think maybe that's exactly what would help those who don't have any experience, because the judge does have an understanding of how to write a decision. And this is about quite the weight of the decision, the importance of it. And those people who have never written them are only theoretically sensitive to these processes. Perhaps they need some time to adjust to make it.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-06-m0.u123	Thank you. Please vote. [[11:43:25]] For-38 The decision is not made. The next amendment is number 1693. There's no insistence on a national MP. 1694. Don't insist. 1695. Don't insist. 1696. Don't insist. 1697. Don't insist. 1698. Don't insist. 1699. Please, National Deputy Lapin.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-06-m0.u124	Colleagues, please support. This amendment states that the rule of criminal conduct in a locally close court does not extend to the Supreme Anticorruption Court if it is impossible to form a court. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-06-m0.u125	Thank you. The committee will comment, won't it? Please comment.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-06-m0.u126	I mean, we basically supported her essentially. If you look at the right column, the fourth, you'll see that it's written that part 13 after the words "to carry out criminal conduct" add to the words, just the words "except the Supreme Anti-Corruption Court" we suggest not to write directly in the text, but in parentheses to make it clear that this is an exclusion from the rules. What's more, that's how criminal law is written in other parts. Thank you. I think it's more convenient for those who apply it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-06-m0.u127	Are you insisting? No, you don't. Okay. Next amendment number 1700. There's no insistence on a national MP. 1701. People's Deputy Lapin. Don't you insist? 1701. Don't insist. Okay. 1702. Don't insist. 1703. Don't insist. 1704. Don't insist. 1705. Don't insist. 1706. Don't insist. 1707. There's no insistence on a national MP. 1708. Don't insist. Amendment number 1709. Don't insist. 1710. Please, National Deputy Vlasenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-06-m0.u128	Thank you, Reverend Oksana Ivanovna. You know, we have this interesting situation where we find that we have some amendments that we don't have to look at, and they're going to look at someone later. The committee couldn't identify them, and it doesn't invite the session room to decide that, but they say, let's go somewhere, someday, then we'll talk about something. This in turn shows that, despite the fact that this discussion conforms to the Rules, it is, in fact, unfortunate. It reminds us very much of the propaganda as it did during the discussion of our codes. Although I, as the author of the amendments, seem to ask important enough questions to discuss. And I realize that every time the head of the committee is getting deeper and deeper, because there's really no real answer for why instead of two courts: the court of first instance and the court of appeal -- there's a single court, oh, the only answer: that's how we came up with the concept. So let's think of the concept that the sun is going to rise in the west and it's going to set in the east, and it's also going to be a really cool concept, and.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-06-m0.u129	Thank you. I'd like the committee to comment.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-06-m0.u130	Thank you. I want to say that it's not that we don't know who, I said that the committee would be further defined, because the discussion on this issue and here, indeed, we were not able to determine on the final edition of this item, this and the one that comes out of it, they're completely two interconnected. But I say again, as far as I'm concerned, it depends on what the selection mechanism is going to be and what it's going to be, what it's going to be like. Because now we're going to design who the judge is or isn't the judge, how much it's going to be, and what it's going to look like with the results of the established rating that's going to be very difficult. So you have to write a mechanism that's the most optimal. We're working on it now and, hopefully, right now I don't just want to talk about it, I think we're going to have an additional discussion today and we're going to have a committee meeting on this, and we're going to be able to go on some model that will be absolutely optimal. Thank you. That's why I'm here.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-06-m0.u131	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-06-m0.u132	I'm not saying people's deputies can't put to the vote, it's their right. I would just ask them, if possible, in this case to weigh, because we can find a solution that will satisfy them and their changes. If they put them now, well, that's their right, but these adjustments will be rejected and then we can. We can't play them again, actually. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-06-m0.u133	Thank you. The next amendment is 1711. Don't insist on the people. Aah! Please. Excuse me. Please vote. I thought you'd made a compromise. Didn't you get it? Oh, no? All right, then. Please vote. [[11:48:49]] For-22. Z-22. The decision is not made. 1711 amendment. There's no insistence on a national MP. 1712. Don't insist. 1713. Don't insist. 1714. Please, National Deputy Lapin.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-06-m0.u134	Dear colleagues, please pay attention to this amendment. What is she talking about? If the criminal offence committed by the territorial administration of the National Anti-Corruption Bureau of Ukraine, other than those referred to in the Code to the jurisdiction of the Supreme Anti-Corruption Court, is committed within the territorial jurisdiction of the local court at the location of the relevant territorial administration of the National Anti-Corruption Office of Ukraine, another territorial unit, the Autonomous Republic of Crime, the region, Kiev or Sevastopol. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-06-m0.u135	Thank you. Will the comment come out, or do you understand the position? Please, Mr. Ruslan.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-06-m0.u136	Mr. Igor, this is a similar situation to what it was. You look at the fourth column again, and you'll see that we've essentially taken your edit into account, because it's just not really there, so we didn't count it. But we just kind of counted it in parentheses in a different edition. And I want to read what it's going to be like. You're proposing the same thing, only we're offering it in parentheses. We suggest that part three after the words "trial investigation conducted by the territorial administration of the National Anti-Corruption Bureau of Ukraine" should be supplemented by the words "except for crimes (whom) referred to under the jurisdiction of the Supreme Anti-Corruption Court." So, as far as I'm concerned, in fact, your order decides, it finds its place in the final edition, only it's written differently. From our point of view, it's more consistent with the technical law of writing, including the criminal procedure law, because in many of its parts it contains such exclusions in parentheses. So it's not that it's not that it's not mentioned in the text, it's that it's probably.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-06-m0.u137	Finish up, give me 15 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-06-m0.u138	The authors may have decided that any exceptions should be written in brackets for convenience of use, including this code, because, visually, it is much easier to understand the meaning of the situation. So, based on the general concept of the Criminal Procedure Act, it's still proposed in this context to write out the rights. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-06-m0.u139	Thank you for explaining to the head of the 1714 Corrections Committee. The committee turned her down. At the same time, Igor Lapin, the amendment insists on voting. Did you agree? I'm sorry. You see, it is good that we have a constructive explanation and discussion after some adjustments. The following amendment is made in 1716 by the National Deputies of Julia Timoshenko and Sergio Vlasenko. Please, Mr. Vlasenko's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-06-m0.u140	Thank you, Reverend Irina Volodymyr! You know, I still want to go back to the question that we discussed during the previous amendment. I don't quite understand what this is, the procedure that the committee is offering us, that they haven't been defined on certain amendments. Now the Supreme Council of Ukraine sits here, which is the only sovereign that can be determined by these amendments, but they tell us no. Then someone, the committee, will take these amendments back to themselves, they'll be able to figure out something again, and they won't get into the session room again, the MPs won't be able to comment on these amendments. This procedure is not provided for by the Rules of Procedure Act, and I emphasize this in public. And if this procedure is to be done, I'm going to have to go to the law enforcement agencies on this issue, which I'm saying right now, under the transcript, at the meeting of the Supreme Council. And the amendment concerns the court's court system, the court of first instance separately, the court of appeal, which I mean the function of the Supreme Anti-Corruption Court, must be separate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-06-m0.u141	Thank you. Will there be a comment? Please, Mr. Ruslan.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-06-m0.u142	Sergey Volodymyrovich, I don't know, it's your right to address the law enforcement agencies, except I don't know what the committee's fault is. A large number of drafts, which were discussed in the session hall by various committees, were foreshadowed by committee meetings during the consideration of draft laws. And the committees were clarifying some positions, proposing a different edition, offering to go back to some of the lines. And then, of course, all of this will be considered in the session room. So that someone steals after the adoption of the law, I'm definitely correcting that. Everything will be as stipulated by the Law of the Rules, and the committee will not take any further action. Of course, the session room itself can determine these issues, but I can see that it cannot be determined because no revision is supported. And then there's a window that opens up when there's no solution in any direction. And so the committee is ready, if this is the will of the session room, there will be a commission, we're ready to gather and offer our vision of whether it will be supported by a session hall, that's the question for the session room. But that doesn't mean in any way that we're depriving the MPs or the sessional hall of being able to determine, on the contrary, we call.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-06-m0.u143	30 seconds to complete.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-06-m0.u144	We urge them to identify themselves, including in this regard, because this is their constitutional right. I'll just, let me say that in 33 articles as well, in the first part and in the second instead, in the first part, it's suggested that the legal office of the "place" should complete the "general courts" and then in the second part, the word "appropriate" should be removed, because it would already be clear that this is about the generals. It's an amendment that the committee will support, as a technical and legal one that is proposed by the legal authorities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-06-m0.u145	Thank you. Sergey Vlasenko always insists on voting on his amendments, including after comments by the committee head. So, without violating this tradition, we put amendment 1716 to the vote, please identify. [[11:55:12]] For-30 30 votes for. The correction is being rejected. The following is also the amendment of the National Deputies, Timoshenko, Vlasenko. Please, Mr. Sergei's microphone. 1717.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-06-m0.u146	Thank you, Your Honor Irina Volodymyr. You know, the logic of the honourable lord of the committee that I have been violated by the law and I will also be breaking the law is obviously wrong. I would like to remind you that, according to the Rules, if you have new amendments on the Committee, you are obliged to inform the deputies in three days, to distribute the corresponding comparative tables, and to take all the necessary action provided for in the Rules. And then we wonder why there is no respect for our Parliament, because we are breaking the Rules ourselves and pretending to be normal, it is totally insane that we are looking at it now. And once again, we don't care about adopting the law by Thursday, as we're told here by a lot of people who don't quite understand what they're talking about. It is important for us to adopt such a law that will ensure fair and impartial formation of the court, which will ensure the independence of this court, which will ensure that this court can make fair and fair decisions rather than make them puppets of Dustenka. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-06-m0.u147	Vote for amendment 1717. Please be sure. [[11:56:40]] For-34 The correction is being rejected. The next amendment is 1719 of the Ptašnik People's Deputy. It was partially accounted for. Deputy Capplin's asking for confirmation. Please, Mr. Capplin's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-06-m0.u148	And in the context of this amendment, I would like to make a statement. We believe that the decision to create an anti-corruption court is the main task of Parliament for this convening. And in order to speed up this process as quickly as possible and to stop this right-wing anonism, I'm taking out all of my next changes so that we can make the right decision tomorrow. And I want to contact our colleagues from the International Monetary Fund. The law will be in the Ukrainian version, and no one from abroad will run the Ukrainian judges. And if you want the country to ever repay you, you won't get this country to default. Any blackmail will cost more to the International Monetary Fund and all the other pseudo-partners of our country who have brought about the collapse and catastrophe of our country's economy. We're in the anti-corruption court, and I'm taking off all the paperwork so it'll be tomorrow.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-06-m0.u149	Do you insist on voting? Don't insist. [[B in m in s a l in]] Do you insist on voting? No, it's not. Okay. So 1720 right. Don't insist. 1721. 1721, Teteruk. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-06-m0.u150	My point is that in article 33, a fraction, 1 of the Supreme Anti-Corruption Court, consider the article of the Criminal Code of Ukraine 366-1 in full, not in part, as it was done. In my view, the crime committed in a corrupt way should not apply to an official of category A, rather than to use it in other categories. We need to set clear rules to be followed by all those involved in making corrupt tools, not segmenting our society by category. That, in my opinion, is wrong. And that's why I'm asking you to set it up and count it completely. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-06-m0.u151	Thank you. Please, Mr. Ruslan.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-06-m0.u152	Thank you, Mr. Andrey. I want to tell you that the committee has agreed to your logic. And your amendment simply applied to the editorial that was voted in the first reading. Now, if you look at the fourth column of an editorial proposed by the committee, you'll see that 366 with badge 1 is entirely appropriate. In general, if there is at least one of the conditions provided for in article 216, paragraph 1-3, this would be a clear case. It's about those articles, and I'll remind you what it is. What we're talking about when we're talking about 216 KPC is three signs: the first sign is the service person you're talking about; the second sign is the availability of more than 500 minimum subsistence minimums for working persons; and the third sign is if the crime committed by 369 is committed by those who are foreseen in the first part. In this case, that is to say, any sign of the National Anti-Corruption Bureau.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-06-m0.u153	30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-06-m0.u154	would mean that such cases should be investigated exclusively in the Supreme Anti-Corruption Court. So the committee thanks you for your position, we supported it in a different way, but I think you would if you didn't vote or withdraw your warning. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-06-m0.u155	Thank you. So Teteruk's edit was partially counted. He insists that it be taken fully into account. If this proposal is not supported, then the committee will be edited. So who's in favour of supporting Amendment 1721 in full, please vote. [[12:01:27]] For-38
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-06-m0.u156	The decision is not made. Now, colleagues, we figure out which direction we're going to continue with, which direction we're going to continue with. 22nd. 23rd. 24th. Ostrkova will continue our work after the break at 12:30. I'm asking the author of the draft. 1724. A group of deputies to be represented by Tetjana Ostrikov. Please, yes. So I'm going to call it a 30-minute break. At 12:30, we continue our work from 1724. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-06-m0.u157	Thus, the time given by the break rule is over. I'd like to invite members of the National Parliament, head of the committee. So we ended up on the right hand side of 1724. I'll continue to call the editing and the authors please report. Next, 1725. Don't insist. 1726. He insists. Please, dove. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-06-m0.u158	Thank you, Mr. Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. I think it's probably the most critical piece of legislation that determines the jurisdiction of the future Supreme Anti-Corruption Court. Ruslan Petrovich, and from. Well, I haven't seen the favorite article of our corruptionists, 191 articles of the Criminal Code of Ukraine. In fact, most corruption - related matters are dealt with in this article. That's why, along with my colleague, Svetlana Petrovna Zalitchuk, we offer clearly, without any obsessive, as you explained to your previous author, that the jurisdiction of the High Anti-Corruption Court is determined by the cases that are being investigated by the National Anti-Corruption Bureau, as well as the investigation, in the future, by the State Bureau of Investigation. So I think this is a very clear position, and I would ask my colleagues to support, in order to actually fill the normal quality, the effectiveness of the High Anti-Corruption Court. Thank you very much. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-06-m0.u159	Please, Mr. Ruslan.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-06-m0.u160	If you leave your logic behind, you have to leave what was in the first reading, where it was possible for the D.B.I. to investigate these crimes as well. Here you can see in the fourth column a harmonized position, including with the Venice Commission, which foresees that all of the articles in the footnote to article 45 and the corresponding article, as well as articles 206 with the 2, 209, 211 and 366 with the badge 1, are new articles relating to the declaration already, they are all in case, if at least one of the conditions provided for in paragraphs 1-3 of article 216. I mean, if this is the subject you're talking about, the Anti-Corruption Act, if the sum of more than five hundred living minimums for working persons, and if there's a crime committed by the 369th in respect of persons foreseen in paragraph 1, then that's the sole consequence of the NAB. In view of this, whatever body is running the matter, this is really a problem for you to know what comes out of it. Because we don't have everything to do last year.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-06-m0.u161	Please, 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-06-m0.u162	They're the ones who follow the NABA. You remember that story when the NABU, including the Supreme Council, asked for it, and you and I on the committee agreed that the cases that were investigated by other law enforcement agencies, including the prosecutor’s office, the police, the Security Service, should remain, but are under investigation by the NABU, remain in these organs. And these are cases that are still being investigated, and, well, imagine, these are already tens of thousands of cases that are in court. And so to cut these things off, as it were.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-06-m0.u163	Give me another minute. It is important that it be explained in detail by the head of the committee. Please, just a minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-06-m0.u164	And also, if we write it as suggested by the committee, this would apply to the case, Vladislav Volodymyrovich, when the case was followed by the NAB, but the SAP, for some reason, passed it on to other authorities for investigation. We have these cases, unfortunately, or luckily, I don't know, let's say, enough of these cases. And in that case, if we don't write that formula, that means that the same N.A.U.U. cases that are being investigated, for example, by the National Police, have to go to the General Court for something. Well, let's keep it simple. This is no longer a matter of law, but of SAP, why they decide. It's probably better for them to ask. But since they're handing over the case to another body, and regardless of who's going to investigate the case, it's going to be exactly the jurisdiction of the Supreme Anti-Corruption Court. Let's base on that. And I would very much ask the session room in this part of the arrangement not to break, because they are exclusive. We expanded them even more than we did in the first edition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-06-m0.u165	You insist on voting, don't you? I'm voting on Amendment 1726. It's part of the committee. Mr. Dove insists that it be taken fully into account. Who, in order for it to be fully accounted for, please vote. [[12:39:10]] For-23 The decision is not taken. 1727. Are you insisting? Candlestick. [[B in m in s a l in]] 27th is the Reader. I already called 25th. Okay, okay. So, 27th Lechchenka's right. Maybe we have some difficulty back in the table, let's check it out. 27th is Lechchenka's paper. And look at the chart that Sergei Vlasenka has. Please, Mr. Sergio, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-06-m0.u166	In fact, as colleagues have done, I will give up my rights so that this process does not delay and make life easier for our reporter. But I want to take this moment to make sure that Ukrainian citizens who are watching or listening to a parliamentary session understand what is going on. In fact, if it were the political will of the President's Administration, we wouldn't have passed the law for the fourth day now, but we would have had many judgments that this anti-corruption court would have handed down if we had created this court last year, as it was supposed to have done and how it would have been done. But since there is no political will in the Banking Authority, we have been sabotaging this court all last year, specifically introducing a bill that does not correspond to the Venice Commission. Eventually, only now did they reach out. Everything is done to ensure that this court does not work for the President's election. It's a disgrace. And that's another reason to change the political elite in the country. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-06-m0.u167	Please, Mr. Ruslan.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-06-m0.u168	Well, I won't comment on Mr. Sergei's political remarks. I thank him for actually supporting our position. We've partly taken into account his amendment, because, indeed, that agreed position on the jurisdiction of this court, it's, for us, absolutely optimal, and it doesn't challenge either our international partners or the Venice Commission, not the majority of the members of the session room. Thank you for your support.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-06-m0.u169	Do you insist on voting? Don't insist. Next, 1728. 25th. Jemec, please. 25th, Leonid Yemen.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-06-m0.u170	Thank you, Andry Volodymyrovich. In fact, the 25 amendments refer to one of the issues that the Venice Commission insists on in its recommendations is the issue of the succession of the Supreme Anticorruption Court. That's what the warnings were about. In order not to bury the Higher Anti-Corruption Court in a variety of cases that will be, well, either insignificant or intended simply to prevent anti-corruption judges from doing their job effectively. So I'd like to make a warning about the 500 minimums envisaged in this article, because the damage is determined only by the judgment of the court, and it's just a theory or an investigative idea, as he thinks, may have been harmed. This enables investigators to manipulate these sizes and thus load the High Anti-Corruption Court with a serious array of cases that will be difficult for them to deal with. So I would like to consider this too. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-06-m0.u171	Do you insist on voting? I'm putting to the vote 1725 of the German National MP, whom the committee considered in part, but the author insists that it be taken fully into account. Who supports the author, please vote. Vote, 1725. [[B in m in s a l in]] [[12:43:02]] For-48 48-yes. We can go back and dynamically continue voting for this amendment. So I'm going to call this another one. 1728. 1729. 1730. 1731. 1732. 1733. 1734. 1735. 36th. 37th. 38th. 1739. 1740. 41st. 1742. The authors group does not insist. 1743. Germany insists. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-06-m0.u172	Germany, the opposition block faction. Dear colleagues, the honourable Chief, I ask you not to consider this amendment in order to save time, but I want to tell you the following for this moment. That you don't have to be a legislative flyer and twist the conclusions of the Venice Commission, as it is now. Please see where were the conclusions of the Venice Commission on the violation of citizens' rights under decommunization laws, by illustration, and where were violations of citizens' rights to freedom and freedom of reintegration? There are conclusions from this point of view of the Venice Commission that you ignored them and went on a violation of rights. And the next. In this case, I repeat, articles 5, 6 and 17 of the Constitution are being violated. Here some exhibitors have been very much talking to us about it.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-06-m0.u173	30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-06-m0.u174	Thank you. ..about the fact that it's not about sovereignty. This is a direct intervention and an attempt that will lead to a violation of sovereignty, and the Constitution obliges the 17th, look. Ensuring sovereignty is a guarantee and sovereignty for the administration of state affairs, which is the exclusive authority of the Ukrainian people and their representatives. We want to break up the court for today.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-06-m0.u175	Do you insist on voting? No, it's not. Yeah, well, then let's move on. 1744. The author does not insist. 1745. Please, Teteruk.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-06-m0.u176	Thank you, Mr. Head! I insist that the amendment that the committee has rejected be accepted. Because I think we need to avoid any other interpretation of what needs to be done than acting according to the rules that are set. And that's why I've just been told that in part two of article 33 of the Ukrainian KPC in the draft law, after the words of the "High Anti-Corruption Court" to complete the words "according to the rules" so that we can understand clearly what we're going to do. So I'm going to ask you to confirm that you're going to put this right here so that it's accounted for. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-06-m0.u177	Please, Mr. Ruslan.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-06-m0.u178	Thank you, Your Honor, Mr. Andrey. We came out that the rules, as you say, should be the law, the criminal procedure law, so they should be governed only by the Constitution and the law of Ukraine. Other additional rules that are not provided for in the law and in the Constitution of Ukraine, according to the Committee, should not be used by judges when considering criminal conduct, this is the position of the committee. For my part, let me say that in part three of the legal administration is offering a technical legal order. There's just the wrong link, there's a reference to the second part of the thirteenth article 31, it has to be excluded. And just leave the text as follows: "In addition to the case provided for in the seventh part of the first part of article 34 of this Code." Thank you. It's a technical legal order, we're counting it.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-06-m0.u179	Thank you. But the author insists on voting, and I'm putting the vote to 1745. It's rejected by the committee. Whoever supports this amendment, please vote. [[12:48:02]] For-41 The decision is not made. 1746. Is he insisting? I don't see you, Mr. Andrew. He insists, doesn't he?
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-06-m0.u180	Thank you, Mr. Head. Yes, in part two of article 33 of the Ukrainian KPC, in the draft law, replace the words "part one" with the words "part one," then we preserve the meaningful filling that should be, not the adoption of the bill with the erroneous thesis that we are putting in place immediately. So please consider my application and place it on confirmation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-06-m0.u181	Thank you. Please, Mr. Ruslan.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-06-m0.u182	Mr. Andrey, if you look at the right column, we've taken it into account editorially, we just haven't described it as a separate amendment and you look at the end of "before the High Anti-Corruption Court, according to part one." So this is the editors of the Supreme Council recommending that we do it, we just automatically did it, and that's why it's not appropriate to isolate it, because we think it's a technical law, actually an orthographic law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-06-m0.u183	Mr. Andrew, I'm not voting. Yes, it is corrected and clearly marked. Thank you for understanding. 1747. Don't insist. 1748. Don't insist. 1749. Don't insist. 1750. Dove, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-06-m0.u184	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman. I propose paragraph 3 (d) of paragraph 2 of section VI, paragraph 2, of the draft law, to read as follows: "Paragraph 3. Other courts, as defined in this Code, cannot deal with criminal conduct in relation to crimes referred to in the jurisdiction of the Supreme Anti-Corruption Court (except in the cases provided for in the seventh part of the first part of Article 34 of this Code).” The point of this amendment is to remove from the proposed text the reference to the second reading that matters may also be dealt with by those referred to in the second part of article 31 of the relevant code. I think that we can thus be more effectively filled with an effective mechanism of cases that will be dealt with by the High Court of Anti-Corruption and cannot be considered in another court of law. Dear colleagues, I ask you to support me. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-06-m0.u185	Please, Mr. Ruslan.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-06-m0.u186	Dear Vladislav Volodymyrovich, I must tell you that, in principle, we, as you say, in the sense of your amendment, have already agreed and considered it, and including the technical and legal aspects of what the lawyers have proposed it solves this issue. So once again, I want to draw your attention to the point that in the future, after this court is created, all the cases that are being followed by the NAB, regardless of which authorities. I understand that there is a danger that will be passed on to other organs and that they will be able to avoid this consequence, now it will be impossible to do so, because any of the signs foreseen in paragraphs 1 to 216 will mean that it will be a follow-on NAB. All of it. That this is a criminal NAB and will be tried by the Supreme Anti-Corruption Court. Now that problem is gone, it's solved in the right column of that agreed part, which I think we've voted absolutely faithfully on the committee with you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-06-m0.u187	You insist on voting, don't you? So I'm putting 1750 to the vote, and the committee rejected it. Whoever supports this amendment, please vote. [[12:52:00]] For the 18th. The decision is not taken. Colleagues, we were supposed to start our work with 1724 revisions. I'm not gonna tell you why we didn't start our job. I won't. Please, one minute Ostrikak. Mr. Ruslan, this is an emergency.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-06-m0.u188	Aunt Ostrikova, Self-Help faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-06-m0.u189	No, 724th.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-06-m0.u190	Dear colleagues, the 1724 amendment tells us about the jurisdiction of the Supreme Anti-Corruption Court. The Self-Help faction insisted on its proposed amendments, which are only 61 out of 2,000, that only crimes committed by the National Anti-Corruption Bureau should be referred to the jurisdiction of the Supreme Anti-Corruption Court. And these are also crimes related to the State Bureau of Investigation, according to 216 articles of the Criminal Procedure Code, which are actually committed by NAB detectives. We can see that our correction is partially accounted for. And that's why I have a question for you, Mr. Head. What part of our amendment is included? And please give an answer to us and to society, which crimes will very clearly fall under the jurisdiction of the Supreme Anti-Corruption Court. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-06-m0.u191	Please, Mr. Ruslan.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-06-m0.u192	Thank you very much, Mrs. Auntie, for asking. I want to pay attention again. The point is that we've partly taken into account in that part that all the crimes that are being committed by the National Anti-Corruption Bureau will be brought to justice by this court. Why is this important? Because your amendment tells us about what are being "explored by the National Anti-Corruption Bureau," and we're talking about slightly broader things because. I've already mentioned examples where not all of the N.A.U.V.V.'s are investigating the N.A.U.U.U. There are cases like this. The SAP gives them to law enforcement authorities and others, which is the rights of the SAP by law. This is also true of the cases when the NAB’s successors, who had taken up the law at the time of the adoption of the codes, remained in other law enforcement agencies that had begun their consideration of the NAB. This is part of the prosecution's office, partly the National Police, and accordingly the BAF. So it came out that if at least one of the signs that this is the NABU case, it is the subject of a higher anticorruption court, regardless of which body.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-06-m0.u193	30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-06-m0.u194	whether he is investigating what he was investigating earlier than the NAB was created, or whether the SAP has determined that he should investigate the case under investigation.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-06-m0.u195	Do you insist on voting? [[B in m in s a l in]] That was constructive. So the next negative 1751. Don't insist. 1752. Don't insist. 1753. Don't insist. 1754. Don't insist. 1755. Don't insist. 1756. The author does not insist. 1757. The authors' group does not insist. 1758. 1759. Don't insist. In 1760, Sergey Vlasenko. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-06-m0.u196	Thank you, Andrey Volodymyrovich. In fact, the discussion of the jurisdiction of the Supreme Anti-Corruption Court is very important. If the committee, my analysis of what the committee has proposed for at least a second reading, does not exactly correspond to the position now declared by the committee head, but if the committee has made such a decision, it is the right decision. There is one technical question: What about matters that are united in one direction with matters that should be followed by the NAB but by crimes that are not followed by the NAB? So we know that there are these artificial compounds, when, you know, there are things that, in principle, unite into a corruption case that are not united, but that are combined into a series of crimes that shouldn't be a follow-up to the National Anticorruption Bureau, and then they shouldn't be in the jurisdiction and the Supreme Anti-Corruption Court. What should we do with this, Mr. Chairman of the Committee? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-06-m0.u197	Is that a question to me?
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-06-m0.u198	Head of the committee, your thoughts are requested.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-06-m0.u199	I understand it's more of a question, and it's so rhetorical, it's what to do if this situation is created. If this situation is going to be created by the SAP, and we understand that only it can create this kind of situation, because it is determined about the organ that is going to be under investigation, probably then it has to consider that if there's any element of the NABI, then this case will clearly go to the Supreme Anti-Corruption Court. How to design this situation now and what answer I can give you, I can't give you that answer because it's a very hypothetical situation. And we'll see how it works.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-06-m0.u200	Thank you. National MP Vlasenko insists on voting. Please vote. [[12:57:58]] For-12. The decision is not made. The next amendment is number 1761. There's no insistence on a national MP. The next one is 1762. Don't insist. 1763. Please, National Deputy Rizanenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-06-m0.u201	My editing is partially accounted for, but I'd like to make something clear. It also referred to the jurisdiction of the court, and articles were set out, which are entirely the articles of the NABU, so that there are no variations. That's one aspect. But another also predicted that the qualifications were in size, not qualification, but jurisdiction in size. And that was actually, including the request of the NABA and the SAP themselves, because they often have to deal with some MPs, there, the district council, the crime of $5 or $10,000, and the resources are being diverted incredibly. It's what they wanted to do to engage in big corruption, and that's what these organs were designed to do. So I was offered 1,500 minimum wage, minimum wage, that's about $100,000. And it's part of the size that I understand is unaccounted for. I want you to sound the committee's position, and I want you to decide whether or not to vote on this.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-06-m0.u202	Please comment on the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-06-m0.u203	It's not taken into account because it's not here, it's set up in other legislation, including, you know, that for this, well, there are already relevant articles not only the Criminal Procedure Code, there are articles in the anti-corruption legislation, etc. On the other hand, let's increase that amount right now. Well, 500 minimum living minimums for working persons is, well, almost a million dollars, if we triple it, it's going to be a question of, I get it, maybe it's going to be a question of what's a pretty big amount, let's say it's not going to be the subjective body in the fight against corruption and the anti-corruption court. Therefore, our committee was not determined on this matter. But if the session room thinks it's a viable thing because it's, well, it's pretty sensitive, then, well, the committee will take the position of the Supreme Council.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-06-m0.u204	Thank you. Do you insist on voting? [[B in m in s a l in]] Please vote. [[13:00:40]] For the 17th. The decision is not taken. The next amendment is number 1764. A national MP does not insist. 1765. Don't insist. 1766. Please, National Deputy Vlasenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-06-m0.u205	Thank you, Reverend Oksana Ivanovna. You know, there's some colleagues here that are taking off their books. This is, of course, their holy right and no one insists on it. But I prepared my papers with Julia Volodymyrna Timoshenko to improve this law. Then I will fight for the improvement of this law to the last. Commenting on my previous amendment, the honourable chairman of the committee said that we were considering a hypothetical situation. The situation is completely hypothetical. Yes, according to my statement, the SAP has violated the case of the corruption of the powder and its surroundings, but it has referred something to an investigation at the B.S.A. I have a simple question, and if they add, I don't know, something about bodily harm, something about murder, and so on, who will be, what court will consider this question? Is it anticorruption, or is it a general court, based on the fact that it will be a unified case in which there will be many episodes? And why is this question not resolved in this bill? And this amendment of mine refers again to the question of disunity between the two courts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-06-m0.u206	Thank you. Will the committee comment? No, it's not. Please vote. [[13:02:18]] For the 17th. The decision is not taken. The next amendment is number 1767. Please, National Deputy Sidorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-06-m0.u207	Ruslan Sidorovich, Self Help Union. Dear colleagues, well, when we're talking about creating a High Anti-Corruption Court, it's either going to be the way it's supposed to be, or it's just not needed by society. Or not only will they be professional, but they will be completely, absolutely, 100 percent virtuous judges. Or else the meaning of its existence is irrelevant. If we do create such a court, we find it totally inappropriate to refer cases against judges of such a High Anti-Corruption Court to other courts. This undermines the very logic of creating such an appropriate institution. Accordingly, amendments 1767, 1770 and 1772 propose, in sub-paragraph 2 of article 34 of the Criminal Code, paragraphs 2 and 3 and 4 to be deleted. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-06-m0.u208	Thank you. Let's ask the committee to make a statement.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-06-m0.u209	In principle, we had a discussion earlier. I think the position of the committee is clear, let the session room be defined. If the session room supports, then the committee will take the parliamentary position.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-06-m0.u210	Thank you. So again, this is 1767.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-06-m0.u211	1770 and 1772.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-06-m0.u212	Okay. Then let's do it in a row. First amendment number 1767. Please vote. [[13:04:15]] For-30 The decision is not taken. 1770. [[13:04:32]] For-33 The decision is not taken. And 1772. Please also vote. [[13:04:50]] For-35 The decision is not taken. The next amendment is 1768. Do not insist on the author of the amendment. 1769. Don't insist. 1771. Don't insist. 1773. Don't insist. 1774. Don't insist. 1775. Don't insist. 1776. There's no insistence on a national MP. 1777. Don't insist. 1778. People's MP Sidorovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-06-m0.u213	Ruslan Sidorovich, Self Help Union. Two amendments: 1778 and 1782. Again, we're talking about the issue of directing criminal conduct from the High Anti-Corruption Court to another court. Self-help and I insist once again on what's going on. Which are the defendants in the Supreme Anti-Corruption Court should end up in the Supreme Anti-Corruption Court, not being referred from the first instance to appeal, because it ruins the very structure of the anti-corruption criminal justice that is founded on philosophy itself. So we insist in paragraph 2: in sub-paragraph 2 of paragraph 2 of article 34 of the Ukrainian Criminal Procedure Code that paragraphs 7 and 8 be deleted. This is chapter VI of the Bill's Final and Transitional Provisions. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-06-m0.u214	Is the committee going to comment?
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-06-m0.u215	All I can do is draw Ruslan Mikhailovich's attention as a member of the committee, which, in principle, is to refer to the case where the party's concern with this kind of decision is allowed by the Supreme Anti-Corruption Court. So in this case, if, well, they're not accused of being accused or not, in that case, if really, well, we can assume that there are certain things that are so ambiguous. In particular, such cases may be decided by the court itself if there is a party’s concern that this is not inseparable, not under the court’s jurisdiction. And for his own judgment within five days, it must be determined whether or not it is appropriate for him to do so. If he does not answer, he has the right to refer cases to the court to which he is entitled. It's his right and I think that's the right to remain behind him. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-06-m0.u216	Thank you. Please vote. Amendment number 1778 first. [[13:07:45]] For-38 The decision is not made. The next amendment is 1782. I remember right, don't I? Mr. Ruslan, 17.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-06-m0.u217	In 1782.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-06-m0.u218	I'd like to make up my mind, 1782nd. [[13:08:12]] For-36 We'll be right back. The national deputy Sidorovich immediately made two amendments, so we will identify them and return to the previous ones. 1779 amendment. Please. Are you going to perform? People's deputy Teteruk. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-06-m0.u219	Thank you, Madam Chairman. It is a matter of directing criminal proceedings from the Supreme Anti-Corruption Court to another court by a college composed of five judges of the Appeals Chamber of the High Court of Anti-Corruption for the filing of a criminal court or for the handling of a party not later than five days from the date of the filing or the taking of such a decision. In my direction was in the last paragraph of the third article 34 KPC Ukraine to delete the word "composition" after the word "submission". Some were rejected and then said to have been counted. I ask you to confirm and put her to the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-06-m0.u220	Will you comment? Please, Mr. Chairman of the Committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-06-m0.u221	What is the mechanism? There is a deliberate mechanism for bringing such a decision to the Supreme Court of Anticorruption by a college of at least five persons, whereas the college is three to deal with the ordinary case. In order to avoid the fact that these three persons would, of course, consider a case to be such that they would find it useful to pass on the concerns of the parties, but two other colleagues (not necessarily this trinity would be part of this college, it might be a college of new judges) would consider such a statement to be unfounded, the mechanism of submission meant that they would not make their own decisions in this case, but would make an application to a larger room, a larger one, which was based on this submission to make a decision. If we take away the filing mechanism, the filing institution, then it's not going to be clear how this Great Chamber itself has to dissipate these matters, how it should be determined. So if we could, we'd ask you not to insist. It's the right, logical mechanism to keep judges out of the way in a smaller college.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-06-m0.u222	Thank you. Mr. Teteruk, you don't insist. Okay. The next amendment is number 1780. There's no insistence on a national MP. 1781. Don't insist. In 1782, we voted. 1783. Don't insist. In 1784. Please, National Deputy Vlasenko, for confirmation.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-06-m0.u223	Thank you, Reverend Oksana Ivanovna! Again, we've been plagued by the Higher Anti-Corruption Court Bill with standards that have no direct bearing on the functioning or any other issues related to the activities of the High Anti-Corruption Court. This is a new norm that further regulates some of the rights and duties of an expert in criminal conduct. Once again, should such matters be addressed? You should. But this requires a separate law, let it be short, technical, but separate law, which certainly has no direct bearing on the Higher Anticorruption Court Act. Therefore, to my conviction, this amendment does not have the right to exist under article 116 of the Rules. And then, please put it on confirmation and don't support this amendment. We need to regulate direct issues related to the Supreme Anti - Corruption Court, not to shove some incomprehensible stuff in here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-06-m0.u224	Please, head of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-06-m0.u225	Once again, I want to state that this right is relevant to this law as well. Because, including during the examination of criminal conduct before the Supreme Anti-Corruption Court, it is recommended that, indeed, the committee be offered and supported by the Venice Commission. In order for experts to give appropriate evidence, a testimony to a criminal investigative judge, including the Supreme Anti-Corruption Court. That's why this story has arisen and is now, as it were, because of this, this court is proposing to design this case for other criminal proceedings, but it's important, first of all, to deal with cases before the Supreme Anti-Corruption Court. This is the position of the committee, but let the session room be defined.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-06-m0.u226	Please vote. A national MP insists on voting. I'd like to make a statement. [[13:12:55]] For-39 The decision is not made. The next amendment is 1785. Please, National Deputy Vlasenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-06-m0.u227	Thank you, Reverend Oksana Ivanovna. The only thing I can say is that the Venice Commission was not defined and could not determine from this point. If it has been determined, show me the decision of the Venice Commission on this matter. There is no such decision and there is no such decision, and then there is no need to speculate on the position of the Venice Commission. If any individual representative has not objected to something, it is a personal right, but the decision of the Venice Commission has nothing to do with it. Edit 1785 also regulates general issues, I emphasize, general issues that have no direct relevance. Clearly, anything in the criminal proceedings is related to the anti-corruption court, because the anti-corruption court will be governed by the CPC and the Criminal Code, but that is absurd logic. We're looking at a special law that introduces special procedures just for the High Anti-Corruption Court and stuff like that, the more the change to KPC and KC, I think we've already done it, with the changes to KPC and KK when it's done in general bills. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-06-m0.u228	Thank you. Please vote. [[13:14:30.]] For-42 The decision is not made. The next amendment is 1786. National MP Vlasenko for confirmation.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-06-m0.u229	Thank you. Sadly, the situation is the same again, but issues related to the status of the witness are already being resolved. Once again, the logic is completely wrong that anything relating to a criminal trial or a criminal code should be inserted into this law and it should be said that this is why an anticorruption court is involved. This has nothing to do with work; the status of a witness is in no way linked to the work of an anticorruption court. And I say again, this Parliament has already made so many changes to the Criminal Procedure Code that it can't even be called the Criminal Procedure Code, it's already a code of this Supreme Council. And all the flaws that are there are the shortcomings of this Supreme Council, let's be honest and frank. Therefore, this practice should be stopped, if it is a special Act on the Status of the Higher Court, in fact, on the Status and Functioning of the High Anti-Corruption Court, it is not necessary to cloud the bill with general things. If it is necessary to make general changes to the CPC, please let us do so separately if necessary. No questions asked. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-06-m0.u230	Thank you. I'd like the committee to comment.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-06-m0.u231	I thank Sergey Volodymyrovich very much for his position. I just want to say, right now, the injustice, Sergey Volodymyrovich, that you just look at it, is suggested to put it in such an editorial, in a new edition, and as far as the witness is concerned, we're not changing it, we're leaving it as it is in its original form. We're just changing the second part about the expert that he's appropriately obliged to testify to the investigating judge and the court, that's the change. And as for the witness, the committee doesn't touch these things, because they really are fundamental. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-06-m0.u232	Thank you. I ask you to vote. [[13:16:36]] For-40 The decision is not taken. The next amendment is number 1787. National MP Vlasenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-06-m0.u233	Thank you. Dear Oksano Ivanovna, this is already, indeed, my amendment and the amendment of Julia Volodymyrovna Timoshenko and she again deals with the issue in the first place. In fact, by dividing the courts. I mean, with the actual circumstances that the head of the committee has repeatedly talked about, the fact that these two courts, I mean, the court of first instance and the court of appeal, are essentially divided by all the criteria: the criteria of leadership and the criteria of function, the location and so on, and so on and so forth. But somehow this court is still called one. I insist that the system of anti-corruption courts should be changed only to enable these courts to function effectively and qualitatively. Well, I would like to emphasize once again that you can imagine, Detective NABU from the city of Lviv will be driving to the city of Kiev -- this is completely absurd. There's no problem in creating four small courts of first instance in these cities and making an appeal court, which is going to be the Supreme Court.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-06-m0.u234	Thank you. Aren't you going to comment? Okay. Let's vote then. [[13:18:12]] For-19 The decision is not made. The next amendment is number 1788. Please, the People's Deputies of Yuzkov.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-06-m0.u235	I ask you to place Mr. Shahov's stated claim for confirmation (it is partly taken into account), as this right does change the criminal procedure law again, and this does not apply exclusively to anti-corruption bodies, this applies to all the bodies involved in the pre-trial investigation. Once again, although Parliament has not supported this, there is an attempt to change the territorial jurisdiction of judicial control over the judicial investigation authorities. Therefore, I ask Parliament not to support this exercise. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-06-m0.u236	Please, head of the committee, comment.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-06-m0.u237	Thank you. I'll try to explain. The point is, the first edition was supported and duly voted until Parliament adopted the Law (remember?), which was corrected by certain rules of the Criminal Procedure Code and predicted that it was an organ that. a local court within the territorial jurisdiction of which the judicial investigation body is located. And so, given that at the time of the committee's consideration, the law that changed the KPC was already in force, we thought it was appropriate to change and adapt immediately to new realities, because now, if we don't, it would be in line with the standard that was changed. And then we're gone. Well, the point of this norm is lost. We have to change it anyway. Why change it then, if you can do it now, correct it? It's a technical thing, we're just bringing it into line with the law that was passed and, accordingly, became effective between the first and the second readings. This is a bill that my colleague reported, Captain, Anton Gerashchenko. You remember that story. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-06-m0.u238	Thank you. You insist on voting, don't you? Mrs. Yuzkova, you. No, you don't. [[B in m in s a l in]] You insist. Okay, let's vote. 1788 amendment. Vote. [[13:20:33]] For-30 The decision is not taken. The next amendment is number 1789. National MP Vlasenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-06-m0.u239	Thank you, Reverend Oksana Ivanovna. In fact, you know, some people are now saying that we're wasting time here, I'm stressing again, we're not wasting time. We were told the same way when these famous codes were adopted, which the honourable chairman of the committee had just mentioned. We were also told that we were wasting our time because we had been discussing amendments to this code for four days. And now six months after our adoption, we have to go back to the amendments that we then proposed, which were then not supported by the Supreme Council's sessional hall. I think that, in fact, during this period of time, Parliament is working, just as a real parliament should be working when. At least that's what it looks like outside. I've already said that, in fact, unfortunately, it's all propaganda, but it's the way Parliament should work on the outside. And right now in the stands, I realize that journalists are celebrating, but they don't care anymore because they're interested in the show that's here, they're interested in other things, and unfortunately not in the professional discussion that's going on with these important bills. And I'm asking you to support the amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-06-m0.u240	Thank you. Please vote. Yeah? Will you comment, sir?? No, it's not. Let's vote, let's vote. [[13:22:05]] For-35 The decision is not made. Next amendment number 1790. Please, National Deputy Vlasenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-06-m0.u241	Thank you, Reverend Oksana Ivanovna. Once again, I would like to point out that we do not need this bill until Thursday, not Friday, not Monday, not Tuesday, but we need a quality bill that we need to discuss. So I'm not going to, I'm not going to stop, I'm going to repeat that we have to improve this bill, we have to remove from it the subjective factors in the selection of candidates in the court, in the Supreme Anti-Corruption Court. We have to apply selection procedures that will not depend on President Dustenk, but will be independent and transparent. We must, we must ensure the jurisdiction of this court, which will fully and totally correspond to the jurisdiction of the NAB in independence from the investigator. It's about following the NAB, not who's actually investigating these cases. So we have to provide and secure all of this. One element of this security, namely the change in the system of anti-corruption courts, is the 1790 amendment. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-06-m0.u242	Thank you for explaining your correction. Is there a comment in the head of the profile committee? None. The committee rejected the amendment. And please, please, please, please, make a determination about this amendment. [[13:23:40]] For-22. 22 deputies voted in favour. The correction is being rejected. The next one is 1792, Teteruk. Now. I've already announced. Mrs. Tetjana, I'll come back to you. Please, Mr. Teteruk. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-06-m0.u243	Thank you, Madam Chairman. I applied for one piece of paper, and somehow the committee divided it into two, and I wrote it down as two. And in the first part of article 192, add the second sentence to this sentence: "In the event of a detention without a permit to arrest a person on suspicion of committing a criminal offence, referred to the jurisdiction of the High Anti-Corruption Court, the alleged concern is referred to the Supreme Anti-Corruption Court." I asked the committee to consider part one of the first article of the 192 KPC of Ukraine (in the draft law) after the words "in case of detention" to complete the word "persons" and the word "persons" after the words "in detention" to be deleted, so that it would be clear what it was about. So I'd like to confirm this amendment, 1792, and the next one, 1793. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-06-m0.u244	Thank you. So there's a comment by the head of the profile committee. Please, Your Honor, Mr. Ruslan.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-06-m0.u245	Mr. Andrey, this is where we split up, because from the point of view of the committee, we agreed with what it is, because it is supported, including by the editors of the Supreme Council. First of all, it fits, well, the rules of grammar, the construction of sentences, and secondly, the articles that are already in the KPC. It's not just about the person, it's about the person being detained without the approval of a detention permit, it's about saying "if the person is detained without the approval of a detention permit" in terms of grammar, we think it's tautology. For us, it is clear that this person is involved, without the approval of a detention permit, which should be followed accordingly. So, well, that's your right. Let the session room be defined. But in the committee's view, this is more acceptable in terms of legal engineering. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-06-m0.u246	Thank you for your clarification. Dear Mr. Andrey, do you insist on voting? The amendment considers that its wording is more accurate in terms of legal practice and in terms of lexically and philosophically speaking. That's why I'm putting it in order. Initially, 1792 revision of Teteruk. I'm asking you to identify a room, please identify yourself. It's the author's right to insist. [[13:26:25]] For-24 The correction is being rejected. And the next one is 1793. The author has already explained this amendment. But on his request, we put it to a vote. Please, 1793, please make up your mind. [[13:26:49]] For-25 The correction is being rejected. Now, at the request of Tetjana Yuskovy, I return to Amendment 1791. This is the amendment of the Shahov People's Deputy. She was counted by the committee. But Mrs. Tetjana needs confirmation. Please, it's Mrs. Yuskov's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-06-m0.u247	I've already given an explanation as to why, for what reasons, I'm asking you to make the application confirm. Moreover, from the text of the article, from the text of the "Transitional Regulations" rule, there is nothing at all about a legal person. So I don't think this refers directly to the Supreme Anti-Corruption Court, the order of its formation and the requirements of this law in general. Therefore, I ask my colleagues not to support the proposed amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-06-m0.u248	Thank you for your clarification. Please comment to the committee head.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-06-m0.u249	Mrs. Tetjana, if I may, I will ask you once again not to bet on confirmation. Because, indeed, the law is important, and it again refers to the case that I was talking about. Do you remember this discussion that lasted here? She forced us to adopt a special law in connection with the discussion that the investigator was having difficulty going far into the courts and standing in line to obtain the court’s permission. And then Parliament decided that this would apply accordingly to the case that they should file appropriate concerns with the local court, within the territorial jurisdiction of which the judicial investigation body is located. This is already defined by a new law that was adopted again between first and second reading and became effective. If we don't confirm this right now, we're going back to the original and actually this law doesn't matter because this law is going to be new, it's going to overlap this rule and we're going back to the zero point. And now this is going to lead to another discussion, so we're going to have to probably solve this from a technical point of view, because that's going to have to be inconsistent with another.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-06-m0.u250	30 seconds, please finish. There's a discussion about what's important to the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-06-m0.u251	We have to react to this somehow, because we can't take those legislative acts that conflict with the position that Parliament expressed in a law that was just adopted literally, as I recall, days 10 ago only it became effective. So if you please, I wouldn't insist, but I won't convince you otherwise. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-06-m0.u252	Thank you. Ms. Tetjana insists that this amendment be confirmed despite clarification by the committee head. My colleagues, I'm drawing your attention to the committee's request to support this amendment because the committee voted in favour. I'd like to make a statement. [[13:29:55]] For-37 37 votes for. At this stage, the amendment is not taken into account. But we're moving on. The next amendment is 1794 National Deputies Timoshenko and Vlasenko. Please, Mr. Vlasenko, give me your word.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-06-m0.u253	Thank you, Madam Chairman. I'll talk again about the change in the system of anti-corruption courts, the change in terms of concepts and the work that was done on the committee, which is completely illogical, uninhabitable for Ukraine. Today is possible because there are enough amendments that change exactly this part of the law, they don't contradict the general concept, they're going to be part of the normal functioning of the anti-corruption judicial system, they don't contradict the conclusions of the Venice Commission, they don't contradict the Ukrainian Constitution. Once again, I don't understand why two separate courts are today legally called one court, ignoring and questioning the principle of the possibility of appeal, because it's a hybrid appeal and judicial review of what we're being offered, it might contradict the Constitution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-06-m0.u254	The comment will not give the head of the committee, he insists that he has repeatedly explained the committee’s position on this amendment block. And I'm going to vote on Amendment 1794. Please make up your mind, colleagues. [[13:31:45]] For-22. 22 deputies support it, this amendment. So it's deflecting. The next amendment is 1795. So is the authorship of the National MP Timoshenko and Vlasenko. Mr. Vlasenko's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-06-m0.u255	Thank you, Your Honor Irina Volodymyr. Unfortunately, my analysis of the situation that is now taking place and my understanding of the text of the bill, which we are likely to get at the end of the day, tells us that Ukraine will not get an independent, professional, fair anti-corruption court. Instead, we're going to get another organizational hybrid that will be fully manipulated and controlled by President Prashenko. And then I'm going to insist that we at least be able to correct the key issues and prevent such developments from happening, and we're going to lay down at least the minimum guarantees and grounds for the fact that judges will be chosen honestly, independently, and will not depend on Dusty, that the qualification requirements will be objective, not subjective, and that the judicial system will still be in line with Ukrainian traditions and courts, two courts: primary and appeal -- will be divided. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-06-m0.u256	The head of the committee points out that I am here to join him as chairman of the session, that we are discussing a bill on an anti-corruption court, not on the activities of the President of Ukraine. I'm asking you to stay away from your personality and go to the repairs. And I'm putting to the vote Amendment 1795, please, People's Deputies Vlasenko and Timoshenko. And I'd like to make a statement. I'm asking my colleagues very much, but we're going according to the rules, we're remembering the political culture and the correctness, and we're going along with the text of the amendments. Thank you. I'm not commenting, I'm calling, I'm calling to follow the Rules. Thank you all very much. [[13:33:44]] For-21 The amendment does not get the required number of votes, and it rejects. We continue to have the amendments of the National Deputies, Mrs. Timoshenko and Sergio Vlasenko, 1796. Please, Mr. Sergio, you have a microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-06-m0.u257	Thank you, Reverend Irina Volodymyr! I'm not interested in Peter Dusty's personality at all. But what I'm interested in is that this person today is wrongly acting as President of Ukraine, and he's introducing bills that make the system of anti-corruption courts completely dependent on him, and that's what really interests me and disturbs me. And my amendments are aimed at reducing the impact of this personality, as you call it, on the functioning and formation of an anti-corruption court. In particular, Amendment 1796, which refers to the two-way structure of anti-corruption courts, helps to create a real, effective, independent of Dustenk, from President Dustenk, the Institute of Anti-Corruption Courts. And then, please support Amendment 1796, which blocks the impact of Dusty on the judicial system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-06-m0.u258	Colleagues, you have heard the explanation of the Ukrainian national deputy. I ask you to determine the philosophy he has just commented on. Please. The philosophy of the text of the amendment. Philosopher's speech was, I listened to you very carefully. We have democracy. [[13:35:21]] For-25 25 votes for. And we have democracy, any MP could vote as he thought it was necessary. Your amendment is dismissed, Your Honor. Let's move on. And so we have the amendment of the distinguished national MP Sergey Vlasenka. 1803. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-06-m0.u259	Thank you, Your Honor Irina Volodymyr. I'm asking you not to comment on the philosophy of something, and I'm more convinced that you and I are not philosophy experts. Well, you are. Well, I'm a little with you. With all due respect to you and me. So I'm going back to my amendment, and I want to point out that my amendments are designed to ensure that this court is functioning normally. And in fact, there's no jokes here, because now that we're putting the bill under Peter Alexiovich's "hotels," we're today. We're going to get a completely unbiased, completely incomprehensible, completely loyal system of anti-corruption courts. Just as we got the general court system in the way it is today, in deciding the Petra Dustenk agreement, a system that is not fully operational today, a system that does not fully perform its tasks. Regrettably, a bill on the Supreme Anti-Corruption Court is currently being prepared in the same direction. My amendment is aimed at.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-06-m0.u260	Unfortunately, we haven't heard what it's all about, but we're voting for it. 1803, please correct. I'd like to make a statement. 1803. Dear colleagues, I ask once again for the text of the amendments. It's very interesting, in fact, there's a discussion going on, and I want to hear the text of the amendments. [[13:37:08]] For-16 16 national deputies supported the text of your amendment, Your Honor. It's deflecting. And the next amendment is the authorship of the distinguished Mr. Sergey Vlasenko. 1809. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-06-m0.u261	Thank you. Thank you, Your Honor Irina Volodymyr. My amendment, just like the last one. Ma'am, the headmaster! My amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-06-m0.u262	I listen very carefully. 1809, yes.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-06-m0.u263	Let's hear it. My amendment, like the previous one, is aimed at the possible. Ma'am, the headmaster! Irina Volodymyrno, you will then say that you have not heard personally.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-06-m0.u264	1809 - your amendment. "Mrs. Chairman." I'm listening to you very carefully. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-06-m0.u265	aimed at creating a quality, professional and independent Supreme Anti-Corruption Court in Ukraine. To do that, you have to do a few things. And the first of these things, you have to call things your names. Two courts, repeatedly referred to by the chairman of the committee, are divided into two courts: the Court of First Instance and the Court of Appeal. They're divided by organizational, financial, location and so on. And if it stays the way it is, it will lead to legal problems in the future. This should be avoided, and we can avoid it. Today it is.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-06-m0.u266	Thank you for explaining your correction regarding the division of courts. I think it was important for us to hear. Please identify yourself after the amendment in 1809. Colleagues, please identify yourself. [[13:38:53]] For-24 Twenty-four. The correction is being rejected. Colleagues, I'll be back by 1804. I apologize to the distinguished Paul Rizanenko. I accidentally translated one page, here are some of your amendments. Please. 1804.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-06-m0.u267	Dear colleagues, my amendment relates to the subordination of the NAB. I used to sound the amendment by, say, the court itself, which crimes are being dealt with. And here's the question of size. Because my amendment proposed to increase the size of the crimes that are being investigated by the NABU itself and, as for the trial, from 500 to 1,000 500 and more times the cost of living. I would not like the work of the newly created institutions on which the high and great hope of society rests to be paralyzed by small, small things. Resources are limited. They need to be prioritized, and they need to be prioritized in large cases and in cases of high-level corruption, so that we don't have one running behind the heads of the country, and the ministers who steal billions, I apologize, are free. Therefore, I am sure that I will vote for it. And of course, I'm very pleased that the Fatherland representatives think that when the court is formed, and that's after the presidential election, that the President will then be Prashenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-06-m0.u268	Thank you for your optimism, dear colleague. And I'd like you to decide on the important amendment of 1804. Once again, I'm sorry I didn't see this page at once. Yeah, yeah, 1804. [[13:40:29]] For-16 16 votes for. The correction is being rejected. The next 1805, as well as Paul Rizanenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-06-m0.u269	Colleagues, the amendment also applies to the subordination, and I'll ask everyone to listen very carefully, because it's really important and, hopefully, even if we fail it now, we'll go back to it. We create certain institutions and it should be systematic, and we should avoid conflicts of interest. What are we talking about? There can be no absolute bodies locked in, yet crimes against the same organ must be investigated by someone else who is independent of it. So the amendment suggests that we know that the NAB investigates all crimes against judges, but the amendment suggests that against the judges of the High Anti-Corruption Court created, they did not investigate the case, it should be investigated by another body, for example, the same DBR, to avoid conflicts of interest. Unfortunately, the amendment was rejected and I think it can create a systemic problem. Please comment on the committee head.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-06-m0.u270	Please speak to the committee head.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-06-m0.u271	Mr. Paul, the committee actually supported your amendment, in fact, it's just supported in the other part, part of the letter with the "l" sign, and so there's no point in duplicating again in this part. I'll read what's going to be in part "L" right now. Paragraph 5 of Part Five, paragraph 1 of the fifth paragraph, of Article 216 to which you refer, reads: "The Judge (except the judges of the Supreme Anti-Corruption Court)" in the context. So this problem is solved, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-06-m0.u272	Thank you. Nevertheless, Paul Rizanenko insists that this rule be fixed in the appropriate part of the law. I'm voting on his amendment to 1805. Thank you. I'd like to make a statement. [[13:42:32]] For-29 The correction in this part is rejected. And the next one is 1806. So did Paul Rizanenko. Please, Mr. Paul. Mr. Paul, 1806. Don't insist. Your next one, 1807? No, it's not. Thank you very much. Again, I'm sorry I didn't notice your revisions. And we're going back to the amendments of the People's Deputy Vlasenko. 1811, please. Ah, 10th. I'm sorry, you see, Mr. Lapin. 1810. No, no, you can't be disturbed. Please 1810, National Deputy Lapin.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-06-m0.u273	Thank you, Madam Chairman. I'd still like to support this amendment. The point is that it refers to complementing the rules of pretrial investigation with respect to the judge of the Supreme Anti-Corruption Court. And I'm very glad that today my revisions are getting the most support: 50 or more votes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-06-m0.u274	Thank you. Colleagues, please, let's be clear on the right hand of the People's Deputy Lapin, please. [[13:43:47]] For-31 31st. The amendment is not accepted. The next one is 1811. Please, Sergey Vlasenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-06-m0.u275	Thank you, Your Honor Irina Volodymyr. Thank you, Your Honor Irina Volodymyr. If this bill does not solve a number of fundamental issues, it is regrettable that Ukraine will not receive an honest and impartial and just and independent anticorruption court. We refer to these issues: first, the order of court formation, once; the objective criteria for the selection of judges, two; the subordination. The defendant, I'm sorry, this court has to match the harshness of the NAB and without it there will be nothing; and the third is the structure. The fourth is the structure of anti-corruption courts. Without addressing these four issues, unfortunately, the bill will remain the same as the bill on judicial reform initiated by the Dustenk, and people have already assessed these bills. Unfortunately, for now it seems that everything will be the same. And Amendment 1811 refers again to the system of anticorruption courts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-06-m0.u276	Thank you. I'm asking you to identify yourself for amendment 1811. [[13:45:10]] For-22. 22 for, the readjustment declines. The next one is 1812. Likewise, Sergey Vlasenko, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-06-m0.u277	Thank you. Thank you, Your Honor Irina Volodymyr. I think that the novels that are set up in the powdery bill are not consistent with the conclusions of the Venice Commission, and then do not correspond to the general principles and principles of the system of the court system that we are supposed to have, and are questionable from a constitutional point of view, because the question of appeal in this case is questionable because the proposed system of anti-corruption courts says that it is a certain hybrid of judicial supervision and appeal. And the Ukrainian Constitution clearly provides for the right of appeal. Of course, we can call this an appeal, but an appeal is a review by another court, by another court, and not by the same court, by another court. And this corresponds, by the way, to one of the European directives that says that the Tribunal's decisions should be reviewed by another tribunal. Then it may be contradictory.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-06-m0.u278	An understandable explanation. Please decide on amendment 1812. [[13:46:41]] For 20 The correction is being rejected. The next one is 1813. It's from the self-help deputies. Please, Olena Sotnik, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-06-m0.u279	Thank you, Madam Chairman. This amendment refers to the time when permission is granted to carry out unannounced investigations. Self-help in this case thinks that if we're talking about an anti-corruption court, only it can have that possibility without exception. And that's exactly what 1813 is about. And in fact, I would like to point out that the MPs who are sitting in this room, the MPs who aren't here, they don't really know, tomorrow morning what editorials we're voting for as a result of you. So we've been looking at the bill for two weeks, and the model of the anti-corruption court has not been defined to date. I'm already silent about the fact that he doesn't know anything about it and he doesn't understand anything about society. In order to finally resolve the dispute between the Fatherland faction and the BPT on behalf of the presidents, I think that the ideal president would have, not his first name, but principles, and to abide by the Constitution, and not interfere with the judicial system of the branch of power. And it doesn't matter what his last name is.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-06-m0.u280	Vote for amendment 1813, Your Honor. [[13:48:13]] For-30 This amendment is being rejected by the self-help national MPs of the faction. And the next is 1814 of the people's deputy Vlasenko. Please, the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-06-m0.u281	Thank you, Your Honor Irina Volodymyr. I will not comment on the views of the arbitrators between the two political factions whom no one has appointed as arbitrators. But good, that's what happens sometimes. So back to the 1814 revision. Once again, we are discussing very important issues here. I understand that, unfortunately, and here I agree with the previous statement that decisions today are not taken in this session room, decisions will be taken outside this session room, which unfortunately confirms that the Ukrainian Parliament is not alone in making the relevant decisions. The formal procedures that we are going through right now are in the form of procedures that are required by the Rules, but they are clearly distorted by the content. But the amendment concerns the system of anti-corruption courts which I think is fundamentally wrong and which today can be interpreted as a violation of the Ukrainian Constitution. And please support the amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-06-m0.u282	We're set for amendment 1814, please. [[13:49:47]] For 20 The correction is being rejected. The next amendment is the same from the National MP Vlasenko, 1815. And we give him our word.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-06-m0.u283	Thank you, Your Honor Irina Volodymyr. I read very carefully several times, and yesterday and today, the decision of the European Commission for Democracy because of the rights of the Venice Commission since 9 October 2017. And once again, I can point out that there are no warnings in this decision that would limit the Ukrainian Parliament's application of the principles that we've been talking about for the third day, which unfortunately are not being taken by this sessionary hall or by the profile committee. This is about an open selection of candidates, in which it should not be accepted, more loyal, which should not be carried out by Peter Alexiyovich on the right of private property of the High Qualifying Commission of Judges and the Superior Council of Justice. Nor does the system of anticorruption courts that we have offered conflict with. Nor does it conflict with the findings of the Venice Commission regarding the availability of objective, not subjective, criteria for the selection of judges. Because this is the mechanism of manipulation during the formation of this court. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-06-m0.u284	Please determine the substance of amendment 1815, Your Honor. The committee turned her down. Please make up your mind. [[13:51:17]] For the 18th. 18 votes for your amendment. It's deflecting. Will the national MP Lapin insist on 17? You will, yes? 1817, National Deputy Lapin, please. Oh, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, dear colleague, really, your next amendments are all taken into account. I'm so sorry. Please, Vlasenko, National MP, microphone. He demands that the amendment of the 1818 People’s Deputy Lapin be confirmed. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-06-m0.u285	Thank you, Your Honor Irina Volodymyr. Once again, the Anti-Corruption Court Act attempts to amend the Criminal Code. Yes, indeed, it is proposed to introduce a new article on the features of the beginning of a criminal investigation by a judge of the Supreme Anticorruption Court. Perhaps this question could be considered to be related to the operation of the Supreme Anticorruption Court. But I say again, we haven't changed the Criminal Code with any additions and articles into big laws. There may be a need to regulate these relations, but this must be done by a separate law amending the Criminal Code. So I'm asking you to make this amendment for confirmation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-06-m0.u286	Please comment to the committee head. Because the committee supported the amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-06-m0.u287	Sergei Volodymyrovich, if we don't support this right now, that means that there will be a general order under which any prosecutor can report to the GDR about the judges of the High Anti-Corruption Court. In view of the conclusion of the Venice Commission, which foresees the need for additional guarantees, special additional guarantees for these judges, they recommend that this be carried out. They say top-level, which is the highest level, at the level of the Attorney General or the person who performs his duties. So that it's not that any prosecutor will abuse his right and tomorrow we can have a deliberate vacchanal in this matter. We propose to support the concept proposed by Mr. Lapin. If we could, we would ask you not to support this kind of amendment, because it is in agreement with our partners in the Venice Commission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-06-m0.u288	Dear Mr. Vlasenko, have you been satisfied with the answer? No, it's not. So you have a discussion here about what confirms that neither the Venice Commission nor the Venice Commission. At the request of the National MP Vlasenko, we place the amendment 1818 on confirmation. At the same time, the committee's chairman is asking to vote in favour because she's in line with the directives of the Venice Commission. Please vote. It's not the directives, it's the conclusions. Conclusions. Well, recommendations. [[13:54:13]] For-34 34th. Correction not accepted. And then there's 1834. [[B in m in s a l in]] What's that again? Please give the floor to the National Deputy Vlasenko. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-06-m0.u289	Thank you, Your Honor Irina Volodymyr. I'm not discussing the concept that the committee head has given us. Maybe she heard, maybe she didn't hear. This is another matter: This law does not modify the Criminal Code. We don't have any problems, an anti-corruption court, even if this law is passed, it still works after a certain period of time. We have no problem in passing a separate short law that deals with amendments to the Criminal Code, quickly through Parliament, signing and implementing it. But this is a separate discussion. I'm not discussing the concept right now, maybe she's hearing what Mr. Chairman of the committee said, or maybe not, but it needs a separate discussion fast enough but a separate one. So please place on confirmation amendment 1819. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-06-m0.u290	Thank you. I'm betting on confirmation of amendment 1819. The committee asks everyone to support the amendment. [[13:55:37]] For-43 The decision is not made. Colleagues, and so on, 1820, right? Well, given that there's a lot of pressure going on, I'm going to continue the session for 15 minutes, because.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-06-m0.u291	Well, colleagues. May I have your attention, please? Maybe two or three minutes. Please, very briefly.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-06-m0.u292	Thank you. Thank you, Your Honor Andre Volodymyrovich. We've got four minutes, I've got a minute to perform, we've got everything, there's no problem. An absolutely similar argument can be argued about the procedure for bringing the Supreme Anti-Corruption Court to justice. But this should not be regulated by this law. Individually, the Law on Amendments to the Criminal Code was simple enough, technical enough, quickly discussed, quickly defined in the Supreme Council, signed, and no problems. Perhaps there should be additional special guarantees for the judges of the anticorruption court, perhaps only the Attorney General or the performer of duties should submit a special procedure. And that's not what I'm talking about right now, I'm talking about that it shouldn't be in this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-06-m0.u293	Thank you. I'm betting on confirmation of 1820. The committee's asking for support. Please vote. Vote. [[13:57:08]] For-41 The decision is not made. 21st. Don't insist. 24th. Don't insist. 30th. Don't insist. 33rd. Don't insist. 34th. Don't insist. 35th. Don't insist. 36th. Sergei Vlasenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-06-m0.u294	Thank you, Your Honor Andrey Volodymyrovich. Dear Andrew Volodymyrovich, once again, I emphasize that we really have the task of not raising up, nor of meeting the committee, nor of Thursday, nor of Friday, to complete this Soviet tradition by 7 November or any requirement unknown to anyone who has been formulated. So once again, there are a number of key issues that we need to discuss and agree on in this session room. These issues include the structure of anticorruption courts. The structure proposed in this bill is questionable, including from a constitutional point of view. And then I'm going to continue to insist on the amendments that change the structure of anti-corruption courts and make them fit even because of what's written in this law, they're consistent with the Ukrainian legal tradition, they're consistent with the Constitution of Ukraine. Please support 1836.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-06-m0.u295	Thank you. Please, Ruslan Knazevitch, but briefly.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-06-m0.u296	I basically explained. Here I can only, I want to say that lawyers are also offering technical legal remedies that are set out in section X or X. There we should remove the second and sixth paragraphs, because we removed them in the previous article and here they should be removed too. In part two, you have to add the word, "immediately" missed. In part three, the missing words after the words "not started" are "not finished." And in part four, there's a revised edition technically that, in the next edition, the Courts of Appeal, apart from the Appeals Chamber of the High Court of Anti-Corruption, continue to take up appeals against the Courts of First Instance, which have been approved by the Courts of First Instance and have not gained legal power in criminal proceedings against the crimes referred to in this Code to the Supreme Anti-Corruption Court, which have been brought before the courts of the first instance since the date of the proceedings of the Supreme Anti-Corruption Court. So we're going to have a completely logical congruence by then. We support it as a technical law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-06-m0.u297	I bet. For the vote of amendment 1836. The committee turned her down. Who Supports? Please vote. [[13:59:52]] For-28 The decision is not made. 1834. Dove, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-06-m0.u298	I understand that most of our colleagues are already celebrating a professional Journalist Day with no, in fact, big relation to this holiday, with all due respect for all journalists. Because in the session room, it's actually one-tenth of the constitutional composition of the Supreme Council of National Deputies. So, Mr. President of the Supreme Council, I still see no point in putting my approval rights on the table, because it all looks absolutely propagandizing. So I'm going to take off all of my next changes. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-06-m0.u299	37th. Don't insist. I said, I'm going to continue for a few minutes literally, for two, three minutes, we're not going. 42nd. Don't insist. 43rd. Don't insist. 48th. Don't insist. 52nd. Don't insist. 54th. Don't insist. 55th. Don't insist. 58th. Don't insist. 60th. Don't insist. 61st. Don't insist. Now we're just going to find the one that we're going to continue with tomorrow. What's that? And you, Mrs. Ostrkova, are not reliable. We were supposed to start with your application today, and you weren't in the session room, and you almost blew the bill on the Supreme Anti-Corruption Court. Seventy-two. This is Vlasenka, 72nd. I think Sergei is a great critic of power. 72nd. We define the order we're going to start with. 72-a, and then 75-a will be. From 72, yeah. What's that? You've already told your political position, hard and intransigence, that you're no longer going to bet it. So tomorrow we're starting a review of the 1872 Bill of Law, by Sergio Vlasenka. So I'm asking you to arrive at 10 o'clock in the hall so that we can start with your application at 10 o'clock. Dear colleagues, the time for our meeting is over. So I declare the morning session closed. I, my colleagues, wish for fruitful committee work. I'm asking the Justice Committee to be able to work today to reconcile all the positions we've already gone through. We don't have much left, there's literally 55 or 60 rights for tomorrow. And so tomorrow, colleagues, I call for maximum mobilization. There will be a vote tomorrow afternoon for the Supreme Anti-Corruption Court, and I call upon all factions, all national deputies, to arrive in the Hall tomorrow. It will be an important and decisive day not only this week but at this stage of the activities of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. So I want everyone to work productively on the committees. And tomorrow at 10 a.m., I'm waiting for everyone in the hall. Good-bye.
