ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-16-m1.u1	Colleagues, time taken for recess, are exhausted. I'm asking everyone to come into the hall and get ready for registration. So, colleagues, I remind you, we have continued consideration of the removal of parliamentary immunity. And I'm asking you to prepare for the registration for the evening session. Please take up jobs. So I'd like the National Deputies to register. Please enable the registration system. [[16:04:29]] 314 national deputies registered. I declare the evening plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine open. So we continue the question of consenting to the criminal responsibility of a national MP. Dear colleagues, in accordance with part three of article 80 of the Constitution of Ukraine, article 27 of the Ukrainian Law on the Status of Ukrainian People's Deputies, the Supreme Council of Ukraine agrees to bring criminal responsibility to the Ukrainian National Deputy. On September 18, 2018, Jury Vitaliyovich Lucenka, Attorney-General of Ukraine, came to the Supreme Council for consent to be brought to the criminal responsibility of the National Deputy of Ukraine, Kolesnikov Dmitr Valeriyovich. The report to the Supreme Council of Ukraine states that the First Investigations Department of the Dnipropetrov District Attorney’s Office investigates criminal conduct since 17.05. In 16 years, according to the second article of article 364 of the Ukrainian Criminal Code, "The abuse of power or service, which has caused serious consequences". The findings of the committee, the explanation of the Ukrainian national deputy and the submission of the Attorney General of Ukraine were distributed to you on the desks of registration in paper copies. At a meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, General Prosecutor Yuri Vitaliovich Lucenko attended. And I invite him to speak and answer questions. Please, Yuri Vitaliyovich, in 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-16-m1.u2	Dear Mr. Head, respected 137 national deputies, as well as other members of the MP’s self - defense! Now I'd like to present another matter to you. And hopefully she'll finally touch your heart. Because clearly, if you don't show 155 million in the electronic declaration, you can steal 12 million from the state budget. Now let's talk about the alienation of the military plant. The first investigative department of the Dnipropetrovsky District’s Public Prosecutor’s Office investigates criminal conduct with an appropriate number according to the signs of article 364, part two. The trial found that the decree of the President of Ukraine in 2010 assigned the Head of the State Agency for the Administration of State Corporate Rights and Property to the People's Deputies of Kolesnikov Dmitry Vasilovic. I would like to point out that his responsibility included the following responsibilities, according to the Agency's Regulations. The head manages public property, including corporate rights in the sphere of his administration; he agrees with the alienation, rent or use, mortgage or mortgage, the write-off of property of state enterprises, households, whose statutory capital is entrusted to his agency. At the same time, according to Appendix 1 of the Ukrainian Law on the List of Property Rights that Are Not Privatized, the State Enterprise "Science Research (I Request a Slide) and the Construction and Technology Institute of the Osada Pipe Industry is an enterprise that is not subject to privatization. Also, the basic funds and the entire property complex of this company cannot be deleted except for one condition: if there is tax debt in this enterprise. Here's the next slide. It follows that, at the time of the decision of the national deputy, Mr. Kolesnikov, there was no tax debt in this enterprise, which is not subject to privatization. The documents on this are in the investigation. In spite of this, now the National Deputy, and then Mr. Kolesnikov, the head of the asset management agency, signed the orders that he had taken out of the entire property complex two shells of this defence plant of strategic importance. Talking about the fact that Mr. Head did not know what objects he was removing from the entire property complex and what would happen to them would not withstand any criticism, since he personally signed a list of equipment that was actually allowed to be destroyed in this enterprise. This list also includes a tube-to-wire state of hot deformation, a lattice with an appropriate inventory number that was used to develop technology to strengthen tungsten rods to produce an armored sub-calibre projectile. Such equipment could not be used for any other non-military purpose. Nevertheless, the then head of the agency, and now the national deputy of Kolesników, alienated two of the hulls, industrial and laboratory, renamed them sports and dining rooms, and allowed them to cut out military equipment. In this connection, the district attorney’s office appealed to the court and the court’s decision. (Now you can see what was the result of Mr. Kolesnik's administration of state property), the court decided by its decision on the illegality of ordering the head of Mr. Kolesnikov's agency and returned the illegally estranged property to the entire property complex, an object of strategic importance that is not subject to privatization. Restorative work is taking place at this point. And I hope this factory that's supposed to launch the City, Smerch and Hurricane missiles will work for the Ukrainian Armed Forces. Unfortunately, we are now witnessing criminal conduct, in which the abuse of the service duties of a particular official who was the head of the Agency for the Management of State Assets led to the destruction of a part of the defence complex with further alienation. Now we can actually look at this object itself, which, thanks to the activities of the district attorney’s office and the principled court, has been returned to state property, and works are being done to restore our country’s strategic defence potential. Ladies and gentlemen, in this case, it is clear that there is an illegal decision by the head of the central executive body, there is a particular damage to the state budget and, I would say, the defence potential of Ukraine, there is a court ruling which has been declared illegal and the object itself returned to state property. One thing is not enough: that the national deputy of Dmitry Kolesnikov be touched by the law. In this regard, I ask you to vote on the decision to remove the parliamentary integrity and to carry out a number of necessary investigations and operational actions to bring the suspicion and then the charges, to bring the case to trial. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-16-m1.u3	Thank you. Five minutes for a question to the Attorney General. And please hold a record of who intends to ask questions. Marcenko Alexander Alexanderovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-16-m1.u4	Please pass the word to the Deputy Illenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-16-m1.u5	Andrew Illenko, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union, the city of Kiev. The Attorney General, I have a question, in principle, that we asked during the past submission. What's the point of just filing for take-off, allowing for criminal liability? Why are there no arrests and arrests? Because we understand that even if this submission is voted out, although there is, unfortunately, great doubt, in fact, no real consequences will it have. And we're just going to have an MP who's going to remain untouchable, and he's not going to be able to be apprehended or arrested. The only thing we can formally start an investigation against him is to make him suspect. Isn't that, let's say, a form of a game of subterfuge when, on the one hand, there's an announcement that, I said, we're going to bring responsibility, and unfortunately there's not going to be any real consequences.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-16-m1.u6	Thank you for asking. Let's answer with the classic formula: "You don't have to look for a black cat in a dark room, especially if it's not there." Under the current law, the arrest and arrest of a national MP can only be envisaged if the articles of the Criminal Code are presented, which are intended for arrest, such as in the case of your colleague, Nadia Savchenko. In all other cases, when it comes to articles that do not provide for arrest, such submission, I consider it impossible to sign because it does not conform to current legislation. At the same time, I remind you that you have a bill that I personally support. Its brief point is that after the introduction of the Henprocurorate, any Henprocurorate, for any national deputy, his foreign passports are stopped and the passage across the state border into another country is impossible. If you were so kind as to vote on this bill, your doubts would be finally shattered.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-16-m1.u7	Thank you. Pavlov Constantine Yuriovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-16-m1.u8	I'd like you to pass it on to the People's Deputy Espenov.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-16-m1.u9	Your Honor Attorney-General, I have listened carefully to your statement, as for a lawyer, it is obvious that, at least, Kolesnik's intention to alienate these objects has not been proven to you, nor has there been any useful motive. Hence, there is no subjective side to incriminating crime. However, you may know that part two of article 364 of the Ukrainian Code of Criminal Procedure states that crime is a material ingredient, namely, a serious consequence. In turn, the Constitution assumes that individual responsibility in the context of these two articles results in the serious consequences of individual actions by Kolesnikov. This equivalent in your data is calculated from the market value of estrangement. Yet, the Kolesniks did not alienate anything, and you yourself admitted it at both the committee meeting and the briefing. What are the consequences of Kolesnik’s individual actions? Thank you for being able to ask questions.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-16-m1.u10	Thank you, distinguished national MP, for the question that has been read, prepared by the lawyers. It's really, really legal, so I'm going to try to give you a full answer. First. Today, the national deputy, and then the head of the state agency, was to be governed by law and solely by law. Under the law, a comprehensive property complex of enterprises that are not privatized and strategically important for security and the defence of the country can only be withdrawn from the entire property complex in one case: if tax debt is available. That was not the case with Mr. Kolesnik at the time. However, he personally signed several decisions to change the entire property complex, which led to further illegal actions by other officials who transferred the enterprise to private property. I cannot accuse or accuse Mr. People's Deputy Kolesnikov of privatizing this enterprise. We blame him, figuratively, for what he gave. Open the door for this.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-16-m1.u11	Please, 30 seconds, finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-16-m1.u12	I gave the legal possibility to further criminal acts by other officials. Instead of being on the watch for the property he was entrusted with, which is of special strategic importance, he allowed two factories to be removed from the entire property complex, and to mask his actions he called the industrial corps a dining room, while the laboratory called the sports corps. Clearly, this was a preparation for further privatization. And they have answers.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-16-m1.u13	30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-16-m1.u14	And the person who signed the illegal decision in charge of the agency and those who have taken other steps in the future towards the final destruction of the military defence complex is responsible for that.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-16-m1.u15	Papiev Mikhailo.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-16-m1.u16	Thank you. Please give the floor to the national deputy Galchenk.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-16-m1.u17	Thank you. 17.09.2018, under the walls of the GPU, there were clashes between law enforcement officials and people that required you to explain the extradition of Timur Tumgoyev. People demanded that you step out and explain to them the position of the Attorney General. But instead of going out to people and explaining what was going on there, you or any of your deputies were given a command to release tear gas against them and then pour water on them. All of this was happening in the eyes of the whole country and the world. According to this fact, there has been a violation of the pattern of bullying and the opposition of a representative of the law enforcement agency, i.e. the actions of people who have agreed with the position of the Henprocurator. Has one criminal conduct been violated because of the fact that the powers of the guardians were exceeded, or does the prosecution’s intention not interest anyone? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-16-m1.u18	Thank you for asking. I'm going to add something to my answer to your previous colleague's question about what Mr. Head of the Agency did if he didn't privatize himself. By your logic, that person who hid the door to a private apartment, which was then robbed, shouldn't answer, because he just hid it, broke the lock, but he didn't think they'd bring all the values out of there, well, he was just a lock-creating fan. Excuse me, if this person is a civil servant, he has to answer for article 364 of the second part — up to eight years of imprisonment for the stolen property of the defence complex. As for Mr. Tumgoyev's question, it's very simple. The moment that the petitioners were under the U.S. Attorney General's Office, I personally had a conversation with the people's deputies who were interested in the matter. You, the reverend, weren't there. If you're interested in this case, we'll talk. I guarantee you a way out of the Henprosecutor's office without water and gas.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-16-m1.u19	Thank you. Time, questions, reports, exhausted. Thank you, Yuri Vitaliovich. And I invite you to the floor of the National Deputy of Ukraine, Kolesnikov Dmitry Valeriyovich, to explain to the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-16-m1.u20	Honorable Presidium, revered people of Ukraine, respected colleagues! I would like to start by saying that time is fast approaching us, from a political point of view, in 2019, in the presidential and parliamentary elections. The electoral campaign in the country actually began. And unfortunately, you know, honourable colleagues, what's going on in the immediate part of the law enforcement system. They willfully try to fabricate matters that discredit opposition politicians and to score points in front of the voters by presenting society with a victory over nonexistent betrayal. At first glance, it should be clear to any person that, in order to commit the crime that I'm being accused of, I had no motive, no intention, no authority, no benefit that I could get if I did. And these are in the committee's materials, please, dear colleagues, read, you've got them. Moreover, the essence of this case has nothing to do with the country’s defence complex, which is what the Attorney General was talking about at the committee meeting. Before I can answer essentially the charges against me, I'd like to tell you very briefly what the scientific research institute of the tube industry was in in 2012. Since 1991, this institution has been virtually out of contracts. The number of his fellow workers, consider, respected colleagues, from 1.5 thousand workers dropped to 100, and scientific colleagues are not even 20 to this day. The Institute was heavily indebted to the Pension Fund, reaching over 5 million dollars and a tax debt of 1.5 million dollars. And in that situation, respected colleagues, there were most state-owned enterprises. I'll remind you that when I came to the Ministry, the debt on the payroll of government companies was 124 million dollars. By 2012, we were able to cut it by half, and it had already reached 60 million. Now they're trying to accuse me of giving up this debt in multimillion-dollar terms, including on scientific pensions, by giving the institution the hope of paying off this debt, giving up vacant premises that weren't used for the purpose of renting without getting out. Honorable colleagues, not taking him out of state property. I would like to emphasize the fact that the property of a state-owned institution for the possibility of renting it has not come up with any decisions, I repeat, no decisions have been made regarding the change of ownership. Since December 2012, I've been the head of the government, and all the events that the prosecutor's office is talking about were in the 13th year. The 12th and 13th are different years. Article 364 of the Criminal Code, which the Public Prosecutor’s Office seeks to attach to me, provides for a mandatory presence of intent and a useful motive. But neither on the record nor during the meeting of the General Prosecutor's Committee did he say what my intention was, and how I approve the CMC for rent, and that's the main thing, dear colleagues, foresaw his future transfer to the city's municipal property. And this has caused a very large number of questions and observations and doubts about the members of the regulatory committee. Even the Supreme Court, honourable colleagues, acknowledged and confirmed that I had no relation to the decision taken by the State Department in 2013, and I presented these documents at the meeting of the Regulatory Committee. By sticking this case against me, the D.A.'s office is also making primitive manipulations in my opinion. In particular, it is claimed that there was no tax debt in the company, but they simply pulled the necessary document out of the case. However, the State Fiscal Service confirmed the existence at that time of debt, which means that the tax debt was. Admission as old as the world, dear fellows. You pull out a sheet, and here comes something similar to a criminal case. As part of my legal assistance, the lawyers who work with me conducted surveys of those who directly checked the completeness of the documents, the availability of information about the tax debt, and the documents. Dear colleagues, more than ten coworkers, confirmed that there was evidence of tax debt. That's probably why the D.A. is hiding all the documents from me and the regulatory committee. And what does this indicate? About how I acted legally. As to the accusations of the alleged destruction of a rocket plant, I would like to point out that the Scientific Research Institute of the tube industry has had nothing to do with the production of ammunition or any other kind of military use since 2006. At the Soviet Institute, as in many institutions, there was research production, but in 2006 it became a separate legal unit and was called a factory of precision pipes. And in 2006 the same enterprise was transferred from the Ministry of Industrial Policy to another ministry, the Ministry of Fuel and Energy. So it was this factory that was doing some kind of commercial bidding. So by the time I was in charge of the agency, this enterprise had been in another central executive body for six years and had no relation to the agency. How, then, could I have destroyed him, dear colleagues? I consider the case fabricated by the prosecution against me and my faction colleagues to be purely political. They're actually made out of air, and the evidence base doesn't even stand for criticism, it's a basic test of facts. And it can be done by every single person in this room and among those who have ever worked in the executive branch. But why is the Attorney General spending taxpayers' money on white thread, which is the case against Kolesnikov. By the way, my name is Dmitri Valeriovich, not Dmitri Vasilovich. Yes, it is not motivated by a desire for justice and justice. And if you look at the materials that you've been given today, you'll probably see that for 100 percent. So, what's the point, in my opinion? First of all, the job is probably to beat the opposition MP out of both. The second goal is to weaken the competition party, perhaps. The third is that the authorities fail to resolve pressing issues, and so it remains to seek betrayal, betrayal, and to accuse political opponents of being, honourable colleagues, (a sign of exclamation) in what could not be theoretical or practical. And it wasn't, by the way, and actually. And finally, perhaps the last goal that is being pursued is to make Parliament as obedient as possible, reminding the national MPs that the Damocles sword of selective justice can hang over each and every one of us with you. But Parliament is a special institution that has been assembled within the walls by people who have been given a mandate of trust directly from the people of Ukraine. This mandate is not in the hands of officials, and this, its presence, gives us, Parliament, the opportunity to counteract any usurpation of power, violation of the principles of law, and attempt to establish any dictatorship. But if we allow today a practice that will allow anyone to be prosecuted for the alleged charges, we will finally destroy the remaining legitimacy of the country's higher legislature. And the prosecutor's office will in due course become an instrument of political repression. Dear colleagues, after the change of power, I did not flee from Ukraine, I did not hide from the law enforcement agencies, I am not going to do this now. Because I'm convinced of my own 100 percent right. And you admit, I'm sure of the bright future of our country. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-16-m1.u21	Thank you. Thank you, Dmitri Valeriovich. The first deputy head of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Rules and Organization of Work, Pinzenik Pavlović, is now invited to make a statement. Pavlov Vasilovich, 10 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-16-m1.u22	Dear colleagues! The application of the Attorney General of Ukraine was considered at the meeting of the Committee on October 8. The report states that the First Investigations Department of the Dnipropetrovsky Office of the Prosecutor’s Office has been investigating criminal conduct since May 17, 2016, according to part two of article 364 of the Criminal Code. A similar submission has already been made to the Supreme Council, the text of its identical submission dated May 15, 18th, which was supported and introduced to the Supreme Council of Ukraine by Henprocurorate concerning the National Deputy Kolesnikov, except page 7, where a fine article of the Criminal Code of Ukraine contains references to part two of article 364. The presentation of the act of the national deputy of Ukraine to Kolesnik’s socially dangerous activity, as provided for in this second part of article 364, is based on the following information. Kolesnikov is said to have abused the service position by using the service authority, contrary to the interests of the service, deliberately acting in the interests of third parties, namely: the Director of the State Enterprise "Science and Design and Technology Institute of the Pipeline Industry J.U.O.Osadja" Gorgila, who sought to obtain an illegal disposal of the property for the benefit of third parties, understanding that there were no legal grounds for the disposal of the property from the list of assets included in the entire property complex, which was not subject to privatization, signed a list of assets that were not included in such a comprehensive property complex and was not subject to privatization and incorporated into the complex of the production unit number 1 and the laboratory-based body. National MP Kolesnikov at the committee meeting, based on tax. And, colleagues, please pay attention to the following. We have a large account of the whole discussion of this submission, whether there was tax debt in the institution, whether there was no tax debt in the institution, or whether there was a legal basis for excluding certain property in the compound of the CIA (the whole property complex), or not. Thus, the national deputy of Kolesniks at a committee meeting, based on the existence of such tax debt and a complete set of necessary documents to be accepted by the agency in charge. led by the decision to make the relevant and to make changes to the list of assets, stressed that the holding of the NDI had a debt to the budget. On January 1st, 2010 it was 47,000 200, 2011 it was 74,000 841, 2012 it was 130,000. On January 1, after the compensation of scientific pensions, amounts are also indicated. At that point, I ask you to pay attention. At the time of the budget debt, in accordance with article 14, part 16, of the Ukrainian Act on the Tax Scheme, which was in force during that period, it is expressly and clearly established that the collection for compulsory state pension insurance is part of the public taxes and assemblies (compulsory payments). Thus, at the time of the events described in the prosecution’s report, there was legal debt to the budget, and so there was an obligation for the institution to take action to pay off the established debt to the budget. In addition, attention was drawn to the fact that changes in the payment of congregation debt to compulsory state pension insurance from certain types of farm operations were not regulated by the Tax Code. Amendments were made only in April 2014 with the Act on Amendments to the Tax Code and some other Ukrainian legislation on the elimination of individual inconsistencies in legislation. This indicates that by April 19, 14, the Ukrainian Tax Code and its implementation of Order No. 1954 had been applied to pay off the pension debt before the budget, which at the time was accounted for by the NDI within 2 million dollars. So Kolesnikov approved the changes made to the list of assets that were not included in the whole property complex by the director of the state-owned enterprise of this scientific research institute, by renaming the premises from the manufacturing body to the sports and health corps and the laboratory housing as a public food facility, thus giving the designated manufacturing premises the status of social infrastructure objects. According to the Public Prosecutor's Office, the alleged deliberate illegal actions of Kolesnikov have resulted in an uninterrupted illegal alienation in favour of the territorial community of Dnipropetrovsk State Property and its subsequent illegal privatisation at a price lower than the market value, which, at the time of alienation, according to the conclusion of the court's assessment and construction and engineering expertise amounted to 16 million,700,000 dollars, which caused damage protected by law to the public's interests, to a sum of more than 250 times the untaxed minimum income of citizens. With this in mind, the committee issued some warnings on the quality of the evidence base indicated in the data, which confirmed exactly what the purpose of Kolesnikov’s actions was when changes were made to the list of assets that were not included in the CMC and the changes in the intended purpose of this property, and on the value at which the premises alienated by the territorial community, Dnipropetrovska, were recorded for the benefit of third parties (these are two limited liability societies) and how the market value of these premises was found to be related to the activities of Kolesnik. In addition, the Committee points out once again that the information on the absence or availability of a tax liability of a state-owned enterprise belonging to this whole property complex is, at the very least, ambiguous. Thus, the committee concluded that a supported and filed submission by the Attorney General was legal, since it was initiated and submitted by an appropriate entity. Notices about his validity, the availability of evidence you've just heard. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-16-m1.u23	Thank you. Dear colleagues, according to the Rules, we are now moving on to the factions, and I ask you to sign up for these. Please state your position as head of the opposition block faction. Please, Mr. Yuri.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-16-m1.u24	Madam Chairman, your honor, I ask you to consider my statement as an official request, a request by the MP personally to Attorney General Yuri Vitaliyovich Lucenka. With regard to a problem that I think is now becoming a national problem in the country, this problem is called mass deforestation in the Carpathian Mountains. A year ago, at the invitation of local environmentalists, I arrived in the village of Greenwich in the region of Ivano-Frankiv and looked at the massive deforestation in the area. I'm going to say that this area was like the city of the fall of the Tungu meteorite in Siberia, it was an absolute desert. And I made a parliamentary request for law enforcement authorities to give a proper assessment of the illegal logging of the forest and to restore the place planted by the trees. This year, I flew back there again because I was used to controlling how parliamentary requests were being made. I concluded that they, in fact, I mean the law enforcement authorities and the local authorities, have drawn conclusions. This cut has only spread and has doubled in this area. And in general, when I flew over the Carpathians, I found that if there were a couple of years of illegal logging in the form of sanitation, in a few years, we would have, not the Carpathian Mountains, but the forests of the mountains. So I have a request for you, Your Honor Yuri Vitaliyovich, instead of wasting time for today's action, to take action by law enforcement authorities to stop this mass deforestation. And with regard to the case at hand, we're going to vote against it because we think that the only fault of Deputy Dmitry Kolesnikov who didn't sign anything at the time, he wasn't in the position you were talking about, the only fault is that he's a member of the Opposition Block, he's an opposition politician, and he has his own perspective on what's going on in the state that's different from the position of power. We will vote against it. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-16-m1.u25	Thank you. I'm asking you to make the speech of Deputy Boyka as a parliamentary address, the MP's request has a different structure of preparation and announcement in the session room. I, however, point out to you, my honourable colleague, that the Rules require, when discussing a particular matter, to speak solely on the subject of discussion. Deforestation is another problem. Thank you for your attention. And, please, the word is given to the head of the Self-Help faction, Mr. Beresuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-16-m1.u26	We should not be afraid to lose touch, for then each of us becomes the same as every human being, a Ukrainian citizen, helpless before the law enforcement authorities, and we must try it. But the fact that the factions and coalitions are now giving less than 50 percent of their votes in support of the Attorney General's proposal is evidence of mistrust even by the coalition of law enforcement authorities and the Attorney General's Office. And the fact that Self-Help gives 72 votes in favour of the Attorney General's proposal means that it's a state position. Despite the fact that the Attorney General's Office is currently in the process of persecuting those people who really advocate Ukrainian independence and fight corruption. There's a game here today, a game in the underpants. And today people have to see it, because in the hall, I would like it to be that way when the Attorney General comes in, basically the official person of the state who has the authority, the punishment, the hall should be filled and you could hear the fly flying, because you would like to hear every word. But that's not what's going to happen today, but it will, and we believe it, and we'll do it.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-16-m1.u27	Thank you. Dear colleagues, are there still desirous of the MP factions to present their position? Please, National Deputy Kaplin, please, from the BP.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-16-m1.u28	Madam Chairman, I'd like to address you now, I think with this question here it's perfectly clear. And there is no doubt about the results of the vote, about the relevance, about the cause, and so on. But I believe that the task of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the key task, is to protect the common people. Protection of those who are least protected today, those who need it.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-16-m1.u29	Dear Mr. Sergey! Dear Mr. Sergio, I very much ask you to speak solely on the subject under discussion. You just made your speech. Thank you. Thank you, Sir Sergei. Dear colleagues, we're running out of time to speak out of MP factions, ordinary people can now sign up as Ukrainian national deputies for discussion, and we'll have six minutes to do that. Please. Please, National Deputy Parasuk, give me your word.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-16-m1.u30	Continues the subject. Yuri Vitaliyovich, please note, I don't understand when you're bringing an application to all these people, where there's treason to the Fatherland, where there's corruption, where there's banditry, where are all the sins they've committed against Ukrainian society for all their existence, where are they? We don't understand that. Are you looking for some episodes that they're gonna exactly break up in the sales courts that you've been reforming? It's called justice on your part. I don't think so. People need to answer the question: Why is the country now living like this and why is war in the country? And because they brought this war to this country. And today, the faction of Peter Dustenka made a deal with them. You're trading, you're playing theater all over Ukraine about fighting with the regents? But you're with the rematchers on one side. You're just selling the country. And to the regions that come and tell us how poor, unhappy and concerned they are about the Carpathian forests, I want to tell you that don't worry about the Carpathian forests, the trees, and the branches on those trees. And believe me, they won't fail. And I'm convinced that Ukrainian society will wait for all of you to be, in fact, justly judged, and you'll all be long and boring in prison.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-16-m1.u31	Thank you. Please give your next speech, National Deputy Bezbach.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-16-m1.u32	Dear National Deputies! First of all, I want to say a few words about the very scientific research and engineering institute of the chimney industry of the name of Osada. Because on another occasion, the Attorney General is being misled, claiming that the Institute had seemingly equipment and was producing components for rockets. The Institute carried out research in the field of pipe production, developed experimental samples, and developed new technologies for overpowering pipes for the oil and gas industries. The institute was not a defence complex, the institute had purely scientific research in the field of technical science. The lack of interest in the state in the field of metallurgical production and the corresponding chronic underfunding of the industry have led to a decline not only in metallurgy but also in industry science. Kolesnikov agreed to give up unused premises in a rental facility that was not a crime. But what I want to remind you is that, at the time, the transfer of premises to the institute didn't work for a long time, and you've been told from what year he was just doing it. I've got everything.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-16-m1.u33	Dear colleagues, in a few minutes there will be a vote, it will be Parliament's responsibility, not the prosecution's. So I'm very much asking you not to take responsibility for the prosecution right now and for all the people's deputies to return to the session room in order to take part in the vote, so that there isn't such a disgrace when there are no deputies in the session room, I'm going to all the factions. And please, now, National Deputy Timoshenko Yuri is giving the floor to Kupri to the People's Deputy. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-16-m1.u34	Dear colleagues, to whom I do not know these people, from whom the inviolability is being removed today. I recall that in 2010, when Wilkul became in March, as I remember, the head of the ODA, I was a lawyer, and after that I was a member of the Kamyan City Council of Dniprodj yinsk, a former name. I remember very well during the headship of Vilkul in the area, the radioactive pipes from the Pridniprov chemical plant, where he used to enrich uranium, and he didn't respond to my statements. I remember well how 26 children were abducted in the maternity home of Kamyansky's 9th Hospital, and they were released into the organs, and Mr. Wilkul covered the crime, because I was addressing him, and he was checking with his subjects, and he didn't set anything up. I remember well the many other crimes that Mr. Wilkull may have committed, including the candidate now under consideration, Kolesnik. When there was a bloody extremity of Eromaydan in January 2014, the Attorney General told us about Mr. Woodod, who was then the head of the district council, as if he were hiding from the investigation. But he's not hiding anywhere, you just don't want to investigate these crimes. Because Mr. Kolesnikov was the head of the district government, which sanctioned the bloodline of Eromaydan, who, under the Law on Local Government Administrations, is obliged to ensure the rule of law and human rights. He did not do so, but no one charges him. It's all going to play now. There are far more serious crimes: there are crimes that can be said about brothers in custody; there are crimes that have caused billions of damages, including those that we know personally in the Dnipropetrov region. But unfortunately, really, I support a colleague, there's a conspiracy, there's a circus going full. I vote in favour, but we see people who would. "Peter Prashenko's Block," who voted and voted in favour of this Henprocurorate, should support it, they're demonstratively ignoring the Henprocuror's demand. No one believes you, Mr. Yuri! Listen, please, and look at your fellow party. You're a disgrace to the Attorney General's office. You come with such things that you don't want anyone to vote. I think it's important, my fellow professors, to record the inviolability, to investigate, but first of all, we need to release this person from the Attorney General's office and bring the system of justice into order so that we can have everyone who commits a crime and be punished and held accountable. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-16-m1.u35	Last performance. Please, the People's Deputy of Korchinska gives the floor to the People's Deputy of Lewchenk. In the meantime, I am addressing the heads of all factions with the request to invite the deputies of all factions to the session hall, because voting now will not be the prosecutor's office, but the national deputies of Ukraine. It's very strange to hear that we don't vote through the D.A. It will be our responsibility with you now. I very much ask all my colleagues to return to the session room. Please, Mr. Levchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-16-m1.u36	Lewchenko, Freedom, 223 District, Kiev City. I'd like to highlight first of all the circus that's going on right now. Literally a few specific positions. First, like Wilcule, there's no arrest and arrest. That is, even if it were to be assumed that a permit would be passed for criminal liability, this person would remain intact, nothing could be done with him. That's why it already points to the agreement from the Party of Regions, the Environment and the Block of Peter Dustenk, and the majority. That's the first one. And secondly, I would just like our Ukrainian television audiences to hear the specifics of who voted in favour of removing the inviolability for allowing Mr. Wilcule's criminal responsibility, because there's a specific detail about this whole situation, a concrete explanation of reality. Because after these votes, what's going to happen, and why are we seeing this whole circus right now? Peter Alexiyovich Poshenko and Yuri Lucenk will go on television and say: "People good, look, we've done everything we can to get these thieves to be held accountable, but the bad Supreme Council has not removed their inviolability. And that's why they're responsible, and we're good guys, we're supposed to be fighting regionals. And it's still going to be this story about the fact that Dusty is the only one who can stop the rematch, even though this rematch actually occurred back in the 14th year, when the election took place before this call to the Supreme Council, and then all of these votes took place together with the Party of Regions and the Environment. That's who voted for Villuckula, for taking it off, for allowing her to be held criminally responsible. "Peter Prashenka's Block": out of 135 deputies, 46 out of 135 voted in favour, yes. The People's Front: Of the 80 deputies, 36 voted in favour of a permit to bring Mr. Vilkul's criminal responsibility. Apparently, Kolesnik will be in the same situation now. Moreover, before the vote, journalists pointed out that it was noticeable that MPs from the BP were mass leaving the hall and going into the corridors so as not to vote for the removal of Vilkul’s inviolability. That's a great indication on the numbers, on the facts, of what's happening right now in the hall. No, I'm afraid not. In the current power, the desire to put these regional thieves in jail. And there's no such desire for one simple reason, because they're regional thieves themselves. We have the President of Ukraine as the Minister of Economy of the government of Yanukovic. The decisions that have been taken in this session hall for the past four years are the worst decisions made by the Party of the Regions in particular. That's why now that the question has been asked about Mr. Vilkul, one of the leaders of the Party of Regions is going through this farce. So, I'm talking to our Ukrainians right now, the TVs, the radios, saying, "People good, make a conclusion, don't be fooled that there's going to be some kind of fight for good and evil in the presidential election, Dusty."
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-16-m1.u37	So, colleagues, the speeches of the national MPs have been completed. Now, two or three final words, and in six minutes, we're going to make a decision. I ask the heads of factions to invite the national deputies to the hall. I ask the Secretary of the Supreme Council to invite the people's deputies into the Hall, and in six minutes we'll move on to the decision-making process. I now invite you for the closing statement of Kolesnik Dmitry Valeriovich, 3 minutes. Then, regular, you'll be taking, Paul, won't you? And then Yuri Vitaliovich. Please, Dmitri Valeriyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-16-m1.u38	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Do you remember the Bible’s parable of King Solomon’s ring? It says, "It's all going through, and it's going to pass." You know, in my previous speech, I was convincing in my right and once again, I was not even able to do what the Attorney General is trying to do. I had no motive, no intention, no authority, and I didn't get any benefit from it. I want to emphasize that in my activities, I was always guided by the letter of the law. I gave you, your honor, the answer to the question: Was there a boy? I repeat, there was no rocket plant or manufacturing under the authority of the holding agency. And that, fellow believers, is true. Dear colleagues, you have a decision to make. Whoever I was able to convince -- vote on who I couldn't -- vote on who I could. Thank you all.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-16-m1.u39	Thank you. And now there's going to be a closing statement. So three minutes to vote. I think all the factions' heads are familiar with the results of the previous vote and have the ability to mobilize factions. Now, for my concluding remarks, I invite the Attorney General of Ukraine, Yuri Vitaliyovich Lucenka, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-16-m1.u40	Dear National Deputies! I will comment on the main statements I have made. One category of speakers calls for swift resolution of all whom she considers traitors to the Fatherland without any particular burden of evidence, simply because it is obvious. Of course, the Carpathian forest remembers many things, including who and how its branches were used. But I was assigned to have law and justice in the country. The law works thanks to you, the distinguished national MPs. Now in court, your colleagues Rosenblatt, your colleague Polyakov, your colleague Dobkin. And it's a long process, but it's legal. And the court will make an objective and just decision. It's the only way if we talk about European values and democracy in our country. The second sum of comments involved the fact that a national MP had already committed not so great a violation. In fact, a factory was neglected and not a factory at all, but just an institution. Honorable as the main designer of the 6th-thousand electronic plant I am, (that board remembers a little bit about my drawing, my signatures), I know what scientific research institutions are and that without them there is no production. So without the scientific research institute, the so-called pipe welding, they couldn't fly the Towns, the Smurfs and the Hurricanes. And the one who destroyed a rolling condition that can be used exclusively for military purposes, as evidenced by the results of the investigation, destroyed the defensive potential! It doesn't matter if it's a lab, whether it's a design site, or if it's a manufacturing complex, it's all part of a single defence complex. And the fact that the I.U.S.O.O.D.A.D. is part of the Cabinet's policy list of strategic enterprises that matter to the economy and security of the state is a legally established fact. And the last. What did the director of the agency do, the man who was to be on the watch for the government property entrusted to him and to develop it to the extent possible and budgeted? He was able to exclude from the shadow property complex two shells -- laboratory and industrial -- only on one condition: the existence of tax debt. Please look at the slide now. It's not some kind of tax. The answer. At the beginning of the process of production of the entire property complex, there was no tax debt of the Osada Institute before it was completed. And so the agency manager's actions, and today's national MPs were illegal, and they opened the door to the next robbery of this plant. I'll repeat my metaphor. If a man broke into a castle.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-16-m1.u41	Please, just a minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-16-m1.u42	If a person breaks into a castle to a place where material national strategic values are located, he is also responsible for what took place later because he has acted to the detriment of public interest. A legal assessment describes this as part two, article 364. And I think there will be an answer for that, because the court has already ruled that Mr. Kolesnik's orders were illegal. This decision has entered into force legally, and it is now up to you whether the MPs will continue to hide behind the mandates of those who have destroyed state defence enterprises or whether the law and justice will eventually work. I urge you to take down the MP's immunity.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-16-m1.u43	Thank you. So let's move on to making a decision. I would like to remind you that there is only an application for criminal liability to remove the inviolability. There is no question of arrest, no question of detention, only of the possibility of criminal conduct, of colleagues. I want to point out that we are not the courts or the prosecutors, we are only allowing the investigating authorities to carry out investigative actions. So I ask everyone to take up their jobs, go into the hall, get ready to vote, get out of bed. And so colleagues, in accordance with article 80 of the Constitution of Ukraine, part of article 221 of the Ukrainian Act on the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, put to the vote the issue of consenting to the criminal responsibility of the Ukrainian national deputy, Kolesnikov Dmitry Valeriyovich. Please vote. We're voting on our colleagues. Please vote. [[17:04:31]] For-163 Please show by factions. Block of Petra Poshenko – 61, National Front – 40, Opposition Block – 0, Self-help – 18, Radical Party – 9, Fatherland – 8, Will of the People – 1, Rebirth Party – 0, non-fractional – 26. Colleagues, every time one of those who didn't vote on the air says he's for taking off the touch, you know, he's cheating, he's lying. This issue today has demonstrated the real willingness of the national deputies to remove the inviolability. I think this is a great shame to the Ukrainian Parliament today, and this is a great shame to all of us today and to all of these votes that have taken place. I am now informing the Attorney General of Ukraine that the decision regarding the criminalization of Kolesnikov Dmitry Valeriyovich by the Supreme Council of Ukraine has not been taken. Now I want to make an announcement. First announcement by the national deputy of Savak Ivan Ivanovich. A statement. "In accordance with article 13 of the Ukrainian Law "On the Status of the People's Deputy of Ukraine" and article 60 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules, I report my membership in the parliamentary faction of the political party "The People's Front". Next statement. "I, Sauka Ivan Ivanovich, declare my accession to the coalition of MP factions of "European Ukraine" in the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the eighth call." And also a statement from Mr. Gulak. "I'm reporting on my membership as a member of the Radical Party of Oleg Láska in the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the eighth call." Welcome. And now, colleagues, a statement from two factions came to the fore from the Self-Help faction and the Fatherland. Yeah? And BPP. Self-help and B.P.P. are asking for breaks. And they're ready to change the break for the performance. Colleagues, please don't break up, there's going to be a block of environmental policy. And I invite you to the show, three minutes, Gregory of the Mud. And please, everyone, stay in the hall. Please, Mr. Gregory.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-16-m1.u44	Thank you. Dear colleagues, there has just been an emergency meeting of the Agrarian Committee, business has just mutiny. You know, you've raised rail freight tariffs, Pat Crucibles, not consulting anyone, not consulting anyone, almost 50 percent. And today some of our colleagues in the Supreme Council have raised this question, and we thank them very much for it. We want to tell you that this is happening at a time when agriculture is now priced at the bottom. We practically have the lowest purchase prices today for all kinds of agricultural products: this is corn grain, which is 5. 600 is 4. 300, that's the soybean, which was 12,000, and today we're barely pulling 8 today, that's sugar beets today, that's different cultures today. It can't go on like this. We are highly criticized by businesses, manufacturers who say either you say something or you're not capable of anything. We got it. Before that, we discussed four committees (agrarian committee, industrial policy committee, transportation committee, energy and so forth) and addressed the Prime Minister with a letter. But after that all (27 deputies signed up), after that the reaction was zero. What you did, you heard. We are addressing today, and we ask you to support us, too, tomorrow, all those who want to go to government meetings and ask this question very hard and to stand up for it. The other one. We are today asking the President of the Supreme Council of Irina Volodymyrovna to arrange a meeting with the President of Ukraine, to initiate a meeting or a meeting in the Council of National Security and Defence, to consider this issue as precisely as the Council can make a decision and, upon returning to the previous level of tariffs on transport, as well as a human question on the railway manager, who is not systematic, in our view, a bad manager in this field. And the last thing we're asking is for the media to raise that question, and people have heard, the producers we hear, we're going to stand up for them.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-16-m1.u45	30 seconds, complete.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-16-m1.u46	Thank you. And we're also going to the Antimonopoly Committee, and we're going to look into and conduct our service investigation and evaluate these facts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-16-m1.u47	Thank you. So, colleagues, I'm asking you to take up your jobs and get ready to vote. We're moving on to environmental policy. And I'm asking you to mobilize. In order to be able to pass at least 2-3 laws, we need to support a simplified procedure. So I'm asking everyone to support the environmental block. The first issue in this block is the draft of the Basic Principles (Strategy) Act of Ukraine's State Environmental Policy for the period to 2030 (No. 8328). And, colleagues, I'm asking you to support this short-term review of this project. Please vote, please support. Everyone please take part in the vote, please support. [[17:11:32]] For 122 Colleagues, I'll put it back together. What Is the Purpose? In any case, we can accept two or three of the two if the procedure is shortened. The bill is actually supported by all factions in Parliament. Colleagues, we were supposed to go through all the issues of inviolability under the Rules, but we've got 50 minutes left. I ask you once again to support the minister present in the Hall and to support our Committee on Environmental Policy. And I would like to support the consideration of draft Law 8328 by a reduced procedure. Please vote for everyone, please support. Vote, please support, vote. [[17:12:26]] For-136 I'll do it again, if we don't, we'll go in full procedure. Show by factions, please, by factions. Block of Petra Poshenko – 64, National Front – 35, Opposition Block – 1, Self-help – 6, Radical Party – 10, Fatherland – 0, Will of the People – 2. Colleagues, look at this bill, it's not huge and it's also strategic. It's supported by all the factions. So I ask you to take your seats and prepare for the vote. Please come in and take your jobs. I ask everyone to participate carefully in the vote and to support the proposal. So I'm voting on the proposal that the draft Law on the Basic Principles (Strategy) of the State Environmental Policy of Ukraine for the period until 2030 we have considered a reduced procedure. I ask everyone to take part in the vote. Please vote and please support. Vote. Please be supportive. Let's vote, colleagues. Please support everyone. Vote. [[17:13:54]] For-149 One voice. I didn't make it. One man. Colleagues, please take up jobs, prepare yourself, and one person is not there. Please support the review of the reduced procedure 8328, please vote with caution and please support. We vote carefully and responsibly. Vote, please. Everyone, please take part in the vote and vote. Vote. [[17:14:36]] For a hundred and Decision taken. And I invite you to the report of Minister of Environment and Natural Resources Semerak Ostap Mikhailovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-16-m1.u48	Dear Chairman, distinguished national MPs! The proposed project by the government is based on the underlying causes of the environmental problems identified in the Association Agreement between Ukraine and the European Union, the day-to-day routine of development, and the seventeen goals of sustainable development approved by the United Nations. The main environmental problems are primarily the unsatisfactory state of environmental elements: water, air, soil. The ecological state of surface water objects and the quality of water are key factors in the health and epidemiological well - being of the population. At the same time, most of the pollution - related water objects are classified as contaminated and highly polluted. In fact, two thirds of the country’s population live in areas where atmospheric air conditions do not meet the hygiene standards that affect the general population’s disease, and these figures are horrendous. The situation of Ukraine’s land resources is close to critical. During the period of land reform, many land - related problems have deteriorated. About 57 percent of the country’s territory is affected by wind, water erosion, and more than 12 percent of the land is submerged. Ukraine is already experiencing the negative effects of climate change, which will continue to lead to social, economic, and future losses. Environmental priorities are not integrated into sectoral policies, resource and energy sectors of the economy are driven by maximum income, maximizing income by depletion of natural resources. The new strategy is aimed at addressing the main issue of the agenda: how to break the direct dependence on socio-economic growth on the further exploitation of natural resources and environmental pollution.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-16-m1.u49	Thank you. How much?
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-16-m1.u50	May I?
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-16-m1.u51	30 seconds to complete, Mr. Ostap, 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-16-m1.u52	Thank you. The strategy project has important innovation elements, including 30 measured indicators. This was not the case in the previous strategy that was planned by 2020, and they can be evaluated for implementation. This project is supported by a committee and I ask the National Deputies to mobilize and support the proposed environmental policy strategy by 2030. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-16-m1.u53	Thank you. The co-report invites the head of the Committee on Environmental Policy Committee Ribak Ivan Petrovich, please,
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-16-m1.u54	Dear Mr. Head, honourable national deputies, the draft Law on the Basic Principles (Strategy) of Ukraine’s State Environmental Policy for the period to 2030 (No. 8328), submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, is being introduced in the first reading for consideration by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The bill aims to review the main strategic tasks of public environmental policy in connection with the signing of the Agreement on the Association of Ukraine with the European Union and to ensure the gradual approximation of environmental legislation to the relevant environmental protection rules of the European Union. The Committee notes that today the Ukrainian Basic Principles (Strategy) Act of Ukraine’s State Environmental Policy is in force until 2020, which was adopted on December 21, 2010. The need for development has not been sufficiently substantiated since 2018. At the same time, the Ministry of Environment and Natural Resources of Ukraine supports the bill. The Committee on Budget Affairs has decided that the bill has no direct impact on the budgetary indicators and that if adopted, it can take effect according to legislation. The Committee on Environmental Policy, Environmental Use and the Consequences of the Chernobyl Disaster by Most Votes proposes a bill on the Basic Principles (Strategy) of Ukraine’s State Environmental Policy for the period to 2030 under registration number 8328, submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, based on the first reading, to be adopted as a basis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-16-m1.u55	Thank you. Please record: two in, two in. Sergey Capplin.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-16-m1.u56	Dear colleagues, of course I support this bill. And I think that all the national deputies present today at work will support this important initiative of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. We need to design, indeed, substantive, meaningful, objective principles in environmental policy, and to build environmental policies. But in parallel, you have to solve the point, but very important issues that lead to, without exaggeration, environmental catastrophe. I would like to draw the attention of the Minister, the Ministry, the Attorney General's Office and the Prosecutor's Office of the Poltava region to the ecological Sabbath that provides for "The Crushing" in the territory of my native Poltavščina. The incredible losses, the pains, the epidemics, the fatigue, the selection of land, the actual raiding of the state structure -- all the result of the work of companies on which such strategic important tasks, particularly the energy sovereignty of our country, have been placed. I went to the Attorney General, I went to the Attorney General's Office of the Poltava Region, and I am pleased that a number of initiatives have been disrupted regarding "The Crushing" and its policies, so-called environmental, more specifically, anti-national policies in the Poltav region. I would like to point out separately that following the change of the head of the Public Prosecutor's Office of the Poltava region to, indeed, the expert in the case of this Chibisov, there have been extremely serious changes in the positive direction: there has been an open series of actions against corrupters known throughout the country, particularly the ex-director of Mamay Alexandra Fedorovich; in particular, open-ended activities on "Clubing" and the damage to the environment of the Poltava region. We are voting in favour of this bill, and I think it is extremely relevant, and we should gather the necessary votes today in order to find support.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-16-m1.u57	Thank you. From "Fatherland" Krulko Ivan Ivanovich. He's handing over Sergei Soboljevo.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-16-m1.u58	Dear colleagues! Sobolje, Fatherland. The Fatherland faction has carefully considered the legislative initiative, and we are pleasantly impressed. The key positions of the new course on environmental safety, environmental policy, environmental control, ecosystems, environmental education are all found in this strategy. I think that's a good example of how a public initiative is taken into account by the Ministry in such an important issue. And on the occasion we invite the minister to the debate on December 23rd of the entire chapter on environmental security in the new policy forum, we think it's a worthy place where this report will be presented. Our faction thinks the only disadvantage is that a whole series of positions are actually defined as strategic by the year 30. So it might happen that Ukraine won't survive in an ecological sense until the 1930s, and our ecosystem won't be able to withstand the pressures that there is. That's why our proposals are going to be right after the acceleration of a whole set of key points. And our faction will support this unique document. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-16-m1.u59	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we're about to make a closing statement. In three or four minutes, we'll move on to the vote. So I ask the heads of factions to return all the deputies to the room who have gone into the towers, and I ask the secretariat to inform the national deputies that there will be a vote in 3-4 minutes. I now invite Pisarenko Valery Volodymyrovich out of the place. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-16-m1.u60	Thank you, Mr. Head. I want to say first of all that it's very good that the Cabinet of Ministers is going to come up with strategies that are actually going to be planned for decades, and that we're not going to change, and I'd like to expect that because Kabmin is going to change one, two, three. Because we have long had to move on to strategies in different areas of our nation's development. If we work on this strategy today, of course, we'll be able to see not only the development strategy that we're offered, but actually the experts are talking about what we need to see with the energy strategy. Because that's something that's very important, given the issues of green energy development and the issues about the painful topics that accompany us in life today. I'm talking about the fact that we can't escape the fact that we have the issue of the Chernobyl area, which we also have to consider as part of the problem that Ukraine needs to live with. I know that the next bill will propose one solution to this problem or the issue of bringing this zone into force. I want to say that we need to support such initiatives, and today, on our first reading, we will probably support the transition to strategic thinking. I think we're going to propose to the second reading our vision of the development of individual positions in this strategy. And I'm convinced that if other ministries take today's strategy as an example and go to Parliament with such proposals, maybe we can change things today in most areas in Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-16-m1.u61	Colleagues, I urge you all to come to the hall. Look who's not around. Call me back. Two minutes now, First Deputy Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Irina Heratchenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-16-m1.u62	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I think that the present composition of the Ukrainian Parliament can be proud of the fact that it is this composition that gives sufficient attention to the issues of environmental policy. You and I were the Parliament that ratified the Climate Agreement as one of the first. The Environmental Assessment Act has recently begun to work, and it is clear that it is very important that we today consider the strategic vision of the state’s environmental policy. At the same time, I would like to go to the government and the local authorities about the implementation of the legislation that Parliament is adopting, because there are huge problems with this. Similarly, when we discuss the budget for the next year, it is important to take into account environmental issues, environmental issues in the budget, because there are very few important programmes that are financed, such as the fight against river drying, other problems. And today, when we have decentralization and more money left in our local budgets, it's unacceptable that it's the regional government that gives very little attention to environmental issues, that the environment remains polluted, that we don't really consider respect for the environment at all. And when we vote for this bill now, I want to turn to all the factions to support it in the first reading. There is no doubt about its relevance. Let's work on the second reading. But the Ministry will also draw attention to the particular environmental risks that the Donbas war today poses. The environmental disaster that might just explode there because of the aggressive politics of the Russian Federation is one of our major challenges. And that's why in our strategic assessment, by the year 30, this challenge has to be put in place, and it's really a solution to it from the point of view of authority. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-16-m1.u63	So, colleagues, the discussion is over. We're moving on to making a decision. I'm asking everyone to take up jobs. Fellows in beds, you don't make it, and then I have to go back five times. Please return to your seats. I'm asking everyone to come into the hall and take jobs. So, the factions' heads, please help mobilize the maximum hall. Please prepare for the vote. So I'm voting on the draft Basic Principles (Strategy) Act of Ukraine's State Environmental Policy for the period to 2030 (No. 8328) on the basis of the committee's decision on the basis. Colleagues, you're for ecology, aren't you, Alexander, Volodya? On the basis of this, please vote and please support me, colleagues. Support me, please vote. Please vote. [[17:30:09]] For 223 Three votes. Please return to the hall. Don't leave the hall. They are not members of the environmental committee in all factions. Colleagues, return to the hall, three votes missing. So I'm asking you to come back. Please be ready now. The first vote will be for the return. [[B in m in s a l in]] So, colleagues, the first question is to go back to draft Law 8328 on the Basic Principles (Strategories) of State Environmental Policy. Please vote, please support the return. Every voice, we watch carefully, every voice. Please vote. [[17:31:21]] For 228 We're back. And now, colleagues, I bet. All are carefully involved in the voting. I'm putting the draft Law on the Basic Principles of State Environmental Policy (8328) on the ground. I ask that everyone vote carefully and responsibly. Please vote, please support. Vote. Vote. [[17:31:55]] For 234 Decision taken. Colleagues, stay put. Attention! I have a dilemma: I have 28 minutes left, I have two draft laws that insist. One is the draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine on the creation of a special industrial use area (8268) and the next draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine on the establishment of additional forest conservation guarantees. Let me put them out, they're two of the following. I'll put it on the rating that he picks up. Bigger than that and let's move on. Do you have a deal, colleagues? So I bet these are the next two bills. I am betting on a draft law on certain Ukrainian laws on the creation of a special industrial use area (No. 8268) of a rating vote. Please vote and please support. Vote please, colleagues. [[17:33:09]] For-157. And the next one. Draft Act amending some Ukrainian legislation on the establishment of additional forest conservation guarantees (No. 7229). He was urged by the Conciliation Council, and this issue of photography was presented on the Conciliation Council. I'm asking you to support the 7229 vote. Please take part in the vote, please support. Please vote. [[17:33:49]] For-154 154 colleagues. Colleagues, pay attention! I am. Please step away from the rostrum now. I, colleagues, can see by one and by the other we have difficulties. But we have a unified next bill -- this is a bill amending the Ukrainian Act on Sanitary and Epidemic Welfare. So, colleagues, the next one we have is Chernobyl, and then this medical bill. I ask everyone to take up jobs so that we can find a bill that unites the entire hall. So the next thing I'm going to do is I'm going to put a rating vote on the draft of the Law on Change to the General Government Program on Disengagement from the Operation of Chernobyl AES and the Conversion of Protection to an Environmentally Safe System (No. 6624). Please vote. The rating vote. Please be supportive. The rating vote. Please be supportive. [[17:35:14]] For-187 So, colleagues, by factions, please show me. "Block of Peter Poshenko" – 64, "National Front" – 43, "Resistance Block" – 20, "self-help" – 12, Radical Party – 12, "Fatherhood" – 8, "will of the people" – 2, "Resurrection Party" – 11. Next, colleagues, the draft Act amending certain Ukrainian laws on improving legislation on radioactive waste management (No. 6089). Please vote. Please be supportive. The rating vote. It's a rating vote. [[17:36:11]] For 148 And, colleagues, the next thing I'm going to do is I'm going to put the one I've announced, the Bogolithian Bill, the draft Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Act on Sanitary and Epidemic Welfare (8464). Colleagues, I'm asking everyone to come into the hall. I'm going to put another law on the rating vote. And I'm voting on draft Act No. 8464 amending the Ukrainian Act on Sanitary and Epidemic Welfare. Please support, please vote, this is a rating vote, please vote. [[17:37:11]] For-163 Counsel, colleagues, let's talk about how to act, we have the whole environmental policy block, in fact, we see, we don't find support. Please head the factions for a minute. Arthur Gerasimov, one minute. We have huge issues of the environmental bloc, unfortunately, we have no support in the hall. Please, Arthur.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-16-m1.u64	Dear Andrew Volodymyrovich, distinguished colleagues! Today, really, it's been a very difficult day, but, nevertheless, I have just asked representatives of all factions to gather together now and by the rating vote that we've just passed, we've seen that some of the laws, they get support from all the factions, some of them not all. Gather together and find the bill that we can accept today. Because we do not have a plenary session yet, and I believe that it is the responsibility of every national MP who is currently in the session room to vote in favour of those bills that are in favour of the Ukrainian State. So, Andry Volodymyrovich, we're going to find a bill that will now unite all the factions, that we've already seen that there are. And we'll go into their consideration to make a positive decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-16-m1.u65	Thank you. Colleagues, or we'll have a choice to vote for the presence in the Hall and to issue a corresponding publication in the Voice of Ukraine at a meeting of the Ukrainian National Deputies. I think that's a good one, too, because all the people's deputies should be in the room when they're considering things. And I'm asking the factions to invite everyone into the hall now, if we don't get a positive vote, I'm going to have to check to see if there's a need for national MPs in the room. Now, one minute, Maxim Burbak, People's Front. Please, one minute, People's Front.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-16-m1.u66	Dear colleagues! I'm addressing all of our colleagues from different factions, MP groups, now come to the session room and work. We were chosen to work in the session hall. And, Mr. Head, I ask you to assign the apparatus to the committee secretariats so that they do not hold meetings of their committees during the plenary session in the session room. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-16-m1.u67	So, colleagues, I'm taking a note of Maxim Burbak. I would now like to inform all committee secretariats of the impermissibility of holding a committee during the meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. This can be done during a recess, and it is impossible and unacceptable to do so during a sitting. And I now ask the members of the Budget Committee, including to return to the Hall to participate in the meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Please, Igor Shurma, the Opposition Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-16-m1.u68	Igor Shurma, Opposition Block. Dear colleagues, I'm not going to ask you where the coalition is right now, and I suggest you step out of the country's interests, because we have an environmental minister right now. Do we? We do. Let us unite now around the problems related to Chernobyl’s AES. It was proposed to continue the programme until 2020. Well, let's unite around the Chernobyls, that's the problem, well, we all go out to those people. And we, the Opposition Block, and the dominant coalition, well, if we really want to solve this problem, let's take advantage of the Minister's presence and get a common perspective. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-16-m1.u69	Thank you. One minute from the Fatherland faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-16-m1.u70	Thank you, sir. Sergey Eutuszek, "The Fatherland" faction. In fact, there are calls that we, like other colleagues, are ready to support the draft Law on Change to the General Government Program on the Exploitation of the Chernobyl AES and the Conversion of the Hidden Object to an Environmentally Safe System. But I would like to say, Andrew Volodymyrovich, that this is the second reading, and whether we have enough time to vote today. Or maybe we'll go over it now, and then Wednesday, tomorrow, again. I wonder if we'll have a number of votes at all. So the "Fatherland" faction is now ready to move on to the issue of "Hiddenness" about the Chernobyl AES. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-16-m1.u71	Thank you. Mr. Sergei, I'd like to inform you that there's a small number of rights, and there's no negatives. In fact, it will be just a report by the chairman of the committee and a vote on the Chernobyl AES Act. Valerius Pisarenko, rebirth faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-16-m1.u72	Well, first of all, I want to say that the Rebirth Group supports the consideration of the Chernobyl Bill, we think it's really a question that should not be put off in time. If there are votes, of course we're willing to go in there, if there's no votes, let's do it for the next plenary week anyway, but the environmental issues will not go off and this block will still go through, well, in two weeks, when we have the next plenary week, Tuesday. Let's not reject this block, and we could at least now, if there are no votes, also ask the minister to report on this issue, in Chernobyl, so that we can at least start discussing this topic, because we don't want to lose 15 minutes there. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-16-m1.u73	Thank you. All the factions who were going to make the speech came forward? So we've seen a draft of the Law on Change to the Public Programme on the Exploitation of the Chernobyl AES and the Conversion of the Protection Facility to an Environmentally Safe System. So, colleagues, I suggest we move on to his consideration, and then we all go together. We're all here to gather voices under his support. So we're going to go over to the draft Law on Change to the General Government Program on the Exploitation of Chernobyl AES and on the Conversion of Protection to an Environmentally Safe System (No. 6624). And I ask all the heads of factions to see who wasn't and to invite them into the hall. I invite the head of the Committee on Environmental Policy, Environmental Management and the Elimination of the Effects of the Chernobyl Disaster by Ribak Ivan Petrovich to report. Please, Mr. Ivan.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-16-m1.u74	Honourable Andriy Volodymyrovich, honourable colleagues, the purpose of the bill is to approve a single document on the definition of decommissioning activities from the Chernobyl nuclear power plant and the conversion of the "Hidden" facility into an environmentally sound system and budgetary financing of this activity by 2020. The implementation of the first-line actions of the General Government Program for the decommissioning of the Chernobyl AES and the conversion of the Hidden object into an environmentally safe system has been exhausted. In view of the lack of funding, a large number of planned measures were not fully implemented. The draft changes to the state-of-the-art programme have been developed taking into account the deadlines that have passed, the current state of performance and plans for decommissioning of the Chernobyl AES and the conversion of the Protection facility into an environmentally sound system by 2065 and the budgetary financing of this activity by 2020. As stated in the financial and economic justification for this bill, the implementation of the updated national programme will provide for the release from the state budget of Ukraine of almost 3 billion dollars by 2020 to implement the final closure and conservation measures. The adoption of this bill will ensure the implementation of article 5 of the Ukrainian Law on the General Principles for the Further Exploitation and Disposal of the Operation of the Chernobyl AES and the Conversion of the Destroyed Fourth Energy Cloud of this AES to an Environmentally Safe System. The Supreme Council of Ukraine on Parliamentary Hearing Recommendations 2015-2016, which was dedicated to the issue of the alienation zone, has repeatedly stressed the need to make appropriate changes to the Ukrainian Law on the State-wide Programme for Removal from the Operation of the Chernobyl AES. The Committee points out the need for sufficient financial support for the public policy, since the lack of funds can lead to the postponement of planned measures, which will make it impossible to implement the program in the future. The bill was introduced with 12 rights, proposals by Ukrainian national deputies, which are listed in the comparative table in the bill. In the course of the discussion by the National Deputies at the meeting of the Board of Corrections, the number 3, 4, 6, 8, 9, 10, 11 and 12 are fully counted, the number 1, 2, 7 is edited and 5 is partially counted. The Committee on Environmental Policy, Environmental Use and Elimination of the consequences of the Chernobyl disaster recommends to the Supreme Council of Ukraine the draft Act on Change to the General Government Program for Removal from the Operation of the Chernobyl AES and the conversion of the "Hiddenance" object into an environmentally sound system (under registration number 6624) to be adopted as a second reading and as a whole as a law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-16-m1.u75	Thank you. So, colleagues, part of the right was taken into account editorially. I'm going to read the right-wing authors and the numbers. If anyone insists, please raise your hand. 1st. Don't insist. 2nd. Don't insist. Third row. Don't insist. Four. Don't insist. 5th. Don't insist. 6th. Don't insist. 7th. Don't insist. 8th. Don't insist. 9th. Don't insist. 10th. Don't insist. 11th. Don't insist. And 12th. Don't insist. So all the revisions were taken into account. The bill is completed by a committee, and we have thus concluded its discussion. All the suggestions and corrections were taken into account. And we can go to the vote So, colleagues, I'm asking everyone to invite the deputies into the hall, and I'm asking the factions to invite the deputies into the hall. Now I'm giving three minutes for Ostap Semerak, Minister of Ecology. How can you be more comfortable, or out of the rostrum or out of the rostrum? Out of place, right? Please include the Minister of Ecology and Natural Resources Semerak Ostap Mikhailovich microphone. Three minutes later, we move on to the decision-making process. I ask everyone to come into the hall and prepare for the vote. Please, Mr. Ostap.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-16-m1.u76	Thank you. The Honourable Head of the Supreme Council, the distinguished National Deputies, the law that we are currently considering in the second reading, was prepared by the Cabinet of Ministers and developed by the Ministry of Environment, the natural resources. The need for adoption of this bill is that the previous programme, which worked in 2009 - 2012, has completed its work, but not all work has been done because of unsatisfying funding in previous periods. And we've come up with a proposal to continue this program. This is what the draft law that the Committee on Environmental Policy has prepared for the second reading is about. In order to implement new measures from the operation of the Chernobyl nuclear power plant and to transform the shelter into an environmentally sound system, it is necessary to extend the duration of the nationwide program and to complement it with new measures. The first is to complete the construction and put into operation a new safe confination. The second is to start with blocks number one, number two, number three of the Chernobyl nuclear power station. The third is to put into operation a landfill of spent nuclear fuel of a dry type and to start transporting sent-off nuclear fuel from an old, wet storage facility into the mentioned new fuel. Introduce a liquid radioactive waste treatment plant, an industrial complex of solid radioactive waste management, and start processing radioactive wastes accumulated during the operation of the Chernobyl nuclear power plant. Next. Enter a water-cooler operation and complete the dismantling of the engine room of the first queue of the Chernobyl nuclear power station. The implementation of an updated state-of-the-art programme provides for funding from the state budget, funds from a budget project sent by the government to the Supreme Council for 2019, these funds are set up and foreseen. The purpose of the bill is to approve a single document on the definition of decommissioning activities from the Chernobyl nuclear power plant and the conversion of the "Hidden" facility into an environmentally sound system and budgetary financing of this activity by 2020. As a result of the review by the Supreme Council of Ukraine and the Committee on Environmental Policy, Environmental Use and Elimination of the Consequences of the Chernobyl disaster, the bill can be adopted in a second reading and as a whole. In view of this, my honourable colleagues, I ask you to support the bill in second reading and in general. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-16-m1.u77	Thank you. So, colleagues, we're moving on to making a decision. I'm asking everyone to come into the hall, stay out of the hall, back in. Prepare to vote. From the bed, please return to the hall. I ask the Secretariat to report that we are moving on to the decision-making process. So call whoever's in the towers. Everyone please take up their jobs. You're ready, aren't you? We can vote. Take up jobs. So I'm voting on the draft Act amending the National Programme for the Exploitation of the Chernobyl AES and the conversion of the "Hidden" object to the environmentally sound system No. 6624 at the request of a second-reading committee and in general. Please vote, please support. Colleagues, I am responsible for asking everyone to take part in this vote, and I ask for your support. Vote. Please be supportive. [[17:53:36]] For 211 Not all of them have made it. I'm asking you to come into the hall. 211, we didn't make it. Now I'm going to read the factions so we can see clearly who didn't make it. Block of Petra Poshenko – 72, National Front – 50, Opposition Block – 23, Self-Help – 13, Radical Party – 13, Fatherland – 8, Will of the People – 4, Rebirth Party – 9. Please, heads of factions, you see the result. Postfaction is 19. I'm asking you to go out to the towers, invite everyone into the hall who's in the towers. And I ask the heads of factions to maximize the mobilization of national MPs. Now I'm going to put it back, and then I'm going to put it back on the second reading. So invite the deputies to the hall. Please prepare yourself for making a decision. You're ready, aren't you? I'm voting on the proposal to go back to the draft Law on Change to the General Government Program on Removal from the Operation of the Chernobyl AES. Please vote, please support the return to debate 6624. We vote carefully and responsibly, colleagues, each vote. Please vote, please support. We're voting for the return. [[17:55:16]] For 227 We're back, colleagues. Now I'm asking everyone to stay put. Please take up jobs, come in. And I'm voting on the draft Law on Change to the General Government Program on the Exploitation of the Chernobyl AES and on the Conversion of the Protection Object to the Environmentally Safe System (No. 6624) on the second reading and as a whole. Please vote, please support. Every voice, carefully, we vote. Please be supportive. Careful, we'll vote. If you'll excuse me, I'd like to vote. We'll support it, colleagues. [[17:56:04]] For 229 The law is passed. Welcome to the Minister of Ecology. Welcome to the authors. The committee that actually prepared the bill. I also received a message from the Presidency that I would like to read. "I report on the election of the Ukrainian National Deputy, member of the MP's Party "Block of Peter Poroshenko", smoking Maxim Pavlovich as deputy head of the MP's Party "Block of Peter Prashenka" in the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the eighth call." Let's welcome our colleague. [[Applause]] And so the colleagues, the time allocated for the plenary meeting, is exhausted. The evening session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is closed. Tomorrow at 10 a.m., I invite everyone into the hall to continue our work. Thank you.
