ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-10-m0.u1	Good morning, dear fellows! Please come into the hall and prepare for registration. So, are you ready to register? National deputies of Ukraine are requested to register. Please register. [[10:04:27]] 343 national deputies registered. The morning plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Today is the birthday of our colleague Sergey Visock. Let's welcome our colleague. [[Applause]] And I would also like to report that on Saturday, after a serious illness, an outstanding Ukrainian came out of life, the author of the Ukrainian Declaration of Independence Act, the Ukrainian dissident, the national deputy of many convocations, the Ukrainian hero Levko Grigorovich Lukyanenko. A great pain and a great loss for all of us. I urge you to honor the memory of Lev Grigorovich in this session hall, where he spent many years, a moment of silence. Thank you. Eternal memory and eternal glory of Levek Grigorovich. My colleagues, I would like to remind you that on Tuesday we are starting a day with speeches from MP factions and groups. I also want to remind you that today we have a key block, which is a block of agrarian policy issues, as envisaged since last week in the agenda of the day. I hope that we will be able to have an effective and effective plenary day today. And now I'm asking the factions and groups to prepare for the statement for the factions and groups. The rule provides for 30 minutes. Is everyone ready to write? Please hold the recording. From the People's Front to the word, Maxim Burbak, head of the People's Front. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-10-m0.u2	Congratulations, colleagues. Last plenary week of the eighth session. It can be said that these six months were tense but productive for the Ukrainian Parliament. And no matter how much a person prophesies political crises or successive elections, Parliament works and adopts such important laws. We're going to continue the course of the most recent positive transformations in the country. Most important. We have passed important security laws, the Law on Interim Occupied Territories, it recognizes the date of the beginning of Russian armed aggression, the fact of the occupation of Crimea and Donbas, and then foresees Moscow's political and material responsibility for crimes against Ukraine and the Ukrainians. The National Security Act was adopted in this session. We have once again confirmed before our Western partners that we are unfailingly implementing our agreements with NATO. Our desire to become a member of the alliance is reinforced by specific matters. Ukrainians protect not only Ukraine but also Europe from the enemy. Here all our boys and girls should be given what they deserve every day to defend their home land. We're restoring a strong army from scratch, and there's a lot of credit to Parliament. This is a constant priority for the People's Front faction. Remember, only under the proper protection of our nation is there any point in talking about anything else. Ukraine wants to join NATO. The People's Front urges the President to hold this course and announce Ukraine's intentions at the NATO summit. This course has no alternative. Now for specific legislative work on these last days. The People's Front points to the Central Elections' appointment as soon as possible. The question of updating it is not discussed: we are in favour of updating the composition of the CBC, because the presidential and then parliamentary elections are to be approached with a legitimate, working CBC. We also had choices in some O.T.S. So once again, the composition of the CEVC needs to be updated and not delayed. The People's Front supports the requirement to represent all factions and groups in the CBC. This is in line with the principles of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe. And this is what needs to be done to avoid propaganda manipulation, especially in foreign media media, so that no one can then say from television broadcasters that elections are illegal, non-democratic, because they are conducted by the C.I.C., which is selected in a non-democratic and opaque way. Yes, effective electoral legislation does not provide for such quota representation but does not prohibit it. The People's Front has always stood and will be at the heart of the free democratic elections in Ukraine. The People's Front also supports the proposal of our international partners to bring an action before the Anti-Corruption Court Act on the jurisdiction of cases brought before other courts before the establishment of an anti-corruption court. We will vote for this amendment. Finally. I call on the people's deputies to work. Last week we showed that Parliament is the foundation of democratic power in Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-10-m0.u3	Please let me finish for 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-10-m0.u4	We're going to do this today, this week, the next session and so on until the next election in the Parliament in the fall of 2019. We've got big plans ahead of us, lots of work to do. Similarly, Parliament will act as a guarantor of political stability in the competitive struggle of the presidential campaign, which now promises to be emotional and tense and at the same time interesting. Therefore, colleagues, we gain patience, the whole of Ukraine looks to us with hope, expects Parliament to work effectively and be responsible for this.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-10-m0.u5	Thank you. I invite you to the words of National Deputy Sergio Soboljeva from the faction of the "Fatherland" union.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-10-m0.u6	The death of Levek Grigorovich Lukyanenka is the sum total of the entire era. The 1960s, the eras of those who actually made Ukraine's independence close and imminent. I personally remember Leuk Grigorovitch very well when in 1990 all those who called themselves the People’s Council for an alternative to the Communist majority, 239. And I remember very well the first performance of this unique person when everyone knew that the person who was destined by the Communist regime to be shot, the person who instead received a quarter of a century of camps, said that we should all build an independent Ukraine together. I think it's a holy figure who left a unique mark both in the history of the Ukrainian era and in the history of this Parliament. What our Parliament and Parliamentarianism are looking for in these coming months, the test that we are about to face as independent and honest elections because of imposing a completely controlled majority on the Central Electoral Commission is unacceptable to our faction. To us, it seems strange that the majority faction bearing the President’s name claims that she is leaving the session room and will not participate in Parliament’s work until an illegal decision on the CLTC is adopted. Our faction claims, as long as President Poroshenko does not apply for 13 vacancies, our faction will not vote for any other decision regarding the Central Electoral Commission, because this is a campaign, this is a forgery of the next election. And I have no idea why the president of the country should control three-quarters of the Central Electoral Commission if he wants honest, transparent elections, not those scheming that took place during the Janukovic era. I think that only 13 people who will really be presented as independent, uninvolved people will be able to hold fair and transparent elections in Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-10-m0.u7	Thank you. And I invite you to the word "will of the people" of the national deputy Shahov.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-10-m0.u8	People's Will Group, Sergey Shahov. The MP's "will of the people" group warns against wanting to block work in a parliamentary session under any sauce, any parliamentary immunity from which people are bored, or any other nonsense. In the case that today in the MPs, it is not the improvement of the lives of Ukrainians but of their own rest or future elections. But if anyone wants to block Parliament's work, agriculture, Chernobyl, coal miners, displaced pensioners block airports and private jets. You and I don't have the right to rest while ordinary Ukrainians spend months without wages and pensions while there's a war going on in the country while the boys die in the trenches while the state's depressed and destroyed. Two and a half billion dollars of debt to miners, no social benefits to the black people, no pensioners, no displaced persons left behind and no pensions -- that is a disgrace to today's government! And that's because the State Statistical Office seems to be fixing the population increase by a third. The poor are poor, and the oligarchs are robbing the Ukrainian people and robbing them. The People's will MPs require the government to raise the minimum wage to the promised 4,000 200 dollars and to pay off the debt to the population. How to pay for the services of the HKG, raise fares, raise gas prices, and cut three skins from Ukrainians by throwing them out of their apartments for debts; and how to pay off their debts to the people, get the hooks. The government has no right to review subsidies and leave 1.5 billion Ukrainians without assistance. The wind that wanders in the pockets of the Ukrainians will blow up the roofs of the country today. People take money from banks, in the first quarter minus 3.3 percent, because there's nothing to live for, nothing to hide from those who are starving. In the meantime, the government is bankrupting the profit-generating enterprises called Crucifixion, reducing the country's post office, raising tariffs for printed publications. It also reduces to a whole thousand Savings Divisions at a time when we have to support state-owned enterprises. Ukraine’s budget is scarce, and over two years later the government saw a 100 billion - dollar smuggling hole. Wasn't that a year ago? The People's will MPs require the government to systematically combat smuggling. Colleagues, we have important questions this week about agriculture, the important issues of environmental, economic, and the issues of the Chernobyls and miners that should receive their money. "The will of the people" calls for the support of agrarians, the support of environmental issues, the support of Chernobyl and miners who deserve their wages and pensions. I'm sorry, it hurt!
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-10-m0.u9	Thank you. I invite you to speak to the head of the Arthur Gerasimov faction from the Peter Prashenko Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-10-m0.u10	Dear Madam Chairman, distinguished colleagues, distinguished voters! First of all, on behalf of the "Block of Petra Prashenka" faction, I express my most sincere sympathy to the family and the near Hero of Ukraine, Levka Lukyanenka. There was no prominent Ukrainian author of the Act of Declaration of Independence, a devoted fighter for Ukraine's independence, a dissident who will always be an example of our country's integrity and love. The invaluable contribution of Levik Lukyanenka to the fight for Ukraine will remain forever in our people’s memory. With regard to Parliament's work this plenary week, I think it is necessary to reaffirm the position of the faction of the Party of Peter Prashenko: the update of the CLTC is a key task of the Supreme Council of Ukraine for today and must be decided already this week. Every faction and group that calls themselves democratic promised its electorate to replace the old Janukovich footage in the Election Center. When it came to real voting, the same politicians began looking for artificial reasons not to update the CLTC, although there were no procedural obstacles. So, Madam Chairman, please announce a recess and resume urgent consultations on this matter. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-10-m0.u11	Thank you. Welcome from the Radical Party of Oleg Lášk, the head of the People's Deputies Party, Oleg Lášk.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-10-m0.u12	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Dear Ukrainians! My goal and my team is a strong country, the restoration of the national economy and the well-being of every Ukrainian family. Without strong authority, without order in Ukraine, a restoration of leadership, an end to the anarchy of achieving this goal is impossible. The central election commission they're talking about is one of the elements to be fair elections so that the authorities don't falsify the results. But this is not enough to bring about order in the country. We're proposing a plan that will make it possible to radically, radically clean up this rotten political swamp in which every Ukrainian breathes it today. And those who can get away from this smell abroad, looking for a better fate. The Law on Elections on a New Proportional Basis, the Elimination of Corruption on the Majority, the Law on the Impeachment Procedure of the President of Ukraine, the Law on Temporary Inquiry Commissions of the Supreme Council as a Real Instrument for Parliamentary Control, the New Composition of the Central Electoral Commission, the Cancellation of Deputy Impeachment, the Amendment to the Constitution, which removes dualism in power, the reduction of the number of deputies to 250, the abolition of the post of Prime Minister of Ukraine, the reduction of the number of ministries to 10-12, the restoration of the country's leadership through the restoration of the vertical government, the subordination of the power of the people -- that is what Ukrainians today need. This is the basis for economic growth, to rebuild the country, so it doesn't become strong, so that it doesn't be puppets that are tearing the country apart today into parts that are doing the will of the outside centers instead of doing the will of the Ukrainian people. As a result of the policy of power, people today do not see the future in the country. We are proposing a new economic course, a package of political changes that will give the country a future, save it from anarchy, from the mess, from the turmoil, give every Ukrainian a chance to earn money and live decently in his own country. I ask you, dear Ukrainians, to support this plan. Each of us, with the exception of a small number of sales associates who see their future abroad, sees the future in our home country. Each of us wants us to live a decent life in this country. All of us want the best life for our children. My goal is the same as yours -- peace in Ukraine, order, the well-being of every Ukrainian family, prosperity, economic recovery, a strong country, another plan for a future country -- there's just no one to lie to.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-10-m0.u13	Thank you. Please, 30 seconds. All right, let's get this over with.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-10-m0.u14	And that's what I wanted to say. You've seen a scandal with Croatian football players who are doing it on an equal footing for dedicating their victory to our country, which is fighting aggression. Today, let us support all the halls, all the society, House of Veda, Fire Vukoevich, who, by the way, was fined 15,000 dollars for saying, "Glory to Ukraine!".. Guys, we want you to win the semifinals. We want Croatia's team to go to the finals. Glory to Ukraine! The glory of Croatia!
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-10-m0.u15	Thank you. From the Self-Help faction, I invite you to the words of the National Deputy, Alona Babak.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-10-m0.u16	Since August 1, a new energy regulator’s warehouse plans to launch a long - awaited gas market. But since his ideologist is Mr. Vuk's commission, we expect it to be long - worth. is valuable for the consumer to experiment and enrich monopolistic structures: Naftogazu Ukraine and owners of counterfeits. As early as 2015, Mr. Vuka's commission had obliged all entrepreneurs to purchase, at their own expense, a remote-reading device from gas counters to ensure that consumption data was transmitted online, and the consumer's gas supplier could order the gas needed for this consumer, depending on the consumer's needs. But in practice, at the expense of the consumer, that's an average of between 20,000 and 30,000 dollars per remote device, the information from the consumer counter is transmitted -- attention! - on a server that uses it one-on-one. And the supplier doesn't actually see the gas consumed by his customers from 7 a.m. to 7 a.m., and if the plan and the fact is not right in consumption during that time, the supplier can't remove the imbalance, because the stock market that Mr. Wolf built doesn't work around the clock, and it closes at 6 a.m. During the imbalance, Mr. Wolfe invented a financial sanctions system for suppliers, i.e. because of the inadequate plan and the fact that independent suppliers will constantly bear the losses that either have to be translated into a consumer or leave the market. As a result, only frauds as companies that have their own reserves of gas for manufacturing and technical needs, and their gas suppliers, including the population, which will order gas at computational rather than individual levels, will be able to use these reserves to address imbalances within their area of service without financial losses. So the monopoly of owners of gas distribution networks and supply markets will increase. Entrepreneurs today sabotage the acquisition of these remote devices. Already in several areas: Zitomirska, Mikolayivska, Černivecka, Hmelnicka, Volinska - entrepreneurs have turned to the NCREKP and MPs against such an aberration, because people understand that without any benefit to them their hands are creating a monopoly of gas distribution network owners through monopolization and concentration of information on the consumption in the hands of liars and continues to market the supply of gas, which should be competitive. "Self-Help merges" refers to the regulator to delay the introduction of a gas pseudogenerator until independent suppliers are given the opportunity to eliminate demand imbalances at any time of the day and to obtain online access to the gas counters of their consumers. Before such a system is created, no amount of consumer spending can be translated into cabal to those gas suppliers whose owners have already monopolized gas distribution networks.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-10-m0.u17	Thank you. I'd like to invite you from the "Rebirth Party" group to the National Deputy Bondar.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-10-m0.u18	Thank you, dear friends, dear colleagues. I want to point out that over the last few years, the Rebirth Party, our group has repeatedly spoken and called on the government to return to the face of Ukrainian business, the Ukrainian industry, the investment climate. And we've proposed and introduced to Parliament dozens of bills that have the sole objective of bringing about the economic revival of Ukraine. We offered to review industrial policy. The Industrial Support Bill would allow Ukraine to raise its industry, create a million jobs in at least 2-3 years. We proposed changes to the tax system that would review the entire tax system and allow us to take a breath of breath for our Ukrainian business, which would drag into Ukraine hundreds, even billions of dollars of investment, and make new jobs. We'd stop the immigration and so on. But unfortunately, the authorities don't want to hear these proposals, they're not being considered, today is not actual. More up - to - date, perhaps living on loans, following credits with outstretched hands around the world. And that's government policy today. But we suggest, we understand that you don't want to hear reasonable suggestions. So we suggest that we turn our faces to people and at least make a minimum for people in the near future. Let's call the head of Naftogazu Ukraine in Parliament and ask what will happen to the tariffs as soon as possible. You've promised the International Monetary Fund dozens of times to raise tariffs. At the same time, Crushing and Naftogaz Ukraine shows almost 70 billion dollars of revenue per year. At the same time, 70 billion dollars you're sending, 71, you're sending for subsidies for the population. At the same time, the population has almost 40 billion dollars of debt. The total amount is almost 180 billion dollars. Naftogaz fats, pays off a billion 200 million dollars, buys Cadillacs for Koboljev 7-8 million dollars. So the question is, why pick up tariffs if you're doing so well? 180 billion dollars you went to the state budget from Naftogazu, from Crushing through subsidies, and even into the debt of the population. So what are you going to raise tariffs for if you have such crazy profits on these state monopolies? We demand to call here the head of Naftogaza Ukraine and to hear a report by the end of this week, which will be with tariff policy, as he sees the possibility of lowering tariffs in the context of such a frenzy of revenue in the public authorities. And the second. We need to hear the report of the health minister today, Suprun, on the progress of the so - called reform, and, more precisely, as they called it, transformations. It's not reform, it's the metaphor of medical reform. 800 hospitals destroyed. No one answers and what will be the next step, and what will be done by the end of the year and how wages will be paid. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-10-m0.u19	Thank you. And I'm asking the faction of the Opposition Block of the People's Deputy Yuri Boyka.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-10-m0.u20	Ladies and gentlemen, this is the last plenary week of the session. This year, as in the previous two, Parliament passed no law aimed at improving the lives of Ukrainian citizens. No step has been taken to achieve peace, rather, military rhetoric and incompromising incompromise. Nothing has been done for pensioners, displaced persons, and other vulnerable populations. If we were to count the decisions of Parliament that were useful to society, it would be enough for them to be adopted one day. We demand that this week we vote on laws to support miners and settlers. We urge you to consider our Order on Tariff Reduction. The Opposition Block faction will not vote in favour of any decision of the Council until laws 8362 and 4471 are considered. Millions of people are waiting for them, including those miners gathered under the walls of the Supreme Council. The special cynicism is that the debt to all the miners of Ukraine is less than the premium that the management of Naftogaza Ukraine recently received, paying more than 1.5 billion dollars. Today’s authorities are at a dead end. This is confirmed by the situation surrounding the election of the Central Election Commission. At first, the opposition bloc was expelled from the proposed composition of the Centre for Elections, and as a result, they were unable to divide the seats among themselves, thus giving rise to the parliamentary crisis. We demand to vote for the composition of the CWC in accordance with the PARJE resolution and to include representatives of the Opposition Block in the commission. And to vote on the new Electoral Law, which will stop political corruption during the election campaign. In all democratic countries, the crisis of mistrust is resolved by successive elections. We offer a simple and honest decision: to form mandates and to appoint re-elections. If there is a conscience and respect for our own citizens, I suggest that everyone make a choice in favour of Ukraine's future and start a process of restoring power. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-10-m0.u21	Thank you. We've finished speaking from the MP factions. And according to a statement from two factions, from the Peter Prashenko Block and the People's Will faction, I'm calling a 30-minute recess. We'll be back in the room at 11 o'clock, 05 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-10-m0.u22	Dear colleagues, please come into the hall. Break time is over. Please get ready for work. So I'm reminding you that we have the first block of agrarian politics. The Agrarian Policy Committee has defined the sequence of the drafts and, in fact, in the sequence in which the committee has set up, we are moving on to a review. The first is the Consumer Information Act (No. 8450). Colleagues, I will be the first to put to the vote the proposal to consider it with a reduced procedure. Please vote. [[11:05:56]] For-67 The decision is not made. And we're moving on to the full procedure. I invite you to the report of the Ukrainian national deputy Bakumenko Alexandr Borisovich, author of the bill. Please, Mr. Alexander.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-10-m0.u23	Dear Mr. Head! Dear colleagues! You will have before you the draft Law on Consumer Information on Foods (Registration No. 8450), submitted by the Ukrainian National Deputies Bakumenko, Miroshnichenko, Jurchisin, and others. The draft law is designed to bring Ukrainian legislation into line with EU Regulation No 1169/2011 of 25 October on the provision of food information to consumers. The main purpose of the bill is to ensure that consumers are properly informed about the food they eat. Enabling consumers to make informed choices is extremely important both to ensure effective competition and to improve consumer well-being and to combat today’s problems of obesity, hypertension, overweight, and diabetes. I would like to point out that the project presented for consideration is in line with the EU Technical Assistance Project "Improving the Food Safety Control System in Ukraine", the food market operators of the US Chamber of Commerce in Ukraine, the European Business Association, the Leagues of Food Manufacturers of Ukraine, all national associations of Ukrainians and the State Food Service. The draft law prohibits the use of information that may mislead the consumer. The ban also extends to the promotion and presentation of food products. In view of the above, an important aspect of the bill is the provision of accurate and understandable information to citizens about food products. The following are the main novelties of the project. Establishing requirements for the selection of information, such as the minimum font size required for the food, regulation of requirements for the provision of allergen information, the introduction of the same requirements for the provision of food products that are sold in a distance manner, including the use of remote means of communication, and food products that are sold in the store. The introduction of a consumer information requirement for use in food production of manufactured nanomaterials. The need to provide information on the use of refined oil or vegetable fats, such as palm oil, in the food product. Providing information to the consumer as to whether the food was frozen or defrosted. Applying a new approach for Ukraine to the definition of the suitability of a food product, depending on whether the food is rapidly damaged by microbiological properties. In addition to the information to be provided to the consumer in a mandatory manner, Regulation 1169 contains requirements for information provided by food market operators on a voluntary basis: it should not mislead consumers, be not misunderstood or confusing to the consumer, should it be based on relevant scientific data if necessary. The draft law provides for a comprehensive settlement of all issues related to the provision of food information to consumers. At the same time, the number of sub-laws necessary to introduce a new approach to providing information to consumers is minimal. This is a novelty of this project. We've developed it as European regulations are being developed. And it's got all the parameters in the tabular material, and they still don't need to adopt sub-legal acts at the Kabmin, the COVEN and the ministries. By bringing Ukraine's legislation into line with EU legislation on the provision of food information to consumers, all players in the food market will win. Market operators will have uniform rules for providing consumers with information on food products that will ensure legal certainty and reduce the administrative burden on market operators responsible for food products. Food users, including you, our children, our grandchildren, whom we all belong to, will be able to choose the products that are most suitable for them, especially for health, economic, environmental, social, and ethical reasons, and will be protected from fraudulent and deceptive practices. This bill supports the EU representation in Ukraine, all business associations, all our consumer protection bodies. I ask you, honourable national MPs, to support our bill as a basis. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-10-m0.u24	Thank you. Please record the question to the reporter. Please include the entry. Ostap Ednak, turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-10-m0.u25	Your Honor, I would like to ask you, exactly how does the faction of the Peter Prashenko bloc plan to vote in favour of this law of which you are a representative? I see it's a systemic, framework, in fact, law that will regulate our food sector. Is there a transitional period to allow for the introduction of new standards, requirements? And I also have a question about who will be, whether our authorities will be ready to follow this law properly and control the quality of food, and whether there will be any risk or risk to the health of our citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-10-m0.u26	Thank you, Your Honor, for asking. The Petra Prashenko bloc will support all the agrarian bills that are in the agenda today are the first. The other one. State service as the principal organ of the central executive authority has all the powers, and it is prescribed in this law. You said the right thing: this bill has been prepared for two years by a great expert environment, it's unique to our first Euro-Integration, and secondly, it needs all of us, those consumers of food that we buy with you every day. And the third question. The requirements are raised for safety and quality, and increased fine systems for counterfeiters who will be involved in this market. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-10-m0.u27	Thank you. Please, John Sporish.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-10-m0.u28	John Sporish, 15th District, Winnitzkin. First of all, I also think that we have to accept this bill unanimously, because we have to do everything we can to eat quality products. But first of all, I'd like to ask the following question. This is the first -- is it related to the laws banning palm oil and the bill in part? And secondly, what are the sanctions against those who violate all the requirements in the bill? Because it's pretty important, if they're being punished, those who break, first of all, it's both product branding and other issues. It'll be our bill then. will not be so, indeed, filled with the content that it is today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-10-m0.u29	Dear colleague, thank you for asking. The bill is not binding, but there is a norm when the manufacturer who manufactures the product indicates, marks it, and indicates that there is refined oil or palm oil in this product, and that the consumer will see and have the ability to either buy it or not to buy it -- this is the first time. The other one. It's growing. The penalty for what happens when a product is forged has increased sharply. And the State Service will have an opportunity to fine a much larger fine than it was before, from those manufacturers who mislead us with you as consumers of this product.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-10-m0.u30	Thank you. And the final question, Nichiporenko Valentin Mikolayovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-10-m0.u31	Dear Alexander Borisovich, I would like to ask you a question that concerns not only the substance of this law, but also the entire avarice. This is also a question, it has to do with all the parliamentarians, and with our honourable Head of Parliament. Ladies and gentlemen, we've been going to the agrarian cluster for a very long time, and we're finally there. Agrarian issues are very important to our country. What do we see? Sixty people voted in favour of the short procedure. This means that the agrarian cluster is about to fail. What are we doing in the first place, ladies and gentlemen?Oh, my God! We're about to fail them. I'm asking you to find a way out. When there is a parliament present and then there is consideration. Yeah, we need to look at them today, but let's find a way out, or we'll blow the agrarian question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-10-m0.u32	Thank you for asking. I have confidence that there will be people in the hall. These bills, all agrarians, are part of our very important Euro-integration commitments. Ukraine needs them first. There are land laws that actually introduce land reform. I have a great hope that there will be no political ones here, but I ask all the national MPs: this agrarian day is extremely important, the committee has worked on these bills for 2.5 years, and I ask you all to support them. And this for the agrarians is going to mean that the Supreme Council works, the Supreme Council knows that the agrarian sector is huge, where 40 percent, more than 40 percent of the country's currency and 18 percent of the country's GDP. So thank you for asking. I hope that we will all vote on our bills.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-10-m0.u33	Thank you, Alexander Borisovich. And I invite the head of the Committee on Agricultural Policy and Land Relations of Juršin Petr Vasilovich to report. Mr. Peter, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-10-m0.u34	Dear Head! Dear National Deputies! Your opinion is proposed by the Ukrainian Consumer Information Act, submitted by the Ukrainian National Deputies Bakumenko, Miroshnick, Jurchisin and Ionova. The draft law lays down legal and organisational principles for providing consumers with information on food products in order to ensure a high level of protection for citizens and to satisfy their social and economic interests. General principles and requirements for information on food products, such as the labelling of food products and the obligations of market operators to bring this information to other market operators and consumers. The draft law extends to food market operators at all stages of the food chain if their activities are subject to the requirements for the provision of food information to consumers. Food products are intended for the final consumer, including food products that are made available in public food and food supplied to the public. The implementation of the draft law will allow the creation of an effective mechanism for informing consumers about food products, their composition, their nutritional value, their mode of consumption, the reduction of the pressure on market operators by systematizing legislation on information requirements for food products in a single law harmonized with European Union legislation. I would like to point out that the adoption of this bill will allow for the introduction of requirements for the provision of accurate, reliable, user-friendly food information. After reviewing the bill, the committee decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine the results of the first reading of draft Ukrainian Law 8450. And thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-10-m0.u35	Thank you. Now the question to the co-conspirator. Please hold the recording. Vadatursky Andry Alexiyovich. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-10-m0.u36	Good afternoon, dear fellows! I want to give my word to my colleague Ivchenk. I'd like to say, for my part, let's still think about how to vote for these bills. We just don't have people right now, and the bills are all very important. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-10-m0.u37	Vadim Yvchenko, "The Fatherland" faction. Andrew Volodymyrovich wanted to see you. You know the importance of this bill. And I would like us to be understanding, since we are now going to say good - bye to Levk Lukyanek, and many deputies are going to say good - bye. And putting this law not on the vote, but on the ratings so that we don't crash it today. And I have a question for the reporter. Please state the Euro-Integration Law. Today we need full information about products, about the production of these products, about what they contain ingredients and so on, in order to protect the consumer. And so that no one, for example, would violate legislation in the field of providing true information. How will this apply to single farms? Today, most of the food that people buy is produced in one - individual agriculture. How will this affect them, this kind of tracking that they have to give to sell their products on a legal, say, market?
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-10-m0.u38	Thank you. Whether the consumer is large or small, he manufactures the product, he is obliged, the manufacturer, he is obliged to place information on any other product about the value and importance of the product so that the consumer can read it, see with his own eyes what he buys.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-10-m0.u39	Thank you. And, Mr. Vadim, I would like to point out that at 11:45, we're going to go to the polls, in principle. At that moment, I very much ask you to organize a faction for the vote. And I'm sure the hall will mobilize and we can get a positive vote. By full-reading procedure, at 11:45 a.m., we're going to make a decision. Now, Odin Ostup, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-10-m0.u40	Please give the floor to the People's Deputy of Sporish.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-10-m0.u41	Please, Mr. Ivan. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-10-m0.u42	John Sporish, 15th District, Winnitzkin. Of course, we would very much like to adopt this bill, because the health of our people is question number one. And the less we spend on treatment because we're going to eat organic products, the more it's going to be, the better it's going to be. But what I'd like to ask is, on the committee, have you considered what difference does it make in the price of organic products and products that are now produced by agricultural producers? Is there such a big difference? Because if there's 20 percent, it's very small. And the second. Will (you have considered on the committee) the cost of drugs be saved if we just consume organic products, and about what amount? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-10-m0.u43	Thank you, Mr. Ivan. The bill was discussed on a subcommittee and on a committee. Everyone unanimously supported the idea of the bill itself, because quality food is human health. The better we produce and the better the product, the better the human health, and, of course, the less the human needs the medicine.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-10-m0.u44	Thank you. Romanova, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-10-m0.u45	Thank you so much for the bill to the authors. "The Self-Help Union has always supported and will support all legislative initiatives aimed at the health of the Ukrainian nation to increase life expectancy. And considering that 60 percent of life expectancy depends on what we drink and what we eat, I urge everyone to support the bill. And it's actually a question. Of course, it's good if all manufacturers start writing about the warehouse on their products. But did you plan to take further steps with the government to promote and promote the Ukrainian population, which is exactly what you should eat and what you cannot eat. Because when I see some parents feeding their children transjectors or gas water on dyes, you can honestly see that this is the main popularization among the population, which is something you can't eat, as this is happening in Western developed countries. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-10-m0.u46	Thank you. It is with acquisition, that is, when this law enters into force, that our consumer will be protected from what will be forbidden to use, namely, medical, healthful directions to do so. on this product. And we have the Maintenance Service, which clearly tracks from the rope to the table and from the farm to the crib, how the food is produced.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-10-m0.u47	Thank you. Thank you for the report. Now, colleagues, speak from factions and groups. I'm asking everyone who wants to participate in the debate on a bill from factions and groups to participate in the record. Please hold the recording. From the Self-Help faction of Semimenach Roman Sergiyovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-10-m0.u48	Please welcome Mr. Miroshnichenko. He'll report from the scene. Please. Please welcome the People's Deputy Miroshnichenko, who represents the position of Self-Help. He is given the right to speak by the national deputy of Semimenach. I'm asking you to turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-10-m0.u49	Yeah. Good afternoon, dear fellows! The bill is very important, unfortunately we have been going to it for a very long time, it must be accepted, it is our obligation to the European Union. The bill applies to every person in our country, every consumer. And we need to take it now. Unfortunately, I don't know if we have enough votes, so let's not waste any time. The Self-Help faction will support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-10-m0.u50	Thank you. Please, the "will of the people" group. The position of the group is to present the national deputy Sergey Shahov from the site, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-10-m0.u51	Sergey Shahov, the political power of Our End. Dear colleagues! Food industry, the agricultural sector, are important laws in this block. And "Our Land" will support this bill. We need to show Europe and the world that not only can Kabmin raise tariffs, increase transportation traffic, do not pay miners wages, or the benefits of black people. Today we must support the agrarian complex that feeds the Ukrainian people today, which raises the economic component of our nation. "Our country" is going to vote in favour, regardless of which political forces have passed this bill and have developed this reform in the agricultural sector.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-10-m0.u52	Please, the position of the Radical Party, this faction, to present Igor Mosiyczuk. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-10-m0.u53	Igor Mosiyczuk, Oleg Lachka Radical Party Sad. It's sad to see this room. I think Ukrainian peasants and agrarians, now that they're watching Parliament's work, they don't cry anymore, they have their hands clenched, and I think with the pitchforks, the hairs, and there's a desire to come and tell this authority everything they think about it. As far as the bill is concerned. The bill is very correct, indeed, it needs to be branded as a food industry. But at the same time, I have a question: What branding of palm oil can it be? I call on the committee to review and prepare for the beginning of the autumn a draft bill by the Radical Party of Oleg Lachka on the prohibition of palm oil entirely. It's not branded, it's forbidden. And enough poisoning for the Ukrainians. It's about marking. Really, you have to mark it. And now they're walking around the Parliamentary Hall, they're starting to say, and let's give palm oil to the food industry, and in milk, we're not going to ban it, and in air conditioning, we're not going to ban it. So I'd like to say that enough is enough to slip out the country's main conditioner and enough poison to the Ukrainians, so the peas should be free of palm oil, just like all the other foods. And now most importantly. We can now adopt a host of laws, the most wonderful ones: branding, banning, and so forth. But as long as there is chaos, anarchy, and irresponsibility in the country, nothing will happen. You've eliminated the santa, the government has eliminated, the children are poisoned. In the last two weeks alone, two cases in the Kyiv area of mass child poisoning have been reported because no one controls the quality of the product, and from that, you will mark it or not, quality will not improve. Therefore, along with markings, food control needs to be restored. Stop poisoning the Ukrainians, we need to overcome chaos, anarchy, irresponsibility. And Oleg Laska's Radical Party stands right on that, standing right on that path. We stood up for order in the country, and order begins, including what the authorities allow and feed what the Ukrainians do. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-10-m0.u54	Please take the position of the Peter Prashenko Block to represent the national MP Sergey Hlan. I'd like to have a word with you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-10-m0.u55	Sergey Hlan, 185 constituency, Hersonian, Peter Dusty Block. Dear colleagues, today we are considering the most important law, the bill on consumer information on food. The bill proposes to harmonize rules on the provision of food information to consumers, reduce the administrative burden on market operators responsible for food information. There are also general provisions regarding the labelling of food products that can be extended to all food products or to certain categories of food products. The bill deals with the labelling of meat products and animal products, the freezing and further defrosting of certain foods, alcoholic beverages, and children’s food, such as gluten. So please, your fellow national MPs, support the initiative and vote in favour of Bill 8450 as a basis. This bill is the work of the entire agar committee. It's supported by the Peter Dust Block. "Peter Dust Block" will vote in favour. This is one of the most important laws in the agricultural sector. Thank you for your attention. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-10-m0.u56	Thank you for your position. And now, please take the position of the People's Front, the faction to represent the People's Deputy of Krivoshi, from the place.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-10-m0.u57	Yes, of course. Gennady Krivoshia, faction of the People's Front. Dear colleagues, in fact, the bill has in principle to be, and we should probably vote on it today. But I'd like to draw attention to a few things, particularly the comments that the Scientific and Experimental Authority is giving us, particularly with regard to the changes to part six of article 37, then to the law. See article 50 of the basic law. There are a number of comments that really need to be taken into account if this bill is to be voted on in the first reading today, I would like to take these observations into account. But at the same time, I see in our room today that there is a head of the Department of Food, Vladimir Lapa, I would like to address him. And not with the comments, but with the suggestions that need to be taken into account, and I would like to ask the committee as the head of the technical regulation subcommittee to agree on this issue, today we're going to consider it on the committee, to invite Mr. Lapu to report to the committee. Why? We have a big problem, it's not really a problem, it's probably the consumption itself, but there's a problem with market surveillance, and it's when it's discovered that there's actually inadequacies like that, including those about markings, inscriptions and the like. We realize that today, in connection with the moratorium somewhere, we cannot verify something, and we cannot influence any other business or any other violators of the relevant legislative standards. So I would like you, Mr. Volodymyr, to come to us for our committee to consider these remarks that I am talking about right now, and to offer us what Parliament needs to do in order to actually do these laws, which we are voting for today, so that they can be implemented. Because today, after voting on this bill, there is nothing you can do again. You're not going to be able to order any other business that's not going to be branded according to certain standards and standards, because in Ukraine today there's a problem. Of course, we understand that if the manufacturer connects the right product, and I hope that the agreement with ASAA will be signed with us, and when we bring this product to Europe, we understand that it will actually mark and do the right thing. Production according to European standards. This has advantages, this has benefits, but in Ukraine, unfortunately, it doesn't work until the end. And my colleague mentioned the previous one. He mentioned in vain the poisoning of our children, and it's mass now that we have such cases, unfortunately. I think we need to get more involved in the serious mechanisms of control, market surveillance, verification of non-quality production and unscrupulous producers, because they actually spoil the image of normal, fair. quality production in Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-10-m0.u58	Thank you. The position of the Fatherland faction is represented by the national deputies, Vadim Ivchenko. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-10-m0.u59	Vadim Yvchenko, "The Fatherland" faction. "Paternity," of course, supports Bill 8450. But, colleagues, I'd like you and I to be able to approach each other systematically on a case-by-case basis. Kharkiv, Cherkasy is a milk poisoning. Please tell me where milk is produced at all. Yes, milk, 70 percent in households or single farms. How does this law resolve the question that we are going to have a manufacturer? One - way farming is not a manufacturer. How does this law regulate their legal circulation, the legal agrarian circulation? How will this law enable them to produce more quality and safety products? Unscheduled. I wanted to say again, we need to create a manufacturer first -- this is Law 6490, where we will allow those who will produce, want to legally produce agro-products, grow, process and so on, to go directly into the legal process of this product and be responsible for quality and safety. Then we won't have Kharkiv or Cherkas, then we can report to our European colleagues and write a label of the product. How can we write a label when products are produced in one-man farms? On the one hand, there are dairy appliances, there are refrigeration equipment, there are cooperatives, and there are no cooperatives. What are we going to write? Will we again be misleading our consumers or those who will eat these products? So it's systemically 6490. Next, colleagues, who needs backup? Well, maybe the support is needed by those who just get on their feet, who just start their own business, who want to get involved, or who can't take on cheap loans. You and I are voting in order to give support to grain trucks and wagons. These are commercial projects, these car builders can borrow cheap IPO loans and make a corresponding number of cars for our agar sector. Well, who's giving state support there? What's going on with the salt operation? Colleagues, today we don't have the Law on Agricultural Operations, thousands of cooperatives, only units are working and units are being transferred through the operation. We also need to develop this sector. So today's order of the day is filled with various laws, and I would ask if we mobilized on this law to make other laws appropriate that systematically solve the problems of the sector to support us. This law of the Fatherland will support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-10-m0.u60	Dear colleagues, one faction, one group was unable to sign up for the performance. I now give the floor to the opposition bloc's position to represent the national MP, Igor Shurma. And then Mr. Kulinich similarly presents the position of the Rebirth Group. Please, out of the way. Mr. Shurma, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-10-m0.u61	Thank you. Dear colleagues, today we are considering a law that deals with consumer information about food. On the question of whether we should know, let's say, that we have information about food products -- yes; whether we need to know everything about the manufacturer -- no doubt, yes. Why is this bill relevant today? And probably because if we look at statistics about disease and botulism mortality, we probably won't find any more of that state in Europe or in the Asian continent. And this is Ukraine. What we're talking about today is that it's very premature for us to get rid of the sanitation organs. And despite the fact that matters are currently in court today, we today suffer from this decision. I do. I have no doubt. Unfortunately, the hall is not being mobilized today, there are no people in the hall. I am immediately addressing the chairman that today’s vote can only be obtained by clicking. Therefore, it is easy to observe carefully whether someone needs such bills that are voted against with gross violation. The issue today is relevant, but we must talk about the fact that this Parliament, unfortunately too, is unable to prioritize. What priority are we talking about today? The terms in the bill are just terms. Let's see what people want today. And people who work in mines, coal miners, want to get legal money on government mines. They don't get paid. And Bill 8362, unfortunately, is not a priority today, is not being introduced into the hall. Today, people are dying because there are no cures in hospitals today, and there is a systematic humiliation of those who provide medical services today. And unfortunately, despite the decisions of two committees — social policy and health care — there is no report by the head of the Ministry of Health on his work. Unfortunately, we also have to say that, as of today, this Parliament has exhausted itself, it has exhausted itself. And today we should have taken a position, if we were to think about Ukraine, then all those in the hall today, and even more of them outside, today, should have their parliamentary powers. Then we have a few days left, and we are stressing the need for Bill 8362 -- the wages of miners, 5642 -- to report to the head of the Ministry of Health. We declare the necessity of these matters, and we refuse to vote today, considering that this is not a priority topic for discussion. And for all of you, let me put it simply: don't waste, best man, no power, no people in the hall. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-10-m0.u62	Thank you. And I invite you to speak to the People's MP Kulinic, who presents the position of the Rebirth Group on this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-10-m0.u63	Thank you. Oleg Kulinic, 147th constituency, Poltavščina. Dear colleagues, an extremely important bill, it goes as a Euro-Integration, in fact, as well as a number of other bills that will be considered in the agrarian bloc today. It's a shame that much work has been done by experts, scientists, colleagues on the agrarian committee, and too few national deputies in the hall. And that's really a problem, because we can't fail this bill today, and a number of others that are moving on. For example, the organic production bill and the very important one that goes on in the agrarian block, have worked very hard. That's why these bills, they're Euro-integration, we're gradually, agrarian committees and, in fact, the people's deputies who work on other committees, we're adapting our legislation and adapting it to European ones. So I'd like to ask you, Mrs. Irina, to put us on a rating vote so that we don't lose an important bill and this bill and a number of others that are on the agrarian block. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-10-m0.u64	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I would like to thank all my colleagues for the factions that made it absolutely fair to say that this bill is part of the scope of Ukraine's Association Agreement, which is part of the Euro-Integration Agreement. And we have a serious delay in adapting our legislation to the standardization of food and processing industries. That is what the corresponding bill refers to. I am now announcing the entry for discussion by the Ukrainian National Deputies. Please, we'll take 15 minutes to do this. And after that, I ask you very much to go back to the session room so that we can vote for the bill. Please sign up. Please, Roman Semenha. She's speaking to Mrs. Romanov. Please, Hanna Romanova, have a word with me.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-10-m0.u65	Dear colleagues! I would like to remind you of the sad statistics that Ukraine takes first place in the lowest life expectancy in all countries of Europe. Why Do Ukrainians Die? Taking what we eat and what we drink is 60 percent of life expectancy. Sadly, our Ukrainian husbands are only 66 years old. And to be honest with you right now, forcing Ukrainians to buy some sort of product is total poverty. Even if we now accept this very needed bill that supports the Self-Help faction, let's be honest: Ukrainians will still buy what is cheaper. Still, in the villages, men will drink cheap saman. Even so, women will have to buy for their child the wrong candy, where the expensive cocoa butter is, where the candy is cheap. That's why I and the whole Self-Help faction are in favor of systemicism. We will overcome this problem of inadequacy of food only when we increase social standards, only when we carry out propaganda, widespread propaganda, starting with kindergartens, healthy lifestyles. When we see non-quality products in our schools, and that teachers sometimes, and principals, allow that in schools, dining rooms sell very useless products for our children, it's, you know, it's just that now we're going to increase, we're going to improve our consumption culture, unfortunately, it's impossible. Thus, only increasing social standards, promoting healthy lifestyles, and the responsibility of unscrupulous producers can increase the life expectancy of Ukrainians. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-10-m0.u66	Thank you. Please welcome the national deputy, Alexius Musak. And please, colleagues, we remind you that we should go back to the session room. Please, Mr. Alexia.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-10-m0.u67	Dear Lord Chairman, dear colleagues! In fact, a big request to support this bill, it worked on the committee for over a year and a half, there are signatories to virtually the entire committee. It consists of 76 pages and 25 plugins. And in fact, it's designed to bring our legislation in line with European legislation. And that'll actually allow us to increase exports. At the same time, in support of the speakers, Andrew Pavelek also welcomed him, and today he has just come into the T - shirt of the congregation of Croatia. And it's really important that when we look at our bills here, not only Ukrainians are fighting Russia and its aggression, but also Croats. So once again: the glory of Ukraine and the disgrace of FIFA! Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-10-m0.u68	Thank you. Please give the floor to the People's Deputy, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-10-m0.u69	Thank you for the opportunity to express yourself on this important issue. I mean, your honor, that we are an agrarian state. And if you listened carefully to what Bakumenko, the chairman of the committee, said, is 40 percent of the currency, 40 percent of the government comes from the public sector. Almost a fifth of gross production is also agricultural. And I would like to remind you, dear colleagues, that we have today in the market for food disorder and chaos. And all of you, it's not a secret that we consume almost every kind of product that is either contaminated with nitrates or has other harmful ingredients that have a very serious impact on health, especially the older generation and our very young, smaller children. I would very much ask, fellow colleagues, we see really how many people in the hall, and we are concerned that such important work, which has really been put on the altar for two years, can fail today and we can fail to support, given that few people in the hall. And I want to remind you that our colleague Romanov said exactly what should be done to make an information attack on society, because this can be a win-win situation based on the quality of the product only organized by public organizations, because of the indifference of everyone who lives in Ukraine today and eats food of different kinds and types. Dear colleagues, an extremely important bill, we've worked extremely hard on it, we've returned it several times, we ask you very much, support this bill, it doesn't just have to be accepted, it has to be accepted by a maximum number of votes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-10-m0.u70	Thank you. Colleagues. Now we're going to continue the discussion, but I'd like to propose this formula. Maybe now I'm going to run a rating vote so we can see what the potential of the votes is.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-10-m0.u71	We've got people in the hall. In 10 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-10-m0.u72	And then we'll continue the discussion.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-10-m0.u73	Not now.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-10-m0.u74	All right. My colleagues, through the speech, I'm going to conduct a rating vote. And I'm asking everyone to come into the hall and ask everyone to come into the hall. I'm going to run, I'm going to stress once again, the rating vote. And please invite the factions' heads into the hall. I now give the floor to Barney, who was given the word Jurik Taras Zinovyovich. Please, Mr. Barna, from the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-10-m0.u75	Praise Jesus Christ! Dear colleagues! A healthy nation begins with healthy people, citizens. And it's very commendable that this bill allows us to identify the use of transjectors, particularly palm oil. The use of genetically modified products needs to be further identified. What's more, in the future, we need to ban their use in the internal market for our people, for our children. Yes, we need to identify. Why? To legalize their sale on the external market. The bill provides an opportunity to expand agricultural exports, but it's already in recast form, leaving additional costs only here, in Ukraine, to give jobs to our people. But as we speak of the nation, we should consider the health of our children. And that's why the Petra Prashenko faction will support this bill as required for further development of the course of Euro-integration and the development of the agrarian sector. But by the way, I am turning to the Supreme Council, on the other hand, to put into order a daily bill on the organization of compulsory feeding for all students, all classes, in all schools in Ukraine. Forcing local authorities, executive authorities, along with parental committees, to organize mandatory nutrition for our children with high - quality foods. Moreover, the bill will necessarily be voted on, and there are enough deputies, since on Thursday afternoon the bill 6518 was promulgated. It's funny how that happened. And that's why I'm addressing the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine once again to investigate how my card could have voted without me. One. And second moment. Just do your duty to the public so that those buttonheads who actually smeared European values on the crap of parliamentaryism would be responsible for their actions, and that bill was grossly falsified by voting, calling it off, and putting it to a vote. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-10-m0.u76	So, colleagues, before I give the next word, I conduct a rating vote, then I give the floor to the next speakers. So, colleagues, please prepare for the rating vote. And I'm asking you to participate in the rating vote, it's just a rating, then we'll continue the discussion under draft Law 8450. Please take part in the rating vote and please vote. Please vote. [[11:57:39]] For-183 So, colleagues, we saw by factions who should be invited to the hall so that after a break we could get a productive full vote. I emphasize once again, we'll go to the polls literally five to ten minutes after the break. I now invite Igor Mosiyczuk to the floor, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-10-m0.u77	Igor Mosiyczuk, Oleg Lachka Radical Party Today, we are celebrating the anniversary of the birth of the great Ukrainian shepherd Peter Prokopovich, and it is perhaps symbolic that this is the day on which the agricultural cluster is being considered. But probably the herdsmen and all the Ukrainians, all the Ukrainian agriculture, watching the Parliament Hall right now, would think they'd kill these drones. Because the drones are real! 184 men in the 425s and others in the drones. What do bees do with drones? They're getting kicked out of the street. They don't need these drones. And now, if you start talking about bees, I'll tell you in the context of the bill. They poison Ukrainian bees, poison Ukraine’s agricultural production with innocuous, uncertified chemicals, and 40 percent of them are smuggled. No one checks anything, then the children in the camps and in the schools are poisoned. Who established what did the children in Chercas get poisoned by? Nobody. Do you know why? Because chaos, anarchy, and irresponsibility. Because there is no authority in the country, the authorities only live to steal something and guard against stealing again. This is the politics of today’s power. And chaos, anarchy and irresponsibility. A peasant can't find what's responsible for someone who's been poisoned but who's responsible in the area for anything. There are hundreds of people in the Reichs, and the truth is nowhere to be found. That is why Oleg Láška’s Radical Party stresses the need to focus on the country’s order. And as our leader, Oleg Lazko, says, peace, order, prosperity -- these three words must become the will of the Ukrainians to come out of the crisis. From the crisis that today’s border authorities have thrown us into. That's why branding products is great, but we need to put the Palm Oil Prohibition Act to the vote in the fall. It is enough to take advantage of the health of Ukrainians, both dairy and confectionery. Enough to feed the Ukrainians' poisoned bagels. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-10-m0.u78	So, colleagues. Twelve years. I want to point out that right after the break, I'm going to give you the word "Zarko" after the break. I'm going to call it a 30-minute break. By 12:30, I ask everyone to come to the hall immediately after the break, because after the break, literally in 5-7 minutes, we'll move on to the decision-making process. Once again, after the break, the first word for the speech will be "Arranger" at 12:30. I'm asking everyone to come to the hall right after the break.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-10-m0.u79	So, colleagues, please come into the hall, break time is over. Heads of factions, please invite deputies to the Hall. I would like to remind you that we are continuing our consideration of the draft Law on Consumer Information on Food. There's a discussion coming up from the people's deputies. And I invite you to the word "Zarko". From the rostrum, right? Please turn on the microphone. And I'd like everyone to come into the hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-10-m0.u80	Valeria Zarztko, Oleg Lachka Radical Party. Good afternoon, citizens of Ukraine! And good afternoon, dear fellows! Of course, the Radical Party believes that Ukrainians must use quality products. We have repeatedly stressed this by our bills, including the bill banning palm oil, because we believe that every Ukrainian must use quality Ukrainian milk. But there are other problems in the country that need to be addressed immediately, including the Radical Party, which has repeatedly discussed the problems of the coal - mining sector in Ukraine. We support miners, all Ukrainian miners, including miners of the state-owned Selidivwogil company in the Donetsk region. Because of our fierce struggle today, debt was finally paid for April and early May. But that's not enough, I assure the government that Oleg Lachka's Radical Party has supported, supported and continued to support miners. We will choose the timely payment of wages to the miners of all Ukrainian mining enterprises. It seems to me that the authorities forget about other businesses when they pay off one another. Because today I was contacted by Yatsučka Natalia of the Wisterius of the South Danube Mine, who was not paid a single penny for April and May. They're fed with promises, but people don't have money. She's got 98 copies on her card. Just think about it. So here's the agenda for today, on July 10th, where unfortunately there's no Bill 8362, which insists on the faction of the Radical Party of Oleg Ljashka and the co-authors of which are the national deputies of our faction. We have been talking for several months about the need to adopt a comprehensive reform of the agricultural sector in Ukraine, because without a comprehensive solution to this issue, without radical reforms of the agricultural sector, it is impossible to take some steps to make the agricultural sector work successfully, so that it is strong, so that the Ukrainian industry can be strong, so that the agricultural sector can be strong, so that all miners on Donbassy, on Luhanščina, on Volina, in Lviv can get jobs and decent wages at the same time, so that they can feed their families in every Ukrainian family, each family has a good job, there was peace, and people felt worthy in their country. We want every Ukrainian, every man in the world to be a miner, a metallurgy, a builder, a teacher to get a job and a decent salary. So that there will be peace and harmony in Ukraine so that every Ukrainian person will feel well. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-10-m0.u81	Thank you. And a closing statement from the National Deputies. Liniko Dmitry Volodymyrovich. Then the closing word is head of the committee. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-10-m0.u82	Good afternoon, dear Ukrainians! Dmitry Linko, Oleg Lachka Radical Party. In today's consideration of the agrarian bloc, important issues, important bills, but unfortunately they don't solve systematically the problems that concern the simple farmer and the simple farmer and all consumers today, because food issues are an integral part of our agricultural sphere. So, what's bothering the simple peasant and farmer today? So that there is order in the land to be orderly with the land, so that Ukrainian peasants and farmers can feel like farmers on Ukrainian soil. In fact, today, what are our fields suffering, what are their productions suffering, and what are some of the products that produce them, the earth being worn out, the bees being digested by chemicals, and the Ukrainians being digested? Because those farmers who are on the ground do not feel like their masters, they grow crops that consume the earth, they digest chemicals there and they try to obtain great crops, and they are actually wearing out land. And that's why the Radical Party for the Systemic Approach to Land Reform. Not what the authorities and the IMF are offering us -- to sell Ukrainian lands to latifundists and international corporations, but to accept the changes to the Constitution -- to record forever that farmers are the foundation. Farming is the foundation of Ukraine's agricultural system and a real land reform. Because every day we face the problems of raiding land, the fact that the ducks that got their own 2 hectares of pie, they actually own it, but without them, they sign up, they take this land, then they take the crops, and they suffer, and they actually destroy the village. Today, Ukrainian peasants leave the village, and soon there will be no one to plant behind the harvester, no one to plant behind the tractor to cultivate this land, and produce normal quality products. Therefore, the main questions that the authorities today must answer, the Supreme Council, what to do with the Ukrainian land, are the order and true land reform, not the sale of land, as proposed. And finally, let's put the price order in order: the regulation of milk prices, the regulation of product prices, make sure that there's processing in Ukraine, not raw materials, and we were a raw material supplement for Europe. We can provide our own quality organic products throughout Europe, and instead we import meat from Argentina, milk from dry chemicals from other countries, and thus feed the Ukrainians. So the question of marking is not going to solve the complex problem. We need to address the issues of the first change to the Constitution proposed by Oleg Láska, the Radical Party, and then adopt a package of laws on land reform, on order in the agricultural sphere of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-10-m0.u83	Thank you. So, colleagues, to the conclusion, I invite the reporter of Bakumenek Alexander Borisovich. And, colleagues, if you'd like to invite all the national MPs into the room, in a few minutes we'll be moving on to the decision-making process. Please, Mr. Alexander.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-10-m0.u84	Dear colleagues! We're having this exam right now. We all say how much we love agrarians, we all say how we protect a native consumer. Everyone's poisoning. This bill solves all questions. But I see what the attitude is in the room. And let's look at the vote as individual factions vote on this bill. Because we all care about the agrarians, about the farmers, about the consumer, about the life and health of our people, and when it comes to the hall, and when it comes to the committee that worked for two years with all the groups, associations, the support of the European Union, it's our responsibility when we sign, we have to do it. And this commitment is not just for them. This is a commitment to us. I have kids, I have grandchildren. And when it comes to protecting our children from inequities, it is necessary to do so. And when the time comes to vote, they say political ambitions. But we, the Supreme Council, the people, the people elected by the Ukrainian people, we vote first for them, for the average Ukrainians, but there will be political arrangements. I'm a 35-year-old person in the agricultural business, and I'm telling you this: this law sets out everything that it takes for Ukraine to protect the consumer, to enable the Ukrainian business to develop -- all the rules of the game are prescribed. I would like to support you regardless of your political preferences. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-10-m0.u85	Thank you. The chairman of the committee asked for the floor to speak to the head of the State Service, Lapi Volodymyr Ivanovich. I think this will be a report that will help us make a decision. Please, Vladimir Ivanovich, 2 minutes. And, colleagues, I invite everyone into the hall. Hello, microphone's not on. Turn on the microphone, please, Vladimir Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-10-m0.u86	Dear Andrew Volodymyrovich, distinguished national deputies! First, I would like to thank the Supreme Council for having the opportunity to consider such important bills, and secondly, for the deep discussion that is now taking place in the Hall. Is there a problem with the safety of food from consumer information? Yes. I wanted to remind you that in the past year a moratorium was in place on the circulation of food products. Only in April of this year did the Law on State Control become effective, allowing effective control. By the way, I would like to say that as a result of planned, out-of-plan controls in more than 40 percent of the host subjects that we test, we find a violation. We still have to work on that, and we'll be working on it. In particular, if the consumer has any suspicion of counterfeiting, he has the right to write a complaint to our services. The form of this complaint is posted on our website. And we're going to do everything we can to ensure effective control. A few words of the bill. What is important is that we pay attention. What's important to the consumer. The first is the size of the font. If you look at product labelling in Ukraine and in the European Union, there are two big differences. The ingredients in Ukraine are almost incomprehensible. The second is the content of the product. Freezing products, consumers need to understand what they buy, produce, or ice that is on it. And this is also the position of this bill. You have to mark directly the production, defrosting or freezing of products that affect quality, and many other things that have long been implemented in European legislation, and which I'm sure are long ahead of the Ukrainian consumer. And the last moment he wanted to pay attention. Is this true of individual farming? No, it's not. In markets the possibility of selling meat, meat, milk in peasants will be provided.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-10-m0.u87	Please, 30 seconds. You're done, aren't you?
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-10-m0.u88	In markets, selling products will be possible, where we provide laboratory control. So I would ask the deputies to support the bill. It's not just a Euro-Integration Bill, it's a bill that we need, our consumers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-10-m0.u89	Thank you. So the colleague is now going to be the closing statement -- that's the closing word of Jurczyn Petr Vasilovich's co-rapporteur. And after that, we move on to making a decision. I forcefully ask everyone to come into the hall, see who's not around, call back and invite them into the hall. And I'm asking you to turn on Jurczyn Petra Vasilovich's microphone for the closing statement. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-10-m0.u90	Honorable National MPs, with the acquisition of this law, the State Food Service of Ukraine will have authority and, with rights, we will work within the legal corridor, without breaking the law. Because it's mine. Some reporter said it's today. The public can solve this issue. Not in any way. Only the law and the legal way we can solve this issue and achieve it, that is, the quality product. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-10-m0.u91	Thank you. So the discussion is over. We're moving on to making decisions. I'm asking everyone to take jobs, colleagues, so we don't come back. I ask from the bed of all the national deputies to return to the hall, please invite all the national MPs who are in the towers to come into the hall and prepare for the vote. Both members of the committee and the heads of factions, I ask that all national MPs be mobilized as much as possible. So we're moving on to making a decision. And I'm voting on the bill on consumer information on food (number 8450) on the basis of a committee proposal. Please vote and support the Euro-Integration Law, a law whereby all factions are united in the need for its adoption. Please vote and please support. Let's vote, colleagues. Please be supportive. Careful! Every voice. Vote. [[12:49:49]] For 226 Decision taken. So, colleagues, welcome! Next we have a bill, which is attention, colleagues, be in your seats! – this is a draft law amending the Ukrainian laws on the resolution of certain issues of debt to enterprises of the defence and industrial complex – participants of the State firm Ucroprom in front of the aggressor State and the occupying State and ensuring their sustainable development (6697). But the committee asked me to put the ratings vote first so we wouldn't break this important law. So I'm putting to the vote the 6697 rating bill on its support for the hall. Please vote. Please be supportive. Ratings, colleagues. Please vote. Please be supportive. [[12:51:03]] For 169 And obviously there's no point in breaking the block of agrarian politics. The next draft of the agrarian policy block is the draft Act on Basic Principles and Requirements for Organic Production, around and Marking Organic Products (5448-d). Colleagues, I ask you to support the consideration of the reduced procedure so that we can go through the entire list of laws that are there. So this is it. Yeah, I'm sorry, it's the second reading, yeah. So we're going to draft Law 5448-d is the second reading. And I invite you to report to the deputy head of the Committee on Agrarian Policy and Land Relations, Mr. Bakumenko Alexander Borisovich. Alexander Borisovich, to the rostrum, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-10-m0.u92	Dear colleagues! Thank you for supporting such an important bill. And now, honourable Andriy Volodymyrovich, honourable national deputies, Committee on Agriculture Policy, Land Relations at its meeting on June 21st, reviewed the draft Law on Basic Principles and Requirements for Organic Production, around and Marking Organic Production (Registration No. 5448-d) prepared for the second reading and decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine that it be adopted in a second reading and in general as a law with regard to technical and legal rights. Today's Ukrainian Law on Organic Agriculture and Raw Materials does not ensure proper functioning of the organic product market, which creates a conducive environment for the introduction of counterfeit organic products and allows for the avoidance of liability for violations of legislation in this area. This has a negative impact on consumer rights and is viewed as unfair competition among operators. Its inadequacy in European Union legislation is also a major flaw in the law in force. The second-reading bill, registration number 5448-d, solves all these issues. The bill had 75 proposals and amendments, of which 71 were included in part 2 were rejected. I'm just going to take a moment to stop at the main points of the project. Certification of the manufacturing process itself is provided, not the final product, which is fully in line with European Union legislation. This approach will guarantee consumers confidence in branding products as organic. An effective mechanism for controlling organic production, circulation, and labelling of organic products is proposed. The bill also provides for substantial penalties for infringements of the requirements for the production, circulation and labelling of organic products, failure to comply or failure to comply with the legal requirements for the elimination of violations of legislation. The rest of the rights take into account the new provisions of the EU rules, which have been adopted since the adoption of the bill and are of a precise and technical nature. Dear colleagues, please support the committee's decision and take a second reading and, as a whole, as a bill, draft registration number 5448-d. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-10-m0.u93	Thank you. So, colleagues, the fantastic work of the committee, most of the rights are accounted for, only two corrections are rejected. This means that we will move very quickly to making a decision. So I ask you not to leave the hall, but to enter the hall. I'll call the revisions that are rejected. The first one was rejected in the '60s, Kulinich. Is it insisting? No, it's not. The second one was rejected by 72nd, Kuchera. Don't insist. And 73 to the right, I give the word Kulinich. 73 redundancies. And I'm asking everyone to come into the hall. Please, Kulunch.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-10-m0.u94	Dear Andrey Volodymyrovich, I'd like to file 73 confirmation forms. In general, I would like to refer to all colleagues, to the heads of factions, to support this bill, because it is a work of titanium on the committee, of all experts, of experts. We are extremely concerned with this law, because organic farming is now actively developing in our country, there are vivid examples. We're just adapting our legislation to European legislation. Therefore, it is very important that this bill become law, so I ask my colleagues to support it.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-10-m0.u95	Will you comment? No, it's not. So, colleagues, Kulinich doesn't insist on the right. For confirmation, right? Then, please, the representative of the committee, Alexander Borisovich, state your position.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-10-m0.u96	Stand by for confirmation of this amendment and let the hall be defined.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-10-m0.u97	Thank you. So I'm betting on confirmation of the 73, which is counted by the committee, but Kulinich is putting it on the stand. So whoever supports this amendment, please vote, please identify yourself. [[12:56:55]] For-92 The decision is not made. So, colleagues, right-wing discussions are over. I ask everyone to step into the hall and prepare for the vote. Please invite all the deputies to the hall, the heads of the factions, and another minute, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-10-m0.u98	Thank you, Andry Volodymyrovich. This bill is very progressive in what? Ukraine, under its natural climate conditions, has enormous potential in the organic market. Today, this market is very promising and needed, and organic production is niche and export oriented. You and I speak for farmers, for family farms. These are the niches for them, where they will have competitive advantages, they will have a high price for the final product that they will be able to export to the most powerful market in the European Union, and that will be the employment of rural areas, many people. We have entire villages dying out. And today this bill allows a shallow, small farmer, a family farm, a personal farm to grow a quality organic product, sell it to export markets at a high price. I'm asking all national deputies to support this.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-10-m0.u99	30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-10-m0.u100	Because as my colleague, Oleg Kulinich, we've been developing for two years, a group of experts, it's signed by virtually all the members of the agrarian committee of various factions and groups. I ask you, dear colleagues, to support this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-10-m0.u101	Thank you. So let's move on to making a decision. I'm asking everyone to take a seat. So, please. And I'm betting on the vote. Colleagues, take your seats, please! Mr. Sergei and Mr. John, don't let us. I am voting on the draft Law on Basic Principles and Requirements for Organic Production, around and Marking Organic Products (No.5448-d) as proposed by the Committee on second reading and as a whole. Please vote, please support me, colleagues. We'll support the committee, carefully, every vote. Please be supportive. Vote. Please be supportive. Let's vote, colleagues. [[13:00:24]] For 210 We didn't make it. I'll put it on the way back, but please see who's not here and invite you to the hall. Colleagues, I read by factions: "Block of Peter Poshenko" – 78, "National Front" – 66, "Resistance Block" – 0, "self-help" – 18, Radical Party – 8, "Fatherhood" – 7, "Will of the People" – 5, "Party of Rebirth" – 9. So, colleagues, you see where there's potential. Why don't you go to the hall and see who's in the towers? Now I'm going to put it back, and I'm sure we can go back and vote. I ask everyone to take part in the voting carefully. So I'm going to put it back, and then I'm going to put it back in the second reading. So we're ready to vote, right? Please, colleagues, every voice has a weight. I am voting on the proposal to go back to the draft Law on Fundamental Principles and Requirements for Organic Production, Traffic and Labelling of Organic Products (No.5448-d) – the Law of the Euro-Integration Block. So I ask everyone to vote carefully and to vote for the return. Please vote. Please vote and please support, we vote. Please be supportive. Be careful with each vote, we're voting. [[13:02:22]] For 223 Three votes. I see. I see you're coming. Please, colleagues, be careful! Every voice. Please come into the hall. Come on in. Colleagues, come into the hall, take up jobs. Each voice has a weight during the vote. So please prepare for the vote. Please be careful when you vote, or the card may not work. And I'm voting on the proposal to go back to Bill 5448-d, and I urge everyone to vote, and I ask you to support the European integration law. Please vote and please support. We're voting for the return. Please vote. I vote for the return. [[13:03:32]] For 232 We're back. And I'm putting Bill 5448-d in second reading and in general. Please vote and please support. Vote. Please be supportive. Careful, every voice. Please be supportive. Vote. [[13:04:02]] For 237 The law is passed. Colleagues, the discussion of the previous law referred to a national MP, and now he demands a replication. And I give the floor to Andrew Pavelek. Please, out of the way. Andrew Pavelko, one minute, a replica. Please give the scarf to Andrew Pavelek. From the rostrum, please. One minute. [[Applause]] Please, Mr. Andrew.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-10-m0.u102	Thank you, Andry Volodymyrovich. Thank you, Your Honor. I'd like everyone right now. That's exactly what's going on in the football world and in the political world. Two beautiful guys who worked and played and had experience and became players, great players in collective Croatia, this is Firenen Vukojevic and House of Vida, now under pressure. [[Applause]] Crazy psychological pressures are in place. We offered them support. We now wish from all over Ukraine that the House of Vedi must kill the decisive goals, break through the finals and play again, after the decisive match of the finals, to repeat the words of gratitude to the country that raised him, gave him football, football.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-10-m0.u103	30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-10-m0.u104	And after that, we're going to say the words "Glory to Ukraine" again, and we're going to say thank you to the whole country, "Glory hero! Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-10-m0.u105	Thank you. We welcome our Croat brothers who supported Ukraine. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-10-m0.u106	Thank you. We'll keep our fists for the Croats. And now we move on to the next question, the next question of the agenda. This is a bill amending the Ukrainian Tax Code and some Ukrainian legislation on the promotion of the creation and operation of family farms (No. 6490-d). And I invite you to report to the head of the Tax and Customs Committee of South Carolina's Nina Petrovna. Please, Nina Petrovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-10-m0.u107	Dear colleagues! In our first reading, we adopted these changes to the May 22 Tax Code. Given the importance of this draft law, we have carefully considered all the amendments made to the committee. And they were all given 30: 8 — counted, 3 — partially counted, 19 — rejected. After voting on the committee for the drafting of the bill in the Supreme Council of Ukraine, only technical and legal remedies were introduced to the comparative table for the second reading. To date, I have a petition from agrarian associations about what was before, and this was a petition to the head of parliament, that they cannot support this bill in relation to the two technical problems that have arisen in the draft law. So I want to read them now before I consider the amendments in order to remove all the questions, the objections to this bill, and then move on to the amendments. In view of the fact that the purpose of the bill is to regulate the work of family farms, it is indeed necessary for natural persons, paragraph 16 of section 12 and article 298.8, paragraph 12, to be supplemented by the following sentence: "The standards of this sub-paragraph shall not be applied in the event of the cancellation of the registration by the payer of the sole tax of the fourth group of legal persons on the initiative of the controlling body." First. We need to separate situations that may be around the natural persons of entrepreneurs and legal persons. In addition, with a view to avoiding the application of financial sanctions and measures for family farming in the event of a failure by the State to pay part of a single social contribution, it is necessary to make such changes to article 25 of the Ukrainian Law on Collection and Accounting of the Single Contribution to the General Compulsory State Social Insurance. Part one is to be completed by the third paragraph of this sentence: "In the event of a failure to pay or a default payment of part of the amount of premiums paid at the expense of the State budget, in accordance with the Ukrainian State Support Act, the provision of this article shall not apply solely to the amount of premiums to be paid by the payer of the single contribution. Part four should be supplemented by a new paragraph of the second sentence: "In the event of non-payment of portions of the amount of premiums paid at the expense of the State Budget in accordance with the Law on State Support for Agriculture of Ukraine," the income and assembly body shall inform the payers of the single contribution, in accordance with the form and terms established by the central executive authority, which shall ensure the formation of the State tax and customs policy." In connection with these paragraphs, the tenth is considered to be paragraphs third and eleven respectively. In article 195 et.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-10-m0.u108	Please give me a minute to finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-10-m0.u109	the word and the digit "paragraph 3" shall be replaced by the words and digits "paragraphs 3 (for goods in the form of their products) and 5". Also in view of the fact that the bill for registration number 7010 took into account 25 and 30 and did not require a transfer, they were excluded from the table at all until the second reading. Now you can go straight.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-10-m0.u110	Thank you, Mrs. Nina. And let's move on to the amendments, please. So amendment number 3. Mrs. Ostrkova doesn't insist as far as we can see. 6th Amendment, Bandurov. Don't insist. Ichchenko, 7th Amendment. Don't you insist? [[B in m in s a l in]] No, the 7th Ivchenka amendment. 8th Ivchenka. Don't insist. 10th Ivchenka. Don't insist. What's that? 10th. Please, microphone to the People's Deputy. Please 10th National Deputy Yvchenko. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-10-m0.u111	Vadim Yvchenko, "The Fatherland" faction. Dear colleagues, I wanted to urge us to support this bill. In about three years, he will create in Ukraine, according to estimates, along with the Ministry of the APC, 500,000 legal workers in agriculture, many households and singles, give them the status of producers, allow them to enter the legal field, fill local budgets, create jobs, be responsible for their production, be responsible for product traceability, and produce production. This will allow these basic things to continue to talk about the integration of these people into cooperation and so forth. I ask that we vote, this will greatly increase opportunities and give economic growth points to the communities themselves. And, of course, it will increase today the possibility of single farms for their production.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-10-m0.u112	30 seconds to complete, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-10-m0.u113	Make them produce more quality, safe, and engage all the financial instruments to make their products competitive. And the main thing is freedom. A person goes to his place of employment and knows that he receives a decent salary from his job. Please support this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-10-m0.u114	Thank you. So this isn't a discussion going to the bill, and we're looking at revisions in the second reading. The National MP Yvchenko has prepared a series of amendments, but he does not insist on voting for these amendments now, he just expressed support for the bill. The 14th amendment, a group of people's deputies from Freedom doesn't insist on this amendment. Kulinich, 15th Amendment. Don't insist. Corrections. Yvchenko does not insist. Davidenko does not insist. 19th. It's not like Kulinich insists. Colleagues, I see that a very carefully worked-up draft for the second reading is going to take place and there is going to be a literal vote in a few minutes, and I'm asking you to go back to the session room. And also to consider that Mrs. Southanine has read under the transcript the technical remedies that unite the hall. 22 Davidenka’s Remembrance Don't insist. Dear colleagues, please return to the session room. No further changes. 25th? I'm looking now. Now, dear fellows. The 25th amendment is the amendment of the Kulinich People's Deputy, it was taken into account, but you insist on confirmation. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-10-m0.u115	Good afternoon, dear fellows! Please put the 25th, and then the 30th confirmation, they're in the text.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-10-m0.u116	Dear colleagues! National MP.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-10-m0.u117	So they're not going to be included in the final version of the bill. Yeah? Nina Petrovna! 25 and 30 adjustments.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-10-m0.u118	Dear Mr. Miroshnichenko, I would like to point out once again that Mrs. Jujanina, during her opening statement, stated that the MPs from Self-Help had questions to technical amendments. She ruled them out under the stenogram. She read the article that will be included in the final version. And I just confirmed that at the time of the amendment. So, Mr. Miroshnichenko is now taking down this requirement of 25 and 30 amendments, because Mrs. Jujanina's stenogram just made a concerted statement, including with representatives of the Self-Help faction. Dear colleagues, I very much ask you to return to the session room, and there will be a vote now. Mrs. Jujanini's closing statement, please, two minutes. And she's going to summarize again both the discussions and the technical amendments that we've just discussed here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-10-m0.u119	Dear colleagues! There have been many questions, such as whether we limit the amount of produce produced and processed by farm households. We can't limit them because we're giving you the opportunity to work without accounting. We have the following criteria to meet family farming. This is to be registered as a family farming agreement that is registered under the basic law. This must be at least 20 hectares [20 ha] of land. Therefore, the rule cannot result in the entire village being able to register exclusively with the single tax payers in the fourth group. You know, there's nothing wrong with that, on the one hand, when we bleach the gray part of the production. But there is a great risk for the state that, after all, the only social contribution is a large share to be paid annually by the State for each insured person. And here, of course, we have to answer ourselves that for the first time, we want to offer legalization to agriculture, but also great state support. So in the coming years, we need to make sure that the government budget always plans for the support of agriculture and that it is aimed at these very objectives. But in order to intimidate people, if one year, in the tenth year, such a budget program is not adopted, people should not be liable for fines and pennies for the part of the contribution that will not be paid by the State. In such a case, all members of the family farm will receive a pension. I ask for the support of the draft in the second reading and in general, and I ask that the committee, together with the General Legal Office of the Parliament, be given the opportunity to hold a meeting.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-10-m0.u120	Please, 30 seconds. And I'd like everyone to come into the hall. 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-10-m0.u121	Dear colleagues, in this regard, please support the work done along with many colleagues, since all factions have tried to work and worked on the draft law. We still have a lot of plans, but I think we'll be back soon to the same agrarian bills that will support an agrarian small producer. Thank you. And I'm asking you to back me up.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-10-m0.u122	Thank you. So the discussion is over. I'm asking everyone to come to the hall, and we're moving on to making a decision. I ask the heads of factions to invite the deputies to the Hall, please inform the Supreme Council Secretariat that we are moving on to the decision-making process and all the national deputies from the beds to return to the Hall, to prepare for the vote. So, colleagues, take up jobs. You're ready, aren't you? Or not, okay, I'll wait another second. We can vote, right? So I'm voting on the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Tax Code and some Ukrainian legislation on the promotion of the creation and activities of family farms (No.6490-d) as proposed by the Committee on Second Reading and in general with the rights which the head of the Committee of the Southernine Nina Petrovna has written under the transcript, and with technical and legal rights. Please vote, please support. Vote, fellows! Please support, we vote. [[13:21:12]] For 229 229 — yes. The law is passed. We move on to the next draft of Law 6049-d is a bill amending some Ukrainian legislation on the issue of collective property on land, improving land use rules in agricultural lands, preventing raids and stimulating irrigation in Ukraine. And I invite the head of the committee's subcommittee on agrarian politics and land relations, Kulinich Oleg Ivanovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-10-m0.u123	Thank you, Andry Volodymyrovich. Dear colleagues! You have been presented with a second reading draft of the Ukrainian Law on Amendments to certain Ukrainian legislation on the solution of collective property on land, improvement of land use rules in agricultural lands, prevention of raiding and irrigation in Ukraine (registration number 6049-d), adopted by the Supreme Council of Ukraine on 22 May 2018. At the time of preparation for second reading, 124 proposals and amendments were made to the Ukrainian National Deputies Committee, of which 79 were rejected. With regard to the rejected amendments, most of them are designed to undo the changes that were made in the first reading. The Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Agrarian Policy and Land Relations at its meeting on 3 July 2018 considered the bill and decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine that it adopt it in a second reading and as a whole as a law with technical and legal work. So please support this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-10-m0.u124	Thank you, Your Honor. Now we're moving on to the amendments. All right, colleagues, let's move on to the amendments. As Mr. Kulinich rightly pointed out, the committee worked well for the second reading, not so many amendments, and yet. 6th Amendment of the Freedom Group. National MP Marchenko does not insist. Next, 7th, Semenha. Please, microphone to the People's Deputy of Semensi.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-10-m0.u125	Semenha Roman, "The Self-Help Union" faction. Dear colleagues, with the right, I propose to settle possible conflicts that may arise during land leases under different lease periods of land adjacent to the roads of the field. The lease of areas under the roads is derived from the lease of areas of one array. So I suggest that the lease period of the areas under the roads do not exceed the average period of use of the renter of other areas in this array. Otherwise, we may face a conflict when the former tenant of the land retains the right to use the areas under the roads, which may limit the right of the new tenant to use the land. It is also suggested that this right should specify that the amount of rent for areas under the roads should not be lower than the average wage for the area in the array. Please be supportive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-10-m0.u126	There'll be a comment. Please, Mr. Kulinich.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-10-m0.u127	Amendment 7 proposes to adjust the provisions of the bill regarding the transfer of roads in the agricultural field to persons who rent 75 percent of the land of the stock. These positions are excluded from the bill, taking into account that the amendment has been rejected. As far as I'm concerned, I'd like to point out the field roads, the first-reading edition actually provided for the renter's right to rent an area under the field roads without auction. But there were many, many comments, and on the second reading, this rule was excluded. The right to rent a field road is granted to all tenants, but other tenants cannot be restricted access to land.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-10-m0.u128	Please identify the 7th Amendment Hall, colleagues. The committee turned her down, the author insists. [[13:25:39]] Z-77 The amendment is not accepted. Next. 8th, Yvchenka. Don't insist. Next, next. 11th, Semenha. Don't insist. The 12th, Semenha. Please, the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-10-m0.u129	Semenha Roman, "The Self-Help Union" faction. Colleagues, the law regulates cases where the renter sows the field road and uses it as a grill. By purpose, the field roads were designed to allow landowners to access their territories and de facto landowners to use the field roads as a peasant. This is provided and permitted, but at the same time the owner has to give access instead of this road to other landowners through his territory, and they need to make a contract with the waiter, but there is no mechanism to regulate it at present. So with this amendment, I propose to supplement the draft with the rule that in case of failure to reach an agreement on the establishment of a serviette, the dispute is decided in a court of law. This gives landowners guarantees access to their respective areas within a single array. Please be supportive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-10-m0.u130	Please comment to the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-10-m0.u131	I had previously commented on the roads of the field. The amendment is rejected by the committee because it balances the bill, but let the room be determined.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-10-m0.u132	Please identify the room for the 12th amendment. [[13:27:13]] For-65 65 - for, the amendment is rejected. Next 17th. I've been walking. Don't insist. Then 22nd. Semenha. Don't insist. 24th. Semenha. Don't insist. Voropeyev, 29th. Don't insist. Semenha, 30th. Don't insist. Squirrel, 35th. Don't insist. Yvchenko, 36th. Don't insist. 45th. Yvchenko. Don't insist. Semenha. 49th. Don't insist. Now, fellows, we're moving on. If I don't happen to notice someone, you'll just let me know. Okay? Because maybe I'll miss some kind of correction by accident. 65th, Yvchenka. Don't insist. Semenha, 70th Amendment. Don't insist. Semenha, 75th and 76th. Don't insist. [[B in m in s a l in]] Okay. Yvchenko, 79th. Don't insist. Semenha. 90th and 91st. Don't insist. 94 revisions. This is the amendment of the Kulinich People's Deputy. Your amendment, Your Honor. It is taken into account by the committee, but the national deputy of Krivoshia insists that this amendment be confirmed. Please, it's Krivoshi's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-10-m0.u133	Good afternoon, dear colleagues. Thank you, Madam Chairman. I'd like to look at 94th, 97th, 98th and 105th. In principle, they are more and more closely integrated and are accordingly determined that land - use projects for the organization of land particles (pyles) are also designed for the purpose of forming land from collective to private property. I still think that they don't have room for one simple reason that today is just a transfer of land that involves not only individuals, but also legal persons. That's the first one. And in most of these cases, legal persons simply buy up, that is, actually take over the land from private individuals -- ordinary ordinary peasants. In my opinion, I think these are some kind of adjustments, how can they be adjusted? This simply needs to be transferred to municipal property, given authority, and given to those who are considered to be in need. This, in turn, will first cut down on reforms concerning the decentralization of power, the unified territorial communities and so on, well, of course, will allow for the payment of taxes on their own.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-10-m0.u134	Let me finish, 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-10-m0.u135	Allows you to pay taxes directly in local budgets. So we are, in fact, a position, in principle, and a government, a position and a parliament to allow, in principle, local authorities to manage such small parcels of land. So what I'd like to do is I'd like to put all of these 4 amendments that I've called for confirmation. Thank you. Right now, I can't get a word out of my mouth. I can't get a word out of you right now.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-10-m0.u136	I understand your position. So, colleagues, I'm now giving two minutes to the people's deputy Kulinich, because he's both the author of these amendments, and the committee has taken them into account, and also the position of the committee to present on this issue, which was sounded by the Wicked People's Chamber.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-10-m0.u137	With regard to revisions 94, 97, 98, 95, the logic of the committee was as follows. This issue concerns the use of collective property under farmyards. The farm buildings of former colonies have become private property by means of the procedure of awarding in the nature of their own rations. Now their owners are different persons: these are citizens of former collective enterprises, and businesses of successors. But the transfer took place without land. As a result, taxes are not paid, and it is actually hanging in the air. We have article 121 of the Ukrainian Code of Land, which requires that land and property be transferred along with the building. So the final draft of the bill and the anticipated transfer of these land to those who have the right to their own property in accordance with this building. We have a set order for determining the area of these areas, this has to be done with building standards. So that was the logic of the committee when it supported these changes, but let the hall be defined.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-10-m0.u138	Dear Mr. Krivoshea, we have just heard the explanation and the author of the amendments and the committee that these land areas refer to those who come in as courtyards. Do you insist on voting? You. Are you insisting? The national deputy of Krivoshia insists that the hall be defined as amended by 94, 97, 98, 105. I'll put them in line, please. So it's 94. The committee took her into account and asked her to support that position. Please be sure. [[13:32:50]] For-94 The correction is being rejected. Next. 97 revisions. The committee took her into account and asked her to support the decision. I'd like to make a statement. [[13:33:13]] Z-91 The amendment is not accepted. Next. 98 revisions. The committee took her into account, asking her to support such a decision. Colleagues, please identify yourself. [[13:33:37]] Z-91 The correction is being rejected. Next amendment 105. Similarly, the committee took her into account and asked the Hall to support this amendment 105. I'd like to make a statement. [[13:34:00]] For-99 The correction is being rejected. Colleagues, we have very few amendments left, I ask you to return to the session room so that we can finish the vote then our bill. The next 100 amendments. Please, People's Deputies of Semimenah, this is your amendment. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-10-m0.u139	Semenha Roman, "The Self-Help Union" faction. Dear colleagues, the law proposes to protect the owner of the pie if he has not been able to establish ownership of the land by a fixed term. The project foresees that if the owner of the pie or his heir, before the legal term of January 1, 2025, did not form ownership, he is considered to have waived the property. Then his district is transferred to the municipal property of the local community on the basis of the court’s decision. The document makes exceptions for those who have missed the deadline for respectable reasons, and the court can determine an additional term sufficient for its formulation. In that case, he can claim another property from the utility store if he's actually in possession. Thus, taking into account land deficits, it is projected that the council of the free land will not be able to identify its former owner or heir. So we're proposing this right to give a monetary reward as a compensation for the budget, based on the value of the unexploded land. I'd like your support, colleagues. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-10-m0.u140	Thank you. Please comment to the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-10-m0.u141	The bill set a fairly long deadline for the processing of unused rations is 7 years. In the committee’s view, this is quite enough to shape the land. According to the Constitution of Ukraine, ownership is binding, so it is perfectly fair to rule that if the term is omitted, the right is lost. So the committee rejected the amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-10-m0.u142	Thank you for your clarification. Dear colleagues! I ask that you decide on the amendment of 100 people's deputies of Semimenha. 100th. 100. A hundred repairs. [[13:36:04]] For-82 The correction is being rejected. Colleagues, this is the last amendment, 120th, of the People's Chamberlain. Dear colleague! She doesn't insist on 120 amendments. We don't have any more amendments that the authors insist on. I invite you to the closing statement of your esteemed colleague Kulinić. I very much ask my colleagues to return to the session room because there will be a vote for Bill 6049-d in three minutes. 6049-d. I ask you to return to the session room. And, please, the final word, a distinguished colleague.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-10-m0.u143	Dear colleagues! I very much want to support this bill because it is extremely important. Because, first of all, we're finally dealing with collective property issues, we have about a million acres of land, and it's practically nobody's right now, so no one's using it officially, but it's being used unofficially. We have huge local budgets, and that's why in this bill we're drafting a clear mechanism for the transition of this land to municipal property. We're also in the event of a successful vote, I hope it will, we're settling a very important problem, it's a chess problem. We're giving a clear mechanism to put the system within one field where all rights and small landowners will be balanced, both larger and more renters. Because there really was such a professional job before the second reading, and virtually all of our suggestions were taken into account by our colleagues. I would like to point out that we have met with international experts, these are representatives of the European Union, Germany, Poland, which is exactly what this bill takes into account after German consolidation when such problems were in East Germany. And I believe that the bill has come out sufficiently balanced, professionally, and so I ask you, honourable colleagues, to support the committee's decision and to adopt the bill of registration number 6049-d on second reading and generally as a law and to entrust the Chief Legal Authority, together with the committee, to carry out technical legal drafting of the text. Thank you. And I'm asking you to back me up.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-10-m0.u144	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear colleagues, I ask everyone to return to the session room, and there will now be a vote for the bill that we discussed, 6049-d. They followed all the amendments that were either considered by the committee or just put in place for confirmation and also not supported by the hall. Please come into the session room.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-10-m0.u145	So, colleagues, the discussion is over. We're moving on to a decision, I'm asking all the factions to invite members of the committee to help mobilize the hall so that we don't go back to the vote, and from the seats of the people's deputies, I'm asking you to come to the workplace. So let's move on to making a decision. And I'm voting on the draft Act amending some of the Ukrainian legislation on collective ownership of land, improving land use rules in the land, preventing raiding and stimulating irrigation in Ukraine (No.6049-d) on second reading and in general with technical and legal rights. Please vote, please support. Every voice, every colleague, we vote carefully. Please stand by, we vote! [[13:40:32]] For 236 236 – a.k.a. Decision taken. Colleagues, the next two and. The law is passed. The following two laws are very short. The next two laws are very short, and I'm asking everyone to mobilize, and we're going to have to take them to lunch, just not leave the hall, but go into the hall. So the next law. The draft Law on Recognition, which has become invalid, some laws of Ukraine regarding State regulation of production and implementation of sugar (No.4532). And I invite you to report to the committee's deputy chairman, Mr. Alexander Borisovich. Please, Mr. Alexander.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-10-m0.u146	Dear colleagues! Thank you for voting and for this law, very fine land for agrarians. The Committee on Agricultural Policy and Land Relations, at its meeting on June 21, 2018, reviewed the draft Law on Recognition, prepared for the second reading, which had become invalid, some of the legislative acts on State regulation of the production and implementation of sugar. The bill contains nine rights and suggestions, of which seven are rejected. I'm going to take a brief break from the bill. It is proposed to recognize that the Ukrainian Act on State Control of Sugar Production and Implementation has become invalid. This law was passed in 1999. And as of today, he has undergone a number of changes, additions and exclusions and has lost his complexity. The draft law also proposes to amend the Ukrainian Law on State regulations for imports of agricultural products, to eliminate the need for mandatory minimum prices for the implementation (sale) of sugar beet to produce "A" sugar and "B" quota and "A" sugar. In the second reading, it is also suggested that the issue of the elimination of existing customs duties on import equipment for sugar production be addressed, which is of great importance for the development of the industry. The Chief Legal Authority of the Supreme Council believes that the prescribed draft law can be adopted in a second reading and generally as a law. The adoption of this draft law will allow for the preservation of the potential of the turquoise industry and further development on market grounds. Dear colleagues, please support the committee's decision and take a second reading and as a whole as a bill project (registration number 4532).
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-10-m0.u147	Thank you. So, colleagues, just two revisions. I'm asking everyone to come into the hall. I'll sound them. 2nd. Don't insist. 7th. Pinzenik, please, Victor Pinzenik.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-10-m0.u148	Dear colleagues! I urge everyone to stop the practice of demonstrating that the law is not the law for Parliament. There is the Law on the Rules, which states that no new law can be applied that were not considered in the first reading. Amendment 7th has no relation to the text of the law adopted in the first reading. I ask you to stop what happens here every day. There is a law that must be binding on the legislators, including. I'm asking for confirmation.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-10-m0.u149	Please, Mr. Alexander.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-10-m0.u150	The 7th draft of the bill reads: "Division I of the bill to read: "In the first part of article 5 of the Ukrainian Law on State regulations for imports of agricultural products" the words "except mandatory minimum prices for the implementation (sale) of sugar beet for the production of "A" sugar and "B" sugar and "A" sugar", which are determined in accordance with the Law on State Regulation and Implementation of Sugar." What's up, Victor? I didn't get it. Again.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-10-m0.u151	I'm going to ask for confirmation now, yes, but please explain it to each other. It's all right, isn't it? So I'm betting on confirmation of the 7th amendment. The committee counted it. National MP Victor Pinzenic asks to be put on the stand for confirmation. Please vote. I'd like to make up my mind. [[13:45:11]] For 113 113. Unconfirmed revision. Nine o'clock, Yvchenko. Don't insist. So, colleagues, we're done here and we're moving on to making a decision. I'm asking everyone to take up jobs. I ask everyone to come into the hall and prepare for the decision. Heads of factions, invite the deputies to the hall. And the secretariat of the Supreme Council, please inform the deputies that we are moving on to a decision-making process. So I'm voting on the draft Recognition Act, which has become invalid, some of the laws of Ukraine regarding state regulation of production and implementation of sugar (No 4532) on the proposal of a second-reading committee and generally with technical and legal remedies. Please vote. [[B in m in s a l in]] Get out of here. You're the head of the committee. [[B in m in s a l in]] So we're voting, right? Take up jobs. So, 4532 in the second reading and in general, please vote and please support. Vote, fellows! Careful, every voice. Please back up! Vote. [[13:47:13]] For 201 I'll bet on my return, colleagues. Please take up jobs. I'll read by factions: "Peter Poshenko's Block" – 84, "The People's Front" – 63, "The Opposition Block" – 0, "The Self-Help" – 14, "The Radical Party – 1, "The Fatherland" – 4, "The Will of the People" – 6, "The Rebirth Party" – 10. I'll do it now. Postfaction is 19. I'll be right back. Please prepare for the vote. And I'm voting on the proposal to go back to draft Law 4532. Please vote and please support the return. Vote! Vote! [[13:48:16]] For-198 Less votes, colleagues. Can you back me up again? To the others again? [[B in m in s a l in]] Put it again, right? I'll do it again, okay! The discussion is over. I'll put it back. The second is supported again, isn't it? Colleagues, repeat others. Let's follow the Rules' proposal, and I'll put it to the vote. Please support the draft Recognition Act, which has become invalid, some of the laws of Ukraine regarding government regulation of production and implementation of sugar (4532), re-reading. Colleagues, let's save the law. For the second reading, let's vote, let's support. This is a chance for further work. Please vote, please support. Vote, fellows! Let's back it up! Once again, the second is a compromise. Let's support it, let's vote. Please be supportive. [[13:49:42]] For 225 Colleagues, let's go back and vote. Okay? That's a wise offer. So, colleagues, pay attention! Now I'm going to put the return and then I'm going to re-read the second reading. I ask everyone to vote carefully. Colleagues, please take up your jobs. First, I'm going to go back to Bill 4532, and then I'm going to go back to second reading. Please vote, every vote, back to 4532. Please vote, colleagues. We vote that this is a compromising position that will unite the hall. We support, please vote return, and then the committee. [[13:50:29]] For 230 We're back. Now I'm putting bill 4532 on the committee for re-reading. Please vote and please support, colleagues. We vote, every vote, every vote. Please support, we vote. [[13:50:56]] For 221 Well, what's the matter, colleagues? We didn't make it. I'll put it again, please. And I put the second reading back on. Please invite everyone to the hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-10-m0.u152	All right, I can give the committee 30 seconds, 30 seconds from the botched committee. Please take up jobs. Please, Brainy.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-10-m0.u153	Dear colleagues, see what this law is about. First of all, we have to vote because we've already set the minimum price for sugar and beetroot. And when the Cabinet of Ministers took such a decision, for example, a kilogram of barrels there is that much, and sugar is 10 dollars, and the market price is only 8 dollars, then we were fined 100 percent of the unscathed price and another 100 percent of the fine for the excess. And a zero bet on the equipment. That's all there is in this law. We don't need him. We have to vote because we're getting into a new storm. What are we doing? Why do we send it? Whom do we do we do better?
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-10-m0.u154	Thank you. We have two alternatives for now. So, colleagues, now the return, and then the second. Come on, it's wise for us to adopt another law, because otherwise we won't make it, colleagues. So I'm going to go back to draft Law 4532, and then I'm going to put the second on the committee. If we don't support it now, the law will be rejected. And so please, the first vote is the return to draft Law 4532. Please vote. Every voice! Please be supportive. We're voting for the return. Please be supportive. Colleagues, we're voting carefully. [[13:53:36]] For 219 I'll do it again. Look, colleagues, I'm talking to all law-abiding people, if we don't come back now, the bill will just be rejected. It's just going to be rejected. So don't play during the vote, because I can see the votes are added, and they're subtracted. Now we have the best chance of saving the bill, coming back and voting on the committee for a second reading. So I'm asking everyone to take jobs, we're missing literally a few votes. Please take up jobs. Take up jobs, please. You're ready, aren't you? Colleagues, we're short 1-2 votes. From the bed, please return to the hall so we don't lose the bill. So I'm going to vote on the proposal to go back to draft Law 4532 and then put it on the committee for further work. Every vote, please vote, please support the return. Please support, vote, support. [[13:55:07]] For 229 So we're back. Now I'm putting Law 4532 on the committee for the second reading. Colleagues, help him not to be lost. Please, every vote, we're voting on a committee to work on. Vote, please. Every voice, we vote carefully. Please support, we vote. [[13:55:42]] For 231 Decision taken. Now I'm going to consult. We have the next draft of Law 6673. Will we be able to get in and see it? We're gonna make it, right? So, colleagues, there's only a few rights. Colleagues, I'm asking everyone in charge. There's only a few rights here. Why are you leaving the hall? You'll be back, won't you? So, colleagues, I'm betting on a rating vote to support the draft Act amending some of the Ukrainian legislation on regulating certain phytosanitary procedures (6673), a rating vote. Please vote, please support. Vote, rating vote. [[13:56:53]] For-167 Now, if we go in, people break up, we just won't take him, colleagues. I want to give you one minute to announce to the First Deputy Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Irina Heratchenko. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-10-m0.u155	Thank you, Mr. Head. Dear colleagues, a statement came to the fore from the People's Deputy Davidenko that his card did not work during the vote for Bill 6490-d and that he asked to count his vote in favour of the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-10-m0.u156	Thank you very much. So, colleagues, we've gone through a very incomplete agrarian block, we have three questions left in the agrarian block. And that's why I'm asking everyone to come to the gym after the break at 2:00. At 16 o'clock to continue our work and consider the agrarian cluster. And now I declare the morning plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine closed. And at 16 o'clock, I invite everyone into the hall to continue our work.
