ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-03-m0.u1	Good morning! Please enter the hall, prepare for registration. Please prepare for registration. Ready, colleagues? So please turn on the registration system and please register. [[10:03:04]] 353 national deputies registered. The morning plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Today is our colleague Denis Olegovich Silantiev's birthday. We welcome Dennis on his birthday. [[Applause]] And I want to remind you that on Wednesday we have 30 minutes of performances by the national MPs. Therefore, any national MPs who wish to take part in the presentations please record and sign up. Gusak Volodymyr Georgievich is invited to attend. Tell whoever you're handing over to the microphone. Put it in the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-03-m0.u2	Please pass the word to Vilukulu Alexander Yuriovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-03-m0.u3	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-03-m0.u4	Dear people of Ukraine! The authorities and their peers have gone beyond common sense and have shown abuse of people. NAK Naftogazu’s managers, a 100 per cent enterprise that belongs to the Ukrainian people, initially wrote down 1 billion 200 million dollars of the prize and then demonstrated that they ignored the legal requirements to report, but who did receive these colossal costs. The court has imposed a fine of 1,700 dollars on Naftogazu's head for refusing to answer that question. That is, the head of the state company is assigned to manage the resources that belong to the people, openly disregarding the law and morals, demonstrating that he meant the people, and that the authority in power considers it appropriate. Think about it: 1 billion 200 million dollars per employee while the government budget now has a 53 billion dollar hole in it, the summer has no money to pay pensioners, it still has no debt to miners, and Naftogaz has a billion dollar bonus. In which other country would the management of a state company not be obliged to report? And at the same time, Naftogazu's leadership is threatening to ruin the start of the heating season and leave people in cold apartments because they didn't count for gas. Yes, the public debt for utilities amounted to $35 billion. But why did this happen? Because it is not possible to pay for such robbing tariffs at a low level of income that teachers, doctors, pensioners, and the vast majority of the population have. In addition, it is unfair to pay for Ukrainian gas at a rate of 7,000 dollars per 1,000 cubic metres, at a maximum cost of 2,000 dollars. People take the last money with unfair tariffs, and the government prepares another increase in gas and heating tariffs. Why? So Naftogazu leaders can get the next billion prizes? This vacchanal needs to be stopped immediately. That's why we're demanding that a billion billion dollars be returned. Secondly, a bill on the reduction of gas tariffs to an economically sound level should be submitted for consideration by the Supreme Council. There are opportunities for that. All it takes is political will. Dear colleagues, in a few weeks there will be the start of a heated season. And the coordinated action of the government, Naftogazu, of local self-government will depend on how it begins. And the main thing here is the Naftogaz, who put billions in his pocket. We're demanding a government report, we're calling for the Naftogazu report to start.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-03-m0.u5	30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-03-m0.u6	And you don't have to try to leave people in cold apartments to pay off that debt to 35 million people, to pay them out of nothing, in order to pay for the next bonus, and to get them out of trouble. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-03-m0.u7	Lapin Igor Alexanderovich. Out of the way. Ah, he's passing on Michael Hummel. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-03-m0.u8	Good afternoon, Your Honor! Good afternoon, distinguished national MPs! I want to draw your attention today to the problems of one of the lion's most famous enterprises, but I think that's going to affect most of our manufacturing companies. In Lviv today, we are all well-known for "Concern Electron", which is a manufacturer of modern passenger electric transport, really good trams, trolleybuses, buses and, in particular, the transport of a new generation of electric buses. It would seem that there should be no problem in such a powerful factory. However, that is not the case. There are certain preferences, such as the duty-free import of imported means of transport under certain international agreements and protocols that have a negative impact on the condition of the Ukrainian car manufacturer. And it is impossible to win an honest economic fight, relying solely on our own resources, with foreign car manufacturers who have the state support of their countries and the tax benefits guaranteed by our state. What is it? We have an almost absurd situation. Despite the fact that Ukraine has officially withdrawn from the SND, certain international agreements and protocols, such as the SND Free Trade Agreement, remain unbroken and are still in force, without payment of duties and low preference, imported into Ukraine by the Belarusian Mazes and their constituents, while our Ukrainian car manufacturer sees no developmental benefits and, on the contrary, tries to maintain jobs and pay taxes. I'd like to remind you that there are over 800 people working in the whole of the Electron. In the Electronictrans system alone, more than 300 people, the average wage is 18,000 dollars. Of course, domestic auto-producers, such as the Lion Electronics, need support. But if the state is unable to provide direct support, it must at least ensure a level playing field with foreign businesses. And once again, it's not about German Mercedes or MAN, it's about Belarusian Mazes, which are no better than our Electrons, and it's about the aggregate aggressor countries. Parliament must take control of this situation, correct the gaps in legislation and find a mechanism with the government to protect our producers from unfair competition from foreign firms, which, contrary to the fact that they actively use the broad support of their countries and thus win the economic struggle in our successful Ukrainian enterprises. Please consider my statement as an official request to the government, requiring that the necessary measures be taken to revise all existing agreements and protocols within the SND and determine the terms of their denunciation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-03-m0.u9	Thank you. He's giving the speech to Sergio Kaplin, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-03-m0.u10	Dear compatriots, distinguished colleagues! I would now like to turn not to MPs, but to ordinary people, especially those who need subsidies, have subsidies that have been denied subsidies this year. I want to go separately to the 112 and the NewsOne, which are always automatically, only I'm speaking, they interrupt the broadcast, and they never show what I'm saying. Please include Sergio Kaplina, let the entire Ukrainian people see my report now. In 40 minutes, dear friends, the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine will consider changes to the ruling that regulates the granting of subsidies to ordinary Ukrainians. During this summer, we, along with the representatives of the Peter Poroshenko Block, the Opposition Block, NataliaKorolevska, the Social Democratic Party and other political forces, circled around the People's Front, all of Ukraine, all of Ukraine, every district center, small cities. We made changes to a valid decision that unfortunately deprived nearly 6 million of our fellow countrymen of the right to a grant. Usually they're very ordinary Ukrainian citizens, they're pensioners, they're teachers, they're workers, they're simple peasants, and unfortunately, I repeat, they were denied the right to a subsidy. We've made the right changes. And I'm here today, before the Cabinet of Ministers, asking Groisman, from Reva, all members of the Cabinet of Ministers to take our comments into account. All right, first. Those citizens who are delayed in salary and are accordingly not paid by the EU have been deprived of the right to grant. Today, we demand that such a right be renewed for them to receive a grant. The other one. To maximize the order of registration or to prove the absence of registration of those citizens who live with their families, their income is included in the income of their grandparents, a simple woman, a simple man, and she is denied the right to subsidies. We've suggested this formula. Third. One and a half million sick, and one and a half million oncoids are to receive automatic subsidies. Four. People with disabilities in the I-II group -- those with severe diseases -- should be entitled to subsidies. In particular, we have passed on a list of categories of socially unprotected citizens who also need adequate support today, workers who work abroad, and their families are barely living here and are entitled to subsidies. You know, I come to work early, and today at 6 a.m., I usually always do, and today I met the cleaning lady on the Supreme Council Committee. And I saw and heard in the eyes of these people, in the voice of these people, desperate.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-03-m0.u11	15 seconds to complete, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-03-m0.u12	15 seconds. Full of despair, misunderstandings about what will happen next. I truly believe that this Supreme Council, the Supreme Council of the next call, will find a solution to save ordinary people from poverty. But now we have to focus and protect those.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-03-m0.u13	Thank you, many who wish to speak. And the next one, please, is Igorshurm. I beg your pardon, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-03-m0.u14	IgorShurma, the Opposition Block. Dear citizens of Ukraine! First of all, I am addressing you because there are so many questions in society today as to how many people are in office. Will Uljana Groissman still be working for the minister? Oh, I'm so sorry, Ulyana Suprun. No one knows about it and no one will answer, but it already has a limit. And yesterday at the Health Committee, two decisions were taken for the authorship of our colleague Caplin to refer to the Cabinet of Ministers and to dismiss Linchevsky, the Deputy Minister of Health. And the second draft of the decree is that the Cabinet of Ministers should be asked to determine the legal status of the Ministry of Health and the appropriateness of the posts and to refer to the Cabinet of Ministers for the discharge of the positions of First Deputy Minister of Health Suprun and Deputy Linchevsky. What's the matter? So for two years there is an inferior government. For two years with shame, we're talking about what we can't do in a country that's considered hyper-popper in world democracy, and everyone's supporting it, finding a man as a minister. We find a person without a higher education. Moreover, the first persons, without considering the prestige of the state, will bring this person without education who violates our migration legislation to the UN. Why? Make sure she does her own selfies in the background of our delegation. It's at a time when there are people under the Ministry who are oncological, and they die, and they say there's no money. We've pointed out that there are 100 million dollars in the Ministry that are administered by the MOH and can be done over. Change target direction. This was not done. 96 million return in the 15th year to an international organization for unused money, 300 million for 2016. And only yesterday, after two deaths, officials decided to allocate money to those in need. As of today, 16 billion dollars have been spent abroad for drug purchases, and only 60 percent have been paid in 2016. And today, the Prime Minister is saying that I have to check this data, that it's all sabotage at the hospital level. So you're the authorities, and there's your chief doctors. We are addressing the leadership of the Supreme Council. Yesterday, the committees unanimously, representatives of all factions, voted in favour of two decrees: Order 8587 and Order 8425. Set up or you're responsible for this ministry and this government, or they.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-03-m0.u15	15 seconds. Thank you. Thank you, Your Honor. [[Applause]] And now the national MP Sažko is invited to the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-03-m0.u16	Good afternoon. SergeySzako, 59th constituency. On behalf of the Selidian miners, I want to address the government and personally the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Vladimir Groysman. This morning, miners of Selidivwogil covered the route that connects Slovenian with Mariupul. Vladimir Borisovich, back in July, you said that you had taken personal control of the coal sector and, in particular, the problem of repayment of debts to miners. And at the Ministry of Energy, we were promised by trade unions that by Miner Day this debt would be repaid. But there's no money on the mines. In fact, Parliament voted in favour of Bill 8362 on the allocation of 1.4 billion dollars for repayment and the development of mines, but there is no such money. Payable debt only increases. Sorry, it's not reform, it's hungry games. The minister arrived in Selidova, spent a few hours, promised and left. In a situation where businesses in my district are now in danger, he has to live on these mines. Today is the third day that the Selidewwog miners strike again. Business debt is already over 250 million. Just think about it: over 6,000 families for the fourth month are out of wages. On the calendar of October 3, the miners were given 20 percent in June. How is a miner’s wife able to get a husband to work and children to school, feed the family, and pay cloud tariffs? Tell me, would your women want to live like this? Today’s government likes to compare itself with the previous one. He said everything was bad before, and now everything's fine. However, the picture behind the window shows the opposite. Finally, tell us honestly how our coal companies and our miners will fare. Stop playing with the living, they're not up to your electoral problems right now. Their families are eager to live in normal conditions. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-03-m0.u17	Thank you. And the people's deputy Teteruk is invited to the floor. He's giving the word to his colleague to our honor Yuri Berezi. Please, Mr. Yuri.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-03-m0.u18	Good afternoon, dear colleagues, distinguished compatriots. As the roadways of Ukraine have been paved, there has been a great deal of advertising on the posters of various parties promoting peace. But interestingly enough, my attention was drawn to such an event, of September 15th, to the task of the Russian curators of the so-called "Smart Power" Party leader Solovyov and his deputy Savechenko to assist the citizen of the Russian Federation as the deputy head of the so-called "LNR" administration, Matthew, visited the temporarily occupied territory of the Luhansk region, where they agreed on a plan. The plan and strategy for conducting provocative political actions in Ukraine under control. You know, we're used to having a fifth column sitting in this room, and it's shared very much. The Communist Party, Muraev, created "Ours," "Smart Force." This only confirms one way: the information hybrid war has not stopped, the information hybrid war continues, it goes on and on and on. And when we are trying to fall in love with peace for peace, I want to remind everyone: peace is possible only for peace with Russia when we surrender; peace with Russia is possible only when we go to all their conditions. Of course, for the part of the Opposition Block, for the pro-communist funnel moments in our lives, the temporary moments -- I think they'll soon go into oblivion -- that's probably the main task that the government of Russia is going to be facing. Unfortunately, we have little resistance. And that's why I'm calling really the Security Service, the Justice Ministry, the National Police, to call and analyze the activities of the so-called founding parties that are talking about peace today at any price that are calling and saying that a Ukrainian soldier standing on a collision line with Russia in the east is illegal. Who is behind the Ukrainian army? And that's why I want to see my speech as an official address to the Head of the Security Service, the Head of the National Police and the Minister of Justice of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-03-m0.u19	Thank you, Your Honor. And here's to MaximBurbak, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-03-m0.u20	Congratulations, dear colleagues. Today I'm going to be acting as the deputy mayor of the 204th constituency of the region of Cherniewec. I am approached by agroform managers, farmers begging to help save the garden sector from destruction. Most of my population is very interested in growing vegetables and fruits. The situation is critical. Because of the conspiracy, I can't call it anything else, the fruit-friendly producers are killed by the berries of raspberries, scoundrels, cherries, cherries, apples and pears. Producers of fruit-friendly products – so-called factories that convert fruit and berries into concentrated juices – have reduced the purchase price of fruit raw material compared to last year – listen! - 10 times. If last year a kilogram of apples were taken for processing of 7 dollars, this year 75 copies. And the cost of one kilogram of fruit is to collect, load, drive to a processing plant, costs at least one and a half dollars. Now, what kind of master would want to work for himself? After all, he has to pay the workers for the harvest, collect them by hand, refuel them to bring them to the factory, and get money that doesn’t even cover half the cost. As a result of this conspiracy, the earth of gardens is now covered with unharvested and rotten fruits. In the Hottin region, it is more than 10,000 acres [10,000 ha] of gardens. More than 200 percent of the damage. What will happen next year? People lose their jobs and the state loses their budget. Gardening, by the way, is a sector you can't raise in a year. For almost 20 years, these people have been restoring fruit gardens. It is necessary to purchase quality landing materials, currency fertilizers, to grow, to wait for fruits, and great crops. The price of fuel keeps rising. What's on the way out? Losses. I ask you to consider my statement as a parliamentary request to the government, to the head of the Antimonopoly Committee. I'm focusing on this situation as a professional parliamentary committee. If we do not intervene immediately and stop the immobilization of manufacturing enterprises, we will lose the gardening industry, lose the trust of the hardworking and devoted people. We're going to get another shift of labor migrants overseas. I demand an investigation into the possible conspiracy of concentrated juice producers and the substantial undercutting of the purchase price of fruit-based raw materials. I also call on the government to review the next year's Target Programme for State Support for the Development of Hmrillism, Grading and Gardening and to substantially increase funding for the target programme. We have to help Ukrainian gardening complexes develop, build the necessary infrastructure, the fruit shelter. Because in my opinion, an agro-industrial complex is the driving force behind the development of the Ukrainian economy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-03-m0.u21	Thank you, Sir Maxime. Please welcome to Alona Babak. Mrs. Alona, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-03-m0.u22	Good morning, everyone! I'm not going to criticize anyone today. On the contrary, I ask all of us to apply the critical thinking that our new Ukrainian school is starting to teach children. And let's try to answer the question: why do Ukrainians go to other countries of Europe without staying in Ukraine when we actually have a very difficult time finding a shallower today? So there's work in Ukraine, but people are moving in. Let us try to picture a European country in which Parliament has adopted the law and has fulfilled its obligations to citizens since 1992. And the government of this European country has for over a year not adopted any legal acts to implement these laws. This is possible in Ukraine. We've passed the Housing Act with you to privatize housing since 92. But today they are standing under the Kabmin and are waiting on the government to implement the law. So let's think about Germany where the consumer wants to buy gas to heat water right now. But he goes to the gas station, and they're told, "I'm sorry, but the government of Merkel has made an unfortunate decision and we can't make a deal with you, even though you don't have any debts, to sell you gas." And you can do that in Ukraine. OSBBs across Ukraine have gas boilers and have been unable to make gas contracts for today and for three months now, because the 187th decree cannot be adopted by the government in a timely manner. And let's introduce to you a European country where the government cynically talks about how it loves young people, but no economic program in the budget in question gives, even after funding youth building, credit, not just giving money, but credit can't help young people get housing in that country. Imagine the government of a foreign European country that he stole. He made contracts with the company and 300 million dollars through Minfin and took them. does not perform these contracts, but fines the company at this time. And you can do that in Ukraine. In the 17th year, Minfinpo made 300 million contracts with water canals for the restructuring of VAT, and so far no contract has been implemented, but VAT fines go like a snow coma. Imagine a state when 30,000 houses are shut off because some ministry has failed to approve a number of regular jobs. And you can do that in Ukraine. 30,000 joint owners in Ukraine are shut off from gas because our Ministry of Fuel, Mr. Nasalik, has not accepted a certain order to operate interior networks. And what kind of European state can have 2 billion dollars in the budget and stop funding energy efficiency programs when 400 million are just spent and.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-03-m0.u23	15 seconds to complete, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-03-m0.u24	And at the same time, does it say how well we're going to live if we raise the price of gas? I am now addressing the respected Ukrainians: let us, as our children now, apply critical thinking and determine whether we lack laws or a government that should be able to carry them out. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-03-m0.u25	Thank you, dear colleague. And we invite you to the speech of the national MP, Mr. Dolzhenko. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-03-m0.u26	Dear colleagues, honourable citizens of Ukraine, when there are a lot of calls coming from this rostrum, some hysteria, some comments about agents of influence, about the permanent representatives of the aggressor in this room, I have an inadvertent thought and such a statement by Professor Prezorsky from the novel "The Dog's Heart" about the breakdown in my head. It seems to me that there is such a commotion in the heads of many deputies who are present. With regard to the demands of the Opposition Block regarding the establishment of peace. We are, we say, an appropriate opinion of a very large part of the population. Now you're talking in historical form about that we don't need anything, we don't need to meet any conditions, we need to go to the end. To what end? To the end of the state? You look at the comments and the expectations of the population. They want a marked peace. And according to the Opposition Block, it always comes up with this idea, and it requires that we achieve the stated peace, because without peace, there is no economy, there is no economy, there is no population well-being. No warring country can have a high level, an acceptable level of economic development. We are now witnessing how the President, by the way, has registered a bill on the renewal of the Ukrainian Law on the Special Status of Local Self-Government in the Donetsk, Luhansk Region, Bill 9153, which also wants peace, I hope. But unfortunately, we see another completely different picture. The Supreme Council, whether consciously or unconsciously, such as the factions of the coalition, is taking part in the presidential race, and under the slogans of the army, language, and religion, some popular decision-making begins. Now we're all yelling about Tomos in religion, tomorrow we're going to be yelling about the need to adopt language law. What do we have in reality? And in reality, we have a decline in the economic sphere. You will see what draft of the Ukrainian State Budget Act next year was made by the government of Ukraine and supported by the President of Ukraine. And reality is very, very, very disconcerting. The minimum wage of 4 thousand 173 bracelets is equivalent to $141. In 2013, I'm going to repeat this over and over again, 152 dollars. The minimum pension amount for $1638 is $55, $118 in 2013. The subsistence minimum for the population is $68, which is $147 in 2013.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-03-m0.u27	15 seconds to complete.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-03-m0.u28	What are we building? We haven't even reached the 2013 figures, and the reality is alone, we can't argue with statistics. The collapse of the economy is imminent because of the injustice that is now, because of what.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-03-m0.u29	Thank you, Your Honor. MariaJonova, quoted by her colleague, Mr. Kozachenko, is invited to attend. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-03-m0.u30	Dear head! Dear National Deputies! I would like to turn once again and draw your attention and attention to the situation of responsible officials, which involves the illegal formation of a united territorial community through the integration of the city’s Vorsel - type village into the city of Butch. Repeatedly, in my parliamentary address, I highlighted the concerns of the Kyiv district chief, other officials, on the issue. The population of Warzel is repeatedly informed of numerous violations of their rights, and the opinion of the community is ignored. The crowd wants to be heard because Warzel is a resort city, and it was historic and must remain in the future. Expressing their concern about the prospect of the illegal integration of Warzel into the Buchanan united territorial community, residents of the village are unwarrantedly afraid of the total construction of areas with a unique natural climate, which is already at the easy hand of Anatolia Fedoruka's oodious city head in the town of Butchi, we already know the consequences in the town of Butchi, which is the way to the actual destruction of the resort. The actual loss of legal representatives in local self - government is a fundamental problem for the public in the case of the entry of the Buchanan OTG. So, of course, the residents of Warzel are afraid to trust the land, the forest plantation, the budget distribution, the approval of plans for the development of areas and other present - day parts of the Buchanan City Council. I am no longer talking about the fear of the inhabitants, to pass on my fate to Mr. Fedoruk, who has a considerable prison of criminal conduct associated with the land and the forest. I mean, are we handing the community over to one family, or is it still going to be community property? Local authorities continue to resist the demands and opinions of the community. I would like to say that, contrary to the forward-looking plan for the formation of the OTG of the Kyiv region, the Order of Cabinet of Ministers No. 266 since 19 April 2017, where Warzel is not included in the list of prospective territorial communities at all. So the document does not provide for the integration of this village into any of the OTGs, including Buchansky. Furthermore, article 8 (1) of the Ukrainian Law on Voluntary Unity, which clearly states that only those communities that belong to such a community may join in accordance with a promising plan for the formation of a territorial community. So I turn to the Cabinet of Ministers: I cannot allow the decision to be passed on by Warzel to the Buchanan United District Society without the approval of very important documents. This is the preparation for the recognition of the village of Vorsel as a local resort, the concept and strategy of the village, and the general plan of Vorsel. Can I finish?
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-03-m0.u31	Please, 15 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-03-m0.u32	Thank you. Taking into account the findings of the Institute of Curortology regarding the possibility of local recognition, the community does not object to unification as such, but they are for unification under the law in order to preserve the nature of the Vorzelle and the resort. I ask you to consider my statement as a matter of law to the Ministry of Regional Affairs.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-03-m0.u33	Thank you. Please form a statement by the national deputy as a parliamentary address, and there is another procedure for the request. And this concludes the traditional speeches by colleagues under the heading "Advertisement of Declarations and Communications and Proposals by Ukrainian People's Deputies."
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-03-m0.u34	Thank you. So, colleagues, before we go into the agenda, and today we have blockifications, I want to announce that a statement has come from two factions: Self-help and Parenthood. They're ready to replace the break for the performance. And I would like to invite you to the address of Yegor Sobolev, please, three minutes. And I'd like everyone to come into the hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-03-m0.u35	We need to pay attention to what the President has been silent about for two days now, to Parliament's silence, to the absolute majority of seniors. I'm sure that all the people in this room have watched, read, heard about the investigation into Dennis Bigus' team, journalist Lesi John's about the second-ranking spy in Ukraine. His name is Sergei Semoczko, who led the economic counterintelligence of the Ukrainian Security Service, now the First Deputy Head of the External Intelligence Service, the Ukrainian Foreign Intelligence Service! Ukraine, which is at war with the Russian Federation. Ukraine, which suffers from a Russian security operation. Journalists have found that Mr. Semoczko has only developed millions of dollars of real estate in recent years — years of war. He's from Yalta himself, people who haven't betrayed Ukraine, people who have become displaced, refugees from the Russian occupation know how hard it is to set up a life in a new place, either in Kiev or in Lviv or anywhere. The person responsible for the economic counter-intelligence, the person responsible for the external intelligence, had no chance of obtaining property this size without selling Ukraine’s national interests during the war. We understand why the President is silent. Such a decision could not have been made without it. But we do not understand why Parliament is silent. We call on the speaker to call on the Head of the Security Service, to order the Supreme Council Committee on Defence and the Supreme Council Committee on Anti-Corruption to make a special hearing on this matter immediately. We need to correct the terrible story that journalists have pointed to in Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-03-m0.u36	Thank you. So, colleagues, let's move on to the agenda. I want to stress that we have three ratifications today that, according to previous consultations, are unifying and, hopefully, we can support them in the hall. The first is the draft of the Law on the Ratification of the Financial Agreement (Project on Modernization of Ukrainian Railways (Modernization of Public Equity Infrastructure) between Ukraine and the European Investment Bank. This ratification allows us to raise funds for Ukrainian infrastructure from our European partners. So I hope that we will be able to support it today. I am the first to put to the vote the proposal to review the draft Law on Ratification (0186) under a reduced procedure. Please vote. Please be supportive. [[10:42:46]] For-95 Okay. We will consider the full procedure.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-03-m0.u37	We will do as the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine will say.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-03-m0.u38	As the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine will determine. So I invite you to the report of Deputy Infrastructure Minister Lavrenjuk Yuri Fedorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-03-m0.u39	Dear Head, honourable national deputies, you are being reviewed by the draft Ukrainian Law on the Ratification of the Financial Agreement (Project for Modernization of the Ukrainian Railway) between Ukraine and the European Investment Bank (Registration No. 0186), introduced by the President of Ukraine. The financial agreement between Ukraine and the European Investment Bank was signed on 19 December 2016 in Brussels for the purpose of involving the European Investment Bank’s credit costs of 150 million euros necessary for the implementation of the project of railway electricity Dolinska-Micolayev-Kolosovka. The project includes the construction of a second track, the electrification and modernization of signalling and communication systems along the direction of Dolin–Micolayev-Kolasovka, which in turn will increase the capacity of direct access, ensure energy conservation during rail transport and reduce operating costs. In particular, I want to point out that these costs are going to be as involved as possible, the PAT resource "The Cruise Station" is the production and direct work of railways. Please support, thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-03-m0.u40	Thank you, Your Honor. Please remain in the rostrum. We are considering this ratification in full procedure, and now colleagues are able to ask you questions. I'm asking you to sign up for Mr. Yuri. PavelKishkar, your question, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-03-m0.u41	Please pass it on to the One of Ostap.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-03-m0.u42	Please turn on Mr. Ostap's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-03-m0.u43	Good afternoon. I think we need to ratify that agreement and we hope they will. There'll be enough voices. But I would like to ask you this question, Mr. Deputy. For days in Facebook, there was a video where the head of the Kowal Moscow train pushed out, threw out a passenger who bought an electronic ticket, and failed to print it for technical reasons in the cruiser's case. Tell me, please, when you buy an online e-mail ticket, what's the point of it then going to the register to print? Why can't Crossroads do simple things that make sense to customers for passengers? Because, well, we need to modernize, we need new trains between four capitals and so forth, but if the drivers throw away, do the train chiefs throw the passengers off the wagons, which is the reform? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-03-m0.u44	Please, Mr. Yuri, your answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-03-m0.u45	Thank you. Thank you for asking, it's a little bit in fact, but I'll tell you that there's already been an official statement by the executive director of PAT UZ that this person is going to be released. And in fact, the Crucifixion is in the direction of providing simplified ticketing services, electronic ticketing, and still moving in that direction.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-03-m0.u46	Thank you. And the next question. Please, Mr. Dudenkov.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-03-m0.u47	Please pass the word to Litvina Volodymyr Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-03-m0.u48	Vladimir Mikhailovich. Please, Mr. Litwin's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-03-m0.u49	The Cruise Station is massively closing down the freight stations and canceling the train stops. For example, the city of Novograd Volinsky, 56,000 people live. Fixed stop of a number of trains. In the area of Emylczyn, Jabluc Station, the cargo station was dismantled. Pullinsky district: Kurne station is closed down. Question: How many stations are closed? How many stops have been canceled? And finally, third. It's obviously the late George Kirpa who worked for you to successfully tear down the Crucifixion. There is no need to answer the third question. First two, please give us some information.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-03-m0.u50	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich, for asking. I want you to know officially that the Crucifixion has not closed any stations today: no freight or passenger station. First of all, she doesn't have the right to do it herself. The closure of any railway station in accordance with existing legislation should only take place by consent, agreement with local self-government and agreement with the Ministry of Infrastructure. At this time, the Ministry of Infrastructure has given no agreement by Pat "The Cruise Stations" on the closure of any station, either cargo or passenger. They're really trying to raise this question in some way, but we've already discussed it on a profile transport committee, and we're just not going to let it happen.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-03-m0.u51	And please. [[B in m in s a l in]] Is there anything I can add to your question, Mr. Yuri? I think so. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, your right to speak has come to an end. Please ask Vladimir Gooseka one last question. And Vladimir Mikhailovich will then be able to discuss the answer to his question in an informal situation. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-03-m0.u52	Dear Yuri Fedorovich, this treaty that we have to ratify, provides for funding of $150 million for reconstruction of the Dolinsky-Mikolayev-Colosovka area. I have a question: what's the general budget for this reconstruction, where will the rest of the funds be collected, if needed, and what are the main loads being transported in this direction? Also, what is the general need for the Railroads in electricity, and what other areas in Ukraine need to be electrified?
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-03-m0.u53	Thank you for asking. With regard to the project’s real value, the cost of the project is 360 million euros. Financing takes place as follows: 150 million euros is a loan from the European Investment Bank to be ratified today; 150 million euros is a separate loan from the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development; and 60 million euros are the public shareholding company's own funds. As for the cargo groups that are there, these are usually cargoes that are heading toward the seatime in the first place. And there are different types of cargo: from heavy loads of grain, and clay, and ore, and metal products, and oil, and petroleum products. That's why it is. The electrification of this branch, it's very, very important, which will enable both the economy and the use of the electric current, will also allow you to upgrade and increase the capacity of the current. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-03-m0.u54	Thank you. You can go back to your job, to the government's bed. And Vladimir Mikhailovich Litwin can talk to you about the question he's asked. And please invite the co-rapporteur of the draft Law on the Ratification of the Financial Agreement, head of the Committee on Foreign Affairs of HannaGopco. Please, Mrs. Anna.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-03-m0.u55	Good afternoon, dear Ukrainians! Good afternoon, colleagues! On June 6, 2018, the Committee on Foreign Affairs considered a draft law introduced by the President of Ukraine on the ratification of the Financial Agreement (The Modernization of the Ukrainian Railway (The Modernization of the Infrastructure of the Public Shareholder Association "Ukrzaliznica") between Ukraine and the European Investment Bank. And our decision is to recommend that the Supreme Council accept the project as a whole. What's going to allow this ratification to happen anyway? This is also a 150 million-euro financial resource for the Dolin-Mikolai Kolosovka Railway Electricity Project, which envisions the construction of a second track, the electrification and modernization of signaling and communication systems towards the Dolinska-Mikolai Kolosovka. Which will allow you to increase your capacity. Now what we want to say is that upgrading this area will greatly increase the capacity of rail freight in the direction of the ports of Mikolai, Odessa and Olvia, and increase the speed of freight trains by 20-25 percent. In particular, we discussed on the committee, why should this again take credit under State guarantees? Why can't the Crossroads itself or especially the wealthy owners who are interested in freight transports invest? Well, we were told by the congressmen, members of the committee, that they needed this loan to start and that passenger transport would not become a contradiction to the usual freight for business. So after the project, scheduled for the end of 2021, the financial impact of the railway is expected to be 722 million dollars a year. In addition, some 300 skilled jobs will be created in modernized railway areas. And if we look at the technical description and reporting, you can see the lengths of the lines, especially during phase number one, which is 148 kilometers - Dolinska-Mikolayev; phase two - 105 kilometers - Mikolayev - Kolosovka; and the total length is 253 kilometers - Mikolayev - Kolosovka, where these areas include the construction of the railway track, the reconstruction of the existing railway track and the overall length of the built canvas on the Dolinska-Mikolayev area. So we see a technical description, we see the financial conditions for this loan, getting it. So we hope that this project will be implemented. We would also like to remind you that, together with our Lithuanian friends, we have spent more than a year and a half trying to obtain the European Investment Bank, including providing Ukraine with opportunities for large infrastructure projects to support small and medium-sized businesses, which is access to cheap funds so that people can create their own business here. And energy efficiency projects, energy savings. So I think it's very important to modernize this area, which will also create new, we hope, business possibilities. Well, colleagues, speaking on occasion here today for this ratification, which the committee is asking to support (the committee's decision) and ratify the financial agreement between Ukraine and the European Investment Bank, would like to ask the management of the Cruise Railways to speed up internal procedures so that every passenger who buys the ticket line gets a ticket right away, and no form, and then was forced to walk, run on train stations and print, because it's huge fraud and it's the basis for corruption. And this is an unacceptable example at all when we saw a passenger being pushed out of the train recently, of course, there must be punishment. But I think you need to change the rules inside, and every customer who bought the ticket online has to get a ticket. And all of these explanations that we're getting from the Crucifixion that there's no technical capability, they're unacceptable. And so, just so that there are no more of these cases, we're also asking for the quality of the passengers to provide, like, colleagues. And I can also say that there has been a recent encounter with enthusiasts who are involved in the development of narrow-track railways, and there are those who support, in particular, the development of internal tourism, particularly from the Self-Help faction of Anna Romanov. I think that the narrow tracks in Ukraine have opportunities, including the Zakarpatsk region, and the Plains, and the Kirovogradska. So I think it's also one of the potentials for the future. Thank you. And I ask your questions.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-03-m0.u56	Please sign up for a question to Mrs. Gopko. Please, National Deputy Shinkovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-03-m0.u57	Please give the floor to the Romanu Matzoli People's Deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-03-m0.u58	Please turn on Mr. Maczoli's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-03-m0.u59	Good afternoon. Roman Macola, 190 constituency, Hmelnicka district. Ladies and gentlemen, I propose to support the committee's decision and to adopt the draft law as a basis and as a whole. It's just a technical issue that needs to be accepted and implemented. This is infrastructure development. In Japan, for example, trains are already running at a speed of 600 kilometers, and we are here to discuss whether to do such things or not. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-03-m0.u60	Please, your question. In fact, it was a call to vote for ratification. Thank you, Your Honor. And please, now question from the MP. Please, Sporish. John Sporish, your question.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-03-m0.u61	Ivan Sporish, Peter Dusty Block, 15th District. Please pass the word to Alexander Zolobeck.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-03-m0.u62	Please turn on Mr. Žolobecki's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-03-m0.u63	Dear colleagues, I am very much asking you to support this bill, which is very important for southern Ukraine. All AnnaGopco, the chairman of the committee, has said is true. And I would also like to personally take under personal control everything that can be used by Ukrainian producers. I'm asking my colleagues to get together and support this important project for southern Ukraine, which is two years old, and with this project we're going to do all very good and great work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-03-m0.u64	Thank you once again for the position expressed in support of an important ratification. And please, People's Deputy Krivenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-03-m0.u65	Victor Krivenko, National Movement of Ukraine. I have two questions for you, Anna Mikolayevna. First question. Do you support the purchase of imported equipment by the Railroad when it is possible to organize production in Ukraine? And just like in the case of defense orders, you can use offset cooperation schemes when you're buying, you can reposition production in Ukraine. And now we're buying technology from abroad, including not just on the railways, but the tram city of Kiev has bought 2 billion dollars in Polish, not Ukrainian. Although there are great producers in Ukraine, this is the Tatra South on my native South German and Electron in yours and my native Lviv. And the second question. Do you support the need for partial privatization of the Crucifixions? For example, the launch of 10, 20, 30 percent of the world’s leading railway operators to destroy this corrupt monopoly, when the state controls the railway and it does not make it easier for people to do so, and everything is still being purchased through corruption schemes and governance is ineffective.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-03-m0.u66	Please, Mrs. Anna.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-03-m0.u67	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say that you and I are now considering how to engage 150 million euros in financial resources to electrify the railway route of Dolinska – Mikolayev – Colosovka. Obviously, I support the Ukrainian Railway in general buying what is in Ukraine and thus stimulating jobs. In doing so, it allowed Ukrainian companies or those who produce wagons or those who produce locomotives to be here in Ukraine. And the more localization in Ukraine, the better for the Ukrainian economy and the Ukrainian budget. Obviously, in many cases, we have supported the ability of Ukrainian companies to access cheap funds to start a business here. So I think that with regard to the privatisation of the Ukrainian railway, you and I in Parliament voted in favour of the amendments to the Privatisation Act, and we should see from the government some kind of vision of how this privatization is to take place. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-03-m0.u68	Thank you, Mrs. Hanna. Time to ask. I'm asking the factions to sign up for a ratification discussion. Thank you, Mrs. Hanna. Please present the position of the Opposition Block, please to the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-03-m0.u69	Good afternoon, distinguished Ukrainians, distinguished colleagues, honorable presiding officer! It's very good that the Supreme Council of Ukraine is today addressing the issue of Crucibles, because in the last few years, the problems on Crucibles, the inability of Crucibles to ensure the necessary transport of goods has become a real problem for the economy of Ukraine, Ukraine has lost a few percent of GDP, billions of dollars, and this has certainly affected the decline in the standard of living of Ukrainians. For the last few years, there's been a real meltdown on the Railroads. Since 2014, six leaders have changed — an average of less than one per year. For an enterprise where the planning cycle is to be at least 2-3 years, that's exactly how long it takes to make a decision, to make important investment decisions before their results is a disaster. In 2016, a strange experiment was made, a foreigner, a Polish man who had no connection with Ukraine, and he was a tourist, as it were, because he was not at work on Monday, and he was no longer at work on Friday. And the chaos on Crossroads was getting worse. Last summer, there was a real transport disaster. With the new management of the Crucibles, the situation has stabilized somewhat, although there are still many problems, and we have problems with the exportation of Ukrainian grain and iron ore, and Ukraine continues to lose tens of millions of dollars of currency per month. There are major transport problems, such as the raw materials to the metallurgical combinations in Mariupola. And the ratification of this agreement is a step in the right direction. It will be able to improve the movement and save money in the area of Dolinska – Mikolayov – Colossianka. And it's also going to allow you to release heat trucks that are now missing from the Cruise Stations and to use those heat in other areas. Therefore, our faction will support this ratification, but follow: we must finally adopt a new Railway Transport Act, which is prepared by the committee, which will allow the reform of Ukraine's transport infrastructure to be moved. May I?
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-03-m0.u70	Please, 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-03-m0.u71	And this Law on Rail Transport, which is already being prepared for the first reading on the committee, will allow Ukraine to develop transport infrastructure, to develop railways on new ground. It will allow you to engage in a private drive to somehow reduce the current deficit, which is a major obstacle to the work of the Crucifixion. This ratification is supported and we urge the House to vote for it.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-03-m0.u72	Thank you. Please welcome Mr. Barna, National MP, to present the position of "Peter Prashenko's Block".
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-03-m0.u73	Praise Jesus Christ! The Peter Prashenko bloc welcomes the possibility of receiving additional funding from our partners for the reconstruction, modernization of the railway sector, and especially with regard to the modernization of railways. It's going to get one region of these costs, there's going to be more costs, especially in the heat field, where it really needs a very large amount of money to repair the track, especially in my district, where there's no electricity, and there's been an accident of a train going down because of the weariness of the tracks. But at the same time, I want to point out that the question of the proper management of the Crucifixion now has to be considered more than ever. So let's not let them cut down the freight stations right now, the depot, or cut down the workers who support this sector as specialists. I think we need to pay more attention to the reduction of the administrative apparatus, because there's going to be more benefit. And we should point out that now, more than ever, we have to pay a lot of attention to the development of rail transports in order to unload the roads and most of the cargo is being carried onto trains in order to preserve the roads that billions of dollars are currently investing in. So, as well as the roads, the railways are the arteries of our economy. And I think every member of the Supreme Council, like the Mayor, and whoever came on the list, is interested in creating the most favourable conditions for the development of entrepreneurship, business, particularly the agricultural sphere of my region, where agricultural transport and, in particular, exportation is large. large volumes that cannot be avoided without freight. Our faction will support this bill and, in addition, will continue to support all positive actions aimed at developing as well as road networks and especially rail transport, and particular attention will also be paid to the threat posed by passenger transport — the replacement of wagons, the modernisation of railways for transport safety, and the increase in freight wagons in order to ensure, inter alia, the agrarians of my district to fulfil its obligations, the agreements for the supply of agricultural products. The Peter Prashenko faction supports the bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-03-m0.u74	Thank you, Your Honor. And please welcome Hennaday Krivoshya, who will present the position of the People's Front. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-03-m0.u75	Good afternoon, dear colleagues. Gennady Krivoshya, faction of the People's Front. The People's Front faction will definitely support this draft Law on the Ratification of the Financial Agreement, and I'd like to focus on some of the points that are quite important today, and which we, first of all, Ukraine will get the benefits. Well, first of all, I'd like to point out that the construction of this extra track will be able to provide an increase in the speed of both passenger and freight transports to the railway tracks across this area, along this area of movement. The second is pretty important. Today, we see and understand how difficult trucking is in general, especially on roads, on ordinary roads, and where truckloads are simply killing road cover. If we have an additional railway branch, which I hope today after the ratification, we will vote in Parliament, it will significantly reduce the load on ordinary roads, increase the transport by rail. Today, the question and acceptance of this ratification are quite important. At the same time, I would like to draw attention to the fact that the Chief Executive, the Supreme Council's Scientific and Scientific Administration, does not object to the ratification of this financial agreement. So I would like to focus on the attention of the Head of the Supreme Council and the chairman to invite our colleagues to the hall, because looking at the number of people who are currently present in this room, I just feel that there is a risk of not voting on this ratification. I wouldn't want us to let that happen. And so a great request to join the People's Front faction and support this ratification. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-03-m0.u76	Thank you. Of course, the chairman will repeatedly appeal to his colleagues for the preceding minutes of voting in order to show respect for this ratification and to meet in the hall, she was voted. Please, Evtushek Sergey, present the position of Fatherland. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-03-m0.u77	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Sergeyevtushka, the "Fatherland" faction. Dear colleagues, I'll tell you right away that the faction will support this draft ratification order, and we have a few reasons. Actually, I'd like to highlight some of the elements that are important in this context. The first, of course, is an improvement in the capacity of the Ministry of Infrastructure in its report. And the other one, of course, is the one I'd like to stop at more. It's an element that envisions modernization, modernisation of our Crucifixion. What's really going on with the moving warehouse, the locomotives, the heat trucks? I want to say immediately that on September 23, at 695 kilometers Bachmach-Hrebinka, a freighter who examined the assistant Yuri Kichan, caused the cartridge gases to break into the engine room to mix with the air, and as a result, this assistant driver received 50 percent of the burns that are incompatible with life. Why did he get it? And the reason is very simple: because this locomotive has been used for 37 years, and I'm going to say that the age of use of the locomotive is only 20 years. I just want to say that, of course, we have to express our sympathy to the family, Aunty Alexandrovni, and to the son, and to the relatives of this assistant. But at the same time, to put the investigation under control in this situation, at the same time, we have today to meet with the Transport Committee in the Supreme Council of Ukraine to discuss the issue of the audit of the technical situation, the financial audit in which we today have the burden of driving, the heat. Because, as of today, authorities don't guarantee those workers who go to work, those locomotive brigades who serve these routes don't guarantee life, because we have such terrible accidents. I also want to answer my colleague Victor Krivenka, who asked the head of the Committee on Foreign Affairs about why Russian goods are being purchased in the Ukrainian railway. Because he runs a real Ukrainianophobic cruiser. Even the wires used by our vehicles are purchased in the Russian Federation. All the meetings that are held at the Crossroads by this Ukrainianophobic Kravtsov, who wears gold buttons on his whale, with a contract salary of a million 200 dollars a month.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-03-m0.u78	15 seconds, please. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-03-m0.u79	are conducted in Russian. As long as these Ukrainianphobics run our state-owned businesses, as long as we have serious problems and we have no answer to these questions, why is it being purchased in Russia, in Russia, an aggressor on our railway, in other areas of equipment and equipment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-03-m0.u80	Dear colleagues, the Radical Party didn't sign up. Please, Victor Galaszuku, I now have the right to present the faction's position and then the Shahov. Okay.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-03-m0.u81	Thank you. Dear fellow members of the National Deputies, Victor Galasuk, the Radical Party of Oleg Laska. Our team will support this ratification, but we have a few basic warnings. First of all, this deal has to be implemented effectively, not as is the investment plan of the Cruise Railways being implemented today. The tariffs went up, they raised billions and billions of dollars from the Ukrainian industry, from the Ukrainian agrarians, but they didn't even manage to use it to create a new fleet of moving metals, as promised. Costs have been collected, and today Ukrainian metallurgy, Ukrainian agrarians send a signal to the government because they cannot carry the raw material or the ready product to be shipped back to Europe. It's a blow to the country's trade balance, it's a blow to the gross domestic product, and it's a blow to the pockets of every Ukrainian, because the weakening of the currency is a result of the inefficient activity of the Crucibles, which today has turned into a narrowing of the Ukrainian economy. So there's demand for Ukrainian producers abroad, but because Cruise can't transport these goods, contracts break, the country doesn't get export revenue. This is totally unacceptable! This policy pushes our state into the grip of the International Monetary Fund. With this policy, you will never get out of this debt gap. So we need to ratify this agreement, but we need to keep it under close parliamentary control. In order for these funds to really be used effectively to modernize the Cruise Railroads to enhance its transport capacity. And it's very important that the work of the Ukrainians be used to pay a decent salary, Ukrainian materials, components. Pay the Ukrainians, buy the Ukrainian, it's a fundamental principle of developing the Ukrainian economy, including the transport sector. Any loan agreement, if we make it, should contribute to the development, not to the deepening of the debt hole. Well, finally, but really, it's the most important thing. The important thing is, they'll be driving through the Crucifixion. If they re-drive raw raw materials, ore, grain, etc., we'll always be poor, we'll always be in admissions to the International Monetary Fund, other creditors. Ukraine needs to change its profession, change its expertise, become an innovator, and not a raw supplement to neighbouring successful economies. See: 68 percent of European exports are manufactured by industry. In Ukraine, two thirds of exports are raw materials. So a radical change in economic policy, infrastructure development and an increase in Ukrainian income is the way to.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-03-m0.u82	Thank you. Last performance by MPs and factions. National Deputy Shahov presents the position of the “Will of the People” Group. Colleagues, in literally 10 minutes, there will be a vote. I'm asking you very much from the coulaires, from the dining room, to return to the session room. Yeah, I said in 10 minutes, not 3. Please, Mr. Shahov.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-03-m0.u83	Sergeyshakhov, the political power of Our End. Dear colleagues! We will definitely support this ratification. But I would like to draw the attention of the minister of infrastructure, Minister Omelán, to the fact that there is still no connection in the Luhansk region with a peaceful Ukraine railway line. Today, roads suffer, farmers suffer today, people suffer from the fact that no one has paid attention to the integration of peaceful Lugansk with the great Ukraine in the four and a half years of the war. Please tell me, how long will this continue? There were a couple of round tables, that's all. You were talking about what VA should do with the project. Find out: The VCA is messing with and talking about what needs to be done with the infrastructure, with the Mintport. Please tell me, when a railway line appears in the Luhansk region, which will unite the peaceful Ukraine and will not suffer people, no agrarians will suffer if they suffer on roads, no pits like graves that are beaten at every turn. And also after this ratification. Every penny has to be controlled. The minister claimed that today there is widespread corruption — 15 billion dollars. Who's paying attention to that? Where are the reports of law enforcement agencies today? Where's the D.A.'s report today? We demand an immediate report in the Cabinet Parliament, we demand an immediate report from the ministers about where the taxpayers' money is being paid? Thank you. Sergeyshakhov, the political power of Our End.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-03-m0.u84	Please now, please, Your Honor, sign up for a discussion. And I ask you to return to the session room in 10 minutes, and there will be a vote in 9 minutes. We have unity over this bill and ratification, and there is no discipline. That's not fair. Please, HennadayBloody, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-03-m0.u85	Please pass the word to Maxim Burbaku from the rostrum. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-03-m0.u86	Please give Mr. Maxim Burbaku a word from the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-03-m0.u87	Dear colleagues, the People's Front faction will support this decision, because we need to do everything we can to electrify the largest sections of our railways in order to eventually get the electricity that is still being produced in Ukraine to do the work that is being sad, but the Crucifixion sometimes fails. But I would like to speak here in defense of the Ministry of Infrastructure, which led at the most turbulent time in the 14th year, and I would like to say what state the Ministry has led to here critics of these. When the Crucifixion something in December 13-14 was done all the purchases and all the money was taken out to buy envelopes, probably for 100 years in advance and for cans that had already been made. Next, I would like to remind all the critics here about the purchase of electric vehicles or thrusts in Russia. I personally suspended my contract with Russia and broke it. After that, there were no purchases from Russia from the aggressor country. Have some information. And so once again, I urge everyone to go back to the hall and vote in favour of this resolution, because it will essentially allow the Crossroads to improve the supply status of both the loading wagons and the drive to serve all the industrial enterprises that are currently suffering from simple jobs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-03-m0.u88	Thank you. Colleagues, I remind you, in six minutes, there will be a vote. Please return to the session room so that we do not have a story when we have to invite colleagues several times. And please, People's Deputy Kishkar, give you the floor.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-03-m0.u89	Please give it to Sergei Soboljevo.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-03-m0.u90	Please give Sergei Sobolev three minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-03-m0.u91	Our faction will vote in favour of ratifying this agreement. The key parameters of this agreement were explained in my colleague Sergeiyeutushka’s presentation. And I think that the warnings that exist today about a train park that actually stops opportunities for rail transport, first of all freight, is the most crucial need that actually stops key trade relations with the countries of the European Union. But I would like to highlight in my speech another possibility that is not yet implemented and that is stopped. It's actually impossible to use a wagon park to get goods out of Ukrainian ports. What's going on with the Berdian Seaport is what's been done with the Mikolai International Trade Port, when in fact a team of almost 800 workers today is being leased to private entities, and we're being told that there will be no privatization of Ukrainian ports. And at the same time, there's a quiet bankruptcy of Ukrainian ports because of the artificial withdrawal of funds from ports. I think that's the most crucial problem that needs to be addressed today. Regrettably, what happened in the case of the Mikolai port, when hundreds of dismissed workers today are actually looking for work in Poland, Germany, and those with the most important professions are unable to find work anywhere, has actually crossed the Berdian Seaport. Today we have a situation where key professions of dockers, the best professionals, have no opportunity to be busy in Ukraine and seek happiness abroad. Because, you see, we've decided to conduct a policy to rent a key, which is the basis of any seaport, docks. The fact that the country has lost almost a billion dollars in taxes over the past two years is only an example of one Berdjansk trade port. What's happening there today with the labour force, when mass layoffs today leave only those professions that can't be released just because of technical services, that's the worst problem. If we add to this the Russian blockade of the Azov Sea, built by Kerchnyst, we imagine that the fate of these ports lies ahead. So I point out that this is not tomorrow, but today.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-03-m0.u92	30 seconds. And please, the People's Deputies are invited to the floor. And I ask my colleagues to return to the session room, because in three minutes there will be a vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-03-m0.u93	Dear colleagues, respected citizens of Ukraine! The Opposition Block faction, of course, will support an appropriate ratification. The essence of this ratification is that 150 million euros are allocated by an international financial institution for the purpose of modernizing, including electrification and modernization of the signalling systems of certain areas, certain areas, areas that are absolutely necessary, since electric railway transport is 50 percent less energy-efficient than diesel. But what I want to say, instead, is that the loan will have to be paid, and the loan will be given under state guarantees. Now, for a moment, I want to say that according to the Ukrainian State Debt Act No. 9000 for 2019, the amount of government debt and state-guaranteed debt is, not much, not much, 2 trillion dollars is an unprecedented figure. And whoever was talking about the predecessors, there was no such sadness in Ukraine’s independent times. The corresponding Groissman here was talking about, by showing his "extensive" (in quotes) macro-economic budget indicators that we're going to reduce government debt, but this reduction is not happening due to a reduction in government debt, it's just that guarantees will be less issued. And if this year's government debt was 2.7 trillion, now the government's debt and government-guaranteed debt would be 2.3 trillion. What does that mean? Guarantees of 300-400 billion dollars are just going to be issued by the government less, it's just manipulation of numbers, there's no government debt going to be paid. If this year's government debt service -- just think about it -- the state is going to spend 306 billion dollars next year, so-called (in paws) "development budget" -- 417 billion dollars. The revenue portion is a little over 1 trillion dollars, which means that 40 percent of these not-so-complicated mathematical estimates go to just borrowing. What development can we talk about? As far as infrastructure development is concerned, it needs to be developed, of course, because all investment in infrastructure, which is worn out by about 75 to 80 percent, transport infrastructure, has a multiplier effect. It's also a building industry, and it's a corresponding development of entrepreneurship, it's a product, it's a multiplicative effect in the end on economic development. But we're not going anywhere from a government debt -- that's the first. And secondly, who wouldn't talk about critics in that part of the room where the Opposition Block is, I mean, no one but Yatzenuk has restructured the loan under, respectively, the percentage of GDP. No previous authority gave credit and a portion.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-03-m0.u94	Ten seconds to complete.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-03-m0.u95	No credit was given under the percentage of GDP, as Yatzenuk did. One percent of GDP is going to be given in this and in the coming years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-03-m0.u96	Colleagues, we've finished our discussions with the National Deputies. We will now proceed to the vote, to the decision-making process. And I'm asking all the factions to invite deputies into the hall. And I'm asking the Supreme Council Secretariat to invite everyone into the hall. In two minutes, we'll move on to the decision-making process. I now invite you to the words of First Deputy Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Irina Heratchenko. Please, and I'd like everyone to take up their jobs.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-03-m0.u97	Thank you, Your Honor, for joining me in discussing this important ratification as a non-factional MP. First of all, thank all the speakers that there is such a consolidated position of the hall to support this ratification. And let us also inform you of the terrible fact that Russian aggression has essentially led to the theft of more than 30,000 cars in the area of Donetsk and Lugansk, which remain occupied today. And the topic of this theft is one of the key during, including, an economic group meeting in Minsk. What's more, we're asking the Russian Federation, fully controlled by it, to give these wagons to Ukraine, including 85 cars purchased by the 14th year, new, beautiful EBRD loans that Ukraine has yet to pay. And it's obvious that we're addressing in parallel with the law enforcement authorities of Ukraine that have to be prosecuted and criminally prosecuted for these thefts. Because, imagine, on Russian and Separatist sites, there's now information, statements, ansons, that you're buying cars stolen from Ukraine, they're actually trading in this stolen property. So obviously we have to support our Crucifixion now, to support this ratification, but at the same time we have to demand the Russian Federation to pay back all of Ukraine's debts, and the Russian Federation and those who steal and steal now must be punished. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-03-m0.u98	So let's move on to making a decision. Colleagues, I see, not all are still in the workplace, please everyone please go back to the workplace, please invite everyone into the hall, look who's not around, and I'm going to go to the pool hall and get ready to vote. So let's move on to making a decision. During the discussion, all the factions and groups supported the ratification, which is now an important maximum mobilization in the hall, so take up jobs. I am voting on the draft Law on Ratification of the Agreement on the Promotion and Mutual Protection of Investments between the Government of Ukraine and the Government. Excuse me. I am voting on the draft Law on the Ratification of the Financial Agreement (Project on Modernisation of the Ukrainian Railway (Modernization of Public Equity Infrastructure) between Ukraine and the European Investment Bank (No.0186) as a basis and as a whole. Please vote. Please support this ratification, support the Ukrainian railway. Let's vote, colleagues. Please be supportive. Vote. [[11:33:18]] For 234 Ratification accepted. Congratulations. And, colleagues, now I want to make a little message. During the Conciliation Council, I was approached by two committees, such as the Committee on Education and Science, which ask us to support the offer of a speech on the Supreme Council of Ukraine by a teacher who won the nominee "Teacher of the Year", PaulaPchenicka. And for this thing to happen, it has to be supported by 150 people. Now, according to the Rules, I'm going to propose to allow this performance, and we're going to be allowed to speak at the Supreme Council at 12 o'clock, without the five twelve. I need 150 votes, colleagues. Therefore, I am voting in accordance with article 34 of the Rules of Procedure of the Committee on Science and Education on the possibility of speaking in the session room of the teacher, Paul Psenicka. Please vote and please support, colleagues. 150 votes. Please be supportive. Vote. [[11:34:32]] For 205 Decision taken. Before the break, without the number five, I invite you to speak. And now we're moving on to the next ratification. This is a draft law on the ratification of the Agreement on the Promotion and Mutual Protection of Investments between the Government of Ukraine and the Government of the State of Qatar (0197). Please support the consideration of the reduced procedure, colleagues. Make sure we can get through the two ratifications now. Two more. Please be supportive. We're voting for a cut. [[11:35:12]] For-163 Decision taken. I invite you to the report of the Secretary of State of the Ministry of Economic Development and Trade of Pereportszev Aleksija Juriovich. Please, Mr. Alexei. And let's, maybe with a brief discussion so that we can accept the two ratifications. Please, Mr. Alexei.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-03-m0.u99	Dear Mr. Head, distinguished national MPs! You are being reviewed by the draft Ukrainian Act ratifying the Agreement on the Promotion and Mutual Protection of Investments between the Government of Ukraine and the Government of the State of Qatar. The Agreement provides for the granting to investors of the States of the most contractual parties of the regime of maximum support for investment management, guarantees against illegal expropriation and nationalisation of investments, free transfer of payments, internationally recognized procedures for settling disputes between the investors of the States of the parties to the treaty and the contracting parties. The implementation of the Treaty will greatly contribute to the development of forward-looking international investment co-operation, the involvement of foreign investment and technology, the activation of external trade, the reduction of non-commercial risks to foreign investors, and the consolidation of Ukraine's positive international image as a favourable investment climate, which has a stable international contractual basis for the protection of foreign investment. Please accept it as a basis and as a whole. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-03-m0.u100	Thank you. I invite you to report to the head of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Gopco Hanna Mikolayevna.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-03-m0.u101	Colleagues, everyone's good day, and thank you for being able to ratify the first deal today on Wednesday. Now we're looking at another draft of Law 0197, which provides for the ratification of the Agreement on the Promotion and Mutual Protection of Investments between the Government of Ukraine and the Government of the State of Qatar. Our committee has been looking at this issue, asking to adopt this bill as a basis and as a whole. Indeed, it is extremely important that after the meeting in Doha on March 20, 2018, where our government and representatives of the Government of the State of Qatar talked about how to protect investments, particularly in order to increase their volume in the future, we care about this deal. So I'm asking everyone, because the next day we have another treaty to ratify, and we're taking advantage of the possibility that everyone here is, and so please, colleagues, now support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-03-m0.u102	Thank you, colleagues. Let's do it in a very concise way: two in a row, two in a row. Please. Livik Alexander Petrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-03-m0.u103	Please pass the word to Caplin.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-03-m0.u104	In view of the fact that Qatar is an oil - gas - gas country, I would like to take this opportunity to concentrate on these challenges. You know, I'm a Polish oil and gas-rich national deputy major, and we've done a lot to get rid of the oil and gas structures in Poltava until we passed a law that predicted that part of the rent would be left to the Poltava region. Then Poltavščina received another supplementary budget this year. This money goes to the construction of ambulances, roads, medical reforms, only genuine reforms, not through declarations and the imposition of a totally criminal, destructive policy on the part of MOZ in terms of the common people, but through the modernization of the health system. That is, the reform of ambulances, development reforms, the expansion of the health infrastructure network, and so forth. In addition, I want to officially state that the potential of Poltavščina, Sumstina, Harkushtina, in certain areas of Western Ukraine allows us not only to dream, but also to build our own energy sovereignty. And then any discussion of the need for each other, I emphasize, every other citizen to grant subsidies would fall away in principle. Because our compatriots, according to our calculations, would pay $3.5 per cubic meter for gas. So I think we need to move in this direction, brothers.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-03-m0.u105	Thank you. Blasphemy Gennady Grigorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-03-m0.u106	Thank you, Mr. Andrey. Well, first of all, I'd like to thank Alexia for a brief but concise presentation on this treaty ratification. But I would like to take further note of some of the risks that today are quite common with investors in Ukraine. It's not a problem of course, the Ministry of Economics, one Ministry of Economics, that's the whole issue. The problem of our entire state executive branch, including the local authorities. What's the problem? The problem is that today we have a lot of representatives from different countries who are investors who are investing in our production first, so we thank them very much, of course, but they are afraid and are now quite often faced with the possible facts of raiding, the possible facts of the illegal influence or decisions of the same law enforcement authorities or courts. So I would like us to just imagine and understand for ourselves today a certain responsibility to the investors who are coming to Ukraine today. And I'd like the Ministry of Economics to maybe take a closer look at these problems that I've been focusing on. So the faction of the People's Front will definitely vote in favour. And please say, well, turn to the moments that I mentioned in my speech. And in the future, I'd like the Ministry of Economics to have a proper meeting with the most, let's say, well-known investors working in Ukraine today. In order to actually hear all the problems that are for the investor and what needs to be done for both the parliament and the Cabinet of Ministers in order to remove these basic obstacles that prevent a fairly productive work of an investor in Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-03-m0.u107	Thank you. So, colleagues, now we're going to have a closing statement. I ask all the heads of factions to invite deputies to the hall. The Secretary of the Supreme Council to inform the deputies who are in the towers that in two minutes we are moving on to the decision-making process. I strongly request that you invite all the deputies into the hall now. A closing statement from Self-Help, Roman Semenich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-03-m0.u108	Semenha Roman, Self-Help Unit. Dear colleagues! Qatar is indeed one of the world’s greatest, powerful investors. But for some reason, the reporters modestly kept silent that according to all the years of Ukraine's independence, Qatar had not invested any dollars in our economy, although, indeed, Qatar's investments, for example, Britain, amounted to $50 billion, in Turkey -- over $15 billion. There are plans to invest more than $10 billion in Germany's economy. But two years ago, Qatari investors were looking at the possibility of investing in Ukrainian infrastructure, in hotel business, in hospitals, medical centres, and in sanatoriums. Thank God that regular flights to Doha are taking place every day from Borispolis today, negotiations are in progress at the final stage so that such flights can fly from Lviv. To this step. Ukraine agreed to simplify the visa regime between Ukraine and Qatar. But the level of investment, as we can see, is actually zero. But the real structures of investment in Ukraine today demonstrate a completely different nature of things and the interest of real investors. Yes, according to the same Djerstat, today's largest investors in the Ukrainian economy are Cyprus and the Netherlands. In 2017, Cypriot investors counted more than 27 percent of all investments in Ukraine per year — $506 million. In doing so to real investment, this sum, we understand, has no bearing whatsoever. In fact, it is the return of Ukrainian money that was previously taken out of Ukraine in a criminal way. So we certainly need to support this ratification, which will at least bring us closer to the real investment in our economy, which is very much needed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-03-m0.u109	Thank you very much. So the discussion is over, we're moving on to making a decision. Colleagues, I'm asking everyone to take up their jobs. I'm asking everyone to come into the hall. Colleagues in beds, we have to vote. During the discussion, all factions and groups expressed support for this ratification. Now the maximum mobilization is required. And I ask everyone to prepare for the vote and enter the hall. And I am voting on the draft Law on the Ratification of the Agreement on the Promotion and Mutual Protection of Investments between the Government of Ukraine and the Government of the State of Qatar (number 0197) on the proposal of a committee on the basis and in general. Please vote, please support, colleagues. We're voting carefully. Every voice. Please be supportive. [[11:45:39]] For 197 197. Not all the colleagues have arrived. I'll be right back. Please, I am now addressing the factions' heads: invite the deputies to the hall. By the previous law, we had enough votes. I'm asking you all to come to the hall. I'm going to read the factions. And I ask once again that the members of the committee and the heads of factions invite everyone to the hall. Peter Poshenko's Block – 72, People's Front – 55, Opposition Block – 16, Self-help – 13, Radical Party – 14, Father's Party – 4, Will of the People – 1, Rebirth Party – 4, and non-fractional – 18. Let's get back to the ratification and support it. Please come into the hall, colleagues. Invite and see who is in the towers and invite you to the hall. So I'm proposing to go back to ratification. First vote, proposal: To return to the draft Law on the Ratification of the Agreement on the Promotion and Mutual Protection of Investments between the Government of Ukraine and the Government of the State of Qatar (0197). Please vote and please support, colleagues. Every voice is important. Please, we all vote carefully. Let's vote, colleagues. We're backing it up. [[11:47:25]] For 197 I'll do it again. We'll have to reject ratification if there are no votes. Colleagues, everyone in the faction has a responsibility, which via SMS informs the MPs that there will be a vote now. Please inform all deputies to come into the hall. I'll put it to the vote again. Let all the national MPs know that we are now in the decision-making process so that everyone in the towers can enter the hall. So, colleagues, I propose once again to return to the draft law on ratification of the Agreement on the Promotion and Mutual Protection of Investments between the Government of Ukraine and the Government of the State of Qatar (0197). The first vote is the return. Colleagues, stop this discussion right now and vote. So, colleagues, please support the return to the 0197 ratification review. Please vote and please support. Every voice. Please carefully take part in the vote. Please be supportive. Vote. Please be supportive. Alexander, we vote. [[11:49:18]] For a hundred and The factions, please. Block of Petra Poshenko – 75, National Front – 54, Opposition Block – 9, Self-help – 13, Radical Party – 13, Father's Party – 5, Will of the People – 1, Rebirth Party – 5. Colleagues, I'm going to put the closing third time, and if there are no votes, unfortunately, the ratification will be rejected. So I'm closing this once and for all, I'm proposing to go back to the 0197 ratification vote. Please vote. Please support the return to draft Law 0197. Vote. Please be supportive. [[11:50:14]] For 196 Not enough votes to return to the draft Ratification Act, and thus draft Law 0197 is rejected. Colleagues, in order not to put the next ratification at risk, I'm going to put it on a rating vote. One second, colleagues. Next, the next vote is the rating vote. Be seated, please, and I ask you to return to your seat and take part in the vote. It's a deal, isn't it? I am voting for the next draft of the Ratification Act of the Protocol between the Government of Ukraine and the Government of the Republic of Turkey amending the Agreement between the Government of Ukraine and the Government of the Republic of Turkey on the avoidance of double taxation (0199). This is a rating vote to show the readiness of the hall for this ratification. Please take part in the rating vote, please vote, please support, this is a rating vote. [[11:51:25]] For-182 Colleagues, not enough voices. We're not going to put an important ratification at risk, let's look at it another day. And now I invite you to speak as we agreed today during the vote, Master Paul Franciszovich Wheat. I'll be able to continue your speech for a minute or two if I have to. Dear colleagues, I beg your attention, this was our decision. And welcome to PaulaPseniczka's word, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-03-m0.u110	Dear Head, honourable Presidium, honourable deputies, distinguished guests and viewers, and, of course, dear littorals present! [[Applause]] Have a good day! And thank you, too, for coming out of this high hall today, never thought what would happen in my life. I think that the problems of education concern everyone, because everyone has children, if not children, grandchildren. And contentions about education, about school, about lessons, grades, and teachers are common in every family. I assure you that in every family, not only Ukraine but the whole world. For 25 years, I've been traveling with our children, with my students in different forums around the world, and I've met a colleague there, and I've known about 30 countries around the world. I am familiar with their problems, and I assure you that the problems of education are about the same everywhere. But since I do not have much time today, I will start with an interesting event. In 2012, with a group of teachers, we were invited to the Argon Laboratory in the United States. This is a huge technology park, one of the most technologically important in the United States. It's somewhere near Chicago. And there we were invited to discuss the problems of education in the United States. And the point is that in 2012, a group led by the Secretary of State of the United States of America, Condoleezza Rice, adopted a very interesting document. It sounds like, "Educational problems and threats to national security in the United States." You can imagine, a country that has 11 atomic aircraft carriers, and another 11 builds, and they consider education a priority, especially in defense issues. Also, President Reagan, an American speaking in the Pentagon, said that if he did. At the time, the education budget in the United States exceeded the defence budget. And the Pentagon generals asked, how could that be? And Reagan said very simply that. He asked them: "Do you think the question of defense is solved in the Pentagon? So you're wrong, the issue of defense is decided by the school." [[Applause]] Well, as a physics teacher, I can speak professionally about this, this branch. I want to tell you that the problems of education should not only be of concern to us, but should already be of concern. So what's the problem? An object like physics, this year the number of people who came to Chernigow, I just spoke to the deputies from there, so there were three graduates who went to physics, Herson, Chernović two. You have to understand that this object in a bunch of math, information, mathematics, biology, chemistry -- they're all going the same way: these branches are rolling. For Ukraine, which builds rockets that have an atomic industry that builds airplanes, and one of the largest in the world, yes, that builds the big turbines that it has, it still has a very strong scientific potential, and that's years ahead of us in the world in STEM education, that is, our students actually feel free in the western heights. And we need to take here, in the Supreme Council, in the very influential body of our country, some long-term program, let's say, by 2030, as it was done in England, France, many other countries that would be carried out consistently, no matter who would be president, what government would be, who would be minister, so that it would be carried out in a very serious way. Because it's different.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-03-m0.u111	I'm going to add two minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-03-m0.u112	The threat to our national defense, the threat to our economy. [[Applause]] The threat of our country's information defense, our competitiveness. France is a moderate country with Ukraine by potential, by area, by territory, by population: education is free of charge from two years and until the end of the university. We recently returned from a European competition in Romania. For our team and for the teams of other countries, it was all free: wonderful reception, living, eating, excursions, cultural program. Our driver, who brought us there, constantly asked me how much this beautiful dormitory we lived in cost a student; how much it costs to study in Romania. And I finally dared and asked people. The answer was, "Universal education is free for Romanian citizens. It's free of charge." The same is true in Switzerland, and the same is true in Finland. The last two presidents of Estonia gave priority to education: Japan, Singapore, Shanghai, many other countries, Indonesia, Tunisia. Yeah? About 16-20 percent of the budget goes to education. And that's considered a norm. As a result, technology goes up, the competitiveness of high technology goes up. Make your own conclusions. These countries are concerned about their future. Spending on education is not a cost, it's an investment in the future. [[Applause]] And we have to support that. [[Applause]] And finally, I want to tell you what my concept is, what a good school is, because all parents, when they take children to first grade, they try to find a good school. And the Japanese unit manager said to me, "If you think we're doing so well in education, you're wrong. In order to get into a good school, we have parents recording the baby before it's born." Ukraine is one of the few countries in the world where September 1st is a national holiday. I think that's encouraging. And I also want to say what "good school" is. A good school is when children respect teachers, teachers respect children, parents support school in all their expectations, and as a result, children graduate from school, take this atmosphere into their adult lives, raise their children in the same way, and thus build the future of our country. Let us make a serious decision. [[Applause]] Thank you very much, great crease. I hope that we will work together to make sure that our education is at a high level. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-03-m0.u113	Thank you, thank you for your deep, wise words. I would like to remind you that PaulPeulPennyczka was recognized as the best teacher in Ukraine. And today's words in the Supreme Council of Ukraine, I think, will make us even more attentive and responsible for our reforms in education and child rearing. Thank you, thank you for the performance. Now, according to the Rules, I'm going to call it a 30-minute break. At 12:35, I ask everyone to return to the hall to continue our work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-03-m0.u114	So, my fellow officers, please come into the hall. Break time's up. Colleagues, I'm asking everyone to come to the hall. Mr. Spivakowski, if you'll excuse me. Everyone, please come into the hall. So, respectable colleagues, pay attention! Attention! We have the next Order 9101. And we just got off the phone with the head of the committee that even if we don't get the votes, even though I think we're gathering votes, the committee can move it to next week. But that's the reason and the ability to talk about the problems of education and the thoughts that our teacher expressed before the break here, from the Supreme Council of Ukraine. That's why we're going into the consideration of this Order 9101 amending the Supreme Council of Ukraine Order on the establishment of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's nominees for higher education students to increase the size of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's nominee scholarships. And I think it'll be a good opportunity to talk about the problems of education in Ukraine. And I invite you to report to the First Vice-Chairman of the Committee on Science and Education of Sperm Alexander Volodymyrovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-03-m0.u115	Dear Andrey Volodymyrovich! Dear colleagues! Dear Ukrainians! As always, when we're looking at educational problems, all the more so that we can view this issue as technical, because both the President of Ukraine and the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine have done everything they can to raise their name scholarships, and only the Supreme Council of Ukraine, which is making a collective decision that should be provided with 226 votes, cannot do that. So I very much hope that during this discussion the national MPs will hear, and we will ask Andrija Volodymyrovich to publish in the Voice of Ukraine the publication of those national MPs who vote for the students who vote for Ukraine's future. And I hope that, in fact, we will now continue the discussion that was initiated by the outstanding teacher, PaulPchenicka, who said in his brief report about the problems that exist. Dear colleagues, philosophy is very simple for us to make sure that students of technology and colleges get 2,000 and 130 dollars, and students of universities get 2,000 and 720 dollars. This is actually a problem that we need to resolve. But using what the regulation allows me to say some things, I'm going to say that today there's going to be a meeting of a professional committee on science and education, where two major issues are going to be considered -- this is the constitution of the admission of students for the coming year, these are the reception conditions that have to be approved by the Ministry of Education and Science of Ukraine by October 15th. And the second question is the problems of the education and science budget of Ukraine. What I want to say here. So if we've heard about our teacher, the teacher who's preparing children for international awards, then we need to understand that yes, of course, we need military funding, we need funding for the B.S.A., the D.A., the National Police, and so on. But, dear colleagues, why are we doing this? For our future, for our children. And so the things that are being proposed in the budget project today actually show that a lot of things don't just have a problem with the economy of money at all, they just show us that there is no philosophy, there is no ideology, there are no programs for education. Just look at the next thing. We ourselves have been talking for three or four years about how we should fight against unquality education, destroy fairies, fairies, create powerful educational holdings that can give our children quality education here in Ukraine. Instead, article 22, appendix 10, shows that 69 colleges should be expelled from the body of universities. Please tell me, what's the philosophy here? We understand perfectly that on January 1st all 30,000 students, 4,000 teachers and 5,000 employees will be released. Why is this being done? To further increase migration from Ukraine. Instead of having systems. to propose a systemic development model, we just step by step, year by year through budget, cut, cut and kill our education. And then we say it should be quality. Dear colleagues, it will never be of quality when we reduce expenses year after year. Moreover, the Department of Profiles always has administrative powerful tools to influence what happens at universities. That's why we're both proposing, and the Science and Education Committee is offering system tools. These include the problem of reforming the university management system, the problem of an entirely new philosophy of funding universities, where children will be financed, and where investment in higher education will be financed. We offer a third, very powerful module that is related to measuring the educational processes that are taking place. In fact, Ukraine doesn't actually have a picture, a picture of what's happening in the education system, all of which leads to stagnation one step at a time. Unfortunately, 27 years from now, we're able to see how year after year we're reducing funding, and it's correlated with the level of migration of our children abroad. Moreover, this unbalanced human capital policy leads to problems between regions when we see, for example, in the southern areas -- Donetsk, Lugansk, Zaporzik, Hersonsk, Mikolaiivsk region -- where we see an average of two and a half percent of the population in these areas, and a government order of 1.2 percent, i.e. we step by step set a trend for young people to leave these regions. Moreover, we see a gap in the results of the WNW between areas, center and west, and it's already reaching 14 percent. And that means that not only does young people leave, but educated young people leave, so we are one step at a time, a model that is now being applied through the introduction, we are actually launching a model for the destruction of educated young people from certain areas of Ukraine. And then we say we want to fight the enemy? This is not the only way to fight the enemy by weapons and machine guns. First of all, our weapons with you are our brains, it's our culture, it's our education, it's our spirituality. That is why it is impossible to propose a budget in this way, and the way that we today have the reception conditions that we are offered, unfortunately, by our home Ministry of Education and Science, is not acceptable either. Yes, we understand the delimitation of powers of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and the Ministry of Education. But, dear fellows, we must influence, we are a parliamentary republic with you, not the other way around. So I just urge all of you who are today to pay great attention to the problems that exist in education. I want us to remember that we want to live in Ukraine after 10 and 15 and 20 years. Where will we live? Where will the young no longer be, for it will build other countries: Poland, Slovakia, the Czech Republic, the United States? Dear colleagues, I am addressing this issue, with the opportunity and time to discuss these issues, once again to draw attention to both the community and the executive branch of power to the problems that exist, we need to solve these problems. Now, as far as science is concerned. Look, three years ago, practically, on December 6, 2015, we accepted with you, we voted here the Science and Technology Act. We said, with applause, that's how cool we were, we passed such a law. And what, it's being done? Instead of 1.7 percent of the GDP that the state has to finance the scientific research sector of Ukraine, we are actually giving 0.17 percent of GDP in this year's total fund, that is, ten times less. Yes, there are claims to scientific institutions, to the management system, there are claims, but when we have these claims, please have a Kabmin, influence what's going on there, offer a model. But reducing funding means that older people, scientists are left with money, and young people are actually running out of financial resources, and that means that young people are going to be, like, talented young people going to other countries and creating a lot of extra cost. Dear colleagues, for whom do we work, for whom do we create a new Ukrainian school? For Poland, for the Czech Republic, for Slovakia? No, dear colleagues, if we do not leave a strong link to higher education, Ukraine’s prospects will be neither in the army nor in defence nor in high technology nor in aviation or in the missile field. Dear colleagues! It is up to you and me what will happen in the future in Ukraine. Once again, please, in discussing this question, call our colleagues again, let them come here, because today we are discussing not the power, not the current issues, we are discussing what Ukraine will be like in 10-15 years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-03-m0.u116	Thank you. Now there will be three minutes to ask questions, but as the people's deputies prepare for questions, I want to say that now that we're talking about education, there's a teacher-educators in the Supreme Council of Ukraine from the Mikolai region, Kazanka and Bastanka. We welcome them today. [[Applause]] We wish you success, and we are pleased that you are with us today in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. So please record the question. Miroshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-03-m0.u117	Dear Alexander Volodymyrovich! In fact, today is a special day, not only because we are considering it but surely need to maintain it. But such a professional and even touching performance by the best teacher in Ukraine seems to have brought our hall together. We stood there applauding because Ukrainian security, the Ukrainian future, is primarily about raising us to the right level of education. Please tell me, is your committee preparing a systematic change to legislation? And what else can the Supreme Council do besides support our best students and students in the field of education? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-03-m0.u118	Thank you for asking. As you know, the very procedure for drafting bills, the more systematic bills, is being developed by the Ministry of Education and Science of Ukraine. There is an adequate human resource, a corresponding financial resource. Therefore, the committee in this case is primarily an expert environment, as a system that invites relevant experts to discuss these issues. The following system laws related to adult education, preschool primary education, and general secondary education are being prepared. It's these system laws after we passed the basic Education Act a year ago that should solve these problems. But I don't know how much time there will be in this case for our cadence to systematically solve these problems. But the committee's working on it, especially since the committee still has intellectual property issues. And with the resources that we have today, you can see the entire work of the committee, it's completely transparent.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-03-m0.u119	Thank you. Macola Roman Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-03-m0.u120	Good afternoon! Roman Macola, 190th constituency, Hmelnicka district. Ladies and gentlemen, I offer to support young people and to make a decision. Five hundred students across Ukraine will receive a higher $300 - 400 scholarship this year, only $180,000 for the budget, and for each student, first of all, it is an incentive. Just one question, Mr. Alexander, and why only 500 and not more? After all, I think we have more deserving students. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-03-m0.u121	Please, Mr. Alexander.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-03-m0.u122	I want to say that there are parameters that are accepted by the Supreme Council of Ukraine, and we are acting within these parameters. If a decision has been made so many, yes, so many nominations and so on, then we clearly follow the Rules. If we want to increase or decrease that amount, we have to make a separate decision that will solve this issue.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-03-m0.u123	Thank you. And the last question is, dispute Ivan Dmitrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-03-m0.u124	Ivan Sporish, Peter Dusty Block, 15th District. It's a pretty important decision. I ask you to pass the word to Alexander Dechtyrczuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-03-m0.u125	Dear Mr. Alexander, thank you for your position in protecting the educational sector. I would like to pay attention to your support for your position, but I would like to point out that, by speaking to us as I would like to point out, not about a new Ukrainian school, but about a good school. So a lot of the reforms that the Ministry of Education is doing right now, they're like this blanket that we're dragging from one foot to the other, and it's missing everything. I mean, budget funding. How do you feel about the need to improve the formula for the calculation of educational subsidies? Because statistics say that, for example, communities in the district that I represent, 154th, out of 16 communities at the end of the year, there are only two communities that have enough funds to pay to teachers of education subsidies, 14th even to united communities, not to mention districts, these costs are missing. The old formula, which is the basis of budget calculations, doesn't take class division into account, it doesn't take into account inclusive education.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-03-m0.u126	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-03-m0.u127	Thank you for asking. I want to say right now that the questions you're talking about today are going to be discussed with us at the Committee on Science and Education meeting, and the things that are related to the imperfections of this formula, because it was actually used for the first time. What's more, we know that it's actually done that everything about pedagogical workers is financed by government subsidies, and all the other costs are financed by local authorities. It is clear that all communities have the same opportunities because the formation of the territory of Ukraine has taken place in a completely different way. Therefore, the committee's recommendations to the Ukrainian Ministry of Finance are today designed to improve the formula and to take into account the factors you asked about.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-03-m0.u128	Thank you. Question time's up. Colleagues, we've got factions and groups now. I'm asking you to do the recording. For the time being, I want to address both the Deputy Minister of Justice of Montenegro and the Committee that after this ruling we will be considering two laws that have the veto of the President. The committee asked that they should be formally rejected so that the committee could make new decisions, so these two laws were: 2292 and 2253. I think we're going to be able to look at it and we're going to deflect it so that you can continue to develop it and bring it into the hall. Thank you. Welcome to the presentation from the "Opposition Block" by Igor Mihajlovich. Please, Mr. Igor.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-03-m0.u129	Dear colleagues, respected citizens of Ukraine! We're looking at today on Wednesday, the day that there's always practically no MPs in the hall, the draft decree for changes that relate to the setting up of scholarships. Is there anyone in the room against the fact that a child who is learning well can raise a scholarship for a certain amount of money, let's say that the first level of accreditation is 2 thousand and 130 dollars; or the one who is studying in higher education institutions, the third-iv level of accreditation, to the level of 2 000 720? Of course, there are no such people against it. But if he does today, that's us today. What are we getting paid for, MPs? That we're coming to work, we're considering issues and we're voting. Who are the taxpayers paying for the money today? There are 150 people in this room. It's from the cars. I'm sure the majority will vote for it, but we're not even going to put it in the room. You know, to train people, you have to do this: or you have to have the President here -- then everyone will do this because it's gonna be scary, or for an interesting person like this to come, then everyone will listen. But even those who listened to the teacher came out of the hall -- not now. I'm wondering why we're not looking at the initiative today to reconsider the President's proposals. We need to see how he is supported by his coalition, how many voices there are. There are two bills. Why is the issue of education raised on Fridays and Wednesdays when there is no one to vote? We're talking today about what we've been given a car, and today everyone who wants to go to Vienna or Paris Opera can sit down and fly. But we're not talking about what is happening today, except for the countries of the European Union that are our partners that are very concerned about us, are doing a simplified process of employment. Why? Because it's expensive to train qualified professionals of any profession, and it's not from anyone. That is why Ukraine becomes a donor to experts. And if we want those children to have any hope, we need to draw attention to their needs. And today the youth sees how many these uncles and aunts sit in the Supreme Council, and there is no one to vote. What they will say about that state and its attitude toward it. We are taking steps today that call into question the appropriateness of the political process of Ukraine, just as those who do not want to see that strong state do. It's very sad. This applies not only to education but also to medicine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-03-m0.u130	Thank you. Welcome from the People's Front to the word. People's Chamberlain, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-03-m0.u131	Taras Kremen, People's Front. Dear colleagues, this is a very important proposal for a regulation to increase scholarships for university students is one of the key commitments that we should make in order to support talented and promising young people. We are now entering the budgetary process, and it is extremely important now not only to discuss the increase in scholarships for our children, but also the increase in the status of education and science in our society. An hour ago, we had one of the best Ukrainian teachers known around the world. And we applauded him with you saying that financing education is not a cost, it's an investment. But together with when we start looking at issues related to education, not the number of parliamentarians in the room, the question of how we talk about it. This is especially relevant on the eve of Pedagogical Day, when we rush to our class leaders, to our schools, to our first teachers, who conducted us, including the session hall. So I think in principle, and so our committee's position that we should do our work professionally and qualitatively. Ukrainian school: whether it's a new Ukrainian school, whether it's a new garden, or whether it's a new Ukrainian university, it's supposed to be supported by the maximum of society and Parliament and the leadership of our state. We need to reason with the problems associated with both labour migration and migration of skilled workers, and with the lack of qualified workforce in the labour market, and with the great tasks with which we stand. We are very often talking about building a state, but who are the builders if not these successful youths? Youths who passed the Dignity Revolution, young people who volunteered to go to the front, young people who went back to school to work and give their children the first lesson in life. So I'm talking to my colleagues both from our committee, and from our faction, to get as much together as possible and to support this very important draft decision. I believe in the rebirth of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-03-m0.u132	Thank you. I invite you to speak to the "Fatherland" faction of the national deputy Eutushka.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-03-m0.u133	Thank you, Oksana Ivanovna! SergeyYevtushkok, "The Fatherland" faction, Ravenshkin. Dear colleagues, well, we should have looked at this decision a long time ago and made it possible to compare to all these academic scholarships, which, for example, are larger than the academic scholarships of the Supreme Council for today, for example, the President of Ukraine's scholarship, for example, a government scholarship. But I think today the fate of this decision will again be a failure. Because there are no people in the room. I'm going to say that the Fatherland faction will support this decision. And I would like to draw the attention of the committee heads and all the representatives of the Committee on Education and Science to the fact that we have a lot of problems besides scholarships in education. I've been able to attend a lot of schools in the district last week, it's not just one or two schools, and it's practical to see how our reform is being implemented with you, which is basically supported by the Fatherland faction in the session room. New Ukrainian school. I'll say that aside from allowing us to get laptops to school, "New Ukrainian School," there's a big problem, instead, that it's in those schools that teachers can't use this equipment, because for a banal reason: there's no Internet in the village or there's no Internet in the village at all. I also want to say that the absence of textbooks for the New Ukrainian School creates a situation where a teacher literally uses the meaning of that word on his fingers to force first-hand kids to show the first digits, the first letters. This is a very bad situation. So I would ask the committee to respond to this complex matter and signal the Ministry to speed up the distribution of textbooks for the New Ukrainian School. I also want to draw attention to the fact that we now have a heated season on our noses and in public education institutions, other educational institutions are already thinking about how to go through it, because funding for these costs is very limited. There's a government decree number 6, which prohibits subsidies from the state budget for education in areas, in the area, for example, for warming, for modernization, for energy saving, there, windows, resources. I think it needs to be unlocked and given the opportunity to those areas where there is money to do this. And I also want to pay attention to prestige. Why our teachers with outstretched hands go to the organs.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-03-m0.u134	30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-03-m0.u135	They go to the local authorities with their hands stretched out to get that poor 20 percent prestige allowance or a few percent, a couple of bracelets is 400, 500, 600 dollars to get those coins. They're all just spending this money on the acquisition of science textbooks, some textbooks, some textbooks. So this is a misunderstanding. I ask the committee to pay attention to this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-03-m0.u136	Thank you. And I invite you to the speech of the People's Deputy Oleg Barezyuk of the Self-Help faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-03-m0.u137	Dear colleagues, there is a famous expression that says that the state, the government, should love money, not words. Parliament speaks words and meditates on these actions of the government. So today, the government has put the Ministry of Education and Science as an addict. Depending on the terrible budget deficit. It's not about development today, it's about the survival of education. First of all, the problems of education are trying to solve with education itself by shutting down schools. Few students suffer, teachers who do not get a job, where do they go? They're going to make money abroad. We will never return those people as teachers. And these quality people who have worked in these villages and towns all their lives have authority. The other one. Nuclear underfunding of the sector itself. Today, subsidies are paid only because the fuel and technical subsidies were transferred a year ago to the local authorities, which do not pull them out. There are 4.4 billion dollars missing. Today, 30 percent of the local government pays its own student subsidies because they would have closed their classes long ago at 99 percent, with a requirement of 27, 25, 29, 28.5 students, and sometimes more. It's a physical robbery of education. And there's nothing to talk about, no development. And it's around the east and the west and the south. Blasphemy and government lies. And the most misleading information is that this is a matter of local self - government. No, it's an anti-constitutional crime. Today, there is no cost for a student who, according to the Constitution, should be provided by the State, even in this circular way that they have divided the salaries of teachers and the technical service of schools. I'm talking to the government: you can't joke about it. And today we're standing in front of the person who told us it's the security of the country, it's not just an investment, it's security. Because when teachers leave the Vojtic community, where they close the school, they won't come back, and that's the safety of future generations.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-03-m0.u138	Thank you. Welcome to the speech of the People's Deputy Shahov of the "Will of the People" Group.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-03-m0.u139	Sergeyshakhov, the political power of Our End. Dear colleagues, surely, me and my colleagues will support this decision because it is the most important decision for our children. When I was a young man, I received a scholarship and was happy. After that, he became an entrepreneur and gave scholarships at his home school, and the children were happy. Today I am a national MP like you, and so I ask each of you to support this draft decision, because it is important to Ukrainian children. Today, too, we need to consider teachers, doctors who teach and treat our children. You see what's going on. Today, teachers are practically in a beggarly state. Today our utilities, including schools, kindergartens, pay three times more than electricity -- and from the pockets of parents, from the pockets of teachers themselves, doctors pour money into the pockets of oligarchs. And this is because Kabin does not want to support the very ones who are making the most of our efforts to keep our country alive today. You see, 7 percent statistics, kids, today they want to run away from Ukraine. 70 percent of doctors left our country that year, 20 percent practically sitting in suitcases. They say that they gave the Hippocratic oath, but today wages are low. So come on, I've also registered Regulation 8376, which lowers prices, lowers prices to utilities for electricity three times -- up to 90 copies, like the consumers of their apartment, for 90 copies, they can pay up to 100 kilowatts for electricity. You will see what Minister of Energy and Fuel Nasalik claims today that he wants to raise the gas that through NCREKP robs every Ukrainian by increasing electricity, namely stealing from our children, stealing from their parents, and pensioners from each family. That's why I'm asking and demanding today to put regulation 8376's draft to a vote and lower the price of electricity. Also, Regulation 9027 is registered for gas, which also today prohibits a rise in gas prices. We can't raise, we can't raise today's wages to doctors and teachers, so let's not at least raise the price of gas to 13,000 dollars, as Kabmin demands today. And Kabmin today, "Our End" today requires a report from Kabmin, in three years and an immediate full reload of the Kabmin.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-03-m0.u140	Please, 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-03-m0.u141	This draft decision will be supported. Thank you. Sergeyshakhov, the political power of Our End.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-03-m0.u142	Thank you. And I'd like to invite you from Peter Dustenk's Block to the words of the people's MP Macola.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-03-m0.u143	Please pass the word to Shinkovich Andriy Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-03-m0.u144	Shinkovich, right?
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-03-m0.u145	Dear people's deputies, "Our Land" told us how to do it, but he didn't tell us where to get the funding really. And it's too bad that a very important issue is scholarships and in general the education system has turned into, unfortunately, some kind of populism. I would like to focus your attention on the practical and specific things that we can do in this room, just us national MPs. First of all, he wanted to start by saying that it was very pleasant that we listened to a better teacher in Ukraine today. But today, probably every teacher who works at the Ukrainian school is better because he works there and teaches our children. But, my friends, I think it's time to listen to the Ministry of Education about the state of origin of the New Ukrainian School. And we know the reality, it's not a criticism of the Ministry of Education, we know when the Ministry of Finance turned the money over to the purchase, and then there's the tenders, and there's the price change. And today, unfortunately, we need to be honest, and the Ministry of Finance has to be the first to say why in June. Yeah, coming into the budget, we know when do we get the most out of it, but the priorities could be set? It was possible. Unfortunately, the New Ukrainian School didn't work today because the Ministry of Finance was idle or it wasn't doing the right thing. Second, dear friends, look, the food has taken away government funding, left only individual groups, let's do something concrete. Maybe we'll return the prestige of the work to 20 percent, more like 20 percent of the well-fixed. Let's maybe leave the food at the local level, but from the government budget, 20 percent, not as one initiator did, I won't call it, changed it to 20 percent. Not up to 20 percent, zero is up to 20. And a teacher for prestige could get 20 percent and really not go to the local authorities for that money. Next. A very important thing, a practical, very important thing. We have to go back to paying for the work of teachers, and you remember very well what it started with: the minimum wage. And then unknown manipulations turned out to be up to the minimum cost of living. I'm actually going to come to my district after the hops, and I'm always meeting teachers there, and I'm going to explain to them what Mr. Barna would rather say in the right language, and I'm going to say in the right language, who, in the words here, spit, not spit, but we voted, and only after the vote did we find out that we voted for the minimum wage minimum that pays for teachers' salaries, not the minimum wage. We all remember that well. Let's go back to that, and I urge everyone to go back -- that's the main thing in education -- to go back to the fair calculation of teachers' wages by coming out of the minimum wage, not the minimum wage. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-03-m0.u146	Thank you. And radical. The Radical Party faction conveys the word to the People’s Deputy of Lithuania. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-03-m0.u147	Dear colleagues, watching a session hall, especially on Wednesdays and Fridays, sometimes I think of the words of a classic that is now forbidden, "The narrow circle of revolutionaries, they're terribly far away from the people," -- especially when we're talking about education problems. You know, lazy -- always a holiday, always in power -- always a win. Wherever you look, what you don't say, they say: Reforms produce remarkable results. In fact, according to the decisions made by the Supreme Council, including cutting the teachers ’ salaries, and actually changing the content of the problem. Clearly, it was necessary to determine the priorities of the state’s development. And when we say we need to have a future, reform education, focus costs, frame and control. If we are talking about a national idea and it should be the preservation of the Ukrainian people from extinction, there is obviously a need for health reform. And when I see a calf's admiration for what we've done 144 reforms, it turns out that it's gotten much worse in the country, because the 2019 budget project is 36.5 percent, if you take a solid currency, less than the 2013 budget. Now, with regard to education reform, a concrete example: in Novograd-Wolinski, by the end of the year, there is not enough for teachers to pay 6.3 million, and this is the task of the State Budget, the Baranov United Territorial Community, which is not enough to pay 7.2 million dollars by the end of the year. Until now, the Cabinet of Ministers is calculating the formula and the coefficient by which it will finance the salaries of teachers. And this formula is that you have to cut down on teaching groups and close schools, because you understand very well when rural and urban communities are united, different class fillings. So, honourable colleagues, obviously, we need to make a decision on the draft of this decision, as we often do when they propose: we put it to a rating vote. I would ask that we learn, by the way, that this is a signal vote -- the willingness of the session room to support a decision; and that we should take it, so that we can show the example of young people that we are somehow taking care of them. We see talents, and we support them. Judging from everything, we haven't gotten to it yet. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-03-m0.u148	Thank you. We've completed the discussion from the MPs, and we're moving on to a discussion from the MPs. Please prepare for writing. The general rule will be 9 minutes to discuss. Please hold the recording. I'd like to invite you to the floor of the People's Deputy Kaplan.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-03-m0.u149	Respectable compatriots! Dear children, teachers! Teachers know that education in Ukraine begins with their wages, at their level. From her level, from how timely they'll get it, how much. This is the main indicator of respect from the Supreme Council of Ukraine for the Ukrainian teacher. All this talk that we've been listening to for an hour, that just destroys the subject of discussion, that just humiliates the Ukrainian teacher into one place, the Ukrainian teacher and the children and the parents of the children. You're talking about where there's no money, and others are teaching you how to work for the Supreme Council. And you make a decision about the factions that are here, giving up the 1 billion dollars that you take from a Ukrainian teacher, from a Ukrainian child to hang completely meaningless, completely illogical and sometimes just anti-Ukrainian and anti-Ukrainian boards, starting a campaign year before it starts. You take and give this money to the Ukrainian miner, give this money to build the infirmary, give this money to those things that are really substantial, systemic. You're discussing a future Ukrainian teacher today. In the hall from one faction to the letter "B" -- two people -- from another faction to the letter "R" or "L" -- three people, there are two left-wing social democrats with Sasa Sugonako, we are only fully composed out of respect for the Ukrainian teacher, only out of respect for the Ukrainian child. Where can I get the money? Why don't we maybe cut the number of assistants working for the national deputies a few times, including, as a rule, members of the professions of the wider profession, usually of the earlier professions, and we'll give this money to the Ukrainian school? Why don't we clean up the stupid Ukrainian Cabinet programs these days? Last year, we voted "The Development of Leadership" of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. Where did that leadership come from? The program was given nearly 150 million dollars. Would they be useless to the Ukrainian teacher, the Ukrainian pensioner, the Ukrainian plain man? No, it's not. So these conversations need to be stopped. Dear teachers, dear children, this swarm will be nothing, according to Barna. We need to make decisions today about the earliest elections of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. You have to put in the neck of those who eat your hopes, your money, and bring in responsible people who will fight for your future, who will bring you back to sleep and Poland, who will give you a ticket to the future, into a normal life. This calls for political will, not the chateau and the Trinitarians who arranged it.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-03-m0.u150	Barna invites her to the floor. Tretyakov Alexander gives the word. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-03-m0.u151	Praise Jesus Christ! Honorable fellow MPs, as well as the people of Ukraine, I think you need to pay attention to the education system quite seriously, and not to make the exclamation points here, especially when you have to thank the teachers for what you've become. The education system is the foundation of nation formation. And if we don't think about our young people right now, about the future, there's no reason to stand up for our independence now or defend it, because sooner or later, we're going to be doomed. And it is a clear civic position, the national dignity of patriots, volunteers, our soldiers that has given us the opportunity to protect the country and the unarmed, virtually unarmed, to stop an armed Russian aggressor from the teeth that this position has given us the opportunity to unite the nation in order to warm up, feed, and even arm the army. That is why we can talk about the education system, and let us note that we need to raise a healthy patriotic generation. And not only should the state take care of it, but the authorities of local self-government, which have enough resources in their accounts to fund institutions, develop extra-school education instead of buying jeeps, putting bones, or overseas shipping. Support the bill on compulsory feeding for all students in school. To develop further drafts and places to implement the development of extra-school education, sports schools, the creativity of young people, as well as artistic creativity. Raising the salaries of teachers and paying attention to this should be given to local authorities who could provide considerable resources from their budgets. We should point out that the principles and foundations of native pedagogical science have much greater and better experience – the school of Makarenko and Sukhomlinski – than in Europe. Clearly, then, the best way to do so is to return the grades, the exams, and combine the efforts of teachers, parents, and the public to raise children properly and to be responsible for the proper upbringing of their children. The goal of all of us is a smart, healthy and patriotic nation. So we need to unite now more than ever, regardless of our political affiliation, in order to form healthy, intelligent, patriotic young people. There's education. 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-03-m0.u152	30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-03-m0.u153	There is education, there are young people, there is a nation – there will be Ukraine. And on the eve of Education Day, let us thank our teachers, our founders, the nation’s builders, and their respective laws to raise wages and give due to our country’s Ukrainian education.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-03-m0.u154	Thank you. And the closing statement, Hennaday Krivoshya. Then there'll be a vote. I ask everyone to come into the hall and ask the factions to invite the deputies into the hall. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-03-m0.u155	Gennady Krivoshya, faction of the People's Front. Thank you, Andry Volodymyrovich. Once again, I would like to point out that there are not enough deputies in the room and ask everyone to come to our colleagues’ hall. Dear friends, the question is quite important. And I'm really sorry that there are so few of us in the room today. I understand that I don't want to talk in advance, as they say, but I understand that we are about to fail this decision. But what's more, I'd like it to be in everyone's heart, so everyone has it in their souls. Because today is such a small thing as a scholarship for a student of any level of accreditation of a school is quite important. That's true of children who are half orphans, that's true of children who are orphans, that's true of children who have a rather serious level of preparation and training. This applies to students and children who at night learn different materials and objects to actually make our country light and future, to represent it at a level, an international level, at a high sufficiently intellectual level, to show how strong, powerful and how powerful Ukraine can show and educate, and to prepare serious, qualified specialists. I understand that we can't pay attention to all students today, that's how it is. But Parliament, both the government, and the Ministry of Education have given quite a lot of attention to today's day of training our students. Let's focus on the level to which one or the other educational institution should correspond: at the level of teaching teachers. And for free this week, we're raising this problem, and we realize that today, from what's going to be the level of students, the level of students depends on what level of teaching is going to be. And so given that today we have a level of pedagogical group in Ukraine that's quite serious and quite large and we've seen today at the presentation and as a teacher speaking out of this rostrum, I'd like to take the initiative to do the name scholarships of Ukraine for teachers, for teachers. Yes, it's for teachers, because these people are preparing the future of our Ukraine, these people are preparing the future of our nation with you. Therefore, it is a great request today to vote in favour of the decree. Thank you all. The People's Front faction for the people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-03-m0.u156	Thank you. So, colleagues, let's go to the vote. We were able to talk about the education problem that is today in Ukraine, I think it matters. And we agreed with the chairman of the committee that even if the ruling was rejected, the committee would move it, allowing our regulations and allowing our rights. But nevertheless, I ask everyone to take up their jobs and take part in the vote. Everyone, please come into the hall. So I'm putting to the vote a draft decree amending the Supreme Council of Ukraine decree on the establishment of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's name scholarships for students in higher education institutions. Please vote, please support. Let's vote, colleagues. Please be supportive. [[13:40:52]] For-125 125. The decree is rejected. But I promise the committee that if you move it, we will put it on the table and we will be able to consider and support it quickly, accept it. Colleagues, as I have pointed out, are the following two laws of Ukraine for reconsideration with the proposals of the President of Ukraine. In fact, both the President of Ukraine and the committee are proposing that they be rejected. It's important to the committee, because the committee won't be able to bring in new ones until they're rejected. Wait a minute, 20 minutes. Here is a special procedure: just a reporter, a coreporter, a question and a vote. And we'll be able to look at both of them at two o'clock. So I'm asking everyone to stay in the hall. And we are going to consider the first Ukrainian Act on Amendments to some Ukrainian legislative acts on the replacement of permanent deprivation of liberty with a more mild penalty, with proposals by the President (No.2292). I remind you, this is a special procedure. And I invite you first to the report of the Deputy Justice Minister, Mr. Chernishov Denis Viktorovich. Please, Mr. Dennis.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-03-m0.u157	Honourable Andriy Anatoliyovich, distinguished national MPs present, in accordance with the letter dated 04.06.2018 from the Head of the Ukrainian Presidential Administration, I am authorized to present the President's proposals to the Ukrainian Law "To amend certain Ukrainian legislative acts to replace the permanent deprivation of liberty with a milder penalty" (registration number 2292) at the plenary meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine instead of the representative of the Ukrainian President in the Supreme Council, Ms Lucenko. Thus, according to the President’s proposals, the prescribed law cannot be signed for the following reasons: The law introduces a new legal institution for conditional release from punishment. It is predicted that the conditional release from punishment will apply to a convict who is sentenced to life imprisonment if it is found by the court that he does not require further punishment and has in fact been deprived of his will for at least 20 years and for lack of malicious violations for the last three years. In the case of those sentenced to permanent deprivation of the will provided for by the court for release from punishment, an administrative review of the sentence of 10 years is established, after which the sentenced person who performed his duties and did not commit a new crime is released by the court from his sentence of imprisonment in the form of permanent deprivation of liberty. In this regard, it should be noted that punishment in the form of permanent deprivation of liberty is imposed in exceptional cases, especially serious crimes, and is applied only in cases specifically provided for in the Criminal Code of Ukraine, if the court does not consider it possible to apply waivers for a certain period of time. Thus, for example, the Criminal Code of Ukraine provides for punishment in the form of permanent deprivation of liberty for committing such extremely dangerous crimes, resulting in the death of people or other serious consequences, such as murder under burdensome circumstances, a terrorist act that has led to the death of a person, the use of weapons of mass destruction that have caused the loss of lives or other serious consequences, also genocide. In addition, the President's right, established by the Constitution, has been violated. According to the law of part two of article 87 of the Ukrainian Criminal Code, permanent deprivation of liberty may be replaced by an act of pardon in the form of deprivation of liberty for a term of not less than 25 years. The imposition of conditional release from punishment of convicts who are sentenced to life imprisonment after they have been released for at least 20 years, nullifies the importance of the legal institution for the pardon of such persons. Also listed are a number of inadequacies to existing legislation. And on this point, the President proposed that the bill be rejected. Moreover, as the Ministry of Justice, we fully agree with the position of the President and the need to reject this law. We would like to point out here that the President's Administration and the President are personally giving the utmost attention to directing the retention of persons who are kept in the penitentiary system to European standards, and this is also seen in our further legislative work. Yes, Bill 7337 of the Penitentiary System, co-authored by Mr. Kožemiakin and Mrs. Lucenko, provides for a procedure for the permanent release of persons who are appointed by the court to be deprived of their liberty. Report completed.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-03-m0.u158	Thank you very much. The co-report invites the head of the committee’s subcommittee on law enforcement activities, Miroshnichenko Yuri Romanović. Please, Mr. Yuri.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-03-m0.u159	Thank you, Andrey Volodymyrovich. The honourable voters, the honourable colleagues, would like to express the position of our committee of profile on the subject of the veto imposed by the President. The Committee considered the President's proposals for the Ukrainian Act on Amendments to certain Ukrainian legislative acts on the replacement of permanent deprivation of liberty with a milder penalty, since November 26, 2015, No. 847-VIII. The president, as you have heard, is suggesting that the law be rejected. Having considered the President's proposals and considering that the individual provisions of the above-mentioned law have already been implemented by the Supreme Council on 7 September 2016 of Law No. 492, which has become effective and other provisions more comprehensively regulated in the draft Penitentiary System Act (Registration No. 337), the members of the Committee have decided to support the President's proposal and reject the law. Dear colleagues, as the head of the profiling committee, I would like to draw your attention to the very problem that is regulated by this law. This is the very substance of the reform that is based on the principles of European principles, namely, not revenge, the purpose of the penitentiary system and the judicial system, not the attempt to cause suffering even to the person who committed the crime, but to bring it back, to make it possible to repent, and, in fact, the "penitentiary" in the translation is "repent". Allowing new motivation to return to society to resocialize. That is why it was suggested that principles that were in force in both Europe and the United States. Even a person sentenced to life imprisonment 20 years later has the right to review his sentence and be given the chance not to get rid of the punishment but to change his regime that does not involve being deprived of his will. Such practices take place throughout the civilized world. Such an opportunity creates for those who have made terrible mistakes in life, who may have committed terrible crimes, not to lose their motivation to make amends. Do not lose contact with your families, do not be a source of danger to society. And those suggestions that were made in this law were certainly considered carefully by our committee of profile. We understand and respect the President and his right to pardon. We do not in any way deny the President's right under the Constitution to be pardoned. But we're creating a mechanism that can be initiated by the prosecution's own initiative. Which will be decided by a court that will allow society not to lose even a person who is sentenced to life imprisonment. This problem remains, and as Denis Viktorovich Chernish pointed out, we have put this very idea into one approved law. And in another complex law on the penitentiary system, this idea is also being implemented. So even though the veto is imposed, and I don't think we can beat it today because, in principle, that would probably be wrong. But we have not abandoned this problem, we have not abandoned these challenges, and we will work to resolve this problem. Thank you for your attention and for your vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-03-m0.u160	Thank you. So, colleagues, first I'm proposing to reject the law, then I'm betting on beating the President's veto. If both of those proposals are not passed, the law is regarded as rejected and opens the way for the committee to develop a new one. But we have this formal procedure to go through, so I'm going to put the next one in sequence. So who in order to reject the Ukrainian Law, the President's proposal under Law 2292, please vote. This is a proposal from the President of Ukraine. [[13:51:36]] For-40 The decision is not taken. Next. For the purpose of overcoming the President's veto for the Ukrainian Law of 2292, please vote. [[13:51:59]] For-32 The decision is not taken. Thus, Ukraine’s Law 2292 is rejected. Next thing you know, it's identical, it's identical. And we are moving on to a review of the Ukrainian Act amending article 93 of the Ukrainian Criminal Enforcement Code to improve the guarantees of the right of convicted persons to be punished at their place of residence (No.2253a). And I would like to invite you first to the report by Chernisov Denis Viktorovich, and I would like to ask you briefly, we have 7 minutes left. And prepare, Mr. Yuri. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-03-m0.u161	Once again, Your Honor Andrew Volodymyrovich, distinguished national deputies, present! According to a letter dated 02.07.18 from the head of the Ukrainian President's Office, I am authorized to submit to the Ukrainian President's proposal for a change to article 93 of the Ukrainian Criminal Code on the improvement of the guarantees of the right of convicted persons to be punished for their place of residence before the conviction or residence of close relatives (registration number 2253a) at the plenary meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine instead of the representative of the President of Ukraine in the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Ms. Lucenko. Therefore, according to the President of Ukraine's proposals adopted on 6 September 2016 by the Supreme Council, the Ukrainian Act on the Amendment to Article 93 of the Ukrainian Criminal Code on the Improvement of the Guarantees of the Right of Convicted Persons to Judgement or the Place of Permanent Residence of Close Relatives cannot be signed for the following reasons: The proposed law on signature, the change in the determination of the place of execution of sentences, including the transfer of sentences to another institution, makes it impossible for the administration to carry out the execution of penalties in the event of life and the health of convicted persons, including in view of the exceptional situation of urgent measures to ensure their personal security, the transfer of such sentenced persons to a safe place, other measures to eliminate the danger of deciding on the place where they continue to be punished, which does not meet the requirements of article 10 of the Ukrainian Criminal Enforcement Code. Such a change also makes it impossible to take immediate measures to prevent the deterioration of the rule of law in the enforcement agencies, to remove obstacles at the right time to stabilize the operational environment, and to evenly and rationally place those convicted in such institutions, in order to comply with the law of the area. In the event of the introduction of the proposed law on signature, the amendments to article 93 of the Criminal Enforcement Code of Ukraine will not be able to prevent the timely occurrence of a conflict situation among convicted persons, who are accomplices to the crime, witnesses, victims and so on, which may lead to the physical execution and commission of new crimes, since in the event of the transfer of convicted persons to the institution of execution of sentences, which is the closest to their place of residence to the conviction or place of permanent residence of their immediate relatives, they may meet participants in criminal conduct, including victims and applicants. The law that came upon the signature did not take into account the fact that the residence of many convicted persons and the permanent residence of their close relatives were temporarily occupied areas of Ukraine, as well as the settlements in which the authorities of Ukraine temporarily failed to exercise their authority. In view of what has been said, there is no need to reject these proposals by the head of state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-03-m0.u162	Thank you. To the report, I invite the head of the committee's subcommittee on law enforcement, Miroshnik Jurija Romanović, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-03-m0.u163	Thank you, Andrey Volodymyrovich. Honourable voters, honourable colleagues, also an unforgivable law, a law that was called upon to provide the idea of reforming the penitentiary system. And it's that we have to be able to rehabilitate, rehabilitate, translate into Ukrainian -- actually cure the disease that caused, psychologically certain, what caused the crime, the irrationalization, that is to say, the return to society. There is the content of our penitentiary system: not to punish, not to torture, not to humiliate, not to drown human dignity, but to bring man back to society. So it was in this context that it was suggested not to lose contact with the family in order to enable a person to maintain his motivation to make amends and return to society, to allow him or her to receive punishment as close as possible to his or her family’s residence. And this idea of relevance has not been lost, this idea has to be considered, and it's working with the President's proposals, and this idea has to be implemented in our legislation. We're not going to step away from it, because that's what our task is as a training subcommittee on the reform of the penitentiary system, which is the European principles that we like to claim here from the high, highest parliamentary rostrum. The president cites arguments related to certain of the one part, as Denis Viktorovich said, to be technical problems, such as the commission of crimes and, in fact, the number of those in prison in large cities is much greater than in rural areas. And to ensure that the standards we've declared are 2.5 square meters and 4 meters that should be in the cells, we may not be able to today. There are problems with military action, in fact the war in Ukraine and the existence of penitentiary facilities either outside the borders of conflict or in the immediate vicinity. These problems exist. But challenges and problems should not distort our tasks. That's why they see us as challenges, not as denials of necessity. That's why Andry Volodymyrovich correctly pointed out that as a committee we need to get a chance to continue this work and that's why we asked the Head of the Supreme Council to look at the President's remarks, the Supreme Council has been identified, and so we have the opportunity to introduce new laws to regulate this problem. Ladies and gentlemen, our profile committee has considered the President's proposals. Given the arguments presented, we did not object, but the decision was to support the President's proposals, but at the same time the task of the PIC was to further develop these initiatives, to put them in depth, taking into account all those challenges and circumstances, and to submit to the Supreme Council a comprehensive system document that would reform this area. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-03-m0.u164	Thank you, Mr. Yuri. And so, as in the previous vote, I'm going to make the first suggestion: to reject Ukrainian Law No. 2253a. Whoever supports this proposal, please vote. [[14:00:08]] For-28 The decision is not made. The next is to overcome the veto of the President of Ukraine with regard to Law 2253a. Please vote. [[14:00:31]] For-31 The decision is not taken. Thus, Ukraine’s Law 2253a was rejected. Mr. Jury, honourable members of the committee, this gives you the opportunity to elaborate on this issue and to submit new drafts for consideration by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Thus, I declare the morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine closed. I wish everyone a very fruitful work on the committees. I want to remind you, tomorrow is a very important day. And the Law on Language and Amendments to the Statute of Greetings to Ukraine. So I ask you first thing in the morning, at 10 a.m., everyone to be in the workplace to continue our difficult but necessary work for the country. Thank you. Good-bye.
