ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-05-m0.u1	Good morning, dear fellows! Good morning! Heroic glory! Everyone, please come into the hall, get ready for registration. I'm asking you to invite all the deputies into the hall. We're going to start our jury today. And so I would like everyone to be in their jobs and take part in this important action. Please. So my colleagues would like to prepare for registration. Please register for the plenary session. I'd like you to sign up. [[10:05:45]] 337 national deputies registered. The morning plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Dear colleagues, as soon as I met with the exarches of the Ecumenical Patriarch in Ukraine, the archbishop Daniel and Bishop Ilaryon. This visit is the parental response of the Holy Patriarch to two historic petitions by the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the President of Ukraine, about the granting of Tomos for autocephaly. I told them that the Ukrainian people have been mobilized more than ever, all Ukrainian Orthodox people are waiting for the decision of the Universal Patriarch, and I believe that by the end of the year we will hear the good news from Constantinople from the Universal Patriarch of Warfolomy. That's what our entire nation is waiting for, that's fair, and I believe it's God's will. And I also invited the Universal Patriarch Bartholomew from all over the Supreme Council of Ukraine to visit Kiev and speak here at the Supreme Council of Ukraine. And I believe that this visit will take place shortly. Also, colleagues, traditionally on the first Sunday of October, there is the Day of Education in Ukraine. I warmly welcome all Ukrainian educators, teachers, teachers, teachers, and non - school teachers with a professional holiday. I wish our Ukrainian students good health, wealth, and well - being in their families, and that your children will make you happy with their achievements in life. Let's welcome our teachers and teachers with applause. Welcome! [[Applause]] Thank you. Colleagues attending the meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine are members of the government headed by First Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine, Stepan Ivanovich Kubi. Welcome to the government. [[Applause]] And the newly elected members of the Central Electoral Commission. Let's welcome our colleagues. [[Applause]] And, colleagues, as I reported yesterday, we start our work day by taking an oath from the members of the newly elected Central Electoral Commission, and then we start with an hour of questions to the government. So I ask everyone to take up jobs, get ready. And I think it's an important day when members of the Central Electoral Commission can start their work, the newly elected warehouse, and it's our last act so that you can start your difficult but necessary work for Ukraine. Thus, honourable national deputies, in accordance with article 217 of the Ukrainian Law on the Rules of Procedure of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, and article 8 of the Ukrainian Law on the Central Election Commission, members of the Central Electoral Commission make an oath before the Supreme Council of Ukraine. According to article 217 of the Rules, the matter is included in the agenda without a vote. And I'm going to invite members of the Central Election Commission in alphabetical order. Basalaieva Alla Valentinovna is invited to make an oath. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-05-m0.u2	Good afternoon! I, the Basalaieva Alla Valentinovna, swear to the Ukrainian people in exercising my authority in the Central Electoral Commission to uphold the Constitution of Ukraine and the laws of Ukraine, the non-partisan position, to be honest, objective and impartial in resolving the issues that fall within the authority of the commission, to ensure the implementation and protection of the electoral rights of citizens and to participate in the referendum.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-05-m0.u3	Before making an oath, Bernatic Natalia Ilariownna is invited. Please, Mrs. Natalia.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-05-m0.u4	Good afternoon! I, Bernatska Natalija Ilarianovna, swear to the Ukrainian people in exercising my authority in the Central Electoral Commission to abide by the Constitution of Ukraine and the laws of Ukraine, the non-partisan position, to be honest, objective and impartial in resolving the issues that fall within the authority of the commission, to ensure the implementation and protection of the electoral rights of Ukrainian citizens and to participate in the referendum.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-05-m0.u5	Werbensky Mikhailo Georgievicz is invited to make an oath. Please, Mr. Mikhailo.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-05-m0.u6	I, Verbensky Mikhailo Georgievic, swear to the Ukrainian people in exercising my authority in the Central Electoral Commission to abide by the Constitution of Ukraine and the laws of Ukraine, the non-partisan position, to be honest, objective and impartial in resolving the issues that fall within the authority of the commission, to ensure the implementation and protection of the electoral rights of Ukrainian citizens and to participate in the referendum.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-05-m0.u7	To make an oath, Eustigneus Andriy Sergiyovich is invited, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-05-m0.u8	Good afternoon! I, Eustigeniev Andriy Sergiyyovich, swear to the Ukrainian people in exercising my authority in the Central Electoral Commission to abide by the Constitution of Ukraine and the laws of Ukraine, the non-partisan position, to be honest, objective and impartial in resolving the issues relating to the commission's authority, to ensure the implementation and protection of the electoral rights of Ukrainian citizens and to the right to participate in the referendum.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-05-m0.u9	Hello! To make an oath, Ephraim’s Irina Alexiyevna is invited. Mrs. Irina.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-05-m0.u10	I, Efraemova Irina Alexiyevna, swear to the Ukrainian people in exercising my authority in the Central Electoral Commission to abide by the Constitution of Ukraine and the laws of Ukraine, the non-partisan position, to be honest, objective and impartial in resolving the issues that fall within the commission's authority, to ensure the implementation and protection of the electoral rights of Ukrainian citizens and to participate in the referendum.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-05-m0.u11	Zelto Olga Mikolayevna is invited to make an oath.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-05-m0.u12	I, Zeltova Olga Mikolayevna, swear to the Ukrainian people in exercising my authority in the Central Electoral Commission to uphold the Constitution of Ukraine and the laws of Ukraine, the non-partisan position, to be honest, objective and impartial in resolving the issues that fall within the commission's authority, to ensure the implementation and protection of the electoral rights of Ukrainian citizens and to participate in the referendum.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-05-m0.u13	Konopolski Oleg Mikolaiovich is invited to take the oath.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-05-m0.u14	I, Connopolski Oleg Mikolaiovich, swear to the Ukrainian people in exercising my authority in the Central Electoral Commission to abide by the Constitution of Ukraine and the laws of Ukraine, the non-partisan position, to be honest, objective and impartial in resolving the issues that fall within the authority of the commission, to ensure the implementation and protection of the electoral rights of Ukrainian citizens and to participate in the referendum.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-05-m0.u15	Kustov Svetlana Mikolayovna is invited to make an oath.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-05-m0.u16	I, Kustova Svetlana Mikolayevna, swear to the Ukrainian people in exercising my authority in the Central Electoral Commission to abide by the Constitution of Ukraine and the laws of Ukraine, the non-partisan position, to be honest, objective and impartial in resolving the issues that fall within the authority of the commission, to ensure the implementation and protection of the electoral rights of Ukrainian citizens and to participate in the referendum.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-05-m0.u17	Lotük Olga Stepanovna is invited to make an oath.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-05-m0.u18	I, Lotuk Olga Stepanovna, swear to the Ukrainian people in exercising my authority in the Central Electoral Commission to abide by the Constitution of Ukraine and the laws of Ukraine, the non-partisan position, to be honest, objective and impartial in resolving the issues that fall within the authority of the commission, to ensure the implementation and protection of the electoral rights of Ukrainian citizens and to participate in the referendum.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-05-m0.u19	Plukar Vitaly Volodymyrovich is invited to take the oath. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-05-m0.u20	I, Plucar Vitaly Volodymyrovich, swear to the Ukrainian people in exercising my authority in the Central Electoral Commission to abide by the Constitution of Ukraine and the laws of Ukraine, the non-partisan position, to be honest, objective and impartial in resolving the issues that fall within the authority of the commission, to ensure the implementation and protection of the electoral rights of Ukrainian citizens and to participate in the referendum.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-05-m0.u21	Radchenko Evgen Volodymyrovich is invited to take the oath.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-05-m0.u22	Good afternoon. I, Radchenko Evgen Volodymyrovich, swear to the Ukrainian people in exercising my authority in the Central Electoral Commission to abide by the Constitution of Ukraine and the laws of Ukraine, the non-party position, to be honest, objective and impartial in resolving the issues that fall within the commission's authority, to ensure the implementation and protection of the electoral rights of Ukrainian citizens and to participate in the referendum.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-05-m0.u23	To make an oath, Tetian Volodymyrna’s Blindling is invited.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-05-m0.u24	Good afternoon! I, Slepacuk Tetjana Volodymyrna, swear to the Ukrainian people in exercising my authority in the Central Electoral Commission to abide by the Constitution and laws of Ukraine, the non-party position, to be honest, objective and impartial in resolving the issues that fall within the authority of the commission, to ensure the implementation and protection of the electoral rights of Ukrainian citizens and to participate in the referendum.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-05-m0.u25	Shipilov Leontius Mikolaiovich is invited to make an oath.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-05-m0.u26	Good afternoon! I, Shipil's Leontius Mikolaiovich, swear to the Ukrainian people in exercising my authority in the Central Electoral Commission to abide by the Constitution and the laws of Ukraine, the non-party position, to be honest, objective and impartial in resolving the issues that fall within the commission's authority, to ensure the implementation and protection of the electoral rights of citizens and to participate in the referendum.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-05-m0.u27	To make an oath, Yustok’s Aunt Leonidivna is invited.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-05-m0.u28	I, the Yuskov Tetjana Leonidivna, swear to the Ukrainian people in exercising my authority in the Central Electoral Commission to abide by the Constitution of Ukraine and the laws of Ukraine, the non-partisan position, to be honest, objective and impartial in resolving the issues that fall within the authority of the commission, to ensure the implementation and protection of the electoral rights of Ukrainian citizens and to participate in the referendum. I swear by my own personal signature.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-05-m0.u29	Dear colleagues, let's welcome the members of the Central Electoral Commission. We are entering the election year, and we would like to ask the entire Supreme Council to be proud of every decision you make. This will be a difficult and responsible path. You are the success, the power of the spirit and God's grace, so that all your decisions are wise, governmental decisions. Welcome! Good luck! [[Applause]] Colleagues, before moving to "the hour of questions to the government," there were two petitions for breaks. That means that two speeches will be before "the hour of questions to the government." It's a rule of the Rules. I can't get past it. The first statement for the break is from the faction of the Opposition Block and the Rebirth. Igor Šurma is invited to the presentation. Please, three minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-05-m0.u30	Igor Shurma, Opposition Block. My statement is about our government. Too bad there's no Prime Minister, but I'm hoping you'll get to know that information and not say you don't know it. First. This refers to your decision about your great goodwill to allocate an additional 100 million dollars to treat people abroad. So I have to tell you that your goodwill has led to two deaths, for as long as the Ministry of Health decided to redistribute 100 million for those people, two people who stood here for forty days went to heaven. It's on your conscience. And sooner or later it will all end in criminal matters. You remember that and think that 100 million is not a supply of 90 people, you're just going to close down a dozen. And the thing is, there's no register at all, and you don't know how much money you need. And a new year is coming -- and you're entering the new year with the same thing. There's a deputy sitting in the back, and whoever's so-called is no longer allowed to sit morally and legally, is telling you a lie. Because for you in 2017, the international organizations that most here voted for: TB, which is the number one problem in the world, supply is zero, child dialysis is zero, blood donation is zero, nephrology is zero, endothelial is zero. Last year you bought Chinese endoprosthetics, you'll see what the consequences, the doctors will tell you who put these Chinese prosthetics cheap. Oncology is zero. Now think about it. I'm talking to Stepan Ivanovich. Stepan Ivanovich, Stepan Ivanovich, now look at the Ministry as working on authority. Reproductive Health — A Good Thing? That's a good thing. You know what's on it, including a million 237,000 for the purchase of contraceptives? So I have to tell you, with 36 percent total supplies in the 17th year, I'm sorry, condoms have been bought by a hundred percent. On the one hand, it is good that in a few years there will not be the same ones who will make such decisions about international purchases. And I have to tell you, this must end. And I demand that Andri Volodymyrovich execute the committee's decision, to bring to Room 8587 a request to the Cabinet for the purpose of being in office, so to speak. Minister Suprun and Linchevsky, and 8425 about the liberation of Linchevsky. And I'll tell you that you don't have to be surprised that on the IV block, Stepan Ivanovich, you don't have any money for insulins. And how people will die, that you may not say that you do not know. And I'll tell you that there's no money to pay, and there's an emergency medical aid standing there, protesting. There is the law of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-05-m0.u31	30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-05-m0.u32	And there's the Ukrainian Emergency Medical Act that you don't do. And Suprun came up with a pilot experiment in five areas where you dropped a billion. Why, which one of you was in Kharkiv district? Nobody. It's been operating for 10 years, and now it's getting everyone hurt out of the war zone. Go to the Harks, learn the experience. And let all of you be treated by paramedics and put your feet forward. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-05-m0.u33	From the Self-Help and Fatherland faction, Irina Sisoyenko is invited to the floor. Please, three minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-05-m0.u34	Irina Sisoyenko, Self-Help Unit. Dear Ukrainians, our country can be strong and successful only on one condition: only when the people of this country are healthy. Every year, mortality in Ukraine is steadily increasing from cardiovascular diseases. People die on Ukraine’s roads every day. Injured in Ukraine each year, nearly 4.5 million people in the country receive various degrees of trauma. And whether a person survives, whether a person has a disability, or will have a chance to live, the work of emergency medical care plays a vital role. The Self-Help faction of the second year of this rostrum requires the government to fund state funds for an ambulance, but the second year the government ignores these requirements. The second year, the Prime Minister promises to solve the emergency and there is nothing. All over Ukraine, there are billboards all over the country for ambulances, but this is another lie, because the next year, there are only 5 areas for ambulances: the Odessa region, Poltavsk, Ternopilsk, Donetsk and Vinnitsk. Clearly why. All the other 19 areas of Ukraine won't get a penny for an ambulance. The Self-Help faction sees such a decision as discriminatory both in terms of the medical community and in terms of the people living in these 19 areas. Today, the Kyiv region, both the patients and the medical community, are under the walls of Parliament. They collected signatures in support and funding requirements for the quick help of the Kyiv region. And if I have to, I'll be collecting signatures from other areas of Ukraine. And if the government doesn't realize that the issue of quick assistance is a matter of national security for Ukraine and there can be no pilot in terms of human life and health, I'm sure that these signatures will begin to gather for the liberation of the entire government. I'm counting on the government to pay attention to this and finally make a fair change in funding, in the state budget for next year. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-05-m0.u35	Thank you. And we're moving on to an hour of questions to the government. And you'll be there for 15 minutes. You'll come right out. And now it'll be 15 minutes, that's enough, Mr. Stephen. And from the Cabinet of Ministers to the presentation is invited to the First Deputy Prime Minister, Minister of Economic Development and Trade of Ukraine, Stepan Ivanovich Kube. In 15 minutes, Mr. Stephen. And you will be able to answer immediately the questions that came out of the hall. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-05-m0.u36	Dear National Deputies! Dear Mr. Andrew, Mr. Head! First of all, thank you to the members of the Supreme Council for their three effective weeks of work, which are signs that demonstrate the unity of the President, the Parliament and the Government. At the same time, on the eve of a professional holiday, I would like to address my dear teachers, sincerely welcome a professional holiday on behalf of the government, and greet an education worker with the Day. Your work is extremely important to the country of a strong, free, economically viable country in Ukraine. Your daily contribution is your responsible work, the teacher’s mission is very important, God’s in shaping a person’s personality. Thank you, dear teachers, educators, on behalf of the Ukrainian government, from the bottom of my heart! Dear Mr. Head! Dear National Deputies! On behalf of the government today, I want to inform you and the people of Ukraine about the state of the economy and the results of economic reforms. It is no longer possible to say that our joint efforts: Parliament, the President and the two governments -- we have overcome the great economic crisis. Before the Dignity Revolution, Ukraine’s economy had entered a cool peak. Russia has done its best to boost the economic downturn of Ukraine, which is to lose 20 percent of the economy, 7.2 percent of the territory. But we did. I'm talking about what the figures say, we had faith in the value of "God, Ukraine, humanity," as the Blessed Lyubomir Guzard said. Ukraine’s GDP has grown ten blocks in a row. This is no longer the result of a low comparative base, it is the result of balanced and coordinated actions by the government, the President, the Parliament and the National Bank of Ukraine. The forecast remains positive: GDP growth is estimated to be more than 3 percent year-on-year. More importantly, it's a speculative game of economics, it's a real economic growth. The Ukrainian industry is growing, whatever the opponents tell us, but you will not go against the facts. In the 8 months 2018, Ukrainian industries produced 2.2 percent more products than they did in the 8 months of the 17th year. Chemical production increased by 29.9 percent during this period. Car building is on 17.2. We started to export more. Exports of Ukrainian goods grow nineteen blocks in a row. During the seven months of this year, Ukrainian companies exported 26 billion dollars of goods. 26 billion dollars was bought in the world of Ukrainian metal, cars, equipment, nuclear reactors, agro-products, IT technologies. Ukraine, of course, remains an important food exporter in the world, but we are rapidly increasing the volume of exports at an additional cost. And when we're told that the trade surplus is getting worse, when they say, look at imports exceeding almost 3 billion, ladies and gentlemen, let's look together at what Ukraine imports: oil, equipment, electric cars, cars. These are goods that are also needed for production. Imports are growing because entrepreneurs are expanding and modernizing production, using an innovative and modernized method. And the modernization of the economy is a priority for the transition period, and then for the expansion of innovation. In addition, export growth is the source of the emergence of exporters of additional financial resources that can also be spent on self-sustainment equipment, new technologies. In the end, imports increase the competitiveness of Ukrainian products in external markets, but this is not done in a year or two. And we might ask, what was in 20, more than 20 years? Ukraine has moved from survival to economic policy. The government has taken the path of liberalizing the economy, supporting small business exporters, and reducing pressure on business. I am sure that a valid economic policy has proved its effectiveness. Small and medium-sized businesses, private entrepreneurs are expected to become the foundation of our economy and the state budget. Macrostability gives confidence tomorrow, and the government's focus on economic reform is positive signals for both foreign investors and Ukrainian businessmen. They started investing more in the Ukrainian economy, the business. Capital investments in the first half of 2018 increased by 26.6 percent against the mid - 2017. Nearly half of the two thousand seven billion dollars were invested in new equipment, cars, and inventory. This is a new period of joint work that we have done with you distinguished national deputies over the past four years. Entrepreneurs invest and come out of the shadows. According to the Ministry of Economic Development, the shadow economy in the first half of 2018 decreased by 3% compared to the corresponding period of 2017 and accounted for 32% of official GDP. This is a big progress compared to the peak of the shadow economy that fell for 2013-2014, but there's still a lot of work to be done. Since then, in 2014, the shadow economy has fallen by eleven percentage points to date. This is the result of a major factor: the reduction of the EU's, the rise in minimum wage, the reform of the public finances, deregulation, decentralization. We're talking about the state's public finances. Ukraine has achieved much in four years, but we realize that this is not enough. For a powerful result, we need to increase by 5 to 7 percent. Five factors must be responsible for this increase. The first factor is the continuation of structural economic reforms and the fight against corruption. The second is the involvement of investments. The third is innovation and modernization of production. The fourth is the support of small and medium-sized businesses. And the fifth is an increase in exports. The government and the Ministry of Economic Development are paying considerable attention to the development of trade relations in order to make it more advantageous and productive and exportable in Ukraine. We are constantly working on the diversification of markets, and today Ukrainian goods can be supplied without import duties to markets where more than 850 million people live. This year we concluded negotiations on the conclusion of the Free Trade Agreement between Ukraine and the State of Israel. We continue to negotiate free trade with Turkey, we have begun a review of the provisions of the Free Trade Agreement between Ukraine and Macedonia. We protect Ukrainian exporters in foreign markets, including trade aggression in Russia. Our lawyers are calling on Russia within the framework of the World Trade Organization for all discriminatory trade restrictions on imports of railway rolling stock, railway equipment, restrictions on transit of Ukrainian goods and so on. The government supports small and medium-sized businesses, our projects advise small entrepreneurs, create production support centres, develop credit-sending mechanisms, and we give business the opportunity to upgrade core funds through a small privatization mechanism. Now the entrepreneur can go to ProZorro. Sales and real estate, equipment. We're going to expand the courses for real competitiveness, for real, efficient, for real transparency. In just two months, we were able to create a public register of more than a thousand small privatization objects and sell 150 objects. We made 185 million dollars for the state. Made the state 185 million dollars, but it's not just about money for the state budget of local communities. We are talking about new big opportunities for small businesses, such as in a sold room in the center of Lviv, Odessa, or Kharkova, or Kiev, near the Market Square, a coffee shop, or a souvenir shop, or a hairdresser, may appear as new jobs and taxes. The government is doing everything possible to create a Ukrainian economic miracle. But economic reforms are impossible without the support of Parliament, the President, the government, our joint work and our shared responsibility. We have proved to you that we can work effectively. In the last year alone, we have passed very important economic laws: the Privatization Act, the "one window" on customs, which will help fight smuggling, and the amendments to the Act on Shareholders and much more. Ladies and gentlemen, I call on you, coming out and taking on a responsible role, especially the political season we have today, to remember that we have no less responsibility for Ukraine's socio-economic growth. And the joint work of the government and parliament can do so. I also want to say that in the draft budget of 2019, the preserved priorities of funding are security and defence, energy efficiency, roads, infrastructure, APC, decentralization, education and health care, socio-protection, culture. For the first time, the government has proposed three-year budget planning, which provides clear macroeconomic orientations for business and investors, allowing for a clearer planning of large infrastructure projects. The government also implements all previous commitments: plus 35,000 additional seats have been created in kindergartens 2017-2018; 25.2 million recipes have been compensated for the "Available medicines" program since the program began; 500,000 Ukrainian families have benefited from the "Warm Loans" program and four years of operation of the program. We understand that budget priorities: security and defense -- 209.5 billion -- are plus 31.5 billion in total. Public security spending increases by 16.1 billion dollars to 82.1 dollars. Remuneration expenses for military personnel from $24.1 billion to $108.3 billion. To develop and modernize military technology: 36.2 plus 3.9 billion dollars. Energy efficiency, repairs, and construction of roads Agribusiness, when we talk about animal development, is 4 billion dollars. The cost of domestic technology is 1.38 billion dollars. Farmer support is 1 billion bracelets. At the same time, I would like to say that the national MPs who have asked about health care have been informed that we view them as requests from the national MPs. Accordingly, the Ministry of Health will answer two questions. Modern health systems and reforms will need to be continued. The upgrade of the primary health care system is 15.3 billion dollars, emergency medical care is 1 billion dollars, Available medicines is 1 billion dollars, free diagnostics is 2 billion dollars. We're talking about social protection, the system, and the possibilities. Our work together, our joint decisions speed up the possibility of a person's quality of life. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-05-m0.u37	Thank you, Sir Stephen. Dear colleagues, I now ask you to sign up for the question and to the distinguished First Deputy Prime Minister of Cuba and to the other members of the government. Question now comes from factions and groups. Please. Thank you. And then there will be more questions from the national deputies of Ukraine. Please, the "will of the people" question of Shahov. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-05-m0.u38	Sergey Shahov, the political power of Our End. Stepan Ivanovich, would you please tell me what kind of abuse the miners are doing? Selidewwogil has 250 million dollars, Lvivvogil, Luganskwogil – 1 billion 180 million debt. No 350 million — 1 billion 180 million dollars! He just spoke to Volinz. For three days miners have been blocking the road of Donetsk - Dnipropetrovsk. When will they pay the miners? We have already voted, the President has signed the law. When will families stop begging, when can we still say thank you to miners for putting coal on top? When, though, will the coal sector in our country develop? Why was 4.5 million coal mined that year, this year -- just a million? And they should give at least 18 million tons of coal. And so do I.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-05-m0.u39	Please respond. 15 seconds to question, and please answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-05-m0.u40	Dear National Deputy, come on.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-05-m0.u41	Please, 15 seconds to proceed with Mr. Shahov's question.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-05-m0.u42	And the second. In the Chercas region of Smila, 8 million owes doctors. Please tell me that the pensioners were not paid, the delay, the doctors were not paid, the miners were not paid.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-05-m0.u43	Ladies and gentlemen, on the second question of debt, I ask the Secretary of the Cabinet to give the Ministry of Health a request for 10 days to give you a personal answer. It's about the mines. Ladies and gentlemen, we understand that this problem has increased for 27 years to restore Ukraine's independence. We realize that this is a very difficult challenge for our government and for working together. But this reform that we have to implement, and we have made it happen as soon as possible. On a specific occasion, I'm going to hand over Anatoly Vasilovich to Korzun. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-05-m0.u44	Thank you. And please, Sergei. Please, Mr. Korsun, give me your word.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-05-m0.u45	Dear people's deputies, yes, there's actually a situation like this today in "Seliduwogil," a debt there, well, 180, over 180 million in front of the workers. Regrettably, the company is running a very short term, and the amount of implementation is not enough to cover all the costs that need to be incurred, first of all the wages. But before yesterday, the government's already signed decision to allocate from $400 billion to $136 million, now the last conciliation procedures are being carried out by the ministries. And I think that in the near future, Selidewweil's debt, as in the whole field, will be reduced substantially. And so far, it's not 1 billion 180, it's 470 million dollars. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-05-m0.u46	Thank you. And please, Sergey Sobolev, your question.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-05-m0.u47	Sobolje, Fatherland. I'm addressing the First Vice Prime Minister. For a year, I have been addressing all the offices of the Cabinet of Ministers, including the Prime Minister, about a catastrophic situation with the Ukrainian seaports. I call you the results of eight months of these ports: Ust-Dunaisk - minus 1.3 million dollars; Skadowsk - minus 4.2. Bilgorod-Dnistrovsk – 13 million minus, Rennie – 16 million, Herson – 26, Berdjansk – 27, Black Sea – 33 million minus. It's never been like this. Always the ports, including the ports of the Black Sea and of the Azow Sea, for in Azovsky there will be the answer that it turns out that it is only the city that is to blame. The Black Sea is the same situation. Ports have always made billions of dollars. Once the Seaports Administration and the rentals of all docks are created, private structures, all of which are registered in offshore jurisdictions, are now in control. What's going on?
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-05-m0.u48	Please, 15 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-05-m0.u49	I'm perfect. When will the government finally deal with a catastrophic situation in the maritime field with maritime congestion? How long is this going to take? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-05-m0.u50	Please respond, Mr. Stephen.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-05-m0.u51	Dear Mr. Sergio, I'll take the next one to the government meeting to raise this issue on the government. For the economy and for the export strategy, seaports are a very responsible infrastructure work that we should do together. Unfortunately, over the last two decades, the issue of infrastructure and efficiency. First of all, it hasn't been updated, it hasn't been modernised, and it hasn't been applied. I, too, as the economy minister, am not entirely satisfied with investment issues regarding the policy-making and the activities of ports where certain investment costs come in. We need to look not only at the periphery, but at the docks, at the depths, at the possibilities, and at the expansion. And here is absolutely no occasion for the cities that have demonstrated in recent days our Navy forces that we are not afraid of any bridge or stops, because we are worthy to be Ukrainians. As far as the details are concerned, I'll give you my word, please, Mr. Lavrenyuk. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-05-m0.u52	Thank you. I, Sir Sergei, would like to deny a little bit of what you've said, because there are no negatives -- 32 million there, as you say, in the Black Sea and so forth. You've got the wrong information, the wrong information. What is a real problem in the port of Ust-Dunnaysk and Skadowsk is a problem for decades. For eight years now, property has been arrested in the port of Skadowsk. And now we're just using private investment, private investment, because the state doesn't have the ability to finance or supply the port of Skadowisk or the port of Ust-Dunaysk. As far as other ports are concerned, this year they are implementing the financial plan, 2018, 120 percent, and 120 percent. What the Seaports Administration has created is a common practice, because in no European country to which Ukraine is headed, there are no State-owned scholars. In fact, only private entrepreneurs are active, and the state has to maintain the depth of the ports’ waterfronts and land well. This is why the Seaports Administration was created. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-05-m0.u53	Thank you. Please ask the following question:
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-05-m0.u54	Sergey Sažko, 59th constituency, Donetskina. Dear Stephen Ivanovich, I am again addressing the problem of Celibacy. You know, we just heard the answer, but it's very interesting, the answer. In the near future, this answer — in the near future — has been heard by miners for six months, no more. I want to hear and the miners want to hear exactly how long this debt will be repaid because the miners say, "Let the Ministry, the Ministry gets the salary just like they do." And the second question. Taking this opportunity, I would like to congratulate the teachers on their professional festival and ask the Minister of Education about the situation of financing for vocational education. By transferring funding to places, to local self - government, they need to be given authority, because they cannot run these facilities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-05-m0.u55	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-05-m0.u56	Ladies and gentlemen, I fully support your request, because a man worthy of work must receive his salary in time. I've just given the assignment literally to the Deputy Minister of Finance, who will personally inform you on the matter and on the next meeting, which will be here, or you'll get a specific time line on the restructuring of the repayment of debts.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-05-m0.u57	Thank you. Thank you. Next question, please, National Deputy Sugonako.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-05-m0.u58	Sugonyako Alexander, the sumina. I would like to welcome the teachers to their professional festival, and I hope that the government will give them a gift in the form of a raise in wages. And the question to the First Vice Prime Minister. Upgrading the security sector, financing the military's security is important and necessary, but what's going on with the state-run defense firm "The Star" of the town of Shastka? In fact, the company has been cut off from its energy supply, hundreds of people have not received a salary for a year, and there is no demand. In fact, an enterprise is being destroyed, it's a state-owned detention company, in conditions where the country is actually at war.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-05-m0.u59	Thank you. Please respond.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-05-m0.u60	Ladies and gentlemen, on education and wages, I would like to say that both the President of Ukraine and the two Governments of Ukraine have been absolutely engaged in quality politics for four years, together with responsibility for the quality and motivation of the teacher, the educator. And we're with you last year, and we've also put high-quality, effective indicators on education into the 19-year budget. That's plus 242.1 billion dollars and plus 27.8 billion dollars. The budget provides for further increases in teachers' salaries: no category – 6 000 871 bracelets – plus 568 bracelets; and categories – 9 000 50 bracelets – plus 749 bracelets; higher category – 9 000 648 bracelets – plus 799 bracelets. The cost of upgrading the primary school is 1 billion dollars. These are the facts that we are now working with you on the understanding and value of a teacher, an educator. Because this is our future and this is our new victories. It's about businesses. During the two decades, 3 thousand 444 companies were ineffective. And when I became even a minister, and to me, and when I came as a minister, along with my team, with the government of Groysman, the task was clearly set out in two ways: The president is about the defence sector and industry and the government is about politics.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-05-m0.u61	Please finish 30 seconds. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-05-m0.u62	for other enterprises. In just two and a half years, businesses have given up 36.6 billion dollars. Another 40 percent had gone up. But so far there has been privatization and great, and the law that was passed in this room answers that question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-05-m0.u63	Thank you, Prime Minister. And please, a question from the People's Front, Maxim Burbak, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-05-m0.u64	Stepan Ivanovich, I have a question. Today we took an oath from the Central Electoral Commission, upgraded the warehouse, and it began to work. I believe that the first important decision of this commission should be the election of the united territorial communities that were cancelled on August 9. And I'm confident that the communities will conduct them this year and have a direct budgetary relationship with the government. Please tell me if the government is in the process of preparing and providing direct budget relations with OTG in the event of the first elections this year? And I'd like to take this opportunity to welcome the Blacks and the Blacks with their 610th anniversary, which will be celebrated on this weekend, all of our colleagues have been invited. But I want to warn you all that don't get your hands dirty with these salesmen and the people of Firthash who have illegally removed acting mayor Alexia Kaspruk and are now planning to demolish the city. The dark times of the Black people will pass, and we will do everything we can to keep order there. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-05-m0.u65	Dear Mr. Maxime, when we talk about decentralization and deregulation, this is a reform that has demonstrated its effectiveness in the fifth year. If we're talking about the formation and election of communities, that's the new form that manifests and changes, farming, efficiency. This question will be answered about the election, Gennady Zubko. At the same time, I would like to say, Mr. Maxime, that local budgets now have over 50 billion dollars in their accounts. And even if we're talking about efficient use, we need to use it a little bit better, because 15 billion dollars are on deposit accounts, and it's not economical. And your questions are absolutely relevant to changing community control policies in terms of use and efficient management. Mr. Hennaday.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-05-m0.u66	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-05-m0.u67	Dear colleagues, thank you for your support for decentralization reform. It was in this room that laws were passed in 15th year that allowed for the unification of the 832 communities and of the 40 communities that took place this year and those that are now awaiting the election of the first in the united territorial communities. We look forward to the first meeting of the Central Electoral Commission, and we hope that it will be 832 communities, and we are looking forward to a total of 1,206 today, and we see that today we have the opportunity to talk about the full coverage of promising plans for virtually all of Ukraine. Therefore, the issue of inter-budget relations is being prepared, processed. And so far, there's the Ministry of Finance to report on the possibility of direct inter-budget relations between the communities that will be selected. But I would like to call on the Supreme Council. Today, in Parliament's first reading, the day-to-day Law 8051 - the Law on Principles on Administrative and Territorial Arrangements should be incorporated into the order of the day. A law that should resolve the issue of sabotage in nearly 120 areas that, after 3 years of reform, do not yet have a unified territorial community. A law that should show how Ukraine will continue to form as an independent state, but fully implementing the European Charter and creating the foundation of communities. And that's why I encourage that just before the new year, maybe on the day of local self-government, we could have adopted this law in the second reading and resolved the issues. To date, Ukraine has lived by Soviet standards, which were adopted by the Supreme Council of the Ukrainian RSR. And so again and again, I stress that the CEVC should decide on the elections, the parliament once again to prove what it is.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-05-m0.u68	Please, 30 seconds. Finish it.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-05-m0.u69	Parliament has proved once again that it is a locomotive for decentralization reform, but the President of Ukraine, who supports and has the political will to carry out the reform, and the Government of Ukraine and the Prime Minister also support this process. Thank you for asking.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-05-m0.u70	Thank you. Please, the next question is Oleg Lazko.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-05-m0.u71	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. For days I was in the Nicopolsk district of Dnipropetrovska, the village of Pokrovsk. I was approached by Zinaida Ivanovna and told such a story. Her neighbor lives so poor that she buys dog farsh for seven bracelets and makes chops out of it. Another woman, 39 years old, had three children, said that she was not given a grant because her children were prescribed at her home. And we made a condition that you want to get a grant -- get the kid out of the house. I have a question for the government: what have you led people to believe that for subsidies, their children should be released from their homes?Oh, my God! When people who have lived their whole life are today forming fictitious divorces to obtain a grant. I demand that you, on behalf of millions of Ukrainians, stop patching holes in the budget at the expense of people, restore the right to grant to those who need it, to renew the social standard of gas consumption. Why should pensioners with cash pensions pay the price of gas as millionaires? There must be justice in the question of pricing.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-05-m0.u72	Please respond.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-05-m0.u73	Dear Mr. Liege! What I'm saying is that the government, or governments of the last two, has a priority in terms of social protection and decent pensions and decent wages. Yes, the problem today is that in four years it is impossible to solve what has not been done or eaten without development, not by the efficiency of each person, and it has been done simply by reducing the competitiveness of wages, the growth of unemployment, and so on. In the next year’s draft budget, we have saved funding priorities, including social security, education, health, culture, and so forth, along with you, the members of the Supreme Council, the budget committee. What I'm saying is that the issue of modern social protection can't be met in two or three fiscal years. But by 2018, we've done the best we can with you. Both the Prime Minister and the government and the President have shown that the growth of the minimum wage refers to priority and to the future of joint work. Social protection growth is plus 14.8 billion dollars, and in total 301.8 billion dollars in the 2019 budget, the first pension will be automated, what you're saying, and indexed, is also a joint job. The minimum wage is going to go up to 4,173, and now we're discussing this too. As for the monetaryization of subsidies and the subsidy process, I would like to ask you that we have started this process.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-05-m0.u74	Please finish 30 seconds, please. Please, Mr. Reva.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-05-m0.u75	Dear Oleg Valeriyovich, I fully support you in the fact that the priority of the government's activities should be the issue of social protection as a minister of social policy. And in this respect, I think we're the same people. And the Ministry of Social Policy, the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine are absolutely clear on the position that Ukrainians are our priority. I understand the economic development is all right, but what is the purpose of all of this? Life, human well-being, Ukraine is a social state under the Constitution, and we must fill this constitutional standard with real meaning. Returning to the problem of subsidies. This is a necessary step, since under the conditions of higher housing and utility tariffs, taking into account low social standards, the State is obliged to support people, to grant subsidies to those who need it. Millions of Ukrainian families today cannot pay for public services alone. This is our disgrace, I admit, and we are obliged to give people the opportunity to receive a grant, and we do. However, in the process of receiving subsidies, we will tell the truth by looking people in the eye, and we see the flaws in this system. I want to remind you that 923 thousand households in Ukraine have shown zero income. I mean, if you believe these people, they don't have a penny to live with. And when we offer them fair and square to declare their incomes so that those who work today, even get a minimum wage, pay taxes, pay the only social contribution and keep these people, they're right to ask these fellow citizens why they don't, because they're able to work in big cities, in cities of district importance.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-05-m0.u76	Please finish 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-05-m0.u77	And today I want to tell you that about 2.5 million households in the summer didn't come to reshape subsidies, they're not denied, please, we're waiting for them. Come, pass, declarations, and we'll talk to you. Depending on the need, as we are told, statements or divorces. No requirement for people, children, divorce.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-05-m0.u78	Thank you. You can. [[B in m in s a l in]] I understand, but it is important that other deputies be able to ask the same questions. It's not solo right now, is it? - One party. Please, one more minute, to the honourable Mr. Zubek, who will also answer that question.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-05-m0.u79	Dear colleagues! I would like first of all to thank you for all the energy efficiency laws that voted in this room. And if the country doesn't want to spend every year on subsidies, but invest and thus reduce consumption, reduce bills, that's the way we have to go as an energy-dependent state. Let me give you an example. During this week, I was in a union of joint owners in Kiev, which spent two years in a row carrying out energy efficiency measures: installing I.T.P.,warming buildings of general use. The result: 32 bracelets per square metre cost a heating tariff. Last year, the house paid an average of 8 bracelets per square metre during the heating season, four times less consumption. But, most importantly, only two families today receive subsidies from 100 apartments. This means that everyone else has accounts that they can pay at the expense of their income. And we have to move not by that.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-05-m0.u80	Thank you very much. I understand your position, thank you for the current questions and the specific answers. Please, National MP Kulinic will present a question from the Rebirth Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-05-m0.u81	Oleg Kulinic, 147th constituency, Poltavščina. I have a question for the Minister of Social Policy, Andria Reva, who will also be involved in the collection of subsidies. There are a lot of people turning to the districts, and in particular in Poltavska about this issue, about the collection of subsidies. What's more, this year we have a reduced rate of consumption of gas from 5.5 to 4.5 cubic meters. This is a very huge problem for the rural population, because it's usually pensioners who have low pensions, they're former servants. And it's not just a problem, it's a disaster. So the specific question is, what steps will be taken by the Ministry you are in charge of protecting these vulnerable groups of the population, particularly for rural pensioners? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-05-m0.u82	Dear National MP Kulinic, when decisions are made by the government regarding the social regulations on gas consumption, we always come out of the facts that we have as a result of the heating season. I want to tell you that in 2016, an over-indebted subsidy, including gas, was written off for 15 billion dollars on account of over-indemnity of social standards. In 2017, the surplus subsidy -- it's not saved, it's an overstated subsidy -- amounted to 8 billion dollars after the review of the rules. And by July 1, 2018, 5 billion dollars were spent. What does this indicate? This indicates that today we are with you from the state budget, from the pocket of each taxpayer, paying for the consumption that is larger than we can even imagine. The result: if we want to use resources rationally so that you and I, as a country, can do everything we can to protect those who need it, we need to give real consumption standards, not those that were actually set many, many years ago. So this process is controlled and based on the real consumption standards that people should have. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-05-m0.u83	Thank you, Mr. Secretary, for your constructive response. And please, the final question of the MP factions. Irina Sisoyenko from Self-Help. Then we'll have a few more minutes to sign up, then, from the deputies.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-05-m0.u84	Now, there are quick help workers at the parliament's walls on their machines, in the UAWA in the 1990s that are falling apart, and instead of electrocardiographs, defibrillators, the only medical equipment that the medics are working on -- these are bowls. This is what doctors come to people after strokes, heart attacks, and traumatized children. This gift was asked to be handed over to the government. I have a question. In view of the fact that in the following year, quick-aid funding is available for only 5 areas, what can people in the Kyiv region, Cherkaske region, Cherniewsky region who will not get any cash for an ambulance? Do we all move to these five areas, including the Winnitsky area, or do we die immediately? Why is discrimination like that of medical workers, where wages will be raised in 5 areas, while in other areas they will be as pitiful, and people will be released, and they go abroad to work? And soon.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-05-m0.u85	Thank you. Please respond.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-05-m0.u86	Thank you. Paul Covtonjuk, Deputy Minister of Health The first thing I want to say is that for the first time in a few years, the government has allocated additional funds for emergency medical care. In the 6 billion that are in the medical subsidy, another is added to start upgrading our emergency aids at last next year. This area needs a lot of money for modernization. It's estimated to be about 10 billion dollars. If we had 10 billion dollars in our budget, I'd be happy to have them. What is modernization? First of all, the staff, his salary, that's his training, that's his new car, that's his equipment, that's his new dispatcher's office, and this is a hospital room where they bring a person there, so they don't wait an hour for her to get help, it's all worth the money. And the first steps we're going to take this year. I wouldn't want us to manipulate this, because today I want to remind everyone that we work for the patient. And when we talk about the patient, there's a very simple question: "Who is now giving the patient in the Kyiv area in Biloczerkovsky, the Kagarlic area, if the machines are standing here?" Colleagues, let's not manipulate this subject, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-05-m0.u87	Thank you. Please, Mr. Kubi.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-05-m0.u88	Dear National Deputies! The fact that we're not all good at medicine is what we all know. And so we need to work a lot faster to change what's been corrupt for almost 25 years. But doctors have the right to a decent job, a decent salary, a decent life. I'm just letting the deputy minister arrange a meeting at the Ministry of Health with those who today have the right to request and to inform the parliamentarians and the government of the measures that will be taken today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-05-m0.u89	Thank you. And I also want to go to my esteemed colleague and ask her to take these pelvises and bowls. Because this is a violation of article 51 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules, which prohibits people's deputies from bringing to meetings and using posters, slogans, loudspeakers, other objects (other objects are subject to this tact which has nothing to do with the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine) and they have no intention of providing legislative activity. Thank you very much. Dear colleagues, as we have 296 requests registered, and I have to announce them all, we have 10 minutes to ask the MPs. I'm asking you to sign up for a question from the deputies. At this time you can pick up your theatre decorations, Mrs. Sisoyenko, please. Please, People's Deputy Pisarenko. Your question.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-05-m0.u90	Thank you, Madam Chairman. I have questions related to both decentralization and infrastructure management of cities, including cities of regional importance. Dear colleagues from the Cabinet of Ministers, there is a very large request. I'm back from Kharkiv now, and I'm very much asked to consider the proposals of the great cities. It is about a subsidy for construction, reconstruction, repair, and maintenance of automobiles. Today it's all going through the areas. We want to ask you to redistribute some of the funds so that you can go directly to the cities of regional importance so that the cities can plan for themselves how to repair them. A great request, if decentralisation is in place, to help these great cities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-05-m0.u91	Please, Zubko will answer the question of the national MP.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-05-m0.u92	Ladies and gentlemen, thanks to joint decisions and financial decentralization last year, local budgets had a budget of 192 billion in January and August of last year, an additional 46 billion plus for this period. This means that cities of regional importance, with direct inter-budget relations and virtually the same management system as in Kiev or in every united territorial community, have the opportunity to develop their communal roads today. The government, along with Parliament, has decided on a road fund that lists the costs on local roads, including the possibility of spending from 11 billion 20 percent on utility roads. But once again, I would like to point out that the structure of the administration should be such that it clearly determines where the roads are to be repaired and should follow the infrastructure: where the school is being created, where the KNAP is being created, where the kindergarten is being created, where the ambulance is being created, thus practically restoring the infrastructure. If we're just going to distribute these costs in cities of regional importance and local budgets, that means that we're practically not going to be able to concentrate and make the exact changes that will allow the infrastructure to be restored in priority and priority issues. Because I'm offering? Directly reinforce this at the district council level, which directly decides on the list of projects that are approved by means of the repair of a road fund that reaches the local roads. Over 19 billion are planned next year, so directly step by step prepare projects, the district council will approve these projects and thus determine the priorities for regional development and local development. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-05-m0.u93	Thank you. Please, the next question is the national MP, Halasyuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-05-m0.u94	Victor Halasyuk, Oleg Lachka Radical Party. While you, the heads of government, are talking here about economic success and development, Ukrainian metallurgy, Ukrainian agriculture, Ukrainian cement industry, they can't unload their products through the Crossroads. They can't sell it under contracts already signed. You see what's going on, today the Crucifixion has become a bottleneck in the development of Ukrainian industry and economy, blocking the arrival of monetary revenue for the country. You put almost $11 billion in the budget next year, minus the trade gap. Last year was negative 9. What is it? Is this an economic success? We need to put in a normal job for the Railroads to transport the raw materials, transport the goods, ship the goods properly. The industrial reform package on which the Radical Party team insists must be adopted without delay in Parliament. Free networking, industrial parks, "buy Ukrainians, pay Ukrainians." Start taking care of Ukrainian citizens as well.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-05-m0.u95	Please respond.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-05-m0.u96	Your Honor, Your Honor, Mr. People's Deputy, it's a perfectly correct question. 25 years of restoration of independence, I've said several times today, the last grain was built in Ukraine in 1992. Modernization, renewal, and innovation of the moving composition were totally corrupt. Today, from the point of view of corporate governance, changes in the system, during a difficult period, military, where part of the wagons went missing in Russia, where part of the wagons are in occupied territory, where part of the wagons are left in the occupied area of Crimea today, this is a challenge of great magnitude. In recent years, two governments have put in place a clear program on the restoration of the motor pool, the restoration of locomotives. And for today, the formed supervisory board has a clear task of developing the "Ukrainian Railway" not for a year, not for two, but clearly for 2030. We're talking about common changes that need to be changed. We've got a problem in a mobile train, we've got a problem with locomotives, we've got trouble repairing roads, bridges. Well, you can't do all this in the last year. We feel responsible. We're going to be together: the government, specifically the Cruszalznica, the Ministry of Infrastructure, is going to carry out that strategy that's approved by the government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-05-m0.u97	Thank you. The next question is Sergei Sobolev, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-05-m0.u98	."Paternity." Mr. Vice Prime Minister, unfortunately, once again the question of the Ministry of Infrastructure. You know, I heard the Deputy Minister's response and she shocked me. I call specific numbers of port financial reports. And they say, "And the Seaports Administration is working fine." As the Seaports Administration has been doing, where the NABU is now investigating how deep-seated work took place in the 16th to 17th years in three ports, we know. How it worked out. I'm asking you a specific question. I'm grateful that you want to put this issue on the government with what's being created in the seaports. Where mass layoffs of the most qualified workers. Where are the Ukrainian docs now? Where are the Ukrainian Kranovers? Why are they all getting out of the ports now? Where is the labour force now, for example, such a powerful port as the Berdian, Mikolai? There are 45 left! Think about it!
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-05-m0.u99	There's no time. Please respond. It's just me. Mr. Sergei, I'm going to put up with the pressure from the other deputies that they can't ask questions. Well, I beg of you!
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-05-m0.u100	Dear Mr. Sergio, I take your point, I take it as a specific parliamentary request for an assessment of each financial state of the enterprise. I'm up for it. In accordance with the Rules, I will personally sign the answer to this question. And now I'm talking to the Minister of Infrastructure and the Ministry as a whole: prepare for each port the information that is absolutely there. It's really fair, but let's move to success together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-05-m0.u101	Thank you. Please, the next question is the national MP, Gus. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-05-m0.u102	Igor Gus, 19th constituency. Stepan Ivanovich, you have a question. In its time, the Republic of Poland gave credit to so-called interstate roads, you know, in the Lviv region, in the Volin region. Unfortunately, we already have the middle of October, we have the Ustilug-Volodymir road in my district, which is the gate in Poland, the European Union and, on the contrary, Ukraine. Actually, the work didn't start, there's 120 million dollars. My Levian colleagues have already asked, what is the situation that we're going to do with this, how are we going to react? They said there was some kind of bureaucratic. It's a bureaucratic issue. I mean, we would love to share this process with you, and those interstate virtual gates to the Europeans in Ukraine and, on the contrary, the Ukrainians in the European Union, these areas were made because all the documents were signed. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-05-m0.u103	Please respond.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-05-m0.u104	This is a fair question, it was raised at a joint meeting of the Economic and Trade Commission between Ukraine and Poland when I held it in Warsaw. Then, at the direction of the Prime Minister, two working councils were held on organisation and financing, because there are appropriate requirements, which you rightly speak of. So far, the Ministry of Finance and the DFS have developed a draft regulation on the real implementation of the 100 million-dollar infrastructure loan. At the same time, there is the homework of the regions and Lvov, and Žitomir, and Chernivts, and Ucapata about the formation of appropriate infrastructure, the divorce of motor vehicles, and the divorce of industrial transport. That's the question at the end. The project was sent for approval. And, I think, individually, you or the entire MPs, the Ministry of Finance will inform you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-05-m0.u105	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we've run out of time, given by the Rules for an hour of questions to the government. I want to remind you that we still have some time today for an extremely important acceptance of the oath by members of the Central Electoral Commission. There were several phone calls from factions to the performance. We now have another demand from the MPs for the performance. I will now give the floor to the People's Deputy, who is ready to replace the break for the performance. And after that, I just want to be able to announce some 300 more questions that came in at this time registered with the Supreme Council of Ukraine. I want to thank the government for participating in the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. I want to thank you. At the same time, the honorable government is asking the party of the Radical Faction and the Party of Laška to listen to their speech. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-05-m0.u106	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Each of the other Ukrainians refuses treatment or postpones it because of a lack of funds. 94 patients in Ukraine consider the main problem to be a high cost of drugs. Drugs in Ukraine are more expensive than in Hungary, Georgia, Poland, and Belarus on two or four occasions. This is a huge problem for millions of Ukrainians. That's why the Radical Party team registered draft laws, a package of laws called "Let's make the drugs cheaper." We're proposing a plan of action that will allow at least 30 percent of the cost of drugs to be reduced. In particular, set a zero VAT rate on medicines, limit profitability so that Ukrainians do not earn stupid money for their health, and introduce external reference pricing. Demonopolization of pharmacies. In order not to monopolize in one hand or to overwhelm the cosmic cost of medicine by earning the health of pensioners, few wealthy and needy Ukrainian citizens. The government projected 1 billion dollars in the next year's budget for the "Available Drugs" program that we achieved two years ago. Our government demand is two and a half billion dollars for the Available Drugs program, including a billion dollars for oncology. Because if, God forbid, this terrible disease comes into the house -- and it doesn't choose the status, the surname, the nationality -- but people don't have the money to be treated to buy these very expensive devices. The "Available Drugs" program that our team has achieved, we demand an increase in the number of medicines on the "Available Drugs" program for antivirals, antibacterials, antiaemics and other drugs to save lives. Similarly, improving patent protection to destroy international cartel plots so that our national producer sells cheaper, quality drugs. We apply to the government with a requirement, to the parliamentary majority: to join the initiative to fight for the reduction of drug prices. For everyone in Ukraine who goes into a pharmacy, it's not a drug price problem. Our very clear and concrete plan for the legislative initiative that we are going to register in Parliament today will allow us to significantly reduce the cost of drugs. As a result, millions will have access to treatment, health, and lifesaving. Close your eyes to the fact that as a result of expensive drugs, lack of medicine, inadequate management of Ulysses by the Ministry of Health today, millions of people are suffering, blinding their eyes to this is a crime, irresponsibility, immorality, especially in the face of older people. We therefore demand action to protect the health of Ukrainians.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-05-m0.u107	I want to thank the government once again for participating in the meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. And I would now like to give the floor to the distinguished Mr. Stepan Ivanovich Kubi, the First Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine, for the sake of summary. And once again, thanking all ministers, who, by the way, are now very constructive with the Supreme Council of Ukraine, with all the committees working with them to consider the draft budget for 2019.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-05-m0.u108	Dear Mrs. Irina, honourable national deputies, first of all, I would like to thank you for working together with the government today. On behalf of the government, on behalf of you, on behalf of the President of Ukraine, welcome once again with a professional holiday, the Day of Education, our teachers, those who make Ukraine's future strong, invincible, free, and above all, that the values that you voted yesterday in the Ukrainian Language Act confirmed by values, said of Happyr Lubomir Guzar: "God and Ukraine, God and Ukraine." Thank you. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-05-m0.u109	Heroim Slava! Thank you. And we welcome once again all the Ukrainian teachers with a professional holiday. Dear colleagues, we're moving on to our traditional section of the Rules right now, which is the announcement of requests from Ukrainian national MPs. I want to inform you that there have been requests to the President of Ukraine, and because, as you know, we need to vote on the session room. Please stay put, and I'd like to ask for your support. Vasil Brenzowicz to the President of Ukraine on the statement by the Minister of Foreign Affairs of Ukraine about the threat to Ukraine's national security by our national communities. Please make up your mind. Vasil Brenzowicz to the President of Ukraine on the statement by the Minister of Foreign Affairs of Ukraine about the threat to Ukraine's national security by our communities. [[11:36:14]] For-22. 22 national deputies supported it. There's definitely no potential. I won't take our time to vote. Next question: To the President of Ukraine, Hennady Krivoschei, for support of the first elections to the Boguslawsky, Mironowski, and Boyar United Territorial Communities. Please make up your mind. 1:36:47 For-41
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-05-m0.u110	41 members of the national parliament supported the request. Dear colleagues, there is no potential, but we will expect the newly elected Central Election Commission to unlock the issue of elections to newly formed united territorial communities, and we will not have to contact the President of Ukraine. Colleagues, I'm now moving on to the announcement of requests from Ukrainian national deputies, to. There will be no record, you see, in time we have. the performance will be recorded after the break, after the break. And now we're moving on to the announcement of our questions that came from the national deputies of Ukraine to the various authorities: Victor Razwadowski to the Prime Minister on the allocation of funds from the State budget for the reconstruction of the New York State Agrarian Technical Centre in the village of Nova Cortoria Zitomir. Viktor Razwadowski to the temporary duty of Minister of Health, head of the Zitomir district government administration for the allocation of funds for the rapid intervention and replacement of the ball joint Krivolapczuk Mikoli Grigorovovich, resident of the village of Veresy of the Žitomir district of Žitomir district. Svetlana Zalishtuk to the Prime Minister for violating public procurement procedures of the State Enterprise of the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine Information Resources in organizing a competition for the election of companies that will cooperate with the Ministry of Internal Affairs on the forced evacuation of cars in Kiev. Michael Bondar to the head of the Kyiv Authority, Head of the North Office of the Derjaudit Service, Head of the National Police in the Kyiv Region, Prosecutor of the Kyiv Region for the unlawful actions of the head of the U.S. Michael Bondar to the Minister of Education and Science, the head of the Lviv Observatories, the head of the Lviv Oblast for the acquisition of a school bus for the Lviv Regional Council of the Lviv Region. Vadim Krivohatka to the Head of the State Border Service for the possible disclosure by foreign service officials of Ukraine of the personal data of Nardepa Vadim Krivohatka. Olesia Long to the Cabinet of Ministers on the rise to retirement for children of war. Olesia Long to the Cabinet of Ministers to ensure that subsidies are granted to citizens who care for persons with disabilities and groups or persons who have reached the age of 80. Stepan Ivahiwa is under the temporary responsibility of the Minister of Health to finance the cost of providing insulin to patients with diabetes. Arthur Martovicki to the Prime Minister for violations of the rights of miners engaged in underground labour and metallurgy. Artur Martovitchkoh to the Prime Minister for Amendments to the Cabinet of Ministers Order of Ukraine of 27 April 2018 No. 329 "For Amendments to Certain Orders of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and for Recognition of Inaction, Order of the Cabinet of Ministers of 28 December 2016 No. 1022". Sergey Kiwalova to the Prime Minister on urgent measures to increase the minimum pension in 2019. Andrija Vadaturski to the President of the National Academy of Agricultural Sciences on the fulfilment of the terms of the contract, the State Enterprise Research "Reconstruction" of the National Academy of Agricultural Sciences, dated 22 December 2017 No. 2201/1217. Igor Kotwiecki to the Minister of Ecology on the state of the environment in the east of Ukraine. Igor Kotwiecki’s temporary responsibility of the Ministry of Health to provide information on the protection of patients’ personal data. Vasil Brenzowicz to the Prime Minister, Henprosecutor for the statement of the Minister of Foreign Affairs of Ukraine about the threat to Ukraine's national security on the part of our nationalities. Groups of National Deputies (Herachenko, Ionova, Kondratjuk) to the head of the National Police of Ukraine, the Attorney-General of Ukraine regarding the use of urgent measures to investigate the conditions of death in the area of armed conflict of Ukrainian civilians, Korobov, Maksemenko and Berbinov. Sergey Ljowczyn to the Prime Minister for proposals of the Opposition Block to the State Budget Project-2019. Vladislav Golub to the Prime Minister on the situation of non-payment of salaries and leave-free education in the city of Caneva Cherkas region. Vladislava Douba to the Prime Minister for the allocation of the cost of medicines for diabetics in the Zolitani region of the Cherkas region. Sergey Labazuk to the Cabinet of Ministers, the Ministry of Education and Science, the Ministry of Social Policy on the need to raise the salaries of academic and scientific staff in higher education and scientific institutions. Sergia Labazuk to the Ministry of Health, the Ministry of Education and Science, the Hmelnicka District Ministry, the Hmelna Region, the Hmelna Region, the Hmelnica Observatories for information on the size of the educational and medical deficit from the State budget to the local budgets. Victor Halasyuk to the Prime Minister for the removal of a catastrophic situation in the area of freight rail transport. Igor Goose to the Head of the Supreme Council for changes to legislation with a view to directing a portion of the proceeds from overturning the revenue of customs payments to the budgets of the united territorial communities, where the crossing points across the State’s border are located. Igor Guza to the Prime Minister on the need to increase the financing of mine 10 construction in the State budget for 2019 to 620 million dollars. Vladislav Buhareva to the head of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Budget, Prime Minister, to carry out the duties of the Minister of Finance as regards the need to allocate funds from the State Budget for 2018 for the construction of a platoon in the newly created Commission’s rural united district of the district of Ohtyr district of Sumy region. Vladislav Buharev to the Prime Minister, Head of the Ukrainian Presidential Administration, on the failure to comply with the requirements of legislation by the heads of the Ochtyrsky and Trieste District State Administrations of the Sums region regarding the personal presence at the receptions of the Ukrainian National Deputy. Mr. Andrija Nemirowski to the Prime Minister, Minister of Social Policy of Ukraine, Head of the Pension Fund, Acting Minister of Finance for the need to carry out the obligation of the executive authorities to pay the debts of the previously appointed military personnel and other persons for 2016-2017, as well as the need to enforce the decisions of the courts on the recalculation of pensions. Gennady Krivoshei to the Prime Minister, head of the Kyiv government for support of the first elections to the Boguslav, Mironov and Boyar United Territorial Communities. Alexander Kodola to the Prime Minister in charge of the head of the Foundation of Holding, Minister of Education and Science for the financing of the replacement of the windows of the Ninja Air Force of the City Council of Chernigiv Region at the University of Lower State of Mikoli Gogol. Alexander Kodola to the Prime Minister, the Minister of Culture, for the celebration at the national level 200 years after the birth of the prominent public figure, Gregory Galagana. Sergia Eutuska to the Prime Minister to ensure that Ukraine implements the decisions of the European Court of Human Rights and maintains the international image of Ukraine as a rule of law. The hopes of Savchenko to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the lack of funding in 2018 of the State Target Defense Program for the construction of ships of the Corvette class under the 58250 project. Savchenko’s hopes for the Ukrainian Defence Minister for providing information on the total amount, amounts of contracts made, regarding the purchase by the Ministry of Defence of enterprises that are not directly producers under these contracts, or are not directly service providers under service contracts. Jacob Besbach to the Ministry of Internal Affairs, the Commissioner for Human Rights, the National Police, the Attorney General's Office for the improper conduct of criminal investigations. Dmitry Lubinz to the Cabinet of Ministers, Ministry of Regional Development, for the allocation of funding for the construction of the backup water supply of the Grand Anadal Filter Station. Anatoly Hirschfeld to the Prime Minister for the provision of insulin to residents of Kharkiv. Anatolia Denisenka to the Prime Minister on the commitment of the Government to fund the state-wide target programme "Warm Loans". Anatolia Denisenka to the minister of social policy on the need to settle the issue of giving certificates to many families. Romana Macola to the temporary duty of Minister of Health, head of the Hmelnicka observatoire on the urgent solution of the issue of ensuring the endoprotesis of the joints of the inhabitants of Shepetovka Hmelnicka district. Romana Macola to the Prime Minister, Head of the Hmielnicka Hmělník Region Hmělník Region Security Authority, Head of the Hmělník Observatija, Head of the Hmělník Hmělník Region, to increase the number of transfer points of the Hmělník Region’s Hmělník. Vladimir Arenshonkov to the Prime Minister for full-time education and medical subsidies with the State Budget of the City of Žitomir Region. Vladimir Aresonkov to the Prime Minister for the payment of debts in different tariffs for the Korosten KP "Vodokanal" of the Žitomir region. Paul Rizanenka to Prime Minister, Deputy Prime Minister for Regional Development, on the need for changes to the Ukrainian Cabinet Order No. 1597 of 05 October 1998 on the approval of the Rules for Long-term Loans to Individual Residents in the Village. Paul Rizanenka to the Prime Minister on the need for the adoption of "The order and extent of compensation for the purchase and installation of individual natural gas appliances for natural gas consumers - individuals (populations)". Irina Konstanovic to the Prime Minister for the financing of socio-economic measures to compensate the population risk that resides in the area of observation. Irina Konstanovic to the head of the Manevicki District State Administration for the distribution in 2018 of State budget subsidies to local budgets for the financing of socio-economic measures to compensate the risk of the population living in the area of observation. Vladimir Gusak to the Prime Minister, excuse me, Vladimir Gusak to the Minister of Youth and Sport for the use of the budget programme "State Budget Grants to Local Budgets for the Construction/Construction of Sports Palaces". Igora Lucenka to the executive responsibility of the Head of the State Fiscal Service to provide detailed information on the current state of the economy of tobacco products for electric heating and electronic cigarettes in Ukraine. Igora Lucenka to the Managing Director of the Deposit Guarantee Fund for the immediate provision of comprehensive data on some of the problematic and possibly corrupt issues related to the withdrawal of the Fund to guarantee the contributions of the disabled banks from the market. Helen Stotnik to the head of the President's Administration for information on the conduct of a special examination of the candidate for the post of first deputy head of the Foreign Intelligence Service of Ukraine Semochka S.O. Helen Sotnik to the Prime Minister, Minister for Temporaryly Occupied Territories for Information on Material Damage that Ukraine has suffered in connection with the armed aggression of the Russian Federation and the temporary occupation by the Russian Federation of parts of the Donetsk and Lugansk regions, as well as the annexation of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea. Alexander Nechayeva to the Minister of Infrastructure, Head of the State Audit Service of Ukraine, Head of the State Service of Ukraine for Work on Negative Facts in the work of the Suma District Municipal Company, Sumi Airport. Dmitri Dobrodomov to the temporary duty of Minister of Health, Acting Minister of Finance, Head of the Ternopil Authority on the need for an urgent solution to the construction of the general practice of family medicine in the village of the High Monastery district of Ternopil. Dmitry Dobrodomov to perform the duties of Minister of Finance, temporarily acting as Minister of Health, head of the Lviv Oblast for the provision of funds to create the necessary conditions for the treatment of the sick and for providing them with a variety of highly qualified medical care by the Lviv County Hospital of the Lviv Region, the Lviv Regional Hospital of Veterans of War and the Repressed Name of Lipa, located in the town of Vinniki of the Lviv district. Mr. Dmitra Kolesnikov to the Prime Minister for the development of automobile construction in Ukraine. Dmitry Kolesnikov to the Prime Minister for the payment of salaries to teachers. Paul Kishkar to Henprocuror on the inaction of prosecutorial authorities in investigating the fraudulent actions of Antonov during the privatization of the land. Paul Kiskar to the Head of the Public Shareholders Association of Naftogaz Ukraine on oil and gas extraction in the Budistian-Cutov Square. Vitalia Gudzenka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the need to allocate funds (subsidies) from the State budget of Ukraine for the capital repair of bridges in the death of Vladarka, which are located within roads R-17 (White Church-Voldarka-Tetijev-Lipovec-Humenne) and R-18 (Zitomir-Populna-Squira-Voldarka-Stavište). Vitalia Gudzenka to the head of the Kyiv Observatory for the allocation of funds for the capital repair of Zarickan Street in the village of Salih Tarostian district of Kyiv district. Maxima Burbak to the Prime Minister for investigating the trade-off of fruit-friendly products for the purchase of fruit and berries in manufacturing enterprises. Maxima Burbak to the Minister of Internal Affairs for the violation of valid legislation during the competition for the appointment of tenants of the residence building of the town of Chernivci. Anton Kisse to the Minister of Justice, the Attorney General, for not admitting the raiding of the agricultural enterprise T.O.K. "Eenikio", located in the village of Novoselyvka in the Kili district of Odessa. Wadima Sidorczuk to the Prime Minister for the annulment of the National Service of Ukraine for the work of the registration of the Law on Labour 0.00-3. 06-22 "On the issuance of soap in enterprises", approved by the Order of the People's Commission of Work of the Russian Federal, Lord, Socialist Republic No. 383 of August 26, 1922, and other legal acts that do not comply with the Constitution of Ukraine. Vadim Sidorczuk to the Minister of Social Affairs, Minister of Education and Science on the inactivity of the State Service of Ukraine on labour issues, which results in students in vocational and technical education institutions not getting a decent salary during manufacturing practice and without adequate protection provided by labour law. Jacob Besbach to the Cabinet of Ministers, the Ministry of Education and Science of Ukraine, the Ministry of Social Policy, the Ministry of Finance, regarding the need for measures to be taken to implement the school boarding school program "The School Bus". Sergija Melnika to the Prime Minister for the holding of parts of the indexed deposits by AT "Savedbink" institutions. on the return of parts of indexed deposits by AT "Savedbink" institutions Alexander Gerega and Andrija Šinkovič are responsible for the Ukrainian finance minister’s duties in connection with the civil servants’ payroll fund. Alexander Gerega and Andrija Shinkovič to the Prime Minister for the prevention of the destruction of road traffic and the creation of conditions for the development of freight transport by approving the method of calculating tariffs by type of road transport. People’s Deputies (Jurika, Knyazevitcha) Total 9) to Henprocuror of Ukraine for the proper protection of the rights of victims in criminal proceedings No. 12015140090000525. Igora Shurma to the Prime Minister on the criminal inaction of officials of the Ministry of Health in the treatment of ill Ukrainians. Vladimir Parasuka to the Prime Minister, Head of the National Agency for the Detection, Search and Management of Assets from Corruption and Other Crimes for the Restoration of Hot Water Supply in the city of Novoyavorówsk in the region of Lviv. Victor Krivenk to the Minister of Justice on the illegal actions of the State registrar and the improper examination of the complaint by the Commission on the handling of complaints in the field of State registration. Victor Krivenk to the Prilutsky City Head, head of the Chernigov Observatories on the need to finance the construction, reconstruction, and repair of the streets of the city of Priluka, Chernigiv district. Tetjana Ostrikova to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the provision of information on the private placement of bonds by the Ministry of Finance. Tetjana Ostrikov to the performance of the minister of finance, the Minister of Social Policy, for the economic justification of some of the indicators in the 2019 budget. Oleg Kulinić to the executive responsibility of the head of the government of the Public Shareholders Association "Ukrainian Railway" for the load stations of grain that are to be closed or restricted to activities. Oleg Kulinić is under the executive responsibility of the Head of the Government of the Public Shareholders Association of the Ukrainian Railway Association for the establishment of a train stop at Sagidak Station. Andrija Illenka to the head of the Permanent Commission of the Kiev City Council for Budget and Economic and Social Development, Head of the Kiev City Administration for the allocation of funds for the construction of the "B" Building Building Building of the N 23 School of Public Education on Putivlska Street, 35 in the Righteous District of Kiev. Andrea Illenka to the head of the Kyiv City Administration for the reconstruction of the street. Kyoto and setting up a road trip to Brovarsky Avenue. Mr. Andrija Nemirowski to the Prime Minister, First Deputy Head of the Security Service of Ukraine, Chief of the Directorate-General for Anti-Corruption and Organized Crime of the Central Administration of the BSC, acting as Head of the State Fiscal Service, Attorney-General for Systemic Tax Mitigation: Hanum Ltd. code 41197517; Euro-Cvetmet code 41554706; OP Opt Tar 2000 code 42054048; TOV "Crutorstop" code 37350251; Society DV "Crust copper" code 40648515; Society "Volmet" code 37680758; Society "Difens-metal" code 37679873; Society "Ladograd" code 37759707. Alons Schrum to the head of the President's Administration on the terms and conditions of payment of the civil servants of the Office of the President. Alons Skrum to the head of the National Architectural and Construction Inspectorate of Ukraine on the terms and conditions of payment of civil servants of the State Architectural and Construction Inspectorate. Andrija Lopushanski to the Prime Minister, the head of the NAK Naftogaz public stock company, the Energy Minister of NAK Naftogaz Ukraine special duties for implementing natural gas to TKE companies (heat companies) during the heating season of 18-19 years. Andrija Lopushanski to the head of the Lviv District Administration, head of the Skolov District State Administration on the need to repair the road area (Kiev-Chop) - Blue in the Skolow region. Jury Pavlenko to the Minister of Education on the characteristics of the introduction of inclusive education and the reorganization of psychological and pedagogical consultations. Jury Pavlenko to the Prime Minister, head of the Luhansk Authority, on non-compliance with the requirements of effective legislation in relation to the granting of status to children affected by military actions and armed conflict. Vladimir Litvina to the Prime Minister, Minister of Education and Science, Acting Minister of Finance's duties to provide additional funding for educational subsidies to pay for the work of teaching staff in the general secondary education institutions of the Baranja Joint Territorial Society and Novograd-Volinska Žitomir district. Alexander Suprunka to the Prime Minister for the improvement of domestic trade legislation. Alexander Suprunenka, head of the Kyiv City Administration, to ensure the implementation of the State budget subsidy for the financing of the socio-economic development of Kyiv. Sergey Rudika is responsible for the responsibility of the Minister of Finance, who temporarily assumes the responsibility of the Minister of Health to increase the amount of medical subsidies to prevent overdue debts from being paid to medical personnel in the city of Smil Cherkaskie district. Sergija Rudika to perform the duties of Ukraine’s finance minister, minister of education and science to increase the amount of education subsidy to prevent overdue debt and pay wages to teachers in the city of Smil Cherkas region. Mr. Vasil Janicki to Prime Minister of Ukraine, temporarily acting as Minister of Health, Head of the Equine Administration for the increase in expenditure from the State budget for the financing of the “Affordable medicines” programme and for the expansion of the list of medicines to be reimbursed for the programme. Mr. Vasil Janicki to Prime Minister, Minister of Infrastructure, Acting Head of the Government of the Public Association of the Ukrainian Railway Association, Deputy Head of the State Forest Resources Agency, Head of the Plains Authority for the further operation of the railway station in the village of the Isle of Rokitniv district of the Plains region. Victor Wolfe to the Central Election Commission, the Ministry of Internal Affairs on the termination of the citizenship of representatives of local self-government authorities and the permanent suspension of the powers of members of local councils who voluntarily acquired citizenship of another country. Victor Vuka to the Director of the National Anti-Corruption Bureau, temporarily acting Head of the State of Ukraine on matters of geodesy, cartography and cadastre concerning the inaction of officials of the General Administration of the State of Kiev in relation to the cessation of gross violations of Ukrainian land legislation in the area of the monument to the archaeology of the national importance of the "Hotovské gradište". Dear colleagues, I'm continuing this meeting for a few minutes, until the announcement is complete. No, we can't make it in time, I'll announce it right now, we still have a lot of questions, and then there'll be a break, because we're going to break another rule. Sergey Melnika to the Minister of Social Policy of Ukraine for changes in the order in which subsidies are granted to the population to compensate for the cost of housing services, the acquisition of cremated gas, solid and liquid end-of-life fuel. Anna Romanova to the First Deputy Prime Minister, Minister of Economic Development and Trade of Ukraine, for the examination of the facts of the unlawful, unethical and unethical conduct of the former Director of Tourism and Resorts of MERT Liptuga. Anna Romanov to the Prime Minister for compensation of the educational subsidy deficit. Jaroslava Dubnević, until the temporary duty of the minister of health to provide diabetes to patients in the township of Lviv district with insulin. Borislav Bereza to the Deputy Head of the National Police Department in Kiev on some of the issues of the reconstruction of the Truhan Island resting area. Borislav Bereza to the head of the Kyiv City Administration for the payment of salaries to the staff of the educational institutions and educational institutions of the rightful district of Kyiv. Sergija Lešchenka to the head of the Regional Department of the National Property Fund in Kiev for the restoration of the mosaic virgin "Ukrainian Song" on the street of Bogdan Hmelnicky in Kiev. Sergey Lechchenka to the Minister of Education and Science on the permit documents for the reconstruction of the administrative structure of the Ukrainian Institute of Science and Technology, known as "Tarylka". Paul Dzüblik to the Prime Minister for the provision of adequate funding for the material and technical needs of health facilities in the Žitomir region. Groups of National Deputies (Ionova, Heraszczenko, Frez) to the Prime Minister, the Berdjan City Head on the use of urgent measures to address the issue of the Azov naval base (city of Berdjansk Donetsk Region). Irina Herashchenko and Maria Ionova to the Prime Minister on the regulatory simplification of recognition procedures for higher military education by (students) of Ukrainian military teaching institutions in foreign military educational institutions. Oksana Bilozer to the head of the Kyiv City Administration for the non-derogable reduction of the level of social protection of education students in Kiev and for the payment of the allowances determined by Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine on August 30, 2002, No. 1298. Irina Souslowy to the Minister of Education and Science of Ukraine on the effectiveness of retraining teachers at the expense of budgetary resources. Oleg Osuhovski to the Prime Minister, Head of the President's Administration, Minister of Internal Affairs, Security and Defence Council, Head of the BSC, Henprocuror for the immediate use of appropriate measures to preserve the historic spiritual acquisition of the Ukrainian nation. Oleg Osuhovski to the Prime Minister, Head of the Security Service, Attorney General, Minister of Ecology, on the illegal actions of officials of the State institution. Groups of National Deputies (Papiyev, Pavlova others) to the Prime Minister on the conflict between the press and Pat "The Crucifixion". Mikhail Golka to the Prime Minister, Acting Minister of Finance, Minister of Education and Science, Head of the Ternopil Authority for the Payment of Wages to the Educators of Ternopil. Mr. Mikhail Golka to Minister of Interior, Henprocuror, head of the Church Ombudsman on the limitation of the rights of the deputy of the Cerkas Oblast of Volkovic and the violation of the current legislation of Ukraine. Alexander Kirsch to the Kharkiv City Head on the establishment of new gaming elements and quality outdoor lighting on the playground near a residential building on the street of the Guards-Shironins, 112 in Kharkiv. Also from Alexander Kirsza to the Chief of Police in Kharkiv County for the cessation of illegal car racing and the violation of public order at the Ashan supermarket on the 7th in Kharkiv. Alexander Vilkula to the Prime Minister, Minister of Social Policy, on the use of measures to prevent the artificially underprivileged number of recipients of housing subsidies, which began after the innovation in the rules on the allocation of subsidies laid down in the new Cabinet regulation of 27 April 2018 No. 329. Alexander Wilkull to the Prime Minister, who is responsible for the Head of the Holding Fund for implementing the State Property Implementation Plan for the purpose of cash inflows to the State Budget in 2018 and for planning the corresponding revenue article of the State Budget in 2019. Roman Semenha to the Prime Minister for information on the level of external labour migration from Ukraine between 2014 and 2018. Roman Semenha up to the temporary duty of the Minister of Health on the availability of expenditure and the degree of implementation of the budget programmes of the Ministry of Health in 2017. Jaroslava Markevich to the Head of the State Audit Service for the provision of information Jaroslava Markevich to the Minister of Justice about the provision of information on the budget request. Alexander Dombrowski to the Prime Minister on the need for immediate restoration and reconstruction work in the headquarters of the National Museum of Commons of Mikola Pirogov. Yuri Solova to the executive duties of the Head of the State Road Agency of Ukraine, the Chief of Roads in the Ivano-Frankow region for the repair of the Snitinski, Kosovo, and the Supreme Districts of Ivano-Frankiv. Yuri Solova to the minister of finance’s responsibility to allocate additional funds for medical, educational, and other subsidies to the Kosovo, Svetička and Vrchovina regions of the region of Ivano-Frankov. Jury Bublika to the Prime Minister on the crisis situation that has arisen among the employees of the Poltav region medical institutions because of unfair conditions in their work and the introduction of a "comparation" with minimum wage payments provided for in the job specification. Jury Bublika to the Prime Minister, Director of the National Anti-Corruption Bureau, Prosecutor-General of Ukraine for the Prevention of the Loss of Budget Costs in the Implementation of the Single Aid Scheme for the “Baby Package” because of its overvaluation, the violation of the legislative rules when involving the project mediator and the compensation of the payment contracts. Andrija Shinkovič and Alexander Gerega to the Prime Minister, Henprocuror, on the use of measures to halt illegal activities that endanger the work of the state-owned firm "Niginian Career". Groups of Nardeps (Shinkovica, Nemirovsky others) to the Security Service, the Police, the National Anti-Corruption Agency, the National Anti-Corruption Bureau, the Attorney General's Office to verify the facts of possible illegal actions committed by the removed Director-General of PAT, Ukrzaliznica, Ostapuk. Ruslan Solvar to the Cabinet of Ministers, the Kyiv District Administration, the State Road Agency for the Resolution of Construction, Reconstruction, Capital and Current Repair of Motorways for the General Use of Local Value, Streets and Roads of Municipal Property in District No. 91 (Fastiv, Skuriski, Makarska District). Jurya Derevyanka to Henprokuror, National Police for the provision of information on the number of reports received by law enforcement authorities from the Ministry of Justice of Ukraine regarding the detection of the acceptance by State registrants, civil registration entities and notaries of decisions in violation of legislation resulting from the illegal deprivation of property rights to immovable property, land and corporate rights of natural or legal persons, local communities and the State, and the number of criminal conducts initiated by these facts. Jury Derevyanka to the Attorney General of Ukraine on improper criminal investigation No. 4201805000000314, an illegal possession of a total area of 1060.2 square metres in the centre of the city of Mikolayeva, owned by Kibzun Sergio and Kibzun Inni. Sergey Vlasenka to the head of NAC's public stock company Naftogaz Ukraine's government, a repeat parliamentary request for payments by NAC Naftogaz Ukraine to themselves and co-workers of a company of a billion dollars at the same time, while increasing the price of gas for consumers. Sergey Vlasenka to the head of the President's Administration on the operation of enterprises whose final beneficial owner is President Peter Poroshenko, in temporarily occupied and annexed by the Russian Federation aggressor country, and on the distribution of unreliable information by the President on the functioning of his enterprises in the territory of the Russian Federation aggressor country and in the temporarily occupied and annexed territories. Oksana Jurinec to the Prime Minister for the pay of teaching and teaching staff. Alexander Marchenka to the Prime Minister, the Minister of Defence, the Minister of Energy, the Head of the National Commission for State Regulations in the Field of Energy and Municipal Services, the Head of the Government of the Private Shareholder Society on the urgent solution of the problem of connectivity and the increase in the power of the military networks of the Biloczerki garrison in accordance with NATO standards. Alexander Marchenka to the first deputy head of the Committee of the Supreme Council on Science and Education, the head of the Committee of the Supreme Council on Budget Affairs, the Prime Minister, the Minister of Education, the Acting Minister of Finance's duties in relation to the referral of the Bilocerk Association of Education, the Council of Young Scientists and the Association of Cities of Ukraine, to amend the Bill on the National Budget of Ukraine for 2019 and the Budget Code for Educational Institutions and Medical Institutions in the Education Structure. Dmitry Schenchev to the Prime Minister on the situation that took place in 2018 with the calculation of the State Budget for accrued benefits and subsidies for housing and utilities and the acquisition of cremated gas, solid and liquid spent fuel from the Cave district of Kharkiv. Jury Boyka to the Minister of Internal Affairs, Henprocuror, on illegal economic management activities in the Kirovgrad region of the Department of Economic Protection of the National Police on citizens of the city and the area, on the conduct by officials of the administration of criminal offences, on their unprecedented pressure on members of the local councils to carry out their duties, unwarranted criminal persecution. John Melniczuk to the head of the General Administration of the Djorgheokadastro in the Vinnitsky region, the head of the Jmerinsky District Administration, the Acting Head of the Žmerinsk City Council, the Head of the Zhukovetsk Silrada, the Heads of the Karmaluków Silrada, the Heads of the Severinian Silrada, the Heads of the Lélyksalrada Salrada, the Heads of the Luko-Mučansk Silrada, the Heads of the Noskovetsk silrada, the Heads of the Silrada, the Heads of the Corstovets, the Heads of the Tarasian Silrada, the Heads of the Braille Selrada, the Heads of the Whitemen of the Silrada, the Head of the Stodulecki Silrada, the Head of the Kurilovite Silrad, the Head of the Taras, the Head of the Tarasovite Silradyawis, the Head of the Head of the Head of the Bras, the Head of the British Selradaic Salradaic Salradia, the Head of the Head of the Head of the Land of the Land of the Beyovite Land of the Soviet Republic and of the Soviets. Jury Timoshenko to the Minister of Justice on the restoration of the right to use the land. Jury Timoshenko to the Prime Minister for amending the Ukrainian Budget Code. July Ljovczany to the Prime Minister for Ukraine's enforcement of the decisions of the European Court of Human Rights. Julius Lewochkina to the Prime Minister for the guarantee of the language rights of national minorities. Igor Alekseieva to the Minister of Infrastructure to maintain a public transport stop "South Borszagivka" on the Grand Ring Road. Igor Alekseyev to the director of the Institute of Legislation of the Supreme Council of Ukraine for the improvement of the legislative regulation of the institution of mediation in Ukraine. Andrea Shipka to the first deputy minister of agrarian politics, temporarily acting as Health Minister for Preventive Action, preventing the spread of infection to Siberia, and providing medical care to citizens who are in the zone of outbreak of infection. Igor Shurma to the Prime Minister for the establishment and accountability of officials responsible for the damage to the State as a result of public procurement of medical supplies and medical supplies through international organizations. Ruslana Demczak until he is temporarily acting as head of the Ukrainian State Service for Geodesy, Cartography and cadastre for ensuring the proper implementation of the Ukrainian Law on State Land cadastre. Ruslana Demczak to the head of the High Council of Justice for the transfer of one judge to the Oratov District Court of the Winnick district. Jury Levchenk to the Commissioner for Human Rights of the Supreme Council, deputy head of the National Police of Ukraine, head of the National Police Department in Kiev, prosecutor of Kiev City for violations of the rights protected by law of the people of Kiev as a result of the disclosure of their personal information by the Kyiv City State Administration and violations when receiving and storing their personal data. Jury Lewchenka to the Prime Minister, head of the National Police of Ukraine, head of the BSB, Attorney General on urgent measures to respond to the attempt to destroy Mikola Mihnowski's monument in Kiev. Victoria Sumar to the responsibilities of the Head of the State Road Agency, Minister of Infrastructure to ensure a satisfactory state of road cover for N-02 and T-0606. Sergey Saska to the Prime Minister to pay off the arrears of the employees of the Selidivowogil DP. Jurya Bereza to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the possible award of compensation to Ukraine's supporters for delaying the status of a participant in hostilities. Jurya Bereza to the Prime Minister for the allocation of additional funds to the Ministry of Education and Science for the renovation of the dining room of the Dnipropetrov National University for the railway transport of the name of the Academy of Sciences Lazaryan. Jury Boyka to the director of the National Anti-Corruption Bureau of Ukraine on the verification of possible violations of the requirements of effective legislation, anti-corruption legislation, and the use of appropriate response measures. Vladimir Litvina to the Prime Minister, Minister of Infrastructure for the activities of the PAT "Krošta" Žitomir Directorate. Edward Matviychuk to the Ministry of Regional Development, Construction, HKG, Odessa Region, Odessa Observatories on the need to take effective action in the interests of residents of the Kyiv district of Odessa on the complex well-being of the instigator territory at buildings Nos. 7 and 9 on the street of Vladimir Visocsky. And Edward Matviychuk to the Ministry of Regional Development, Odessa Observatories, Odessa City Council on the objective consideration of the collective appeal of residents of House 49 on the street of Ilfa and Petrov of Kyiv district of Odessa on the need to bring the lift house to proper condition and to carry out work with the welfare of the house in order to meet the health and health standards for safe living. Dear colleagues, in view of the fact that today we still have some time to take the oath of the newly elected members of the CLTC and have taken enough time to announce requests and statements from members of the factions, we do not have time to speak to those deputies who are not satisfied with the answers they received earlier. And I hope that we will find time for this next Friday. And now I'm going to call it a break. At 12:45, we will resume our session. And all the MPs who want to take part in the traditional "Variance" feature will be able to sign up at 12:45 sharp.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-05-m0.u111	Dear colleagues, we are continuing our plenary session. And I am very much asking you to return all the Ukrainian national MPs from the towers, because now we're going to be recording for the performances so that everyone can make it. Dear colleagues, traditionally after our break on Friday, we have time to speak to the national MPs on various issues. I ask all national deputies who wish to speak now to sign up. Please. Once pressured, the one entered exactly, as they say, in the passing section of the list. Dear colleagues, we're starting a speech by the Ukrainian National Deputies under the heading "Virgin." And I invite you to Victor Halasyuk's word. Please, Mr. Victor.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-05-m0.u112	Victor Halasyuk, Oleg Lachka Radical Party. Teachers are important, we all know that, but how often does the authorities use this axiom when they make decisions? Economics cannot be either a goal or an educational reform tool. Look at the United States. Expenditure on education is twice as much as it is on defense, because it's not spending -- it's investing in the future of the country. See what they're trying to do in Ukraine: close 69 colleges by transferring them to finance local budgets that can't get them out. It's totally unacceptable, and the Radical Party team at the head of Oleg Lashk won't let us do it. It will prevent the closure of educational institutions in Ukraine. Education programmed the future of the nation, the foundation of both economic and national security. And here in this rostrum a few days ago, a better teacher of Ukraine, Paul Wheat. This is a perfectly right position. Respect for the teacher and a decent level of pay for the teacher's work is the fundamental foundation of the country's success, it's a prerequisite for a successful education system. The development of education is not expenditure, it's the most effective investment that can only be in the country. Effective economic policy is a premeditated preservation and capitalisation of human capital, which is the result of successful education. We are obliged to radically change the country’s economic model. This is what the Radical Party team is insisting on leading with Oleg Ljashk. It's good to be a donor of raw materials, talents, and money to other economies. You have to be a manufacturer, an innovator, and an educational center in Europe. For that, there is every possibility in Ukraine, and we have to do it. The state has to create these rules of play that make more educated, more professional people earn more. Not in Naftogaza are to receive the prizes -- tens of millions of dollars -- for what, but it is to receive a decent Ukrainian teacher's salary. Because when a teacher can't buy a computer and Kobolev writes down tens of millions, it's a shame! And we're going to radically change this state policy. Look at Turkey. Teacher's salary is equal to diplomat's, top income. We will do the same in Ukraine. You have to create an education, a profession, a teacher's cult in Ukraine. Welcome to all Ukrainian Educators on behalf of the Radical Party of Oleg Laska with a professional holiday! Respect and Respect for You!
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-05-m0.u113	Thank you. Please welcome the People's Deputy Kaplin, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-05-m0.u114	Respectable compatriots! A few months ago, the Ukrainian Cabinet of Ministers denied nearly 6 million of our citizens the right to grant support, the right to grant. In its time, the Committee on Social Policy, Employment and Retirement along with the bloc of our political forces: with the Socialist, with the Social Democratic Party with the extraordinary support of the trade unions -- began a real war for your right to receive subsidies, for the right to survive the autumn, to survive the winter, to survive the spring. As part of consultations and protests at the University of Minnesota, the Pension Fund, near the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, we agreed on the following negotiations with the Cabinet. First. All those who are in arrears on the employer's salary, for whom no single social contribution is paid, and in Ukraine today 400,000, 400,000 households, more specifically, will receive subsidies. This is a real breakthrough for those enterprises that are now in a difficult state, especially for Ucroborprom companies, which is an opportunity to preserve the human resources potential of simple workers in businesses that provide security for our country today. The other one. You will no longer find yourself in a very difficult, incredible way to prove to the social worker that your son, daughter, relatives who are prescribed in your home do not support you financially, but live in other parts of the country or in Portugal, in Poland, in St. Petersburg, in Moscow, you will get a simplified subsidy. We have chosen such a right for you to fight against the Ministry of Social Policy and the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. Third. If you get alimony, they won't count for income that makes it impossible to get subsidies. These are also tens of thousands of our compatriots, our compatriots. Similarly, we have achieved that if they can prove the existence of such a disease, the citizens who have the 1st and 2nd disability groups will be entitled to subsidies. I will remind you that every year, about 130,000 people in our country suffer from cancer. We will continue to fight for your right to survive today, to experience this difficult winter, this difficult autumn, spring. And I believe that next year there will be factions in this Parliament fighting for your salary, for your pension, and you will not need such a grant, it will be worthy of European level. Our work in Poltava proves that tariffs can be reduced. After a change in the city’s head, we lowered tariffs by 30 percent. And I'm willing to prove to any expert that we can reduce utility costs.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-05-m0.u115	Ten seconds, because a lot of people want to.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-05-m0.u116	And I can prove to any expert that we can reduce the cost of municipal tariffs for citizens by not 10 percent, not 20 percent, at the same time. It's ours.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-05-m0.u117	Thank you. Please give the next speech, this is the National MP Moseschuk. Welcome, Mr. Igor.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-05-m0.u118	Igor Mosiyczuk, Oleg Lachka Radical Party First of all, of course, I would like to welcome our Ukrainian teachers and their professional festival. To welcome your teacher, Love of John, from Lubna in Poltavščina. Lowly bow down, thank you for what they do daily for the future Ukrainian nation. In this context, I would like to point out that what was adopted yesterday in the first reading of the Law on Languages, the Ukrainian Society and the Ukrainian Politics, should be viewed not as disuniting, but as absolutely unifying, what would become the foundation for the greatness of the Ukrainian State and nation in the future, as what would become the foundation for the upbringing of future generations of Ukrainians. But so is language. And the whole Ukrainian society, the whole of Ukraine requires us from the Ukrainian Parliament, and above all from power, decisions that will stimulate the development of the Ukrainian economy, the development of the Ukrainian industry, the development of the Ukrainian agricultural sector. Because when there are no Ukrainians left in Ukraine, and today’s government has pushed up to 10 million of our fellow countrymen into the worlds for profit, Ukrainian language will be developed, not in Ukraine, but elsewhere, as it was during the Soviet occupation, when better Ukrainian schools were in Munich, Canada, and the United States. We have to do everything, and Oleg Ljaska's Radical Party has a whole programme of new economic policies, a package of industrial reforms that are meant to stimulate the development of Ukrainian industry, the resurgence of entire sectors of Ukrainian industry: both shipbuilding, and agri-industrial complex, and metallurgy, and mining and mining. - for the Ukrainian to have a job and a decent salary. Only in the complex can this be a continuation of the inseparable link between the dead, the living, and the unborn Ukrainians will bring greatness to our nation and state. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-05-m0.u119	Please welcome National Deputy Bondar. Mr. Michael, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-05-m0.u120	Good afternoon! Today, I'd like to see my colleagues from the Tax Committee, the chiefs of the Ministry of Finance. When making changes to the 2019 Tax Code, we would like to take into account the proposals of those population centres, those communities that, for example, occupy forests and do not receive budget revenues accordingly. I want to read a letter to myself from the Council of Névitsk, which is the Radehov district. This is what they write. "The only resource of taxation, clearly and indirectly attached to communities, is land. The only tax that local governments can influence is a land tax. In particular, one of the innovations is the introduction of land tax payments for forest land. The amendments are made to article 273, paragraph 273-1, of the Tax Code. The preceding norm of this article foretold that a tax on forest land was being paid as part of a tax income. The new edition establishes that the tax on forest land consists of land tax and rent. In the event of a change in this standard, local budgets will again lose much of the local budgets. Today, 70 percent of local communities are said to be unable. Really, then, where did the government budget come from? They were paid by local communities. After the changes to the Tax Code in 2014, 50 percent of the tax on the special use of forest resources, the section, was transferred to the district budgets, which affected the budgets of the local councils, especially the budget of the Nevicka Rural Council, which contained 5,000 acres [5,000 ha] of forest land. Thanks to this type of tax, the village community was able to join in the co-financing of district micro-project competitions that were successfully implemented, as well as the first priority problems of the community." And they're like, "So we ask you not to support the amendment to the Ukrainian Tax Code regarding the cancellation of land taxes on forest land. In the event of change, we ask questions about the return of 50 percent of the tax on the special use of forest resources to the budgets of local councils." So once again, I call on my colleagues from the budget committee and the officers of the Ministry of Finance to take these amendments into account that are coming to the deputies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-05-m0.u121	Thank you, Your Honor. I invite you to the floor of the People's Deputy, Gennady Kryvoshea. Please, Mr. Hennadia.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-05-m0.u122	Good afternoon, dear fellows! Good afternoon, Madam Chairman! Thank you, Vitaly Philemonovich Stashuk, for your word. Dear colleagues, I would like to pay attention, as always, to the issue of the district in which the National Deputy Oneshchenko is to work. But unfortunately, or fortunately, out of his absence, so I took on such a commitment and all these questions that arise in the district, I have to raise them, including here in Parliament. First. I'd like to make a statement. All my references and all my questions that will be raised today will be written, then I'll submit them officially to the Prime Minister, or to one of the officials that I'm going to talk about today. Therefore, the first is that of the head of the Kyiv District Administration, Mr. Gorgan. I would like to make it clear that, for almost a year or so, the issue of elections to the Boguslav united territorial community is not being submitted to the CLTC? I hope that the new CEC will meet its demands and promises — and will make the decision to continue the elections to the united territorial communities. So I appeal to the head of the district administration once again to send the appropriate submission to the Boguslav United Territorial Society. The other one. This is the Kagarlicki district, the Kagarlic united territorial community, which is also ready to hold these elections. I also request that a separate submission be made to the Cagarlic united territorial community. I would like to point out that there will be 23 villages in the Cagarlic united territorial community along with the city of Kagarlik. This is almost 90 percent of the area. Next. I would like to draw further attention to the head of the Kyiv District Administration, as well as to the management of the Road Traffic Service, to the problem of doing road work after a tender, but not a signed contract for the execution of these roads, in the Mironovo region. This applies, in particular, to the village of Vladislavka, where the road is of regional importance, where today, thanks to the initiative of public activists and myself, we have achieved inclusion in the programme of customs costs of repairing the road, conducted tender procedures, but for more than two weeks, almost three weeks, the contract with the subcontractor is not signed. I'd like to pay attention to any political battalions, any political forces or personnel in any way can't reflect on the position and quality of the roads, because they're driven by simple, ordinary people. And the third. I would like to thank the Radical Party, which today supported my initiative in the Boguslav District Council and did not vote for the promotion.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-05-m0.u123	Ten seconds. [[B in m in s a l in]] Ten seconds!
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-05-m0.u124	and did not vote in favour of raising tariffs in the Boguslav region. We can make sure that the tariffs remain constant because it depends on how they are going to be.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-05-m0.u125	Thank you. Please, I ask you to form the Supreme Council's apparatus for speaking to the deputies of Krivoshia and Bondar as a parliamentary address. And Sergey Mishchenko is invited to the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-05-m0.u126	Sergei Mishchenko, Kyivščina. Today, millions of Ukrainian citizens are suffering from so - called power reforms. It's just people say, "They put a penny in one pocket, they took a bracelet out of the other pocket." This week’s anniversary of the adoption of the so - called pension reform was inconceivable. Everyone is silent about its achievements, even though they initially shouted about it. What do we have leftovers? The people who have huge internships have received a tax in this pocket, the others have received nothing -- they're civil servants, they're military officials, they're scientists, journalists, and many other millions of categories of citizens who haven't received anything from this pension reform, some promises. On the other hand, the committee unanimously adopted two of my bills at its meeting, which exactly restore this justice to the pension that people have earned in our country, is Law 7273, 7406. And people are now writing massively to the Chief of the Supreme Council, the Groissman, the leaders of the factions about supporting and voting these laws, because all the factions on the committee unanimously supported these bills. What about the second pocket where the bracelet is taken? And in this second pocket, they take away what we see now refers to the subsidy, the fact that we've reduced the social standard. Right now, people are getting less worked up by all social standards than they did last year. Now those prices that exist today from medical reform, from other reforms, from the economic reforms that the government has this morning pointed out, from another, from this pocket, from another person paying several times more for medicine, it pays several times more for food. On what planet do these government officials today report on economic growth? Perhaps on the planet where they live well, and from these reforms, they are fine but not a mere nation that demands a change of all power in the country today. I think this time will come very quickly.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-05-m0.u127	Thank you. And please, the next performance will be Yuri Lewchenko. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-05-m0.u128	Lewchenko, Freedom, 223rd District, Kiev. Today I would like to act as a Kiev Mayor, as a deputy elected to 223rd District in the Shevchenkov district of Kiev, because. And to look at a huge, huge problem, I don't even know how to say it, to call it a problem, because it's probably not serious enough for this situation, it's some kind of fantasy. I've been approached over the last few weeks by a lot of very strong voters -- active people who have consistently complained to the Kyiv City Public Administration about the inappropriate quality of housing services, yes, they're using the 1551 official line, they're calling Klicka, and they're talking about what needs to be fixed. So it turns out that the Kyiv City Administration forms lists of people who are more likely to complain, to pass these lists, to think about who they're passing these lists to: to the clinics, to the hospital, and to the nurses, and to give instructions to the doctors, that when these people come to them, for example, now people come to conclude these contracts, new ones, in accordance with the so-called medical reform, and give instructions to these nurses to ask people, "Why are you complaining? What don't you like?" It's not about the medical field, it's about the housing sector. What is more, there is a pattern: mental health. And there's people. Thank you. Here I am approached by Leonid Jemetz, a national MP, who was also addressed extensively in this regard. He just handed me those lists again. I'm paying attention to these lists. Provides the Kiev City Administration with a list of people with addresses, telephones, personal data, and health care facilities and instructs medical personnel to examine active sneezes and check them for their mental health and then to indicate whether they are mentally healthy. And that kind of pressure is now being exerted on active people. Think of all those who listen to us now. You know, it's some kind of method, but I'm saying, it's some fantasy, it's really without exaggeration, really, without exaggeration, it's kind of a kegebistic method, when in Soviet times active people were making crazy and "asshole" plant, so now the Kyiv City Public Administration is doing it at the direction of Vitaly Volodymyrovich Klicka, which is instead of doing people's requests, instead of doing their job, they're making lists of particularly violent (in paws), especially active and openly intimidated. And it's about hundreds of sneezes. So today, I sent the MP's request, he was read from the rostrum, to the prosecutor's office, to the national police, to the authorized human rights officer, and he was asked to deal with the matter. Well, that's easy. Because it's already just going beyond anything. It's just bullying the Ukrainians. Instead of working for their constituents, they intimidate their constituents. This has to be stopped. And I turn to the kyans, and I turn to them. Open your eyes on this.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-05-m0.u129	Please make the next statement. Yuri Derevyanko
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-05-m0.u130	Yuri Derevyanko, "The Movement of New Forces". Dear Ukrainians! Dear colleagues! The following year, Ukraine will have an electoral period, where the voice of every Ukrainian will be fought by all, battles by Greeks, sweet promises. And, as always, after the election, they forget what they promised. What should be done in this case? We already see hundreds, thousands of boards hanging all over the country, each board costs between 10,000 and 15,000 dollars a month. There are more such boards throughout the country, perhaps more than a hundred thousand. This is from about a billion to one and a half billion dollars a month to advertise an existing pre-election campaign. And so the battle for votes is turned, not into a battle of ideas or beliefs, but into a battle of wallets. At the same time, we see central television channels moving their so-called candidates, and all central television channels are oligarchy. And we see that today this great battle has begun. Mr. President is ignoring the appeals of more than forty national deputies who have asked him to explain in writing all the information in the media regarding the facts related to his possible abuses and offshoring crimes, the Rotterdam Plus scheme, the Lipetsky factory, regarding the supply of Ukrainian army with several times the price of armor and other goods where the beneficiary owner is Mr. Poroshenko himself. But we see complete silence. I propose that this oligarchy criminal system put an end to this system, to change it. I propose that this be done as the leading countries do, where they introduce elements of direct democracy, including Switzerland, where, in fact, the citizens themselves can determine on important issues, and the civil servants they choose ask their opinion. We today have functions and services from the State regarding justice, health, security, defence, education, social protection, infrastructure, because it's all created for our taxes, but we don't have it. So I propose that we focus and focus on building a digital state, where in every corner of Ukraine we have a high-quality Internet, where every citizen of Ukraine can vote not only in paper form, but also by electronic vote, by electronic vote, where we can also use modern technology, cheaper, more secure, get and have the opportunity to vote often, call off officials, deputies, influence key decisions not only on the level of our own community, but also on the level of the general state. I think this system is going to break down that corrupt and bureaucratic oligarchy that works today. I think that next year we have to do everything we can to enable those who want to make these changes to gain power to take such steps. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-05-m0.u131	Next performance. National deputy Shuhevich, is invited to attend. Please, Mr. Shuhevich.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-05-m0.u132	Madam Chairman, honourable deputies, distinguished Ukrainian people, I would like to address our Prime Minister, Mr. Groisman, from this rostrum with such a question. There was a Supreme Council decree on the creation of the Ministry of Veterans. The Ministry is essential. The Ministry of Warland, where the number of veterans increases and increases every day. There are about 20 veterans involved. Very often this work is ineffective because there is agreement, there is a need for reconciliation, there is a need for mutual acts and so forth, while the matter needs concentration in one hand, in the same department of the whole problem. And that's why there's already a decree, the Prime Minister promises, promises, promises, promises, will, but doesn't give a proper appeal to the Supreme Council about the creation, the specific creation of such a ministry, and thereby slows down the process. Moreover, the budget process begins, preparations for the adoption of the budget begins, and it may be possible to provide for appropriate funds for the Ministry. Or it may happen that in its time the Ministry of Occupied Territories was created, but they did not give a penny of money and the Ministry could simply not work for a long time. So I ask the Prime Minister again with a question, and I ask you to register this as my official request to the Prime Minister: when will the Prime Minister take the appropriate action on the establishment of the Ministry and the appointment of a new Minister for Veterans? Thank you for your attention. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-05-m0.u133	Heroic glory! Thank you for raising the current issue, and I ask you to make a presentation by your distinguished colleague Shuhevich as a parliamentary address to the government and to the Prime Minister of Ukraine. I invite you to speak now, Igor Lucenka, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-05-m0.u134	Igor Lucenko, "The Fatherland" faction. Good afternoon, dear fellows! Good afternoon, reverend Ukrainian people! As soon as I signed a letter with several colleagues, following the initiative of Andri Bielecki, I signed a letter to President Prashenko and to the Head of the Security Service of Ukraine regarding the scandal that broke out on October 2, this year in connection with the rather interesting facts of the biography and property of one of the heads of the External Intelligence Service. I don't think there must be anyone in this country who doesn't know about this eerie fact. When a person whose family owns Russian passports is appointed as an external intelligence officer during the war. There's a person who owns a few, whose origins are incomprehensible, elite houses at Kiev's cost, according to journalists, about $7-8 million. That's 200 million dollars! This is the budget of a small city that is now in charge of just one power chief. What are the rhetorical issues, actually, and what are we currently doing with the External Intelligence Service, particularly the Ukrainian Security Service in general? Clearly, they are not defending us from Russian aggression, from foreign intelligence. They're doing this whole elite housing thing, and they're doing it primarily because of the racket of business, because of these purchases of criminal cases, searches, procedural illegal acts. Because of this whole banal thing, forgive me, the racket that is now the main focus of our forces' activities under the authority of President Peter Alexiyovich Poroshenko. We, the national MPs, of course, will not be silent about this, I think that neither the patriotic public nor the veteran community nor those conscious, conscientious Ukrainian security officials, who have been greatly dismissed, removed from office and so on. I think that the professional community, the veteran community, the patriotic community, the Ukrainian community will finally say their word so that those who have allowed similar characters to be assigned to such important, super-important positions in today's situation will be responsible. And once again, I want to say to the entire President's pear army. You won't be able to talk, to keep quiet, to love the subject. This is a testimony to the real and your patriotism, and the patriotism of your patron. And how many boards across the country did you hang that, there, 'Army! Patriotism! Glory to Ukraine!", here.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-05-m0.u135	Ten seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-05-m0.u136	Here are the real facts that will burn your eyes. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-05-m0.u137	Next performance. Please invite our colleague John Sporish.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-05-m0.u138	Dear Chairman! Dear National Deputies! John Sporish, 15th District, Winnitzkin. First of all, I join all the greetings of teachers from all over Ukraine, not just my district, because they really raise what's best in our country -- those are the children who have to change us all who have to do and bring our Ukraine into Europe. I mean, positive this week is, really, as we said in this rostrum, we have the law and the amendments to the Ukrainian Armed Forces Statute, that's what we've adopted and the draft Language Act in the first reading, and there's a lot of other positive that we could accept, but first of all we haven't accepted just because there's no discipline in the room, not because we haven't had time. But, along with that, today at the Supreme Council, there was a rally of quick-help doctors and beekeepers, by the way, they're still there. And I'm going to say a few words about beekeepers, because, really, we're going to be eating bees today, there's not going to be life, there's not going to be vegetation. And that's why we have to say to the beekeepers from this rostrum, because there are beekeepers from my district, too, that we have to do everything we can to protect the bees, to protect them, to really do their part in us -- it's actually to increase the yield, and that's all that's alive in Ukraine. It's nice, though, that the Cabinet of Ministers is currently returning all of these funds that were budgeted for 2018. It's for the capital repairs, it's for the reconstruction, the construction, the purchase of weeds, the keeping of cows and all that. It's all good. But it is not pleasant, for farmers today are deeply complaining about the fact that today, to make some major repairs to the farm, to block the farm, we really need to meet the standards of the sanitary zone. And that's right. There must be a farm 200-250 meters from the village. But where are the children of farms 100 meters away? Where are their children? We can't stand them today. They have functioned for about 100 years or more. So I would like the Cabinet of Ministers to change what this standard has been introduced. But it doesn't make any sense that if we spend about 100,000 today to change these standards, the farm can already work, because it's not acceptable. So I think the Cabinet of Ministers should pay attention to that. And we have to do everything we can to get our farmers to do their pet program and do everything we can to make our animals.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-05-m0.u139	Ten seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-05-m0.u140	And what's important is that we continue to receive these funds that are budgeted for the development of our farmers for the development of animal production. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-05-m0.u141	Thank you, Your Honor. And Roman Semenach is invited to the floor. I'd like to have a word with you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-05-m0.u142	Semenha Roman, "The Self-Help Union" faction. Dear colleagues! Dear Madam Chairman! The biggest issue that concerns people today and that is discussed at each meeting is, of course, the new requirements for subsidies, the new heating season, tariffs and gas prices. At the same time, I pay particular attention to our colleagues in the session hall, that in the 2019 budget, the government is investing 71 billion dollars in grants this year and 55 dollars in the following year. Yeah, I wasn't wrong. And this is because several government representatives are absolutely noting that at least gas prices will be raised to at least 23 percent this year. The government continues not to simply leave subsidies at that level or even reduce them. And it's all about the fact that there's no money in the budget. And changes have to do with the Cabinet of Ministers Order of April 27, which has indeed brought about a series of major changes. And if a part of the change is absolutely logical, for example, for families who live in an apartment of more than 120 square meters or have a new car purchased in the family, it is logical, in principle, that this family is likely to have other incomes that are not entirely taxed and should not claim a subsidy. How, though, can we view the fact that the removal of subsidies involves the unemployed? How can we view the fact that today, if a child is registered but does not live with his parents, such a household will now be deprived of subsidies? So it's obvious that any argument by the government about what people have become rich, and that's what today sounds like an argument, namely, 1 thousand 640 dollars per year on average, the wage has gone up, but above all, the government's deteriorating criteria for receiving subsidies is actually falling into the pockets of ordinary Ukrainians who really need it today. What should we really do, colleagues? First of all, I think that subsidies in themselves are obviously not a motivational tool, and people have to be removed from this subsidy needle. Notice, too, that this size and scale of the subsidy has unfortunately been acquired for the first cadence of the government of Yatsenuk, when in fact more than 50 percent of households are now sitting on this grant needle. But at the same time, we did very little with you to change that. First of all, there's a registered bill by our colleagues 8626 that cancels the criminal formula "Rotterdam Plus," which has obviously affected all utility tariffs, including, of course, increasing the amount of subsidies. Next. The government has to review its budget proposals for "hot loans." Self-help made proposals to the budget committee to raise this figure to at least 2 billion from the 400 million dollars planned. Next. All tariffs in this country should be transparent. And most importantly, the government has to introduce and encourage people to consume less.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-05-m0.u143	10 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-05-m0.u144	To be energy efficient, this will enable efficient energy conservation programmes to be implemented. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-05-m0.u145	Thank you. And the people's deputy, Martovicki, is invited to the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-05-m0.u146	Dear citizens of Ukraine! I want to inform you about the chaos in the Ministry of Social Policy and the Pension Fund of Ukraine regarding the number one pension entitlement for miners and workers in other sectors. The letters received from the heads of the West Donbas mining industry are therefore confirmed. According to the Ministry of Social Welfare's explanations of 20.01.1992 No. 8, employees employed in underground and metallurgy who have at least 10 years of service, who are entitled to a pension irrespective of their age pursuant to article 14 of the Ukrainian Pension Insurance Act, but who have not completed the full service provided for by this article of the law, may be assigned to a pension in the presence of at least 25 years of underground work and work in the metallurgical sector, which is counted into service every full year by a miner with a clear discharge, a passer-by, a rebufferer, a mining car driver, a miner, a hot-roller for three months. At the same time, I note that clarification number 8 has not been annulled by any laws or regulations to date. However, the management of the Ministry and the Pension Fund, in particular by letters signed by them, has led to the knowledge of the managers of the Pension Fund’s district administrations of not taking into account the state of affairs for today’s explanatory notes number 8 on the count, and the recalculation of pensions for those who worked in the professions according to list number 1 of these professions. I received copies of these letters personally. That's why I'm addressing Prime Minister Groysman, Minister of Social Policy Reva, the head of the Pension Fund's ruling on the issue. Gentlemen, I understand that your first priority is the destruction of the government sector of the Ukrainian coal industry and the economy of the cost of recalculating our pensions, to the very poor, to the citizens. And as a coal miner with a 27-year-old underground internship, I understand the indignation of these people. You, without even imagining the complexity and danger of mining work, personally do not want to count in accordance with valid pension regulations to people who have given their lives to the underworld in order to ensure the energy security of the State. Underworld health deserves the attention of the State. Moreover, even during my work visit to the best coal - western Donbas region, whose interests I represent here in the Supreme Council, the Prime Minister did not find the opportunity to descend into the mine and to see for himself what conditions miners are working in, to feel the complexity of underground work. I don't care.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-05-m0.u147	Please finish 10 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-05-m0.u148	As Ukraine's national deputy, I have already addressed the Prime Minister of Ukraine with a question of the matter. Therefore, I demand that the answer to my question be not one of a kind.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-05-m0.u149	Thank you, thank you, Your Honor. And now. Thank you. Please welcome National Deputy Igor Shurma.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-05-m0.u150	Igor Shurma, Opposition Block. Dear colleagues, no matter how few of you are here, I'm probably talking to you, because we're all going through very, very difficult election campaigns. Now the relationship is going to get a lot worse, especially between us, and it's going to depend a lot on our inner culture, our behavior, our aggression, and we're going to have a reaction in society. I'd still like to ask everyone, with a big request, not to forget that we've all voted here in this room that the bulling, that is, the violence that today is among the schoolchildren, should be stopped. I emphasize that we should think not about the consequences, but about the causes. And the same schoolchildren watch very closely and look at the relationship between Mom and Dad, neighbors, including us. In that session hall, people have different views and beliefs, and they have the right to think, to their ideological identity, to their religious beliefs. It wasn't us who gave it, it was everyone's choice. And today, throwing sharp events on one side or the other, that means we're re-generating shocks. And it's going to be like the resulting part of the fight. This opposition will be seen again by the same children. And that's why I urge everyone to refrain from any harsh executions. It is very sad that very often people, when they have no other argument, start mixing everyone up as enemies of Ukraine just because people have different views. It is unfortunate that the information space is narrowing down today. I'm a very rare guest on 112 channels and on NewsOne, I don't go on air at all, because I think that the discussion of politicians should be here in the session room, and we have a Friday for that. We can come here and discuss it. And what comes on the air, it's just, you know, it's creating a shock for people. But taking and closing TV channels is nothing good. I will be very careful, personally, to watch whether the President of Ukraine, who owns or owns the 5 Channel, and he knows what it is to close the channel, whether he'll sign it if he's moved, provocative things. And I'm addressing all the members of the majority. You went to 112 and NewsOne, you were all distraught, and now you're the authors of this bill because there's a threat. And you didn't know about the threat when you were walking for three years? Let us treat one another with respect.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-05-m0.u151	And the next performance is the national deputy of Silantiev. Please, Mr. Silantiev. Dennis Silantiev, we invite you to your word.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-05-m0.u152	Dennis Silantiev, faction of the Radical Party of Oleg Lášk. Respectable citizens of Ukraine, respected colleagues! In recent times, the media has published information in the Ukrainian media that says that Ukraine has a leading position among the countries of Europe and the world at the level of mortality. For example, there are 200,000 more deaths each year than there are born. For you to understand, every year in Ukraine, one city, like Lutsk or the White Church, is getting smaller. And unfortunately, this trend is only getting worse every year. But the Ukrainian media have not yet said that it is not just sad; it is also very difficult for the state economically, because the productivity due to high mortality is declining. This means that the profits of public and private businesses have also fallen. As a result, both the holding and the local budgets are not being filled, and this means that there is no money for social, humanitarian, military, and much more. Dear Ukrainians, what do you think the government did when you heard this terrible information? I'll tell you: nothing. The government pretended not to apply them at all, once again demonstrating its contempt and indifference to the Ukrainian people. But there is a ray of the world in this dark kingdom -- and this is Oleg Láska's Radical Party, which has demonstrated its principled position towards the people of Ukraine, its responsibility to the health of children, to the health of every Ukrainian. A simple example. Thanks to Oleg Ljašk, our team, our colleague, Andrija Vadaturski, in the city of the Santana Mikolai district, a modern cooperative complex is being built. Imagine, in a flat place, this pool was built from scratch. This means that local people, and especially their children, will be able to recover, to be able to engage in physical culture and sports, which means that they will be less sick and live longer. But the Radical Party won't stop at that. We have already registered bills that will allow for the preservation of existing sports infrastructure and the development of social infrastructure, especially in rural areas. Our team also requires an active government to form a budget for the following year, and this is happening right now so that the funds for the sport infrastructure development programme, such as the development of grass-roots complexes, are foreseen. Enough is enough to see our talented and great nation shrink. Either we go back to our faces today and take a step towards the people, or tomorrow we're going to have a smaller city in Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-05-m0.u153	And the next performance. Please, Valeria Zaporzko, allow me to have a word with you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-05-m0.u154	Valeria Zarzko, faction of the Radical Party of Oleg Lašek. Good afternoon, citizens of Ukraine! Today, under the Council, an emergency ambulance. In the towers of the Supreme Council, the girl workers are handing out help tapes to our deputies. Protect and support emergency assistance. We, MPs, get these answers from the MOH about the sick Ukrainians. The answers, to put it mildly, are nothing. Forty-seven days under the MOH are already in the process of protesting against relatives of serious Ukrainians who need urgent treatment abroad, money for which they are in the MOH, but the MOH says that there is no money. And these people are forced to talk about it every day, ask questions, try to communicate with Mrs. Suprun and Lynchevski, who are ignored every day, who don't go out to them, who don't do anything. At the same time, what do we see? What's leftovers under budget programmes, including primary aid, is a surplus of 900 billion budget money -- Ukrainian taxpayers' money, which could save the lives of ordinary Ukrainians who need it, which is a duty of the state. Sadly, though, this does not happen, and people are openly abused by medical reform. The Radical Party faction of Oleg Ljaška has repeatedly said that we are for medical reform, but what is happening today in Ukraine -- sorry, it is not a medical reform, it is a national genocide. People are smaller and smaller, people are sick. One hundred thousand oncology diseases are registered in Ukraine every year, and all of these people feel doomed to death, they call themselves people who stand in the line of death. In doing so, the MOH behaves cynically. In the decree they sent to the budget committee for increased funding by 101 million dollars, 122 million dollars. The difference between 101 and 122 million and 21 million could be saved by 7 Ukrainians. But no, this money they offered to raise their wages, knowing that members of the budget committee wouldn't have the opportunity not to support it, because it's people's lives. Oleg Láška's Radical Party offered the "Available Drugs" program. This "Affordable Drugs" program has been in operation for 1 year, and it's a billion dollars that went to drugs that Ukrainians get for free. We demand that next year, in the 19th year's budget, this amount be increased to 2 billion dollars, and that the medicine enter.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-05-m0.u155	Ten seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-05-m0.u156	And so that oncology drugs can be introduced that will allow people not to take the last out of the house, but to heal. We were called populists, but the Radical Party supported the Ukrainians and struggled to make the Ukrainian nation happy and healthy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-05-m0.u157	I'd like to invite you to the floor, please, Oksana Jurinec. Mrs. Oksana, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-05-m0.u158	Good afternoon, madame presiding and distinguished national deputies, respected Ukrainians. I want to welcome all the teachers with this holiday today, because we each had our first teacher, we had teachers who made us, who gave us knowledge and who taught us to learn. With a feast on you! But I want to add another. We also have to pay attention to the adoption of the budget for other science and teaching professors of other institutions of municipal and state ownership. They're the ones we've forgotten. After receiving a new draft budget, it does not provide for what was to be done this year. And today I want to turn to the very reason why the professional organizations of John Frank National University, the Lviv University of Technology, the other VUZs that are in my district, and this is the 117th constituency of the city of Lviv, the Institute of Physical Sciences, the University of Lesotechnics, are people who are preparing their daily work for young people who are holding in their hands the future of our Ukraine. Instead, what did they get? By a decree adopted on January 11, 2018, which has not been implemented today, this raises their wages by 10 percent. It's a small amount, but it's very important today. And today, these scientists, who are at universities that are big fans of their own business, are not getting a decent salary. In addition, we propose that in the next budget, and such proposals are made by the Committee of Education and Science of the Supreme Council, that this amount should be increased and that we should reach the standards that were set out earlier in the regulation of the salaries of teachers and teachers of public and municipal education institutions, as defined in the Education Act of Ukraine, this article 61 stipulates that the official salary of the teacher of the lowest qualification category is set at three minimum wage levels. The smallest salary of a science teacher is set at 25 percent higher than that of a teacher of the lowest qualification category. Salary schemes, salary rates for teachers and educators of public and municipal education institutions are approved by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, taking into account the rules of this law. These provisions of the law entered into force on 1 January 18th, and they have not been implemented to date. That is why I am asking and addressing my fellow MPs. This is the important benefit that we have to give to those who today hold to the future of our nation. Because young postgraduates who have their own families, scientists who hold on to universities who have waited hard despite the circumstances because we had an increase in wages in schools. And today we understand that this network of science and teaching workers has to get a decent salary for the work that it does every day. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-05-m0.u159	Thank you, Mrs. Oksana. We join all the greetings to the Ukrainian education staff. And we invite you to the speech of the People's Deputy Lechchenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-05-m0.u160	Good afternoon, dear Ukrainians! This week, the head of the Anti-Corruption Bureau reported an amount that was recovered from the pockets of all Ukrainians, each of us who pays for electricity, for the fraudulent scheme "Rotterdam Plus." It's a sum of 15 billion dollars, which is confirmed by the proper audit, and now has to be confirmed by an additional expertise, and it's based on specific suspicions about those frauds who used state authority to fill the pockets of Rinat Ahmetov and his shadow partner with the President's Administration. You know, what's going on around the Anti-Corruption Bureau right now is why these attacks, these purchase materials, this subway commercial, this nigger, which is, the rally. Because the President knows that from April of next year, if he loses the presidential election, he'll lose his immunity from the NAB persecution. And the NAB will deal specifically with the powder, because it will be subject to their authority. Then all the "Rotterdam Plus" cases, military corruption, schematics on Odessa's P.R. and so on, that's the basis for the President's suspicion. And in fact, what's happening now is we see in parallel what is the legalization of the arrangements between Dustenk and Ahmetov, when the investment banker Dustenka -- the company ISU -- starts buying up the debt liabilities of the enterprise Donetextal, and then Ahmetov agrees to settle all of these debts with 100 percent liquidity, while the investment banker Prashenko himself has a 88 percent discount. So in a flat place, there's income that can't be anything but legalization of the money that they drank together at the expense of Rotterdam Plus, going into the pockets of every Ukrainian. And of course, this is not without the reaction of Ahmtov. Today, drones were flying under my house, and there were various provocations. I'm not afraid of this, please take it all off, just don't forget to say that I'm exposing the corruption that affects every Ukrainian and that Ahmethov and his partners in the Presidential Administration are implementing at the expense of every Ukrainian. And the latest news, which is very comforting today, is, indeed, not from Ukraine, but from South Korea. The former president of South Korea, Lee Myon Bak, received 15 years in prison. A person is jailed for bribery, abuse of power, and theft. It was such a verdict that brought justice to the South Korean president of corruption. Once again, I hope that the same verdicts will be handed down to both Ukrainian presidents and their associates working in the oligarchic sector and the political harlots that they finance generously in parliament, who are registered in love with Ukrainian citizens, and who are actually simply doing away with their orders. Thank you for your attention. Please keep an eye on who's yelling the loudest right now is the oligarchs of the Supreme Council.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-05-m0.u161	Please, the next speech is the People's Deputy Krivenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-05-m0.u162	Victor Krivenko, National Movement of Ukraine. Dear colleagues, in fact, since 2009, we and the team of thinkers have started our struggle in the fields of economic strategies, economic paradigms, economic vision. Then the idea was that the invisible hand of the market would set things right, and everything would decide that the state was a "nocturnal guard" that everything would happen on its own. The government has adopted a strategy, something from the Ministry of Education, for 20 years of development of the Ukrainian economy, which began with the preamble that there are 26 global problems in the world: pandemic, terrorism. Ukraine can decide two things: clean water and food. Since the 13th year, the word "industry" has not focused solely on tourism, transit, resource extraction of agrinational resources, well, agrarian and mineral resources. And we estimate that this strategy left 10 million people in Ukraine after 10 years. Because this structure of the economy can no longer feed. And since then, we've started our discussion with various neoliberals, pseudoneoliberals that we've been showing how the world is organized and how countries have been successful: what Poland was doing, what Hungary was doing, what Slovakia was doing, what Turkey was doing, what Georgia was doing. Three industrial parks, stimulating deeper processing. And now, finally, the moment has come when in all party programs we already see elements of this model, this worldview, this economic paradigm that we need to combine liberal instruments, so called horizontal reforms that generally improve the business climate: deregulation, the fight against corruption, anti-monopoly policies, the activities of regulators in individual markets, the judiciary honest. And vertical reform is a specific focus on areas, on priorities where we see clearly the tools that will make these areas competitive. So we create conditions for the industry attractive, inside the industry absolute competition. And in this respect today, there will be a discussion, the first discussion of our economic strategy, the People's Movement of Ukraine, where we have clearly calculated what sectors are needed, what strategies are needed, what tools are needed to achieve GDP in 11 years at $500 billion. I invite everyone to a discussion. There will be branches of associations. We will sign specific agreements with each association. And we have real numbers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-05-m0.u163	And the next performance. Please, National Deputy Andrew Illenko, I'd like to invite you to your floor.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-05-m0.u164	Andrew Illenko, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union, the city of Kiev. Dear Ukrainians, of course, recently the whole country was shocked by the video that we all saw from the Hungarian Consulate at Zakarpat, where Ukrainian sovereignty was cynically violated, where Ukrainian citizens were given passports by a foreign state, and were instructed to hide this information from the official government authorities of Ukraine. And in fact, we see that the same trend that started before the Russian aggression in eastern Ukraine and in Crimea, it's actually now, the foundation of the same thing is already being created on the western border of our state. Because before the Moscow army entered Crimea and Donbas, before Moscow tanks arrived, anti - Ukrainian propaganda was also there, and foreign passports were widely distributed. More than 100,000 Hungarian passports are now being distributed on Zacarpat. In fact, conditions for separatism are being created, and conditions are being created for the destruction of Ukrainian national sovereignty in this region. And what does the Ukrainian authorities do to protect our national interests? What, then, is being done to work on warning such situations, to work to ensure that no nation has the desire to deny our sovereignty, to take any unfriendly steps, or to provoke separatism openly in Ukraine? In fact, we see the ostrich policy of today's leadership, we don't see active action. This consulate is still in operation, which was to be closed immediately after such a scandal. We don't see that there really is an effective and hard reaction. Well, we understand why this is happening. Because we're seeing a recent press investigation into one of the heads of Ukrainian intelligence, which is just such a fact that it's not on any head, with Russian passports, with some incredible corruption. And we realize that they probably won't be really protecting national interests. They're not going to do anything to fight Moscow's Fifth Column. They're not going to do anything without Separatism on Zacarpathia, because they have other tasks. And that's exactly what this scandal was about, and we haven't heard a single reaction from the superior leadership of the state. As long as there are no patriots in Ukraine, there will be no people who will be independent of the oligarchate and those who will defend national interests, Ukraine will unfortunately be unprotected from external aggression. And as soon as that happens, believe me, everything on the western border will be great, it will be peaceful, and all those countries will have an immediate relationship, because they will understand that there is no need to joke about it and not respect it. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-05-m0.u165	Thank you. Please welcome National Deputy Alona Kosheliev, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-05-m0.u166	Alona Kocheljev, faction of the Radical Party of Oleg Lášk. Dear Madam Chairman, dear colleagues, dear Ukrainian people! From this high rostrum, I want to draw attention to the shocking case of service negligence that has cost human life. During one of the direct airs of the leader of the Radical Party, Oleg Láška, a Ukrainian citizen, spoke to him about the problems of providing insulin in Kharkiv. At the direction of the leader, I took this matter under personal control and was violated at all levels of government. In particular, during the government's report on the profile committee, I asked the Prime Minister of Ukraine for a question and a request to provide 100% government funding for the needs of diabetes patients with insulin. Unfortunately, it hasn't been a week since I spoke to Mr. Mastrenko as he left life. With great sadness, I bring my sympathy to my family and close to the family of Oleg Meistrenko, a truly terrible loss. I am shocked that even after death, three months later, Mr. Masters of the Ministry of Health in her notes, the Department of Health claims that the requested information on the referral of a citizen of the Master’s Department of Health will be provided directly to the applicant. I address those who bear the honor of being a civil servant and swearing. Please tell me, at what point did the service of the Ukrainian people become a game that a civil servant is extreme when people, beating the thresholds of dozens of service offices, cannot find the truth? Because we, as representatives of the people, are not asking you to receive a further write-off on authorizations, available resources, or undergraduate thanks for providing or contributing to social problems. We turn to you, for each of our appeals is followed by as much as one human life, and sometimes millions. Tell me, how many people and how many more human lives have to be put in place to stop officials from hiding behind the authorities and to fulfill their direct duty to serve the Ukrainian people? For many years, my fellow radicals and I have advocated the right to life, quality medical care, including the provision of insulin to diabetics. I have to say that this issue is not being resolved today. According to the government’s budget project for the following year, only 700 million will be provided and 900 million more will be available for insulin patients. On behalf of Oleg Láska’s faction, I again publicly request the government to carry out an objective examination of all references to the provision of diabetes and other medicines. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-05-m0.u167	Thank you. And please welcome Tetjana Ostrikov. Please. Dear colleagues! I'm continuing the meeting for 10 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-05-m0.u168	Good afternoon! Aunt Ostrikova, Self-Help faction. On August 29, 2018, the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine published a presentation on the Cabinet of Ministers' website entitled "Ukraine Without Smuggling". The presentation contained figures for the increase in customs payments compared to the previous year, but unfortunately, the presentation did not specify which part of the additional costs ensured an increase in the dollar rate and the overall increase in imports that were taking place each year and which part actually ensured the termination of customs schemes. So to understand this information and to find out the real success of the government in combating customs schemes, on September 6, I sent an appropriate parliamentary request to the Cabinet of Ministers to specify which customs schemes were destroyed during this time of the government’s intense attack on smuggling from June 20 to September 1, in fact. Because when I look on the Internet, the unofficial new iPhones, which are not yet officially sold and sold in Ukraine, and the customs border of Ukraine has not been officially crossed or blurred, but on the Internet we have on all of our websites, web platforms that are sponsored by central television channels, we can now buy them. Accordingly, I would also like to learn from the government what is the effect of the joint actions of the State Fiscal Service and the customs police, what is the number of customs infringements detected, what is the number of open criminal proceedings resulting from these joint actions, the cost of the goods removed, the amount of presumptive fines, the amount of funds that have actually come into the budget as a result of these joint actions? Because there was an oil and gas conference yesterday, and representatives of this sector report that, especially in the port of Mikolayev, where does Santa Claus Customs look? - ships come with goods like diesel fuel, and they declare it like kerosene because of the difference in excise rates. We don't have as many planes, and they don't actually consume that much aviation kerosene as they do under such a cover-up to Ukraine's diesel fuel. And I would also like to learn from the government what are the results of the verifications of non-conscientious entrepreneurs by the DFS in the direction of the customs post-audit, whose imports we have increased during that period, which led to a kind of increase in customs payments. Unfortunately, in response to my parliamentary request, the government gave me no information, except that the issue is being studied, just as the government has not provided me with information, and who has calculated that the loss of the customs budget is 100 billion dollars. And in fact, in the 2019 budget, some government has much less -- just 40 billion -- and more than half of them are rising from inflation. That's why I'm asking the government to give us a plan for real customs reform and to finally put in a competition for the head of the DFS. This policy of irresponsibility and constant enforcement.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-05-m0.u169	Thank you, Mr. Tetian. [[B in m in s a l in]] Now! Wait a minute! We now have the National Deputy Rybak, then the People's Deputy Parasuk, and we say good-bye to each other.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-05-m0.u170	Good afternoon, fellow countrymen, distinguished Ukrainians! Ivan Ribak, 202 constituency, Cherniewec district. On the contrary, from this high rostrum of the Ukrainian Parliament, I would like to welcome all the Ukrainian teachers with their professional holiday – Teacher's Day, to wish them good health, strength and patience, because it is their patience today in the difficult conditions of their work that is most likely to be needed. We have done enough to enable the Ukrainian teacher to teach his class in a good way, to prepare a decent change for all Ukrainians, and to prepare the future for our nation. But is it easy to do this in today's conditions when the material and technical base that should provide quality education services to our Ukrainian children is still far from ideal? Much is being done today, thanks to decentralization, but unfortunately, again, not in the Carpathian region. But this can be improved by providing some tools to local authorities to fill local budgets that they will use for the needs of Ukrainian education in the Carpathian region. Yes, one such tool is the possibility of charging forest-based rents on the margins of the main use in the Ukrainian Carpathian forests, precisely to include this tax in the local budgets in the distribution: 20 per cent in the district budget and 80 per cent in the local budget. Such a rent must be paid in exchange for what is happening today, since the collapse in the forest sector, namely, the vote by the Ukrainian Parliament in violation of article 116 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s Rules of Procedure, changes to the Tax Code on Taxation of Forest Fund Land Taxes, has led to a practical collapse in the forest sector, to its inevitable. To the imminent bankruptcy of this sector, and as a result, acceptance by the wicked at hand, including by Ukrainian officials. This is not to be allowed, but to use Ukrainian forest, Ukrainian wealth to fill local budgets, to create jobs for investments in the Carpathian region, and then Carpathians to be a worthy example of tourism, and to be an example far beyond the Ukrainian state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-05-m0.u171	Thank you. Dear colleagues, this is the last performance today under the heading "Rizzle." Vladimir Parasuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-05-m0.u172	Thank you. I'm going to split my speech into two parts. The first is about the local roads. In one example, let me tell you how roads in areas are being repaired. In the 17th year, Stephen Kube and other officials participated in the celebration of the 200th year of the temple in the village of Dobrostany of the Jovkovsky region. Yavorów district of Lviv district Before they arrived, they made their way, but they made their way right to the place where they were to come, that is, to the church. So I'm greeting the next village called Kamyanobrod, and people say they're also going to invite Stephen Kubeva and all the officials to their church, and they're hoping to make their way there. Seriously, it's just a nightmare. Where our officials will not go, there are roads made. And where they're not there, they don't make them. It's turning into some kind of owl, I think. From. And I would like to invite Prime Minister Vladimir Borisovich Groysman to the Prussian checkpoint. This is the road that leads to Poland. Imagine how ashamed you are when you enter Ukraine on a road that is hard to call a road after Poland on the ideal, straight roads. It's more like a straight line. And the second part is I want to give a little bit of this, and I've already talked about this, the question of water in the city of Novoyavorysk. Imagine that in the 21st century, people pay taxes, do everything on time, everything the state tells them, they have to warm the water right in the baths to just wash themselves. Imagine, too, that in a city where 30,000 people still live, there are gardens, schools, and all of these people are now living in such stone conditions. This is because we have bureaucracy in Ukraine, and someone cannot make a quick decision. So I want to warn you, if people don't turn on the heat and give them warm water before the heating season, they're going to feel the full power of the local population. I think Vladimir Borisovich Groissman and his entire environment will understand exactly that it's best not to joke with people. People don't need, they don't need your bureaucracy, people need warmth and prosperity, and all of this in Ukraine needs to be understood. First, you will ensure the normal existence of citizens in Ukraine, and then you will find out who is right, who is wrong, and who has signed or not signed. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-05-m0.u173	Thank you. Dear colleagues, let me thank all those present and all those colleagues who are now present, I understand, in their districts, for this very important working week, when together, despite such delicate and challenging topics that have been discussed and discussed, voted this week, managed to remain within a high political culture, and to vote on the Law on the Prolongation of Local Self-Government in the Donetsk, Lugansk Areas, which were welcomed by our partners from the EU, the Great Seven, of the United States. And instead, there's no good word from the Kremlin that's conceived that just confirms the rightness to vote in favour. In our first reading, we were able to adopt an extremely important Law on the Functioning of the Ukrainian Language, and we were able to adopt and vote with you in general the amendments to the military statute, and this is the best gift of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to the Day of the Protector of the country that will soon be celebrated. I want to thank all my colleagues for a very important and constructive week, and we also want to work at this pace and work together. And let me remind you, dear colleagues, that next week, Ukrainian national deputies are working on committees, commissions, factions. And it's also very important information that I particularly want to focus your attention on and ask for it to be passed on to all factions. In connection with the celebration of October 14, the next meeting of the Conciliation Council will be held on Tuesday at 10 a.m., and the plenary meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine will then begin on October 16, but at 12: 30 a.m. And this morning's meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, I declare closed. Thank you.
