ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-07-m0.u1	Good morning, dear fellows! Everyone, please come into the hall, get ready for registration. Colleagues, please come to the hall and prepare for registration. Ready? So I'm asking you to register, and I'm asking you to register with the national deputies. [[10:04:11]] There are 334 national deputies registered in the hall. The morning plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Dear colleagues, on December 7, 1990, the Supreme Council of Ukraine passed the Ukrainian Law on Local Self - Rule. Since then, we have celebrated this day as a celebration of local self - government. Ukraine is undergoing a fundamental reform of decentralization, which is called upon to make our local communities stronger, independent and prosperous. And most importantly, this reform changes the way the Ukrainians see things. Local authorities in local communities have been given more authority, more opportunities, and more responsibility. Dear colleagues, let us welcome all our fellow deputies of the local councils to the Day of Local Self - Government and all those involved in local self - government! [[Applause]] Welcome, fellows! There's a government in the hall today, Prime Minister. Both the government of Arsenius Yatsenuk and the government of Groisman have made tremendous efforts to carry out this major reform. I want to celebrate the President's efforts in this case and assure everyone that we will complete the reform of decentralization and we will do it as effectively as possible, all the efforts that are in our Hall in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. So we're starting an hour of questions to the government. Today, the first performance will be by Ukraine's newly appointed and newly elected minister for veterans – Irina Vasilovna Frez. I invite her to my word. And I remind you, after that, there will be questions from factions, and then questions from MPs. Mrs. Irina, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-07-m0.u2	Mr. Chairman, distinguished national MPs, honourable members of the government! Let me report on what was done to us after the Parliament decided 15 days ago to appoint me as Minister for Veterans. [[Applause]] During this short period of time, we were able to take the first steps. In particular, the relevant Ordinance on the Establishment of a Ministry was adopted at a government meeting. After that, the Ministry of Veterans was registered in Minsk. And we've also started the process of processing legislative changes and directly working on the new Veterans and Their Families Act. There was also an advisory body at the Department of Veterans, because unfortunately we have some limitations at the time of compliance with legislation, namely: the Civil Council at the Ministry of Veterans can only be formed in three and a half months. So a decision was made on the organization of an advisory body, and this Veterans Council was headed by a worthy representative of the veteran community, Vladimir Laguta. Today, I will also present you with a view to the future activity of the Ministry of Veterans and the work on its launch. I'll start with the goals and tasks that we set ourselves. First of all, this is the creation of a new regulatory framework on which the Ministry of Veterans Affairs will work for decades to come. We need to create a quality new Law on Veterans and Members of Their Families, it has to solve the issue of the status of participants in combat for the fighters of volunteer battalions and finally put a sign of equality between state guarantees and the needs of veterans. All benefits, all government guarantees, all services must come out of the real needs of veterans and meet the requirements of time. Secondly, we need to simplify all procedures and create a quality new state system that is absolutely accessible and understandable to veterans. The veteran is not supposed to go from office to office, but he has to solve all the questions in the form of "one window" in the Ministry of Veterans. Thirdly, we want to develop a system of public control. And a separate direction for the Ministry's work will be a broad plan of interaction, directly with public organizations. We want to introduce a format where the government money that is allocated to this direction of activity or will be allocated to this direction of the Ministry will no longer be distributed according to the principle of "money to the public organization of veterans." They will be exclusively distributed on a competitive basis under projects that will compete with each other on topics that will be announced by the Ministry in consultation with the Civil Council and the Veterans Council. So fourthly, we're going to put in place the very project principle of cooperation, which means that we're going to be involved in certain projects, including foreign projects, and not budget costs. All of this will be done to speed up the implementation of the socially important projects that veterans need right now. As far as the direction of activity is concerned. First of all, it's the creation of a strategy and the provision of veterans' rights, the provision of appropriate public services. We have a Russian-Ukrainian war, and that could mean that the number of veterans will only increase. We have to be fully prepared for any development, the state has to guarantee the rights and interests of veterans, people who will be ready to protect our state today and tomorrow. We need to look at different scenarios to respond quickly to the needs of the population. The long-term planning horizon is very important in this area. Second, it's a celebration of memory. Because we have to make a fundamental change in our attitude towards veterans, we have to fully ensure, at the ideological level, the attitude towards veterans as people who get respect and respect in society. I have already mentioned that, unfortunately, what distinguishes veterans, what separates them, does not add to the public’s understanding of what veterans have done for us, and why respect and respect should be given to them from the State. We must also avoid forgetting our heroes who have put their lives behind the independence of Ukraine. Nor can we allow the memory of veterans to be despised in one way or another. Thirdly, it's doing analytical work on the real number of veterans and creating appropriate electronic services for them. I would like to inform you, dear colleagues, that one of the first areas on the project basis will be the creation of a single register of veterans, the only national register of veterans that will organize the activities of the Ministry of Veterans' Affairs and, accordingly, allow for the elimination of any corruption risks in this area in order to have both statistics and an appropriate understanding of where benefits are distributed and for what purposes. On this base, the only national register of veterans will create an E-Veterinary online system. These will all be project orientations, and I hope that they will be implemented in support of our international partners, who understand the need for a transparent, adequate system that responds to the needs of veterans. I also hope that I will be able to report on these specific two directions to you in the near future. A few words about the structure of the Ministry. The body will be made up of a central apparatus that in turn divides into political positions. Units will be shaped according to the principle of politics, the implementation of politics, and the secretariat. There will also be a research institute for veterans and the Civil Council. This was directly addressed by veteran organizations regarding the need to form in the future, a tangible future, an appropriate institution to study the needs and interests of veterans. All management positions in the Ministry will be subject to tough selection. In addition to attending the competition, there will be a need for all those who intend to take the lead in the Ministry of Veterans, the need to go through the polygraph procedure, the interview with the Eychars, and only then can there be his appointment. The point is that the Department of Veterans is not even starting from a zero point, so the work that would enable veterans to rely on is our main goal in order for us to be able to build this ministry together with the veteran community. I can also point out that if there's an equal number of points at a competition for a position, a veteran and a civilian, the advantage will be given to veterans. Because the Department of Veterans is supposed to work on the "veteran" principle. In the ministry, we now have 325 positions, individuals, employees, 125 of them terroorganisms, 5 per district; 200 per plan to work in the central apparatus. I would like to emphasize that this figure is not too high, because it includes workers in specialized directions, including call centers and so on. I would also like to inform you about the results of the training courses for war veterans and ATO participants. 500 applications were submitted to the public service, 100 of them were taken away, and 100 veterans had already received knowledge of government management. This is their advantage in running a public service competition, and according to their ability to work in the Ministry of Veterans. Learning has been done with modern interactive technologies in the field of "Knowledge and Administration". It will also be planned to negotiate with other educational institutions in the fields in order to conduct similar courses for veterans who want and want to get the necessary knowledge in order to work in the public service. So we're trying to create an organ that will fully respond to the wishes of the veteran community. Separately, I want to stop on the E-veteran system. This should be a modern interactive, comfortable and unique system of accounting and service to veterans. We will create a single register in which each of them will have its own electronic office and will be able to set up a mobile app and properly use all the services that this system provides. This will allow each of the veterans to receive government services or advice in online regimes, to track their own documents, to engage in direct communication with Ministry officials and to obtain the necessary information. This system should be designed on a project basis and with the support of international partners. I hope that in this direction we will be able to find an opportunity to engage our international partners who have already declared themselves willing to help institutionalize the Ministry of Veterans because they understand how important it is now that the ministry is working to protect interest and thus give veterans the opportunity to feel worthy and necessary to the State even in civilian life. I can say that we are fully open to cooperation, we look forward to understanding and supporting Parliament. The only thing I'm going to do to you, colleagues, is to make sure that, even though we're entering the pre-election period, we don't use veterans in any way in our own ambitions or in order to raise our own ratings. You don't have to destroy the status of veterans in this way, you don't have to think that veterans don't understand what they're using them, they all understand it and they disrespect us, they despise us -- politicians. Let us treat veterans with respect, let us treat them with dignity in our society. Let's give them opportunities, equal opportunities that give them the sense that they need a state. Because they are young, ambitious, strong, courageous, and unbreakable people, and they deserve due respect, dignity, and dignity from us. So I'm asking politicians not to split up in the election year of veterans. On the contrary, we need to make sure that the only veteran movement has the ability to influence and defend its interests in politics rather than disunite with different ambitions of different politicians. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-07-m0.u3	Thank you, Mrs. Irina. We can take the job. And, colleagues, now I'm asking the factions and groups to record a question from factions and groups. Please. From the Fatherland faction, Kugel Alexander Volodymyrna, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-07-m0.u4	Dear Mr. Prime Minister! Dear members of the government! Volodymyr Borisovich! I have two short questions for you. Please, give me back this time that I'm not allowed to talk. Thank you. Vladimir Borisovich, a brief first question. Every day ten calls from the elderly, that this part of the gas, which is like a subsidy, gets burned down only by the kitchen. They're freezing, they're sitting at 8-10 degrees today. Please give me an assignment, check it out, because they're addressing hotlines and everywhere, but 10-12 calls every day. They were back from Nicopol this morning. They're asking, look at it, because it's cold now, and they can't stand it, only the kitchens are on fire. Second question, Vladimir Borisovich. Taken off the moratorium. I'll hand you the letters. Since January 1, you know, when they kept the animals in the cage and then released.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-07-m0.u5	Please, 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-07-m0.u6	Now all the control organs have sent checks for the year. For example, I'm going to show you a little bit right now, our firm, the Ukrainian Farmak, has already received that in February they're being screened by 10 inspection bodies in total for 50 days. Please, look, take a separate test session, let's do something about it so that we don't feed our own producer who pays taxes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-07-m0.u7	Good day, Reverend Mr. Head, fellow national MPs, Alexander Volodymyrna! On the first question. We need to take a personal look, because the standards that are set are realistic and factual, by which appropriate research and calculations are carried out. This should be enough for the heating area. If there are any possible deviations, we need to look at it and help in specific cases. According to my information, the city of Nicopol made a decision and completely gave up centralized heating, today they have uncentralized heating, and there they regulate the issue themselves. As far as the moratorium is concerned. I'm not a proponent of checks, as you know, but this year we actually, including the implementation of the decisions of the Ukrainian Parliament -- changes in the legislation on State oversight, we changed the system of supervision in general. Now it's going to be risk-oriented. We're not formally interested, signed at 220 or not signed. It is important to us whether it is safe for humans or not. And because, as you said correctly, such verifications can take place on a preliminary basis, which is absolutely public. So the enterprise that you're talking about, it knows that during the year in February, in November -- it doesn't matter, they're going to get a check, but there's got to be a very clear check-list. They're not even themselves without a check-list, without it there can be no check, and there won't be, I guarantee you. We have to look at, for example, the mall, it's safe from the point of view of fire safety, actually, there, and there's a few parameters or not. If he is safe, no controller has the right to do anything there, and formally do not look for anything to touch. This is how the system will work. And it's not in any way a penal system, it's an entirely European system, but we've actually destroyed the Soviet system of such strict supervision of formal reasons. And since January 1st, they'll only be allowed checks that have check-lists that are specific at specific risks, not on formal grounds when it's possible to push business. We'll be business and entrepreneurs.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-07-m0.u8	30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-07-m0.u9	entrepreneurs, we'll protect the business. I'm not going to let any control structure go beyond my authority to exert pressure on anyone. Business and entrepreneurs demand respect and will receive it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-07-m0.u10	Thank you. From the Opposition Block, Germano Vasil.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-07-m0.u11	Dear Vladimir Borisovich, reverend Vladimir Borisovich! German National Deputy, Opposition Platform. Please tell me, Vladimir Borisovich, it will soon be January and February. Last year, you, I'm telling you, lied to our countrymen, saying the prices wouldn't go up, and they went up. To date, subsidies have been claimed by you and accepted in the budget for the 20 billion that will go into monetaryization. Please tell the people now, not me, I know they won't, and you tell them, is that how they're going to give these 20 billion dollars or not? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-07-m0.u12	Thank you. I'd like to, Mr. People's Deputy of Ukraine, first of all, I've never lied to anyone, and you have to admit it, because you don't twist my words. I said last year that this hot season -- I'm responsible for my words -- there's not going to be any gas price hikes. And no matter how hard it was for me, I kept that word. And in the last heating season, the price of gas did not rise. I said that, and I made it. That's the first one. Second position. So please don't need me. either quote correctly, or do not twist. The second position for monetaryization. You're absolutely right that since January 1, 2019, there will be three stages of monetaryisation with individual accounts, including these accounts of special money to receive social support in the form of grants by Ukrainian citizens. I want to emphasize that in 27 years of our state's independence, we're doing this for the first time. Therefore, in 2019 all 100 percent of the subsidies will be monetized. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-07-m0.u13	Thank you. From the Radical Party Lazko Oleg.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-07-m0.u14	Dear Mr. Prime Minister, I get that people are sending out payments saying that they're owed debt for gas they've spent, they've installed counters, they're saving up: they're sleeping under three blankets, they're shutting off gas at night because the price of gas is set so that it's impossible for a normal person to pay it. And despite all these economic measures, they still have gas bills that they didn't consume. Imagine the reaction of the person who receives this payment. What are you doing to stop people from robbing people so that they don’t have to pay their debts? We asked you to change the Naftogazu Supervisory Board. The state is the founder of the Naftogaz State Company. In this oversight council, a foreigner. Why do we need them? What did the government do to bring back 45 billion, 45 million euros in premiums paid by Naftogazu officials? What you've done to normalize the issue of pay, so that millions of wages won't be paid to Naftogazu and to Naftogazu.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-07-m0.u15	30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-07-m0.u16	And that they should not go into the pocket of the Ukrainians? Because when you talk about the success and profitability of Naftogazu, It's my grandmothers, my grandparents, every working man. They came in, the parasites, in their pockets, they robbed themselves, they put them in offshore accounts, the one in America, the one in Liechtenstein. When will order be indicated in these matters?Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-07-m0.u17	Thank you, Your Honor, Oleg Valeriovich. I'm also worried because I've seen information from the media about people being exposed to and high prices for gas for something over 85 dollars, and they have some kind of ephemeral debt. I want to say to the whole country right now. First. Pay only for the actual gas consumed. That's the first one. Pay no more than 8.55 dollars is the second. And the third. Everything else is fraud from supply organizations. I firmly declare it. The Naftogaz of Ukraine provided an explanation of what I said, yes, that there can be no prior debt and there can be no accounting. So I've prepared an assignment today and I'm going to go to the Energy Minister, and I'm going to go to the National Commission, which is independent, but which has the authority to control and verify. They need to be burned by the first number. Because that's not how it's gonna be. They, the monopolies, had just sat on everyone’s neck and put their feet on. And this also applies to networking, we know how many problems there are today in Ukraine and so on. So I think we need all of you to support the National Commission from the point of view of its control functions. And they need to be involved in the responsibility. They have to pay huge fines if they abuse people. And with respect to bonuses. If you remember, in this room, I said that the government has decided to limit any payments related to higher wages to rewards. And we've adopted that decision, and we've put in place that restriction. And the next. All those contracts in all the high-paying heads of state-owned companies that are ending will be reviewed on new terms, with normal wages, not space wages. I'm not signing any space wage contracts. So now they're ending, and then we're going to propose absolutely.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-07-m0.u18	30 seconds to complete.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-07-m0.u19	absolutely normal and moderate wages. The cosmos is over for them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-07-m0.u20	Thank you. From the "Peter Dust Block" spores Ivan Dmitrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-07-m0.u21	Ivan Sporish, Peter Dusty Block, Winniechkin. I want to give Oleg Barney the word.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-07-m0.u22	Good afternoon! Mr. Prime Minister, I am approached by representatives of education, medicine, rural medicine, preschools and private entrepreneurs, small private entrepreneurs in Ternopolska. It was a difficult situation, as a result of which heavy fines were imposed on ordinary entrepreneurs, up to half a million, as if they had been using gas counters for three years, which had not been checked, even though they were in parallel paying for gas. So it's being considered. This is or their corrupt scheme, which has deliberately prevented them from checking counters to account for large fines from health care, education, preschools, medicine, and private businesses.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-07-m0.u23	30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-07-m0.u24	or they deliberately allowed, not a month, but a year, two, three to use defective, untested gas equipment that put children and people at risk. That is why I am addressing you, Mr. Prime Minister, personally to take control of this situation. We must support the development of entrepreneurship, business as an economic base in the countryside, and cancel these thieving, corrupt fines. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-07-m0.u25	Thank you. You know, what I'm hearing is really very alert. So I think we're going to make a decision -- the government's appointment on Wednesday, or another document, to get the National Commission to initiate before the National Commission a thorough examination of all the country's lies, because what we're hearing today is that they're going beyond their powers, and people are suffering from it, and we don't have the right to allow it. We'll probably even make a joint group: the NCRECR, the government group, the Minregion, the Minneergetics -- and we'll start bringing them to their senses. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-07-m0.u26	From Self-Help, Roman Semenich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-07-m0.u27	Semenha Roman, "The Self-Help Union" faction. Dear Vladimir Borisovich, I have two questions for you in the context of yesterday's changes to the budget this year. Yesterday, the government's proposal by the Council reduced the planned revenues from privatization to 18 billion dollars. How realistic are these figures in general, since all previous years, starting with the government of Yatsenuk, were 17 billion dollars and this figure was not even close to being implemented? According to the State Department, 100 million dollars were privatized in just 10 months this year. And not on time during the state of war to suspend the privatization of strategic objects, such as Centrenergo? That's the first question. Second question. Yesterday, the Council similarly supported the government's proposal to increase the pension deficit by almost 11 billion dollars. I have a question here. During your derelict pension reform, you said that one of the main tasks was to stabilize the pension deficit figure. But already this year you are proposing to increase by 11 billion dollars next year to 166.5 billion dollars. What is the reason? These are banal miscalculations.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-07-m0.u28	30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-07-m0.u29	What is the reason for such calculations on the deficit of the Pension Fund? Are these the estimates of the Ministry of Social Policy? Is there not a banal implementation of the congregation plan, especially the only social contribution, and what will happen next in 2019? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-07-m0.u30	Thank you very much, Mr. People's Deputy. First. From a small privatisation this year, not 100 million, but 456 million. 456 million, you say, you refer to the State Treasury, so I'm telling you, you're lying, not 100 million, but 456 million. If you want it right, 455 million 900,000. With regard to large privatization, what was the problem with previous governments. In fact, there were 7 different laws in the privatization legislation. These laws were completely closed and formed closed clubs by. For the sum of the government's assets. What we see today, 456 million are figures of open, public, competitive auctions. This has never happened in Ukraine. And we just launched this system according to the new legislation only in July of this year. That's the first one. The other one. The Law on Great Privatization came into force only in March of this year. But if you look at the privatization process, you'll realize that the new law provides that we're involved in a great privatisation with the best-known consultants, counselors. Today, procedures and counsellors have been initiated on all these subjects. Next, it takes up to 1 year to prepare an object for privatization, to carry out audits, evaluations, and so forth. In addition, the road show is designed to attract high-quality investments in government companies. So, yeah, it takes time, it's not done in one minute, it's done in a professional way to make it open. This is about privatization. And now for retirement benefits. Well, I want to go back to what you have to teach the material part. The material part says that at the beginning of the changes in the pension system that were urgently needed, the pension system’s deficit amounted to about 140 billion dollars. You hear, 140 billion dollars is what it is.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-07-m0.u31	Please, 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-07-m0.u32	Just a minute, if you don't mind.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-07-m0.u33	So on this point, a minute. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-07-m0.u34	Thank you, Andry Volodymyrovich. 140 billion! Let's move on. Don't forget that we asked Parliament to look at the pension reform for the military, which has not yet been done, and by the decision of the government we have increased pensions for the military. And that means plus another 27 billion. That's 167 billion. And the 10 billion we've redistributed because all of the expenditure will be spent on those programs is just a reduction in the deficit of the Pension Fund. Because this deficit is being preserved and will be preserved for another 7 years at our own expense. So, my colleague, I'm deeply convinced that what we did in the 17th year, began to change the pension system, was the only way. Because we were forced to increase our retirement age to 63. We avoided it, we didn't go for it. Pensions have now increased according to salary. We've got a lot of people who had a small salary and low payout at the Pension Fund, there's a small pension, which is a small pension to fight, and it needs to be increased. So the first count is January 1st for military personnel, and the second largest count is March 1, 2019.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-07-m0.u35	Thank you. From the People's Front, Andrew Teteruk.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-07-m0.u36	I give the word to Fedoruk.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-07-m0.u37	Fedoruku? Because I can't see. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-07-m0.u38	Dear members of the government, dear colleagues, first of all, I would like to welcome all of you to the Day of Local Self-Government. For days, there was a forum for local self - government, the third where decentralization was discussed and where all participants practically recognized this reform as one of the most successful. But many questions were raised. And one of them, I'm addressing you, Vladimir Borisovich, with one of these. How do you feel about changing the Local Elections Act, where you can predict the maximum majority term? Today, almost a third of our citizens are not represented by members of local governments under the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-07-m0.u39	Thank you, Your Honor, Mikola Trochymovich! I would also like to welcome everyone today with Local Self - Rule Day. This day is a new day of meaning. I myself have been a representative of local self - government, actually working in local self - government for over eight years. And what I'm saying is that what we did with you in this decentralization reform box deserves serious respect, and we already have the first results. So it's not just a greeting, but I'm saying thank you for the full, wide-ranging support of this reform, which has given millions of Ukrainian citizens the opportunity to have completely new opportunities. And we see, where the united communities are created, where there are new financial opportunities, there's a completely different solution to local problems. Moreover, there is a strategy for the development of these areas, which is truly enjoyable. But I also want to say that, in my view, since 2014, when we proposed reform, we have done the tasks that have been before us. And the first phase of reforming local self-government has been completed. I would present a second stage in the forum, a new second stage that will last 600 days, and it will give us the opportunity to form a territorial basis so that all communities will become strong. And we need to make sure, including changes to the Constitution. And I would like to ask the Ukrainian Parliament, because the previous call, whatever anyone says, they didn't understand the problems of local self-government and they weren't ready to support decentralization, only this Parliament has taken decisive steps. So I would ask, fellow honourable Members, let's form a day's order, based on the continuation of the reform of local self-government and decentralization, including changes to the Constitution, which will meet fully the requirements of modern times, and we will carry out these changes so that no one can destroy them. I sincerely expect this Parliament to unite and we will be able to do so in 600 days, a year from now.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-07-m0.u40	30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-07-m0.u41	Over the course of the year, this Parliament will adopt the necessary laws to make reform even more successful and irreversible. Thank you, everyone, and welcome again.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-07-m0.u42	Thank you. From "The Rebirth Party" Kisse Anton Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-07-m0.u43	Dear colleagues, Reverend Vladimir Borisovich! First of all, I am very grateful to you for the implementation of infrastructure projects in Restoration, personally in 42 constituencies. At your disposal, the process of building the Tarutine-Arciz road is being implemented. Well, we see that it's impossible to complete this road this year, and I made a budget proposal, but it didn't go through. I very much ask that the following year Tarutine - Arciz - Sarata will enter into the plan and be built. Again, thank you for your work. One more. The second question. You've been tasked with producing the valuable documentation of the Odessa-Breezine-Basarabiasca (Moldova)-Rani track. This project is gone, I'm very sorry.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-07-m0.u44	30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-07-m0.u45	Give us the task of building this project to start working on this track. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-07-m0.u46	Thank you, Your Honor Anton Ivanovich. First, on the track, we're working with our Moldovan partners, where we need to define a common TU from the point of view of the permeability of this line and its value. So in principle, this issue is being addressed. As for roads, fellow believers, remember how much criticism there were at the address of the government that, if you are speaking, you say that roads will be built and you are not building anything. Now there is no doubt that we have begun to build large - scale roads in Ukraine? I don't think anyone has it. And the next year is going to be even bigger, and I'm very clear on that. Obviously, it's impossible to do everything in one year, but for the first time in the 18th year, we had a strategy for developing Ukrainian roads and building them. And in five years we have to build with you, unite all the district centers among ourselves — from east to west, from north to south, and we will do so. The only thing that takes time, the funds we anticipate, and thank Parliament for the timely decision to form the 19th year State Budget, where these issues are taken into account. The only thing I'd like to point out is that we're going to work on other roads, including what you said, we're going to take that into account. But at this cost, 17 billion locals, almost 55 billion for all roads, it's a record number for all of our history of independence, and 17 billion for local roads. We need to improve the management and investment of local roads. Because not only do people travel between the district centers, but people travel between the district centers, but it is already the responsibility of the district authorities. And we're going to be hard on them for quality work next year, because many of us haven't actually been able to do the tasks that were assigned to them. I hope next year they'll fix this situation. And as for the local elections, Mikola Trochymovich asked questions. Consider one question: Colleagues may also need a settlement. In the 15th year, local elections were held on the basis of the new Local Elections Act, as you remember. We need to analyze this law, figure out what it was.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-07-m0.u47	30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-07-m0.u48	Thank you, Andry Volodymyrovich. To determine what mistakes there were in this Local Elections Act and to correct these mistakes, to correct them so that in the 20th year we have quality legislation on local elections. So we're going to take this initiative, and we're going to ask you to create a group for analysis and proposals for improving reform. local election systems. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-07-m0.u49	Thank you. Colleagues, now there's going to be a closing question from factions, and then a recording from the National MPs to get everybody to know each other. Now Shahov from the "will of the people" group questions and then from the MPs. And then from the deputies.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-07-m0.u50	Sergey Shahov, Political Force "Our End". Dear Volodymyr Borisovich! For several days now, there's been a problem with a website that doesn't work for tickets. And today, society is concerned that it will not resume its work -- first. The situation is that on December 20, only he'll be working normally -- that's what the Ministry of Transport said. We can't even bring 500 children from Lugansk to the holidays in Kiev. Secondly, please tell Volodymyr Borisovich, a billion dollars have not been paid off on the wages of miners, there are New Year's holidays, before the miner's Day they didn't pay the wages, and today the wages are not paid, who will be responsible? And when will he be removed from the position of investigating the minister of energy and fuel, the coal industry of Nasalik?
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-07-m0.u51	As long as you were asking questions about the purchase of electronic tickets, I went to the website. I don't know what website you meant, but. Well, here's an e-mail from, for example, I took Rubie Lugansk County to Kiev, a cup-economy of 292 bracelets of 88 copies, 166 bracelets of 20 copies, a poster. But I'll just keep looking, I'll, well, I found it in the electronics version, but I'll just keep looking so it won't be there. I know there were technical malfunctions, like everything was fixed yesterday. Thank you. As far as this is concerned, there's the minister you've been addressing, and I'm going to give him my word, please, and then I'm going back to the miners. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-07-m0.u52	Thank you, Mr. Shahov, for asking. First. I mean. Plugged in, microphone turned on. Thank you for asking, distinguished national MP. First of all, I just want to inform everyone that in 11 months of this year, in the coal sector, Ukraine has not been reduced, but it has increased coal production by almost 5 percent. With regard to wages for miners, I should say that the government has fully fulfilled its obligations to pay the price of the difference in value for public enterprises. Today, the salary debt is 196 million, and the prepared payment, starting Tuesday, is for the final payment of 320 million. I would like you, the honourable national deputy, to distinguish between two payments: the payment-obligation of the State by difference in the price of the so-called state and the payment of something paid exclusively from the realization of coal, and this is the responsibility of exclusively state-owned enterprises.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-07-m0.u53	Thank you. So, colleagues, this is a question entry from the National MPs, 20 minutes, so anyone who intends to take part in the discussion and ask questions, please sign up. Ivan Ivanovich. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-07-m0.u54	Thank you. I'll pass on the word to Andrew Teteruku, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-07-m0.u55	Thank the fighting brother John Savk for his word. The Honourable Prime Minister, according to the National Anti-Corruption Prosecutor's Office, has detained two employees of our State Space Agency, who have drawn up a schematic and have stolen funds to create a national project for the League. And my question is, for over a year now, I've been asking you to bring order to the State Space Agency. It is now in such a state that just like gangrene, it destroys the entire field. And the kind of leadership that's there right now, it doesn't give us the ability to plan properly and effectively the work of the State Space Agency and to make effective use of the intellectual industrial potential that exists in our nation. When the Cabinet of Ministers finally gives order in the space field, it will assign appropriate ones.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-07-m0.u56	30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-07-m0.u57	will appoint normal, responsible managers who will plan their activities properly and, above all, take on moral or legal, or other responsibility for the consequences of their work? Because that "the League of Red Directors," it did nothing for our state, except for the theft of state funds, by taking up the respective positions. Who can influence Kabin to keep these people in office? Let's put order into space at last. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-07-m0.u58	Thank you, Andriy Anatolyovich, for your question. I fully support that order should be in all spheres and, in particular, in such a beautiful, space-like field. A few questions. First. Space managers are appointed on the basis of public competitions under the State Service Act. And such a contest was held, and such a leader was appointed. This is the first position. Position number two: regarding the management. The Department of Economic Development is in charge of the industry and the First Deputy Prime Minister is in charge. In fact, they are now working to help bring about a system of things in this area. And third position: as far as criminals are concerned. Any criminal in any position, in any position. in any sphere, if you've done yours. If they commit a crime, they have to take responsibility for it. It's banal, but it's true: bandits are prisons. If they're bandits. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-07-m0.u59	Thank you. I would like to invite you to the floor of the People's Deputy Illenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-07-m0.u60	Please pass the word to Michael Golovk.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-07-m0.u61	Mikhailo Golovko, All-Ukrainian Freedom Union, 164 constituency. Vladimir Borisovich, I have a question for you. Still, I wanted to ask you personally as Prime Minister, as a human being. How do you want to go into history: how did the government of Groysman, who in his day raised the highest price in the history of Ukraine for gas -- 7 times the real value -- increase for the population; how did the government, in his day, increase the public debt, or as the government of Groissman, who in his day sells state property, strategic enterprises, including the oligarchs? And I want to remind you that it's Grigorisin, the Russian oligarch of the aggressor, who today is going to buy Centrenergo, who. The cost is reduced by nine, six times, Odessaoblnergo, Sumioblenergo, and it's sold for a penny. In those areas where the state of war is now being introduced, where you are now supposed to nationalize and impose sanctions on members of the aggressor country, you're selling them for a penny.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-07-m0.u62	Thank you. Who Will Answer?
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-07-m0.u63	I am.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-07-m0.u64	Prime Minister. Please, Mr. Prime Minister?
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-07-m0.u65	Thank you, Mr. Michael. I want to go into history as a person who has contributed to the success of our Ukrainian state and not with a microphone, but with real things that are very difficult to do, it's very difficult. And believe me, I'm willing to make it cheap, even free, and the wages and pensions are very high. But I'm different from words because I really understand the situation. What is in principle the responsibility of one who speaks and does not have any effect? None at all. And I need, as Prime Minister, to ensure stability in the country, to curb price increases, to do everything to make the economy grow to pay pensions, to pay wages, to make them grow. These are the challenges we face today: building roads, providing medicines for people free of charge, helping with changes in medicine, and so on and so forth. I have a lot of tasks, like our government in general. I am grateful to most MPs that we come here for support, and we get it in many, many questions, because it is very important. That's the first one. And the second. Look, any privatisation of anything in the country in accordance with the law that the Ukrainian Parliament has passed is forbidden to the Russians once. Second, we haven't sold anything yet, and here comes the auction, open, public, or not for the first time. It's not a controlled sale, it's a real sale. Come and buy. Please, anyone can buy. Third. I believe that there is corruption, rejection, inefficiency, and looting in state enterprises today. And I don't want to put up with it. And I don't advise you to cover it up. So I think there's publicity, there's openness. If you have data that someone who participates in auctions has something to do with Russians -- no asset on any bracelet.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-07-m0.u66	30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-07-m0.u67	No money can even be sold to them. So let's not manipulate, let's speak real. And I'm stressing that investment in government property is new jobs, it's pay, it's competitiveness and efficiency, and it's finally fighting corruption. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-07-m0.u68	Thank you. I invite you to the floor of the People's Deputy Papiev.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-07-m0.u69	Thank you. Please give the floor to the national deputy Shurma.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-07-m0.u70	I'd like to introduce you to the words of the Shurma People's Deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-07-m0.u71	Igor Shurma, Opposition Block. Vladimir Borisovich, considering that yesterday, 10 violations of anti-corruption legislation were identified on the website of the National Anti-Corruption Agency in November and 7th place, honorably, there is a c.o. Health Minister Suprun, it's clear here, I won't even ask questions, let them handle it. And I have a question for you. On April 1, an agreement with the Russian Federation was suspended, which was approved yesterday by law between Ukraine. Tell me, please, do you know that 3.5 million Ukrainian citizens work there? There is a huge diaspora with our ethnic, cultural, linguistic, religious values. How will we continue to protect our people because this treaty provided for legal protection? This is the first question. And the second. We need to understand that there are still pension problems that our people earned and went on contract back in the Soviet Union.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-07-m0.u72	30 seconds, please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-07-m0.u73	And those pensions that were made during the Soviet Union, and people living here, there was a mutual need. What are we, as we continue to protect those people? The fact that the treaty has been terminated is understandable. What about the real protection of three and a half million people? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-07-m0.u74	Thank you, Igor Mikhailovich, for your question. I'm the first one to say. Of course, the government will implement any decision of the Ukrainian Parliament in terms of all legislation, legislation and so on. But I understand that we have our millions of citizens to be protected. That is why there is a wide range of legal agreements, including a consular convention that ensures respect for the rights and mechanisms of protection of citizens’ rights. This is the first position. And that doesn't mean we have to forget about our citizens. On the other hand, we must ensure that their rights are preserved and that they are not violated. Although rights and rights are not violated in relation to the Russians, it is not possible to speak of the official authority of the Kremlin. Today, our boys in Russian prisons are confined simply because they have fulfilled their duty and their duty to our state. They simply took and threw in their prisons for no reason, no reason, and so on. I'm not saying that they wanted to kill them first. So we need to unite the whole world around us. You don't laugh there, fellow national MP, do you think you're laughing at that? No, not you, Igor Mikhailovich, are you? I just saw the smiles there, and I'm surprised. I emphasize that our task today is to protect everyone, including those in the Kremlin today. And we must ensure their rights, and we must unite the whole world around them. So we will do everything we can to support our citizens. As far as our national culture is concerned. No, you're fine, Igor Mikhailovich. No, no, you weren't laughing. The storm didn't laugh, he asked a very serious question, I didn't ask about you, you did, I respectfully. As far as ours is concerned.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-07-m0.u75	Please, 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-07-m0.u76	As far as our cultural centers, our culture and our identity and the protection of Russia are concerned, it is true that there are enormous threats that need to be adequately addressed. Although I emphasize that the law is completely unwritten for the Russian authorities, they do in various cases. That's a serious answer to the question, yes.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-07-m0.u77	Please, 10 more seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-07-m0.u78	And as for Ulysses Suprun, I can say, Your Honor, Mr. People's Deputy Shurm, you are definitely a fellow man. How do I greet you? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-07-m0.u79	Thank you. I'd like to invite you to the floor of the people's representative of Burbak.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-07-m0.u80	Dear Volodymira Borisovich, all over the country, is already aware of the illegal occupation of power in the town of Chernivka by merchants. They've moved on -- they're now trying to freeze my hometown of Chernivci. The Bukovin Medical University was shut down, and the limits were. It was shut down from the tanning of the National University of Chernobyl. Let's move on, they're shutting down administrative buildings in Hotin. They even freeze their city council where they sit. Please tell me, yesterday I turned from the Chamber of Parliament to the Attorney General's Office, to the Security Service, because such facts are all over Ukraine. I think it's aggression, and I think it's a diversion when, in a state of war, buildings are being shut down all over Ukraine. We demand that the law enforcement agencies respond, also from the national regulator, because he is silent, and there is also a strong government response. How do you feel about these events? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-07-m0.u81	Maxime Yuriovich, I can certainly say that there is no reason to freeze people. And I'm saying this as a person who's not alone who's had a hot season in her life. And you don't have to cover up this ignorance, the irresponsibility on the spot, because it's like someone's in their way. The whole season is over, the government's decision is made. During the heating season, it is forbidden to switch off the heat supply and so forth. It's all taken. What else has to be done? So, as I said in the previous answer, we're going to make a commission on Wednesday, and we're going to ask the National Regulator to respond. And we will also ask the deputies to take part in this in order to ensure, objectively, publicly, that order is kept there. The government doesn't have a direct mechanism, there, for example, a decision to make to make that point. If we had that kind of authority, believe me, I would have done it a long time ago, because there's a lot I don't like about what monopolies do today, including state companies. But the government has little or no influence on this. That's why this has to be changed, too. Thank you very much. I fully support it. People should be comfortable and warm in their homes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-07-m0.u82	Thank you. Welcome to the speech of the People's Deputy of Galasjuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-07-m0.u83	Victor Halasyuk, Radical Party. Dear Vladimir Borisovich, today the economic policy of power is clearly wrong for the entire Ukrainian society. You're doing a lot, but what is it? Paving budget holes; it's accounting instead of strategy; it's raising tariffs on gas and holding wages under the auspices of the International Monetary Fund; it's raising new foreign loans; it's not creating the millions of jobs that are needed for Ukrainians, it's not raising the income of Ukrainians, it's even more driving the country into dependence. At the same time, the Radical Party team has offered a clear alternative: an industrial reform package: industrial parks that will allow billions of dollars of investment in the country's economy; "Buy Ukrainians, pay Ukrainians", which will allow multibillion-dollar purchases to Ukrainian factories, which means jobs and salaries to Ukrainians; and free access to engineering networks, which will remove the biggest barrier to entry into the Ukrainian economy. Why are these laws still not adopted? Why you're like a government.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-07-m0.u84	Please, 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-07-m0.u85	Vladimir Borisovich, why do you as a government not insist on their acceptance from this high rostrum, as you fought here for the budget? Why?
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-07-m0.u86	Thank you. Thank you, Victor Valeriovich. Look, not quite, well, objectively, because I insist, we insist, our government, on agreeing councils on the order of the day that is necessary, including you talking about economic stability and economic growth. The budget is a very important element of this stability. Imagine us entering the 19th year without a budget. It's a complete balance, it's a huge threat and a challenge that we couldn't overcome because there's no tool for coping. As far as economic growth is concerned. Well, you're obviously right, because economic growth is the only way to achieve stability in the development of our state. And that's why we're constantly fighting to attract investment, to create a normal climate. And what's more, our priorities for 2019, one of the priorities, are economic growth, which includes creating a quality business climate and carrying out new regulations that will allow for more investment in the development of the national economy. This is position number one. What's more, we've made you a package of necessary economic laws, which are 35, including the authorship of all factions that envision facilitating business and creating new mechanisms for corresponding growth. We support, including, the connection to the power grids, and we need to put order there. Without Parliament, without law it is impossible to do so and that is an obvious fact. We support a number of other laws, especially the Act on Concessions, which is a serious window for investing in the economy of our country, which needs your support, too. So, top-35, which is already more than 13 laws approved, we need to continue, and as a government, we fully support this order of the day. The only thing is that the procedures of Parliament itself are so complex, and I want to support the Head of the Ukrainian Parliament, who speaks of the need for reform of Parliament. It's not a matter of government, but I can just express my opinion as the former Head of the Supreme Council. I think this reform is on time and if you are.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-07-m0.u87	30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-07-m0.u88	And if you could still accept this reform in this office in order to improve the effectiveness of the work of the Ukrainian Parliament, it would be much more possible to adopt laws and much more quality. Thank you so much for your question.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-07-m0.u89	Thank you. Reform alone involves more complicated procedures than simplifying them. Thank you. Dove, please. Thank you for your support, Mr. Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-07-m0.u90	Vladislav Dove, 197th constituency, Cherkashina. Dear Vladimir Borisovich, my district is largely represented by the rural population. And basically every time I meet in my district, I'm faced with a problem where the residents of my district, and that's mostly peasants, as I said, in the past, these are low-security workers, milkmaids, other farm workers, who don't have adequate pensions. People are very concerned about the future rise in gas prices regarding their retirement and the possibility of survival in general. So I want to ask you again, though, to review the pension formulas for the rural population itself. That's the first question. And the second. I'd like to confirm Mr. Shahov's words regarding the situation that has arisen on the Railroads. Let them show you the footage that was at Kiev Station yesterday. Tickets, for example, are also addressed to me by the people of my constituency: Westward tickets cannot be bought. I think it's a certain sabotage when before the end of the year, before Santa Claus, on Santa's Day, before Christmas.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-07-m0.u91	30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-07-m0.u92	When so many people try to go and visit their relatives, they simply cannot physically do so. I think it was a certain sabotage to the operations of the Crucifixion. If we were in a Western country, for this kind of thing, the management of the Crucifixion would have been disciplined, perhaps even human beings. So please intervene in this situation. And I hope that this problem is resolved. Thank you for being able to ask questions.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-07-m0.u93	Thank you. I already answered by rail. It's really unacceptable. But I understand that. They explain it by a technical failure. I understand that there may be a technical malfunction and there are no 100 percent defenses. But I'm convinced that there's no forgiveness, the system has to work hard enough. As far as pensioners are concerned. Look, I'm really worried about that, too. Because how is the calculation done? According to a person’s contributions to the Pension Fund, calculations were made. And it's clear that people today, peasants, especially peasants, worked either for the working days or for the small ones, in fact. And so in their calculations it turned out to be such a small, small, meager, I would say, pension. And we're working on it now. But what's the complexity of the pension system itself, I said that. Any increase, let's say 100 dollars, is worth tens of billions. And while it's being kept scarce, the question is only at cost. And believe me, I understand how hard people are living today, and I would very much like to help these people. But I understand there's a general budget, and we can't go beyond what we can pay. March 1st is going to be an appropriate count, and we're going to look at everything we can do, first of all, for this category of Ukrainian pensioners, I understand everything. But on the other hand, when there's a Ukrainian miner who's worked underground, in overcrowded conditions, and he's got two or two and a half pensions -- that's also fair because he's earned it. I'm not saying that the people in the village were working worse, they were doing their job, but there was another unfair system, and that's why this justice has to be returned, but in one minute it's impossible to do it, I'm talking about it in a very responsible way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-07-m0.u94	Colleagues, and two questions are still being asked in connection with what was being dragged, is the Contraband now, and then passes the Goulac Cuprienne, and these will be final questions, colleagues. Unfortunately, we can't make it, we can't make it, I'm already out for a few minutes. Please, Chariot Roman.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-07-m0.u95	Dear colleagues, first of all, I cannot help but take advantage of this opportunity and welcome all local self - government workers with today’s festival. Vladimir Borisovich, I would like to personally welcome you to this holiday, because I believe it is, first and foremost, your holiday as a man who is the builder of local self-government, which strengthens the spirit of local self-government. Vladimir Borisovich, I would like to welcome the city heads and thank them for the work that the Ukrainian Parliament represents and is working for local self-government. But, Vladimir Borisovich, I want to go back to a very painful subject, which is the "Ternopilsky" Radgos. We have been working for over a year and unfortunately there is no final decision. I very much ask that you personally strengthen this faith and local self-government, and Ukrainian parliamentaryism, so that justice prevails. I very much ask you to close this commission and allow people to feel protected by the state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-07-m0.u96	Thank you for the second question. Let us see how you can accelerate what you have said. Thank you very much. So I started asking myself, how many city heads do we have here in Parliament? Dombrovski was mayor of Winnitz until 2002, not until 2004, mayor of Winnitz. Sergei, how many years? Two measures: Ternopil, Chernović, Vinnica. Local self - government is well represented.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-07-m0.u97	Eutusek, Sarni.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-07-m0.u98	Dnipro. Sergey too. Melnik Sergei is Hmelnicki. So the lobby, the lobby, the lobby of local self-government is serious enough. Colleagues, what am I telling you? We have to make reform irreversible in the 19th year, including through changes to the Constitution of Ukraine. Let us be united in this and make local self - control absolutely strong. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-07-m0.u99	And a final question. Gulak gives the floor to Kuprienka's question. This will be a final question, colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-07-m0.u100	Oleg Kuprienko, Oleg Laska Radical Party. The founder and main shareholder of Naftogazu is the Cabinet of Ministers. He runs the Naftogaz Supervisory Board. Article 14 of the Statute of the Naftogazu states: "The remuneration of officials shall be paid solely by the decision of the Supervisory Board." Question: Was Kobolev and his lieutenants rewarded by the decision of the Supervisory Board or was there a personal arrangement? The other one. Everyone here has courageously reported how God - love and Colomia arrested 5 billion people worldwide. Disgustingly lost the court. As a result, more than 40 billion people will be able to return their national money to the 184 billion that they once raised. Question number two: will the Cabin initiate the sums of the more than 40 billion that will be returned to the Cologne, of those underprivileged officials who have filed such an impertinent lawsuit?
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-07-m0.u101	Thank you for asking. One: as far as Naftogazu is concerned. Indeed, these payments were a decision. conducted by a decision of the Supervisory Board, not by the Government. And so when we learned about this, we took some constraints so that we wouldn't be able to count those numbers. I immediately turned to the Watch Tower Society. Thank you. I appealed to the Watch Tower Society by letter to stop this decision, and they are independent of legislation. But I'm stressing what's next. First, we've restricted, the following contracts will be completely different. Secondly, I don't know about any 40 billion we're talking about.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-07-m0.u102	Oh, I'm sorry, because when you said, when you said 40 billion, I didn't get it. So the court is not lost, the court has made the decision and the appeal is still under way. I also want to tell you that this is a matter for the bank itself, not for the government, that the government doesn't make any decisions as a party. But what I'm stressing is that everything that belongs to the Ukrainian state, to Ukrainian citizens, if an offence is proved in any criminal way, should be returned to the state. We're judging everyone, including the Russians, around the world. assets that have already been arrested around the world, and we will continue to go to protect our interests. There are a lot of courts in general. I want to tell you, I'm surprised by the fact that Naftogaz, well, the state company, was suing the government of Ukraine to get 56 billion compensation between the market price and what we're setting down. Well, where's your sanity? Where is the sound sense of government management? I've already told them about this, we're going to protect the interests of the state and no 10 billion, 50 billion, we won't allow it. And I will do everything I can to unite the best lawyers on behalf of the Ukrainian government in order to protect the interests of the state.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-07-m0.u103	30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-07-m0.u104	Thank you, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-07-m0.u105	Dear colleagues, let's join together and thank the government for participating in our work, participating in the "hour of questions to the government." Volodymyr Borisovich, thank you, thank you to all members of the government for participating in the session. Now I would like to point out that there's been a statement by the Presidium to announce the break, and we're ready to replace it with a statement from a tribune of two factions: A radical party and Fatherland. And instead of a break, I invite Oleg Valeriyovich to the performance. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-07-m0.u106	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Dear Mr. Prime Minister, distinguished government officials, you obviously know that today's huge problem for most people is the archi-cosmic cost of drugs. As a result of the overpriced cost of drugs and medicines, statistics show that every other Ukrainian refuses treatment or postpones it because of a lack of funds. Ninety - four percent of the patients surveyed consider the problem to be a major high cost. The cost of drugs in Ukraine at 2, at 3, is 4 times higher than in neighbouring Hungary or Georgia. And the government, the government, is doing nothing to make medicine available to Ukrainians so that people can be treated. That's why me and my team, we've registered a package of bills under the general name: we'll make the medicine cheaper. The goal is to reduce the cost of drugs, restore social justice so that everyone can heal and live happily ever after. Because, God forbid, the disease comes home is a great grief for parents, for children, for family, for friends and for loved ones. We suggest setting a zero VAT rate for drugs, limiting profitability and introducing external reference pricing so that space billions are not used to rob people. When pensioners today usually come to a pharmacy with low incomes like the museum and cry with tears, because there is nothing to pay for and there is no way to heal. Demonopolization of the drug market. Today these pharmacies belong to 5-7 people who set the price of corruption by arrangement and each of their own pockets pays these unfair prices. We suggest that we expand the list of available medicines, including oncology drugs, so people can get it from the state budget. Dragon's criminal responsibility for the sale of fake drugs. In some countries, the sale of fake drugs is cut off and the fine is paid, and they continue to sell fake drugs. Life imprisonment for taking advantage of people’s health and robbing people. Restoration of State control over drug prices. There can be no such thing as a pack of five bracelets at the factory, and 150 bracelets at the factory are sold. Who pays for these cosmic drugs? Those who have the least money. So I'm asking the government to support our initiatives in order in the country, restoring state control over drug prices, and costing medicines. And this will enable millions of Ukrainians to receive the drugs available, to be treated, to live happily, to thank their family and loved ones.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-07-m0.u107	Thank you. And to conclude, I invite Prime Minister Vladimir Borisovich Groysman of Ukraine. Three minutes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-07-m0.u108	Dear Mr. Head! Dear Oleg Valeriyovich! I share your concern in terms of the cost of drugs in Ukraine, and I think you're right about what's going on in a monopolistic conspiracy to artificially increase prices within the country to a number of groups of drugs. But I can tell you that some of the actions we're doing in this direction -- to lower prices -- we've done. For example, after that, almost 300 appointments of drugs that we launched in the "Available Drugs" program. We started a reference price on it, and the prices for it actually went down -- only in this category. We're going to expand this to force everyone to do a reference price, and there are some of the tricks that they're using against us. We, I think, will be able to settle this situation in the near future. I hope so. Now for the next one. We buy under international direct contracts, and there's also a real economy: 10, 20, 30, 70 percent. That's what we buy for hospitals in Ukraine. There's a third problem. Some hospitals simply hide drugs. They seem to have them, and people don't know about them. So I had to put medicines on the site and update them every week for access to Ukrainian citizens. Now it's about legislation. We're really going to look at your laws, your draft laws, we're going to study them to see how they can work. But there is one danger, Oleg Valeriyovich. Today, we have 7 percent of VAT. We're going to bring it down to zero. The trading networks will raise their prices by 7 percent, and in the end, no one will drop anything, you know? Yeah. No, that is to say that we can take a step as if it were the right thing to do, and then they will use it as an extra asset. So we need to work together to make them responsible, including with regard to antitrust. Monopoly, excuse me, conspiracies when the networks connect and they say, "Aspirin is going to cost us ten bracelets -- that's all. Everyone's still on the subject. And small businesses can't do anything, they have competition, because they don't have direct contracts, and so on. The topic is right, I agree that we should all be concerned, we are ready to work constructively in this matter together with Parliament, considering your initiatives. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-07-m0.u109	Thank you. Thank you, Prime Minister, and ministers of our government for participating in the session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. This "hour of questions to the government" is over. We thank the government, colleagues, and thank the Prime Minister. This will be wise. And, colleagues, right now, according to the Rules, we have 30 minutes to make inquiries. And I invite everyone to come to the interrogation room. And I invite you to speak to the Deputy Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Oksana Siroid. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-07-m0.u110	Ladies and gentlemen, we have such questions that have come from the national deputies of Ukraine. Viktor Razwadowski to Prime Minister of Ukraine on the allocation of funds for the complex operational treatment of Syk Anton Viktorovich, born in 2005 in the village of Novoguywinský Žitomirski district, Žitomir district. Viktor Razwadowski to the head of the Zitomir district administration for the provision of material assistance to Grigorcuk Irina Alexandrovni, residents of the village of Berezovka-1 of the Žitomir region, the Zitomir region for the rehabilitation of the daughter of Vitalina in 2012 after the operational treatment. Jacob Besbach to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, the Authorized Supreme Council of Ukraine for Human Rights, the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, the National Police of Ukraine, the Office of the Attorney General of Ukraine on the need to take effective measures to properly conduct criminal investigations. Jacob Besbach to the Office of the Ministers of Finance of Ukraine, the Ministry of Social Policy of Ukraine, the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, the Ministry of Justice of Ukraine, the National Anti-Corruption Bureau of Ukraine, the National Agency for Economic Development and Trade of Ukraine, the National Service of Ukraine for Work, the State Audit Service of Ukraine, the Court of Auditors, the Ukrainian Security Service, the Ministry of Economic Development and Trade of Ukraine, the National Police of Ukraine, the Office of the Attorney-General of Ukraine on the need to verify the inefficient use of budgetary resources at the State Enterprise Salute. Igor Shurma to the Head of the National Anti-Corruption Agency of Ukraine, Attorney General of Ukraine, about the increase in funds so far. Minister of Health Pensions in the United States Igor Shurma to the Head of the Accounting Chamber for the conduct of the audit of the State Enterprise Electronic Health, the statutory capital of which is 100 dollars, and which provides services under the contracts entered into by the Ministry of Health. Victor Vuka to the Head of the Central Electoral Commission on the inactivity of the Central Electoral Commission in the implementation of the provisions of the Law on the Status of Deputies of Local Councils on the permanent suspension of the powers of members of the local council in the event of the cessation of Ukrainian citizenship. Victor Bondar to the Head of the Brodov District Council of the Lviv Region, First Deputy Head of the Brodov District State Administration, Brody City Head for the Brodov Children’s Hospital. Victor Bondar to the Minister of Interior of Ukraine, Head of the Brodov District Council of the Lviv Region, Head of the National Police Department of the Lviv Region for the renovation of the roof of the administrative building at: Brody, Freefield, 10. Vladislav Buhareva, head of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on National Security and Defence, Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Information Policy of Ukraine, Secretary of the Council of National Security and Defence of Ukraine, on the need for the urgent allocation of additional funds from the State budget of Ukraine in connection with the introduction of military status and with the aim of substantially improving the tele- and radio-transmission of Ukrainian state programmes in the border areas of the Sudan. Vladimir Litvina to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the provision of immediate comprehensive assistance in testing, medicine and treatment. Vladimir Litvina to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the immediate repair of the road between the villages of Malogumchanka - Velika Glumča - Luka. Groups of National Deputies (Kondratuk, Heratchenko, Ionova) to the Head of the National Police of Ukraine Groups of National Deputies (Kondratuk, Heratshenko, Ionova) to the Head of the National Police of Ukraine, Head of the National Service of Ukraine for Food Security and Consumer Protection, Head of the Kiev City Public Administration on the placement in Kiev of a dissident advertisement on the head of the political party "Universal Union of Fathers", National Deputy of Ukraine Timoshenko U.V. Irina Heratchenko and Maria Ionova to the Head of the National Police of Ukraine on the use of urgent measures to halt the illegal acts committed by representatives of the All-U.S. Sokol civil organization in Kiev from 28 to 29 November 2018 in connection with the entrepreneurial activities of the OUSHEN PLAZA TRC in Kiev. Irina Herashchenko and Maria Ionova to the Head of the National Police of Ukraine on the course of the investigation of the hooliganist actions against the political party 'Citizen Position' in Odessa on 28 November 2018, the use of measures to prevent similar actions directed against Ukraine's political actors, particularly in relation to the approach of the electoral campaign, as well as preventive measures that are being developed and implemented by the Ukrainian National Police in connection with the above-mentioned events. Oleg Dmitrenk to the Minister of Justice of Ukraine for the execution of the judgement of the European Court of Human Rights concerning the Redfish Tamar case. Sergey Ljowczina to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the reduction of social protection for persons with disabilities. Sergia Labazuk to the Hmelnick district council, Hmelnicki town council, Hmelnicki district government administration for the construction of a water line from the village of Černelyvka Krasilivski district to the town of Hmelnicki. Sergia Labazuk to the Guards ’ United District Community of Hmelnicke District, Hmelnicke District State Administration, for the allocation of land in the village of Guardi Hmelnicke district. Groups of National Deputies (Mazoli, Gerega, Šinkovica) to the head of the Hmelnick district council, the head of the Hmelnicka district public administration for the forecasting of funds in the 2019 district budget for the implementation of the project "Reconstruction of Water Management Networks on the streets of Pushkin, Privokzalna, Lesi Ukraine, N.S. Tovorun, Academica Gerasimczuk, Hodjakova, in the city of Polonne, and in the area of the Ponnik water supply (in the territory of the city of Polonne) of the Hmelnick district. Groups of National Deputies (Mazoli, Gerega, Šinkovica) to the head of the Hmelnick district council, the head of the Hmelnick district administration for the forecasting of funds in the 2019 district budget for the completion of the construction of the children’s ward for 60 beds with a clinic for 300 visitors during the Shepetov Central District Hospital. Anatoly of Hirschfeld to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the use of measures in relation to the situation in the state-owned enterprise "Lozov Horse Factory No.124" of Kharkiv Region. Group of National Deputies (Novinsky, Bachevo and others). A total of 14 deputies) to the Head of the Ukrainian Security Service, the Attorney General of Ukraine, concerning the cessation of a campaign organized by the authorities of the discrediting of the Canonic Ukrainian Orthodox Church: persecution, persecution, fabrication of matters concerning its archeirs, priests and believers. Sergey Kiwalova to the Minister of Culture of Ukraine regarding the granting of the Odessa District Philharmonic National Status. Maria Ionova and Irina Herashchenko to the Head of the Supreme Council on the legality of the use of diplomatic passport by the Ukrainian national deputy Simeon Semenchenk during his stay in the Republic of Georgia in December 2018. Gennady Tchakauk to the executive responsibility of the head of the State Fiscal Service of Ukraine to provide information on the allocation of the registration number of the tax payer’s account number to Smilanski I.J. Anatolia Denisenka to the Minister of Social Policy of Ukraine on the need for the Ministry of Social Policy to carry out a package of measures aimed at the timely introduction in 2019 of a mechanism for the monetaryisation of housing subsidies for the population. Anatolia Denisenka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on non-compliance with the requirements of the Ukrainian Law on the provision of commercial natural gas accounting for the development and approval of the Cabinet of Ministers Regulation on the approval of the Order and the extent of compensation for the costs of the purchase and installation of individual natural gas appliances for consumers of natural gas - natural persons (populations). Igor Guza to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the need for regulation at the national level of rent rates for renting utility property. IgoryaGuzah to the Minister of Ecology and Natural Resources of Ukraine, head of the Volin district government, on the need to improve the environmental condition of the Luga River (Volinsk Region). OlegKulinica to the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine for the provision of guidance on the performance of duties in the area of exclusion of the Chernobyl AES. OlegaKulinić to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for financing the reconstruction and repair of the territorial roads. PaulRizance to the Head of the National Commission, which regulates national energy and utilities regulations on the use of response measures aimed at verifying compliance with the public shareholders' gas supply and gasification of Kiwoblgas, the licensing conditions for the management of natural gas activities. GrigoryTimisa to the Secretary of the Montenegrin City Council on the consent of the Montenegrin City Council to the acts of field border inspection and plans to establish (change) the boundaries of the village of Prut and the village of Buda Magalska Rural Council of the Cherniewice region. RuslanaDemczak to the head of the Wynnick district government regarding the change in the boundaries of the Lipovetsk and Oratov areas of the Winnitsk region. RuslanaDemczak to the Head of the National Bank of Ukraine on the day-to-day implementation of the Ukrainian Act on Amendments to certain Ukrainian laws on the Promotion of Foreign Investment and the adoption of the necessary legal and regulatory instruments for its implementation. Borislav Bereza until his temporary duty as Minister of Health of Ukraine regarding the unlawful activities of the director of the Advisory and Diagnostic Centre of the Righteous District of Kiev, Limar Yuri Viktorovic. Igora Pobera to the Head of the National Migration Service of Ukraine for information on the Director-General of PAT "The Crucifixion". Juriya Miroshnicka to the Attorney General's Office of Ukraine on the complaint of a citizen named Danilenko O.M. About the fraudulent actions that took his house. Jury Miroshnicka to the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, Kyiv City Public Administration, on the complaint of a citizen Kushnyerczuk about the abuse of her son-autist at the New Billian Psychological Home of Kiev. Eduard Matviychuk to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, Ministry of Finance of Ukraine, Ministry of Culture of Ukraine on the need for a comprehensive review of the appeal of the Odessa National Science Library team to raise public guarantees of social protection and address the problem of human resources. Edward Matviychuk to the Cabinet of Ministers of Infrastructure of Ukraine, Ministry of Infrastructure of Ukraine, Ministry of Regional Development, Construction and Housing of Ukraine, Ministry of Finance of Ukraine, Odessa District State Administration on the need for planning and implementing infrastructure projects in Odessa. Julia Ioffe to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the need for urgent repayment of the debt for the coal product delivered to the First-Major Coal DP. Julia Ioffe to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the need to provide State support to the Luhansk district clinic cancer dispenser for the restoration of the material and technical base. Vasilyanicki to Prime Minister of Ukraine, temporarily acting as Minister of Health of Ukraine, Minister of Finance of Ukraine, Head of the Equality District State Administration on the need to ensure the treatment of rare (orphan) diseases at the expense of state budget programmes. Vasilyanicki to Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Finance of Ukraine, Acting Head of the State Agency for Roads of Ukraine, Head of the Ravenna District State Administration on the need to take into account the project of bridge repairs across the Gorin River near the village of Remčica in the region of Ravenska in the formulation of proposals for the implementation of the current mid-level repairs on the roads of the Plain region in 2019. John Baloga to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the reconstruction of the Lužanka, Uzhgrad, Vilok and Zakarpatsk checkpoints. John Balloga to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the construction of a road around the town of Berogowa Zakarpatha. Paul Rizanenka to the head of the Kyiv District State Administration on the need to address the issue of improving the sanitary and hydrological condition of the Krasilivka River in the area of the Brovary region of Kiev. Igor Kotwitsky to the Minister for Temporaryly Inoccupied Territories and Internally Moved Persons of Ukraine on measures for the social rehabilitation of persons deprived of their personal freedom. Dmitra Kolesnikov to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the dangerous state of nuclear energy in Ukraine. Dmitry Kolesnikov to the Minister of Ecology and Natural Resources of Ukraine regarding the state system for the collection and disposal of processed chemical elements. Andrija Illenka to head the Kiev City Public Administration on the forecasting of funds in Kiev’s 2019 budget for the work on the design of the capital reconstruction of the park between Roman Shuhević’s prospectus and Zakrewski Street in the right-wing district of Kiev. Andrija Illenka to head the Dniprovsky district office in Kiev, head of the Kyiv City State Administration for the repair of sports equipment on the streets of Rajdovna 67, Vršígori 9, Karbisheva, 8B, and the installation of a sports field on Rajdovna Street, 22 in the Dniprov district of Kiev. Vitalia Gudzenka to the head of the Kyiv district government regarding the allocation of construction funds and the capital repair of the roads of municipal importance of Biloczerkovsky, Tarostian, Stavistinski, Skuri district of Kyiv region. Vitalia Gudzenka to the head of the Kyiv District State Administration for the allocation of funds for the capital repair of social infrastructure objects and the reconstruction of street lighting in the Tetiyivsk, Stavistenski, and Biloczerk region of the Kyiv region. The Gennady of Krivoschi to the Head of the National Architectural Inspection of Ukraine on the siege of the roof in the city of Vishnev Kyiv region. Irina Konstankevich to the Head of the National Council of Ukraine for Television and Radio Broadcasting, Representative of the National Council of Ukraine for Television and Radio in the Volin region for the elimination of the possibility of watching national and local television channels after switching off analog television. Irina Konstanovic to the head of the Volin district government for the support of farmers and private peasant farms in the Volin region in 2018. Jury Bublika to the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, Director of the National Anti-Corruption Bureau of Ukraine, Prosecutor General of Ukraine, on the commission of illegal activities by prosecutors and police in the Poltava region in the conduct of checks on car gas stations, halting their work, unlawful interference in the business and attempted removal of fuel. Vladimir Aresonkova to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the deadlines for the publication of information by authorities of local self-government. Alexander Gehrega and Andrija Shinkovič to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Social Policy of Ukraine, on the threat of systemic human rights violations established in the Regulations of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine of 22 August 2018 No. 649 on the Approval of the Procedure for Retirement of Retirement from Retirement Payments to the Court of Justice. Alexander Gehrega and Andrija Shinkovič are headed by the Minister of Finance of Ukraine, head of the Hmelnick district administration for the allocation of funds from the State budget for energy conservation projects in the village of the town type Vinkovci Hmelnicki district. Alexander Kodola to the head of Montenegro’s district government, temporarily acting as Ukrainian Health Minister for the expansion of the Ambulatory Hemodialysis Department in the town of Nizhin Chernigiv district. Victor Krivenk to the head of the Ukrainian Security Service, the Attorney General of Ukraine, the Ukrainian Security Service in Zaporozhye region, the prosecutor of the Zaporozhye district for delay in bringing a case to trial to investigate the facts of the fictitious accidents in Pat Zaporozhaz. Jury Derevyanka to the Head of the National Police of Ukraine, acting as Head of the State Fiscal Service of Ukraine for information on the total number of light vehicles imported into the customs territory of Ukraine and placed in customs transit or temporary importation regimes and not scattered in the established legislation. Jury Derevyanka to the Ministry of Social Policy of Ukraine on the provision of information on the number of persons who have been assigned and granted a subsidy to compensate for the cost of housing and utilities, the acquisition of cremated gas, solid and liquid end-of-life fuel, and the total amount of money spent from the State budget of Ukraine on the expenditure indicated each year separately from 2016 to 2018. Andria Lopushanski and Michael Doubbenk to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Head of the National Commission for State Regulations in the Field of Energy and Municipal Services on the Eligibility of Trust on OSBB responsibilities for the operation of indoor gas networks and gas pipelines on the facades of buildings. TetanyaOstrichovov to the executive duty of the Head of the State Fiscal Service of Ukraine to provide information on the effectiveness of countering the breach of customs legislation. Tetjana Ostrikovov to the executive duty of the Head of the National Fiscal Service of Ukraine regarding the practical application of the requirements of articles 345 to 351 of the Ukrainian Customs Code in the work of the DFS. Groups of National Deputies (Shinkovica, Gerega, Macola) to the Director of the Department of Health of the Hmelnicka District State Administration on the need to establish an auxiliary base station for emergency medical care based on the functioning of the Velikozozuline Hospital of General Practice of Family Medicine in the Hmelni district of Krasiliv. Group of People's Deputies (Shinkovich, Gerega, Macoli) to the Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Regional Development, Construction and Housing of Ukraine, Head of the Hmeljna District State Administration, to contribute to the implementation of the capital repair project of the Conciliation List. O. Ishtuk on the street of School, 1 in the village of St. Krasilów district of Hmeljna district. Vasil Guljava to the Minister of Finance of Ukraine for the redistribution of taxes on the income of natural persons, which is included in the budget of the Tairo OTH, which has not yet been authorized, to the district budget of the Ovidiopol region of Odessa. Dmitra Dobrodomova to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Head of the Rubižany City Council, First Deputy Head of the Luhansk district government administration for the provision of heat to the residents of Rubižne, whose homes have been inflamed, as a result of the implementation of the “Programme for the decentralization of thermal supply in Rubižen for 2018”. DmitraDomova to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the provision of adequate social protection and the recalculation of pensions to civil servants. Andrija Galchenka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the need for urgent approval of the order and extent of compensation for the purchase and installation of individual natural gas appliances for consumers. Tetjana Bacheva to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the wages of employees of the Ministry of Health. Roman Semenha to the Minister of Infrastructure of Ukraine, acting as Head of the State Agency for Road Traffic in Ukraine, Head of the Herson District State Administration, Head of the Herson District Council for the implementation of measures to ensure the proper state of road traffic within the Herson area. Romana Semimenha to Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Regional Development, Construction and Housing of Ukraine on the situation in Kharkiv in connection with the absence of heating in housing. Oleg Osukhovsky, head of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Family, Youth Policy, Sport and Tourism, the first deputy head of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Science and Education, the Prime Minister of Ukraine, the President of the Federation of Football Ukraine, the Minister of Education and Science of Ukraine, the Minister of Youth and Sports of Ukraine on the amendment of the rules of children’s competition. OlegaOsuhovski, head of the Ukrainian Presidential Administration, Director of the Institute of Culture of the National Academy of Arts, Director of the National Institute of Strategic Research, Minister of Information Policy of Ukraine, Head of the Department of National Security and Defence of the Ukrainian Presidential Administration, Senior Research Fellow of the Institute of History of Ukraine of the National Academy of Sciences of Ukraine, Head of the Department of State Awards of the Ukrainian Administration for the National Awards of the Ukrainian Insurgency Soldiers of the UPA. Andrija Lopushanski, until he was temporarily acting as Minister of Health of Ukraine, Minister of Finance of Ukraine, on the need to increase funding for the state-wide target programme Sugar Diabetes. Groups of people’s deputies (Romanov, Petrenko, and others) A total of 6 deputies) to the Head of the National Police of Ukraine for the activation of investigations into fraud in the tourist area. Anna Romanova to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, acting as Head of the State Road Agency of Ukraine, Minister of Infrastructure of Ukraine for the Capital Repair of Roads. Alexander Marchenka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for possible violations of the amount of gas consumed to Ukrainian citizens. Groups of National Deputies (Rudika, Shahova and others) A total of 13 deputies) to the head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the first deputy director of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's apparatus, the governing body to create favourable conditions for unhindered access to the building and committees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Sergey Rudika until the temporary duty of the Minister of Health of Ukraine to license certain medicines necessary for the treatment of rare diseases, tuberculosis sclerosis. RuslanaSolvara to the head of the Kyiv District State Administration for the allocation of funds from government and district budgets for the capital rehabilitation of roads along the streets of Zatišna and Lesi Ukraine in the village of Berezovka in the region of Kyiv. Ruslana Solvara to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Social Policy of Ukraine, on improving the principle of subsidies. PaulDublika to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for ensuring the proper financing of health facilities. Paul Jublik to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for financing the repair of M-21 on the 154th km, 178th km. AlexiaRubchina to the First Deputy Head of the Luhansk District State Administration for Repayment of Wage Debt and Employment Rights of Workers of the Sagittarius Horse Factory (Lugansk Region). Groups of National Deputies (Herasimova, Rybčina and others; only 4 deputies) to the head of the Donetsk District Authority on improving the material base, improving the quality of education and supporting the transferred Donbas National Academy of Construction and Architecture. Sergia Alexieva to the head of the State Judicial Administration of Ukraine regarding the organization of the work of the State Judicial Administration of Ukraine. Sergia Alekseyeva to the Minister of Infrastructure of Ukraine, head of the Kyiv District State Administration to increase the safety of road traffic. SergijaVlastenka to the Head of the Ukrainian Security Service, Attorney General of Ukraine, on the investigation of the facts that indicate the commission of treason, other corruption crimes by President Peter Prashenko of Ukraine. Alexander Wiekula to the Minister for Foreign Affairs of Ukraine, acting as President of the Red Cross Society of Ukraine, the Authorized Supreme Council of Ukraine with regard to the official position of Ukraine regarding the Kerchen crisis and the return of Ukrainian sailors. AlexanderVilukla to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Infrastructure of Ukraine for the implementation of State strategies and programmes to support the shipbuilding sector of Ukraine. Mikhail Golka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Social Policy of Ukraine, Minister of Finance of Ukraine, for the continuation of the monetary compensation programme for participants in hostilities in the territories of other States and members of their families. Mikhail Gołka, head of the State Treasury Service of Ukraine for the payment of adequate cash payments to residents of Kyiv Pastuhový N.M. AlexanderKorsa to the head of the National Commission, which regulates the state in the field of communication and information on the handling of the complaints of the Kharkivs who live in the village of Žukovsky, in violation of the rules governing the establishment of a mobile communications station in a non-residential building on 37 - A Street. Jury Bublika to the Minister of Social Policy of Ukraine on the opaque mechanism for granting subsidies, the imperfection of changes made to the existing order of granting them, the admission of discriminatory acts against individual citizens because of the lack of access to social guarantees and State support. Sergey Leshchenka is acting as director of the Kyivmiskswietlo utility company for lighting up the Marshall Konev street in the Bolosiew district of Kiev. Sergey Leschchenka to the head of the Permanent Commission of the Kiev City Council for Environmental Policy on the decision to create a green zone in the Obobolon district of Kiev. Olga Bogolitz until the temporary duty of the Ukrainian Minister of Health to introduce medical reform in the Gitomir region and in the city of Zitomiri. Olga Bogolitz until the temporary duty of the Minister of Health of Ukraine to introduce medical reform in Kharkiv and Kharkiv. Jury Lewchenk to the head of the Kyiv City State Administration for the immediate repair of the emergency apartment building No.35-B on the street of Turgenów Shevchenkov district of Kiev for the purpose of preventing the disaster and the loss of its residents. Jury Levchenka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for amendments and additions to the regulations of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, which regulate the issue of granting subsidies to citizens for housing and utility services, as part of ensuring that they are given the opportunity to receive them to persons living in an unassigned home but without family or family relations and do not run a joint household. Alexander Dombrovski to the head of the Government of the Public Shareholders Association of the National Shareholder Company Naftogaz Ukraine, head of the State Service of Ukraine on labour issues and compliance with valid labour law requirements. Alons Shkrum to Deputy Minister of Infrastructure of Ukraine to provide information on the financial performance of Ukrainian seaports in the ninth month of the 18th year. Oxana Jurinec to the Minister of Social Policy of Ukraine for Remuneration of Housing and Utilities in Electoral District No. 117. Sergia Dunayeva to the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, the Head of the Ukrainian Security Service, the Head of the National Police of Ukraine, the Attorney General of Ukraine for the non - violation of the constitutional rights and obligations of Ukrainian citizens in the Luhansk region during the war. Jaroslava Markevich to the prosecutor of the Kharkiv district for the discovery of criminal conduct. Jaroslava Markevich to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the ineffective investigation of criminal conduct. Oksana Bilozer to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the timely payment of salaries to teachers and health workers. Oksana Bilozer to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on strengthening the effectiveness of state policy in supporting the family institution. John Melniczuk to the Chief of Roads in the Vinnitsky region, head of the Vinnitsky District State Administration, to provide information on the results of the experiment on financial security for the development of road traffic in the Winnitsky region. Jury Timoshenko to the head of the Ivano-Frankow District Administration for making changes to the general plan of the inhabited site. Victoria Ptašnik under the executive responsibility of the Head of the State Fiscal Service of Ukraine for violating the rules of law in law by the co-workers of the head of the DFS in the region of Ivano-Frankiv. Andrija Vadaturski to the director of the state-owned enterprise "Restructuring Research" for the provision of a copy of the contract for the development of technical documentation by the Land Authority of DP "Restructuring". IrinaSustuvny to Minister of Interior of Ukraine, Minister of Social Policy of Ukraine, on providing information on measures aimed at countering and preventing trafficking in human beings in 2017-2018. Irina Sudlowy to the Chief of General Staff, Commander-in-Chief of the Armed Forces of Ukraine, on the participation of women soldiers in peacekeeping missions. Borislav Bereza to the Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine - Minister of Regional Development, Construction and Housing of Ukraine on the need to properly address the issue of the transfer of non-residential housing to housing and vice versa. Borislav Bereza to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the non-admission of military salaries, which is less than the minimum wage. Alexander Marchenka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the need to regulate the establishment of the status of victims of the Chernobyl Category 1 disaster. MaximaBurbaka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, the head of the National Commission for State regulation in the fields of energy and utilities, the Head of the Ukrainian Security Service, the Attorney General of Ukraine on the massive provocation aimed at breaking consumers' gas supply in the heat of the T.O.K. Trading and district gas outlets. Roberta Horvati to the first Deputy Minister for Agriculture and Food of Ukraine on the promotion of the creation and operation of family farms and the completion of the implementation of the Ukrainian Law No.2497-VIII. RobertaGorwatt to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the inaction of the MoE of Ukraine in the development of draft regulatory acts in the area of water of natural mineral and the order of the definition of water of natural mineral food. Igora Lucenka to the Minister of Foreign Affairs of Ukraine on the exercise of parliamentary control over the current state of Ukraine's pretentious work in the context of the proper response to the systematic crimes of the Russian Federation. Igora Lucenka to the head of the Kyiv City State Administration for the implementation of the budget programme under the code of the programme classification of expenditure and crediting the local budget No.0712030 "Doctor and obstetric care to pregnant women, births and newborns." AndrijaReky to the executive responsibility of the head of the Government of the Public Shareholders Association of Ukrainian Railways to provide information on the reasons for the non-requirement of agro-producer orders by the carriages of grains by the branch "CTC" AT "Urzaliznica". AlexiaRubkina to the head of the National Police of Ukraine, Minister of Interior of Ukraine, on the legal protection of the rights and freedoms of drivers of electric vehicles. OxaniKorczynski to the Head of the Security Service of Ukraine to ban Ukrainian radio stations from using Russian music bands on their airs that support the annexation of Ukrainian Crimea by the Russian Federation. Oksana Korczynski to the Minister of Defense of Ukraine for the provision of wounded, sick military personnel who participated in combat activities in the ATO/OOS zone, adequate hospitalization conditions and adequate nutrition in the NHCC “HWCG”. We have finished reading the requests, but there are also a number of national MPs who are dissatisfied with the answers to the requests that have been announced before. We have eight minutes left, and we can now look at these claims of national MPs. Welcome to the speech of the National Deputy Igor Shurma.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-07-m0.u111	Igor Šurma.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-07-m0.u112	Please turn on the microphone from the rostrum, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-07-m0.u113	Igor Shurma, Opposition Block. Honourable citizens of Ukraine, honourable colleagues, ask me about the purposeless use of funds from international organizations and international technical assistance from the Ministry of Temporaryly Occupied Territories and Internally Moved Persons in the context of the implementation of the State Programme for the Reconstruction and Peace in Eastern Ukraine. I would like to remind you that this ministry was created in 2016 with the aim of shaping state policy in occupied areas in the Donetsk and Lugansk areas and internally displaced persons in temporarily occupied territories. One of the main tasks of the Ministry is to respond quickly to existing problems and threats in the areas of Donetsk and Lugansk. It was on this body that the task of implementing state policy was to restore and build peace in the affected territories and to reintegrate the temporarily occupied territories. In this response, the ministry notes that they did not receive any funds in the implementation of the strategy. At the same time, the multi-partner trust fund has allocated the first $2 million — 60 million — to rebuild and build peace on Donbassa. The relevant decision was taken at a meeting of the executive board of the trust fund of the partners, which took place on 13 March 2018, and this was noted on the same website of the Ministry. In this response, the Ministry confirms that according to the above-mentioned decision, the funds for the restoration and development of peace in Donbassa have been allocated, but the state of affairs of the Ministry did not receive funds from many partners' trust funds. I would like to remind you that 194 million dollars have been allocated to the Ministry for its activities in the 2018 budget and to the administration of temporary occupied areas — 38 million. At the same time, the Ministry gave a formal notice that the World Bank, as the administrator of the listed funds, has taken steps to provide psychological support to the population of eastern Ukraine. Please tell me, what is this psychological aid for 60 million dollars? The Ministry is obliged to note the implementation of programming measures within the allocated funds. The financing of the program was based on a solution to the problems of restoring and building peace. Since the main sources of funding are the costs of international financial institutions and international technical assistance, it is essential to initiate an analysis and verification of the costs allocated to Ukraine. The potential abuse of the ministry in part of the purposeless use of funds raises concerns. Using article 15 of the Ukrainian Law on the Status of the People's Deputy, I demand full information on the use of the funds by the Ministry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-07-m0.u114	Thank you. Another MP who is dissatisfied with the answer to his request, National Deputy Sergei Lechchenko. I invite him to my word.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-07-m0.u115	Dear Ukrainians, the honourable Chinese, I regularly receive a call and try to help all in Kiev who suffer from illegal oblivion, from the fall of officials, and in particular this request, and this is one of many, it refers to the restoration of the mosaic virgin on the street of Bogdan Hmielnick. Miss "Ukrainian Song." It is a building of the State Property Fund that is unable to restore this historical monument. And I am finally forced from the rostrum of Parliament to talk about it. But this is just one of the episodes that I want to talk about in my speech. Look at what Kyiv has become. My Kiev has become the site of the endless, chaotic, and completely criminal. Because this structure then lays a burden for decades and then for centuries. And it makes the city of Kyiv unfit at all for living, for passage, to breathe eventually with clean air. Look at what's happening on the historical Podoline. For example, as an MP, I am accompanying the building they are carrying out, I am convinced that it is absolutely illegal on the streets of the Wozniesen Bridge and the streets of Głboczycka. It's called the City of Vintage Project. When the Blind Are Accomplished, Think! – The Blind Society is handing over its land to build a 10-section multi-story building, which it already is. You can't go through there anyway. There's already a permanent collapse, so it's permanent. And once it's built, it's just going to be the whole city of Kiev. It's being done now, it's being done for the oppression of the local government, it's being done for the oppression of Kiev's city government, which is closing its eyes. And in parallel, they close their eyes to the needs of people who can't settle in buildings that were built long ago. I'll give you one example. This is the brochure of the Truth, 80-82. Just yesterday, there was a group of people in Parliament who had cheated the owners of this construction project, which for 15 years now this house on the Vineyard and it's still out of order. We were at the seat of Mr. Nepop's city head. He promised to intervene. He promised to settle the matter, specifically looking people in the eye. The question is still pending. And this, once again, when an illegal construction takes place in a historical center, it closes its eyes. When it comes to taking minimal steps to ensure that people who have lived for 15 years can finally settle down, nothing is done. Another screaming incident. It's at the site of the Blue Market in Kiev. This is a famous project called the Jaroslav City, when the prosecution mafia, which at the time of today's authorities, the authorities of Dustynk, just got fat, as it's called the criminal jargon, the figures of criminal conduct. And now this money is being washed away because of the multi-story walls. And again, in the fate and power of Kiev, once again in the "watching" of the President's Administration, again in the hands of all the high-ranking corrupters today. It's totally unacceptable. This should not be in the modern European capital. As an MP, I'm going to be out in public, through the MP's instrumentation to fight this. But the same way I want you to hear what's going on in the capital right now. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-07-m0.u116	Thank you. There are two other disgruntled deputies: Hanna Gopko and the deputy Sergei Vlasenko. Please note that they are not in the hall today, and unfortunately, you and I will never know the reason for their dissatisfaction with the answer they came to. I'm taking a break in accordance with the Rules. The extension of the session and the work in the Miscellaneous will begin at 12 o'clock in 30 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-07-m0.u117	We are ready to continue our work. I want the MPs to have enough time to prepare for the recording. I'm going to the Secretariat: please turn on the broadcast so that the MPs know that this meeting has started. Wait, wait a minute, wait a minute. Ladies and gentlemen, I'd like to prepare and request you to record the performances in "The Miscellaneous." Welcome to the speech of the national deputy Kozir.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-07-m0.u118	Good afternoon, dear fellows! Good afternoon, distinguished voters! Boris Kozir, 127th constituency, Santa Claus. In my speech, I want to draw attention to the situation around the South Bank Bridge of Mikolayeva. This is the South Bank City, which is called Barvarovsky, because according to the Barvarovka microregion, it connects the central part of Mikolayeva. I would like to point out that this city is passing through three international transport corridors. This is a unique bridge of divorce, which is rightly called the miracle of engineering thinking. Britain, Holland, the United States, and other lands are known to the world. Ukraine is also represented by two intelligence bridges, which, by the way, are located in Mikolayev – Barvarovski and Ingulski Bridges. But let's get back to the problem. The Barbarianist was discovered in 1964, 54 years ago. During this time, cities were trying to repair it in 2001, 2003, but the lack of funds made it impossible. The development of agriculture and the marine complex has resulted in increased pressure on the transport arteries of the city of Mikolayeva, including bridges. According to statistics today, the total workload on the city of Barvarov is more than 50,000 transport units per day. Of course, when the city is designed, it is not built on such a stream. As a result, today we have a very sad situation. Constant overload caused serious damage to the bridge. The bridge is an emergency. Last year, the city council ordered a comprehensive special inspection of the bridge, which resulted in the establishment of the following. Attention! Item 1. The technical state of the South Bank Bridge in Mikolayev corresponds to state 5, in other words the cities are inoperable. The rest of the bridge is exhausted. Item 2. The proper operational status of the building must be followed. Continued surveillance and control of restrictions on movement and workload by specialized organizations. It is time to resolve the matter of rebuilding the building or its closure. Use precautions to prevent an accident. Item 3. The bridge requires immediate repair. Item 4. We're going to allow the border load on the building to be 20 tons." But there's another problem: the actual cost of repairs is over a billion dollars. And that's an absolutely insurmountable sum for the city budget of Mikolayeva. Today, the city of Barvarov is a slow-acting bomb. Procrastination in this matter can have extremely negative consequences. So I suggest you work on prejudice. A responsible decision is urgently needed today. Timely limit the movement of freight across the South Bank, except for special transport. Make changes to the 2019 budget to anticipate the allocation of funds for the repair of the South Bank Bridge. Please consider my statement to be a parliamentary request to the Cabinet of Ministers.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-07-m0.u119	Thank you. Please, 15 seconds, finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-07-m0.u120	Please consider my statement to be a parliamentary request to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, the Mikolayev Observatories and the Mikolai City Council. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-07-m0.u121	Thank you, dear fellows. Let us continue with our list of presentations. And here's what Oksana Korchin People's Deputy invites. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-07-m0.u122	Praise Jesus Christ! I have the honour to welcome all our soldiers with the day that was yesterday with the Armed Forces of Ukraine. To say that you are our hope, we are very proud of you, you are our very foundation of our state. And of course, all of us, the authorities, the deputies, the Cabinet of Ministers, all of our ministries should take care of us. I want to say that yesterday we had a disgraceful event where the wounded gunman Peter Alexyuk is my injured man, two years ago I had to take him out from under Dokuciewsk, a serious leg injury, a lack of a foot -- when his military-medical commission, an expert doctor, forced him, through his parents, 1.5 thousand dollars of bribes, a war hero, to get that disability that he should not have at all just hoped for, but was given to 5,000 of our military personnel. This doctor, I suspect, was on this committee on his own. He was accompanied by the head of MSEC No. 1 in Kiev by Dr. Cherniavsky. When they were arrested, this day they had an extortion, only on this committee of MSEC, $130,000. In one day. Blasphemy was that it was the packages of documents for our military, our heroes that were carrying packages of money, with bribes ranging from $700 to $4,000. I am now addressing all the MSECs in Ukraine, all the military medical commissions. I promise you, there are enough national deputies in this room, there are enough ministers in the Cabinet to get us to the prosecutors, with the Security Service, that everyone who abuses our military will be in prison, your place in prison. We won't let you, like a year ago, when a psychiatrist running a Central Military Hospital took $52,000 to get the military out of service, then went back to court. We won't let that happen. We will see that all who abuse, all who corrupt our military, must be in prison. Now there's gonna be a trial in the Obolonian district, and I'm asking the deputies to back me up, come to court with me, so that these bastards can be held now, at least, for two months without the right to ransom. They're the people who abuse at the feast, our soldiers, the guys who lost in the war.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-07-m0.u123	15 seconds to complete.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-07-m0.u124	On those boys and girls who have lost their health and their families have lost their family members, it is sacred. I'm asking for help, and I'm asking you to tell all the people that we have to control, and this is my speech as an address.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-07-m0.u125	Thank you. I ask you to make a presentation by the national deputy of Kozir and the national deputy of Mrs. Korchinsky as a matter of fact. And our distinguished colleague Vladislav Golub is invited to the floor, please. He gives the word to the national deputy, Derevyanco. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-07-m0.u126	Yuri Derevyanko, "The Movement of New Forces". Dear colleagues, dear Ukrainians! Thank you, Vladislav Dove, for giving me the word. Today I want to welcome all our soldiers with the celebration of the patronage of the country, with the day of the Ukrainian army. I would also like to welcome today all our citizens of Ukraine, our deputies, the heads of village, city, district, district councils with the Local Self-Government Day, which is also today. I am sure that strong local self-government is the foundation of an independent Ukraine and this is the basis of democracy in Ukraine. It is unfortunate that all the promises made last week by the President failed and failed to be fulfilled by the President. Because on December 23, we will not have elections in the united territorial communities in those districts where the state of war is established. So these choices are blocked. The President was able to block the presidential election, but in the areas occupied by us today, these elections are blocked. Also today, a very important law of 1793, which you and I, honourable colleagues, voted to protect the Ukrainian army during more than a fourth year of war, and during the introduction of martial law against corruption. I'm talking about a law that criminalizes those people who sell Ukrainian military equipment, ammunition, goods, services, as well as those who acquire such goods on behalf of the Ukrainian army. We voted this law two and a half years ago, until now, this is blocked by a decision of a deputy from the Peter Prashenko Block. And Peter Poroshenko himself, who was the author of this law, does nothing to unlock this law during wartime. That's why I'm asking Mr. Parubia, from the President of Ukraine to put an order that blocks Bill 1793 to the vote, to fail it, and to unlock it during the state of war. I also demand that we use this time that we have before the new year another week to adopt the real laws that are necessary to strengthen Ukraine's resilience and security. The first is the Act on the formation of a reserve army, where men between 18 and 55 years of age can go through school every year for a week or two. And along with when we form a professional army under NATO standards to give away any aggressor, any enemy. I also believe that we need to introduce a law that gives us the right to protection, the right to use firearms to protect our lives, the health of our family, our homes from potential thieves who go there. I think that these important laws must now be the basis for us to increase our resilience, to allow us to make transparent purchases of all the necessary things for our army, and to make it possible for us to re-establish the 1793 bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-07-m0.u127	Thank you. I would like to invite Mr. Gulak and Mr. Kirichenko to the floor for six minutes. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-07-m0.u128	Victor Halasyuk, Oleg Lachka Radical Party. Dear Ukrainians, the closer you get to the elections, the more you will hear the sweet promises of power that there will be a new life again, there will be some improvements again, and in practice you and I see quite different results. So I urge you not to believe these sweet promises, but to look at the real actions of the political forces that are in Parliament today: what they have done, not what they promise. A recent meeting of the Radical Party, where Oleg Lazko presented the real results that the Radical Party team was able to achieve despite the opposition of the authorities, despite the devastating advice of the International Monetary Fund and other negative factors. Today, I'm going to count what we've managed to get into economic politics. First. A moratorium on the export of roundwood from Ukraine. This historical law allowed not only the conservation of Ukrainian forests in the first year of operation, but also the addition of half a billion dollars to the budget, increased investment in the sector more than twice, increased exports by more than 4 billion dollars, and exports, not raw materials, but finished production, and thousands of jobs for Ukrainians according to the country’s wages. The other one. Our law is metallurgical about raising taxes on scrap metal. Because of this law, this important raw material remains in Ukraine, it goes to Ukrainian metallurgical factories, so we've saved over 30,000 jobs in Ukrainian metallurgy across the country, over a billion dollars in foreign currency won't be allowed to steal into other countries' economies, it's allowing for the exchange rate. If that were not the case, it would be scary to say what course today would be in exchangers. Third. Freezing the land tax index for the industry by righting Oleg Lášk to the Tax Code. We protected the Ukrainian industry from automatically increasing the land tax to inflation -- that's what the government wanted to do. With this right, we saved thousands of Ukrainian industrial enterprises from bankruptcy. Four. Reducing the only social contribution from 37 percent to 22nd is a reduction in the workload on the payroll fund. As a result, tens of billions of dollars were released of the money of the bypass companies, which were aimed at raising the wages of Ukrainians and modernizing them. Fifth. The minimum wage increase is double. Remember how many radical party teams fought for this. We've been told it's unrealistic, it's populism, it's never going to happen. And when we finally convinced the government, it allowed over 4 million Ukrainians to get an increase in wages twice because they lived at least, and that allowed them to count the index to make five million pensioners, that's extremely important. Six. Moratorium for business checks. It was our initiative to introduce this law, which allowed the controls of entrepreneurs to be reduced by six times, to reduce regulatory corruption pressure on Ukrainian entrepreneurs by six times. Seven. Large-scale energy modernisation. The legislation initiated by the Radical Party team back in the 14th year was adopted by Parliament today, it works and causes warming, window replacements, doors, boilers. More than 70,000 budget institutions in Ukraine -- kindergartens, universities, hospitals, huge savings in tax payers and warm rooms where children are being trained -- are a strategic initiative. Eight. Incentives for Ukrainian gas production. With Oleg Lášk’s amendment, we reduced the interest rate on Ukrainian gas production more than twice. This will allow Ukraine, in the right, normal government policy, if it is maintained, to give up completely in Ukraine in a few years and to fully ensure the need for population and industry by natural gas for Ukrainian production. We've created a Parliament for this condition, and now the task of the executive branch of power is to do it. Nine. We've managed to get all the taxes from electric cars: import duties, VAT, excise duties. We need to support innovation, not the metallurgy of support that comes from abroad to us as Euro Fucks, but to support modern technology, to make them available to the population. Thanks to my law with Oleg Lášk, there has been a fourfold increase in the sale of electric cars in Ukraine. Ten. Currency liberalisation. There have been cancellations of the pension contribution from the exchange of currencies. It's for all people. Eleven. Import VAT schedule for all manufacturing equipment. It's a free 2-year loan for all those who upgrade or create new productions and import equipment for it. Twelve. These are cheaper loans for Ukrainian producers. We passed the Export Credit Agency Act. We push, the government creates it, and Ukrainian manufacturers will have cheaper loans. This is the support of the Ukrainian industry, the producer of jobs, and the increase in citizens’ income. Vote for real things, not for sweet things.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-07-m0.u129	Next performance. Sergey Lechchenko is invited to speak. Please, Mr. Sergio, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-07-m0.u130	Respectable citizens of Ukraine, a difficult situation in which all citizens live, are low living standards, low social standards, medicine, education. All of this stems from the fact that government execution is a victim of invaders, corrupters who steal it, who have turned politics into a way of earning it. And, of course, when they come in. Politicians and political powers to power, they appoint so-called "watchers." In my first introduction today, I spoke about the situation in Kiev. The Watcher in Kiev is Mr Stolar. I want to put this name all over the country, so this is the person who's actually put everyone in a dependency box that uses an informally shadowed mandate to manage both politics and elections in the Ukrainian capital. But what I was talking about in my first speech, I'm now talking about another story, another "watcher," which is in Ukrainian politics, which is now under trial, which is trying to avoid criminal responsibility. This is the case of Mikolia Martinenko, a man who is currently being tried in court for two reasons: in the case of Energoatom, when his company, registered in Panama, registered with a Swiss account, received commissions and, in other words, to leave for contracts entered into by the state with the Czech factory "Skoda". Six million have been proved, and now this case is being heard in court. The second episode is when his other company, Austria, the Staerman company, was given the same ride away for the uranium concentration that was supplied from Kazakhstan to Ukraine. They said they were selling $95 a kilo of concentration, and Ukraine was buying 130 at a broker company. The broker company didn't do anything but translate the papers from one stack to another, all that was done. And then, according to an investigation by the anticorruption office, it was confirmed by documents from Austria, from other countries, that part of this money, which is rolled away, was even paid for the pear of former Prime Minister Arsenius Yatzenyuk to the American lobbyist company APCO Worldwide. This is what is now part of the investigation and what is at stake in the Ukrainian court. But what I want to do is I want to dedicate my speech to another affair that they're trying to reverse right now, so that the entire Ukrainian society is aware of what's really going on. So Martinenko understands that he can't argue with the documents that have been submitted to Switzerland because the Swiss Attorney's Office has certified the documents that were removed from the Swiss bank, that this is his account for the Panamanian construction company. In order to avoid responsibility, he faked documents of what it was like to have this company built -- think about who, the detective of the Anti-Corruption Bureau, not Martinenko, but Detective NABU. It's like this detective was getting huge, it's like millions of dollars to go into his own account. It's blasphemy, it's meanness that the country hasn't seen. And all the Ukrainian sales sites, which have not one dozen, have been reprinted. So, honourable citizens of Ukraine, the fight is about robbing the Ukrainian budget to rob us of you. And that's why they use any manipulative technology, any technology.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-07-m0.u131	15 seconds, finish, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-07-m0.u132	They're using black pear to avoid prison. And so there's going to be a lot of different provocations, a lot of different technologies, because there's a lot of bars in front. Once again, we cannot allow ourselves not to use Swiss evidence in the Martinenko case in the Ukrainian court because it is his direct way to prison. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-07-m0.u133	Please make the next statement. People’s MP Kishkar Paul is invited to speak. Colleagues, I want to warn you right away that we're working right up to the second hour, and this final speech is going to be the national deputy of Ostrikov, who is being handed over the right to speak by the national MP, Derevyanco. Thank you very much. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-07-m0.u134	Paul Kishkar, National Movement of Ukraine Our struggle in the budget process to increase salaries for military personnel has some distorted consequences. Instead of actually increasing, insisting that a military officer, including the United Nations Operation Area, has received more, the authorities are strangely avoiding this, but we receive a strange decision from the Temporary Investigation Commission to investigate the inactivity or activities of previous defence ministers, which are taken against everything that is possible, and common sense, including. I, a member of the current interim commission of inquiry, was unable to get to know the preliminary report prepared yesterday, which was the Supreme Council for Hours voted in violation of both the rules of the Rules and the standards of work of the interim commission of inquiry itself. What conclusions will they draw? We've set a clear goal of this TSC's work -- to investigate the activity that was in previous years, and to make it impossible for any corruption in the Ministry of Defence to continue. Has this interim report reached at least one of the tasks that we set out at the beginning of the commission’s work? Of course not. We're saying that today the distribution of accommodations takes place in a opaque way, the purchases are made at higher prices, and the transfer to the cash payments of military personnel so that they can buy for themselves and the truth, because this story would allow people in different positions in different positions in different cities to receive the same amount, because the service is the same in Lviv and Kiev and in Geneva, and in, I don't know, anywhere nearer the east has an officer, for example, a brigade commander getting the same amount for the purchase of housing, for example, 600,000. We're saying that wages in general need to be differentiated in some way according to what we are at war with Russia. And the greatest salary in the state is to be paid by the commander of the brigade, who is in the zone of operations of the United Nations. Instead, we get all the salaries of big officials and the Crucifixion in other organs. Why can't we make 14 even though thousands of bracelets for a first-year military contractor seems strange. Instead, we find opportunities to fill the presidential funds. Last thing I want to say. We should thank those military personnel who are now in the execution zone.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-07-m0.u135	Fifteen seconds to complete, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-07-m0.u136	Thank you, Madam Chairman. To thank them for their military service. Thank those boys who will take their place tomorrow. And thank the operational reserve that is now undergoing training, training, and congregations. And, God, give us all the strength and opportunity to win this war. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-07-m0.u137	Thank you for the talk. And, please, the following is asked by the national MP, Linko Dmitry, to the floor. Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-07-m0.u138	Dmitry Linko, Oleg Lachka Radical Party. Yesterday, Ukraine celebrated the Day of the Defender of Ukraine, the Day of the Armed Forces, with which our entire Radical Party team welcomes our military, veterans, all those who defend and protect our Ukraine. Recently, the Ministry of Veterans Affairs, a necessary ministry, was created. But we realize that, no matter how many new government bodies we create, administrative positions, they won't be effective if the state doesn't allocate funds to effective programs to protect military personnel, protect veterans. I was just getting some help. 44 Bills have been drafted in the authorship or co-authorship of deputies from the Radical Party of Oleg Láska for the protection of military personnel. It's during all our work over the years. Many of them are accepted. But a large number have never been considered by the Supreme Council, unfortunately, and they are called upon to solve the most painful problems of our veterans and military personnel. Yesterday, in particular, a large number of veterans came to the Ministry of Social Policy, rallied because of the problem of military displaced people who had to leave their homes in Crimea, in Donbassa, and went to protect our Ukraine. They cannot return to these territories today because they are likely to be detained there. So this year's housing program for these military personnel was projected at 470 million dollars, 25 million dollars out of them, and the units were able to get real housing. Similarly, for all the other veterans waiting in line for housing, military officials who have been waiting for housing for years. Unfortunately, these programs are not working in Ukraine today, and there is no funding available. Instead, billions are being allocated for the purchase of foreign helicopters, and billions have been allocated yesterday to officials and everything else. For people who protect our country, there is no money. The president recently stated that if there was a ground operation or aggression by the Russian Federation, they would immediately raise the salaries of our military personnel. The salaries of military personnel need to be raised to aggression in order to protect them, not when Russian tanks are going to go to Krestatika, then we will raise the salaries of military personnel and motivate them to join the army. Today, soldiers who want to leave, or citizens, men who want to join the army, should know that their families will be protected tomorrow, that their families will know what to pay for the cost of space gas, and how their family will live while they are serving in the OOS zone. So we demand that we put in place a strategy to support the military, so that the newly created Ministry of Veterans has real tools, what to do, not just in words, not just plans to take care of military personnel, but real money for salaries, to build new housing, to provide the children of military personnel with normal food, normal education, normal education.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-07-m0.u139	Thank you for the talk. And I would like to invite Mrs. Hanna Hopko's national deputy. Welcome, dear colleague, to your word.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-07-m0.u140	Dear Ukrainians, today, December 7, Local Self - Rule Day. I mean, decentralization is the administrative decommunization of Ukraine. In fact, by liberating Ukraine from the pressure of totalitarian propaganda, we are helping Ukrainians to become free and worthy people again, and decentralization is the elimination of the old totalitarian system of governance created by an even larger regime so that people will never become free. The whole development of local self - government in Ukraine for the first two decades was essentially about cosmetic changes in this Soviet system. The Dignity Revolution has given impetus to the formation of real self - government, budgetary decentralization, unified community legislation, the transfer of key powers and financial resources to communities has become one of the most important reforms that have taken place over the past four years. More than 800 united territorial communities have been established in Ukraine, covering nearly 30 percent of the territory. But one of the big problems is the inequality of decentralization. We still have to make changes so that by 2020, when the local elections take place, we pay off all the debts and actually 100 percent of the territory of Ukraine is already under. Covered by capable communities, as well as reforming local self-government at district level. And one of our tasks is how. whether the cost and responsibility of the community are used effectively. To that end, we passed the Law on Name Voting on Local Councils. There is also the Law on the Disclosure of Registers and State Finance. It's also the call of citizens to control how their money is used. We also appealed to the CLTC to avoid any kind of treatment of legislation and no blocking of the OTG elections. So today, I would like to welcome all those who have taken this bold step and have created a united territorial community, to call upon those heads of government who are stopping, especially in Zakarpata, to fight this reform in secret, and to make it possible for people to unite. Another important question is that January 22 will be 100 years old from the Day of the Zluka Act, when the Great Ukraine and Galicina were first united in the Ukrainian State since the time of the Kyiv Russia. This is one of the key landmark dates of the Ukrainian Revolution of 1917-1921. And I would like to call on the government, the President, all of us, to celebrate the 100th anniversary of the Assembly at a worthy state level, because it's important in terms of memory, it's important in terms of the fact that we need to update the national unity and international subjectivity of Ukraine. The 100 years of the Ukrainian Assembly are to become a state-wide celebration with the invitation of heads of state, foreign governments, especially the Baltic, Georgia, Finland, to dominate this topic in the media. So we need to prepare properly. Let's see how Estonia, Latvia, Lithuania, Poland, Georgia celebrated 100 years of independence. So I encourage the government and the President to spend January 22 at a worthy level, not as they were 100 years of independence. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-07-m0.u141	Thank you. We agree with the relevance of the theses spoken by you, Your Honor, Mrs. Hanna. And we invite our colleague Michael Papiev to the floor. Please, colleague.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-07-m0.u142	Thank you. Honorable National Deputies of Ukraine, Your Honor! Once again, we have a Friday, a deserted Hall of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, and it would seem that we can talk today about Ukrainian national deputies, discipline in factions. By the way, the Radical Party faction is now practically in full stock, which I welcome. And I would like other factions, not just the Opposition Block, to be in full stock. But let's look at this problem from the other side. Dear colleagues, don't you think that under the terms of the parliamentary-presidential republic today, the authority of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is at such a level that there is no incentive in the national deputies of Ukraine to come to the Supreme Council of Ukraine and have a discussion here, to raise the issues and urgent needs that today relate to people, tariffs, salaries, pensions? So let's look at this more broadly. And has not the Presidency of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine today, brought our Supreme Council and the status of the Ukrainian National Deputy to that level? Let's take a look at that coalition agreement that was made in 2014 and follow through. What are some of the points that have been made? Where is the Ukrainian Law on Special and Temporary Commissions of Inquiry? Where are many other laws of Ukraine? And in general, what are the issues currently being implemented and resolved by the Supreme Council of Ukraine, besides the "good-laws" of the kind of state budget of Ukraine, which today is completely antisocial? Questions and problems are now the price of gas for the population. A decree has already been made by the Ukrainian National Deputies, the leaders of virtually every faction of the decree to recognize Decree 867 of the Ministers of Ukraine, which must be annulled. There can't be an eight-and-a-half-thousand dollar gas price today, it has to be at least half the price. Where does this money go today? The profit of Naftogazu last year was 40 billion dollars, and next year it would be 90 billion dollars. Question: Who is it? On account of our citizens who are underpaid, wages are underpaid and three are skinned today. For someone to have a good life and someone to count their mother’s bonus with millions of dollars. But the question is different. I listened to an hour of questions to the government today. What a government, and what a country. Give me at least one question that they have answered. Give me a name. At least a question at the price of gas. According to Suprun, what is the answer? None. That's why I would very much like to have a discussion here in the hall so that we can talk about the status of Ukrainian national deputies and the position of the Supreme Council of Ukraine in the system.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-07-m0.u143	15 seconds. Thanks for the show. And he is invited to the floor by the national deputy, Jemetz Leonid. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-07-m0.u144	Leonid Yemen, People's Front faction, city of Kiev. Respectable Ukrainian citizens! I am also, on behalf of you and the Supreme Council, a representative of the Ukrainian Parliament at the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe. And literally recently, during a meeting of the Migration Committee, he was able to communicate with his colleagues from other countries' parliaments about the situation in Az, about the situation in our country. We started collecting signatures to make the issue of Russian aggression and the situation in Azow a matter of debate for the next session of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe. And, you know, there's one question that our international partners are asking us as representatives of Ukraine: how is it possible that you continue to operate a visa-free regime with an aggressor country when you enter into a state of war? How is it possible that war and war with Russia are and their citizens have the opportunity to move uncontrollably across the Ukrainian border? How is it possible that Ukraine does not control Russian citizens, their purpose in our country, their duration, their plans for their stay, and that at a time when we are officially in a state of war? You realize that this is not just a matter of diplomacy, because it's a very logical question. The visa regime with Russia is a matter of our national security and defense. The visa regime in times of war is a question that should be solved by the apriors. The visa regime at a time when the state of war is officially in place would be a priority issue for the Ukrainian authorities to decide. The Ukrainian Parliament has no authority to introduce or revoke a visa or visa-free regime with any country, this is a question of the executive branch of power. But the Ukrainian Parliament has a constant emphasis on this issue. And today, from this high rostrum as a representative of our faction, as a representative of the diplomatic corps, which is constantly in dialogue with our international partners, I demand that the Ukrainian authorities abolish the visa-free regime with the aggressor country and introduce visas with Russia. And this is a priority issue of national security, a matter of national defence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-07-m0.u145	Thank you. People’s MP Igor Mosiychuk is invited to attend. Please, Mr. Igor.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-07-m0.u146	Igor Mosiyczuk, Oleg Lachka Radical Party Faith, language, the army are things that are the foundation of Ukrainian statehood that cannot be the subject of political debate or political pyari. On the tenth day in the country there is a state of war. Perhaps one of the Ukrainian citizens, Ukrainians, colleagues present in the hall noticed some of the instruments that President Peter Poroshenko has been working to protect the country from external aggression in the context of the state of war? No, it's not. And this confirms the absolute correctness of our leader, Oleg Lášk, that the state of war, Peter Prášenko, was necessary exclusively for one -- to protect his presidency, in order to postpone the election on March 31st. What is happening instead? Of all the washbasins, the President's subordinate administrations: websites, channels -- are flooded by Oleg Lashko and our team of the Radical Party. The label is hanging, different names are attached, and so on. Why is that? Because President Poroshenko sees the only alternative for himself in Oleg Lachko and is most afraid of him in the presidential election. And this is demonstrated by the latest presidential ratings. Why is he afraid? Because the policy of Dusty is the policy of destroying the Ukrainian industry. And Lalashka's politics is a revival of Ukrainian industry, agriculture. Because the powder policy is Ukraine's external dependence. And Lalashka's politics is a self-sufficient, consummate Ukrainian state, independent of Washington, Moscow, and Brussels. Because powder policy is the sale of Ukrainian land. And Laszka's policy is a wealthy Ukrainian peasant, a farmer. Because the powder policy is 10 million Ukrainians thrown away abroad. And Lalashka's politics is the return of Ukrainians, it's a job in Ukraine, it's a decent salary and wealth in every Ukrainian family. That is why on March 31, Ukraine will make a choice: either Bad President Poshenko, or Oleg Lazko, who will bring order to the country, will give the Ukrainians a job and a decent salary.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-07-m0.u147	Please make the next statement. People's deputy of Semimenah, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-07-m0.u148	Semenha Roman, "The Self-Help Union" faction. Dear colleagues, dear lady presiding, dear Ukrainians! My goal today is to draw the whole country's attention to the terrible problem that has occurred today with thousands of small entrepreneurs in the city of Kharkiv, at the Barabasho Market Trade Center, where, in fact, when people are being prevented from doing entrepreneurial work today, they are being adopted by law enforcement authorities when people are being banned from their property. Today, the Barbarashovo market is about 100,000 buyers a day, 18,000 trading venues and more than 50,000 small entrepreneurs, each with a state hired worker. The market that's been working in Kharkiv since the year 95. And the problem today is number one, the source of the problem is the legalization of the land of this market. In the 1990s, this market was a rescue for a large number of Kharkivs, when factories were actually stopped, closed down, many large businesses in the Soviet Union did not pay wages, and then markets, including the Barabbasovo market, became probably one of the few rescue routes for people to survive and earn their wages. Throughout this period, entrepreneurs have been building construction sites with their own money, which is now their property. It is precisely for reasons of undetermined legal status that still do not belong to them, and this situation has been going on for the second decade. Over the course of 20 years, a number of broker companies have changed and promised entrepreneurs to issue law-making documents, but were actually chosen. The land, in turn, was distributed between the main governing company and the city’s authorities. Result: Entrepreneurs are placed in conditions where they have to use firms that operate in the area of lawlessness, demand bribes for extension of leases, and subscriptions require years to go until 2021, and for those who refuse, force is used, take away the premises and goods. These people again today, their representatives, have come to the Supreme Council, already several times to come here, because they cannot find the truth today in the city of Kharkiv either in law enforcement or in the city council. Today they have come to us, the national deputies of Ukraine, to see the level of the problem and be able to help them. Because the state has to protect those who create GDP, the support of entrepreneurs is the guarantee of new jobs and the preservation of property. Therefore, the problem of the Barbarashovo market, my colleague, must be resolved immediately, the land must be formed and trade legalized. The city authorities of Kharkiv are obliged to find a way to legalize property built by entrepreneurs at their own expense and to enable them to work legally, not in the shadows. What's more, business itself says today that they are willing to work "in white," pay taxes in the city of Harkow, in the community of Harkow and they are obliged to give them the right to do so. I also appeal from this rostrum to Arsen Habakkuk's Minister of Internal Affairs to respond immediately to the numerous criminal conducts that are unfortunately blocking and stopping the Kharkiv District Office of the National Police. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-07-m0.u149	Thank you, Your Honor. And I'd like to invite Mrs. Valeria Zarzorgko's national deputy, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-07-m0.u150	Valeria Zarzko, faction of the Radical Party of Oleg Lašek. Dear Ukrainians, today is exactly the year I am in the Supreme Council. I'm proud to have worked on the team this whole year, the Iron Team of Oleg Lášk's Radical Party. Because the Radical Party faction is not only a pattern of discipline, it is also a pattern of a consistent state position that we demonstrate every day in defence and security, economic growth. We have proposed an industrial reform package, an innovative package of reforms aimed at supporting a domestic producer based on the Ukrainian Buy, Pays to Ukrainians Bill, which is based on the promotion of small and medium-sized business by reducing tax pressure and losing credit, which is based on the creation of industrial parks, the creation of an export credit agency for the effective promotion of Ukrainian goods around the world. We are demonstrating the state’s position on health issues. We've offered the "Available Drugs" program. And this year, in the 2019 budget, we were able to increase this program to 2 billion dollars and expand the list of medicines that will be able to get Ukraine through this program, and we've added oncology medicines there. But the main goal of our team is to restore justice and improve living standards for every Ukrainian citizen. That's why we're fighting for higher wages for pensions, and lower tariffs, which have been unduly raised today by the authorities, including lower tariffs for gas. We fight for affordable medical care and good medicine. We are fighting for a modern, quality and affordable education for small Ukrainians. I'm proud that our team is working for the result. As a result of our struggle, Ukrainian metallurgy has today’s available raw material. We have paid off the debt on wages in front of Ukrainian miners, especially the employees of the State Company Selidowogil. We have had the opportunity to realize our right to treatment abroad at a budget cost and much more. We have done much and will do much more. And today I want to thank the millions of Ukrainians who support us and believe in us. And I want to assure you that together we will change the country for the better. Vote for Oleg Lalach and his team! Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-07-m0.u151	Please welcome Victor Krivenko. He will have six minutes because he is given the right to speak by his colleague Mrs. Hopko and also Mrs. Corchinska. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-07-m0.u152	Victor Krivenko, National Movement of Ukraine. Dear colleagues, today we saw an hour of questions to the government. Unfortunately, there are no answers from the Prime Minister again. Unfortunately, I was unable to sign up and have the opportunity to ask. But before that, I had the opportunity to ask. I asked how in that year a billion two hundred received one large agro-compensation company, and others did not. And I asked him to make sure it wasn't in this 18th year. That was six months ago. What is the result? 800 million dollars gets the same company, and the little ones get nothing again. And even small companies don't use money, because you can't take anything from small ones, you can't take any bribes from 3 million, 5, 10 million, and you can make deals with big ones. We see a disgraceful situation when it's crossing the boundaries of decency. The whole country's been suspended in wartime by the Groysman government. It's not the government of Ukraine, is it the government of Groysman? In normal countries, the government is always called Prime Minister after the government has resigned, not during its actions. And it's cynical that for budget money, this social ad is being posted. There's a reform of medicine, there's roads, that's not Parliament's choice of government, there's a mandate to work, it's not Parliament's approval of the budget with expenses on roads and medicine, and all the rest of the projects. No, all over Ukraine, we've got the Groysman government hanging out. No one plans to stop privatization during a state of war. What honest international investor will come to a contest in such a situation? But they simply cannot afford to come and buy something in the country when such things happen. What can be the price? I demand the Cabinet of Ministers, from the Prime Minister to stop privatization at the moment of the state of war, even in part of our territories. Centrenerego is valued at the starting price of 6 billion dollars. Then there'll be an auction, she'll be up. Everyone understands how they say it's really undervalued. Experts estimate the price of 40 billion dollars. I demand to stop Centrenerego's privatisation because if it's not stopped, it will mean that the state of war wants to hide the government for sale. And it can be bought exclusively by Ukrainian opaque structures, or structures with Russian roots, with Russian capitals. Yesterday's situation, it's just me. You know, I already thought we'd reached the bottom of the moral-ethical issues to the government, but again down there, we knocked: accidentally, the head of the DFS sold wasn't enough of a bracelet. The Ukrainian People's Movement is a poor party, we don't have a fund-raiser, but we're kind of picking up if we need to help the government, so we can get enough bracelets. We've greatly increased the funding of the IMF, and we don't have enough bracelets. We understand that this is a threat to national security -- such a mistrust in the country from the Ukrainians. They look at power and are troubled, and they are torn apart from the fact that you are not ashamed to lie so much. How can you think of us as idiots and tell us that we can really believe it? I am. We're not the court, the court found guilty, Mr. Prodan, not guilty. We think they're huge questions. Forest smuggling, which is coordinated by law enforcement authorities and the DFS. We also see the situation on VAT. We're looking at a lot of problems, and they've actually created a situation with Europlums. If the customs office hadn't closed its eyes, it wouldn't have happened. And so when the Prime Minister, after his resignation, after the arrest of the previous tax director, actually led the DFS, tax and customs, you saw how, when Finance Minister Daniluk tried to enter into some conflict, he tried to introduce the reform of the DFS, how the government immediately began to subordinate itself, even taking the decision, but then our Western partners said that you were crazy, directly from the government to manage the fiscal service? And they didn't promise the same thing before they took out the tax police, so they said to me there today, "Don't come forward, because now it's gonna start with you, and it's gonna start with the whole party, and it's gonna start with the crime scene." Nothing, the National Movement of Ukraine has ever experienced such a thing. And we know exactly what to do with power. We know exactly where to lead the country, how to put order in the economy. And we don't just have the slogan that in a year there's going to be 500 euros of pay, we have specific areas, concrete steps. We know how to win a war, how to give people arms, what restrictions, what is a battalion of territorial defense, what is a high-precision weapon, what is a high-precision goal, what is an international alliance, and what we need to do on the collision line, and how we need to strengthen the economy so that people want to live in Ukraine. As from East Germany through the fence they moved to West Germany because there was freedom, there was truth, there was life. So we have to have life in the entrepreneurial sphere and in the cultural sphere. We know how to save Ukraine. What about the people of Ukraine? Is this just a good-natured area where goats clean up pretty well and no flies? So you can find this area anywhere where you can find it. Ukraine is our story, our culture, our sense and our desire to be Ukrainian. And that's why we're already supporting and increasing funding and cultures and theater and songs and training patriotically and all.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-07-m0.u153	15 seconds, 15 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-07-m0.u154	15? Is the trade not appropriate?
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-07-m0.u155	Look, we're not at the market, we're at the Supreme Council of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-07-m0.u156	Okay, not at the market. And you and I are on the verge of another great victory in David's war with Goliath, Ukraine and Russia. On December 15, we will complete the formation of our church. And in those wars.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-07-m0.u157	You have 3 minutes. And then you don't take them, these three minutes. All right, 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-07-m0.u158	Thank you. You know that Ukraine is at war with Russia on military, economic, geopolitical, spiritual, meaningful fronts and on all these fronts we have the answer to win. The answer is, the next victory should be December 15th. We pray, we believe Ukraine will win! Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-07-m0.u159	Thank you. And please let our distinguished colleague Michael Bondar be invited to the floor. Nevertheless, I ask everyone to abide by the Rules. So that all who are in our letter of address may have the right to speak. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-07-m0.u160	Thank you. Bondar Mikhailo, 119th constituency, Brodovščina, Bushina, Kamenecina and Radehovščina. I also want to welcome my brothers to yesterday's Armed Forces Day of Ukraine. To thank them for their hard work, their sacrifices. And I also want to welcome the local authorities with their present day. That's the subject I want to speak on today. A lot is actually happening in my district on the 119th. There's a lot of material written, there's a lot of remodeling, there's schools, there's gardens, there's homes, there's a lot of work done in that plan. And I am very grateful to my colleagues that yesterday, for example, I voted for the transitional costs of the socioconomy. This will enable us to address issues of this construction that are, for example, incomplete. But I also want to look at Mingeonboud and Minfin to settle issues with the State Regional Development Fund, because there's also a lot of work done, but with the tender going on, it's certain that ProZorro's system isn't fully fully adjusted, that it's those companies that don't really plan to build it, and somewhere else they want to invite others and make an appropriate profit. Therefore, when they do not tender, when they do not win the right object, they submit their claims to the Antimonopoly Committee, which is why the beginning of construction on such objects is prolonged. So 2-3 times a tender, 2-3 times a transparent eye, just all the steps, and they don't start construction in time. So the last time I was in the district, I was approached by the heads of local self-government to make the State Fund for Regional Development transitional, as was the case with the socioconomy. I'll even give you examples in the Bouquet region: the work started, for example, in the Red (this hospital) or in Bousk itself (this is a large pool for reconstruction). And if these costs aren't temporary, we're just not going to be able to complete this construction. So once again, I'm going to Minregionbud and Minfin so that there's still a week left to draft this bill and vote. To our colleagues so we can vote for him. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-07-m0.u161	Thank you, Your Honor. And Igor Shurma is invited to the floor. Mr. Igor, please show us some high-tech sports. Thank you. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-07-m0.u162	Igor Shurma, Opposition Block. Dear Ukrainian citizens, there's a "black Friday" in the sale of goods, and there's a "black Friday" at 2 p.m. when there's practically no one in the hall. I want to tell you a story today that relates to callousness and impunity. You know, we're all born to die. It is a hard truth, but it is the truth. At times, people may die alone, at times because of coincidences. But it's very hard to look at things when people die because of heartlessness, you know, that kind of hardness. I'm going to give you one example, because emotions are probably going to go away. A number of national deputies were approached by a resident of the Drogobic region of Lviv, and various deputies were involved in the problem of an incurable disease. He was a student at Johno-Frankow Medical University, a medical doctor who wanted to become a medical doctor, he got very sick, he started to be treated, he was badly treated in various institutions: neurosurgery in Lviv, the Institute of Gromasevsky in Kiev, at the military hospital in Kiev. It was heavy. And it is not excluded that the Lord would take him both in such a way and in such a way. But each one of us had to do what he could. They found experts who could treat them in Berlin. And we started talking. First of all, to whom we have addressed the Ministry of Health with a simple request: "Please consider the possibility of organizing this assistance on your part, on the part of the Ministry." Mrs. Suprun said very well that she respects our interest and so on, and so forth, they are grateful for the concern about the matter. In view of the fact that the National Hospital, where it has been treated for the last months, belongs to the Ministry of Defence, "we send your request for further development there and you will be informed." They're not looking for a person, they're not looking for the possibility of including him in the queue. The use of funds for treatment abroad and the use of the Ministry of Defence. And the Mini-Defense is even better. Mine defense is responding. Papers are more than just meaning. "We report that such a citizen under Ukrainian legislation does not have the right to use free health facilities in the Ministry of Defence. He was on a standstill on contractual terms. " Is it written that a person has no right to health care? Is it written that they have the right to provide payment services? And the last reference is, "Thank you. I'm sorry, but unfortunately the boy died." I'm addressing Groisman, Prime Minister of Ukraine. You used a good phrase today: "I'm going to burn them" (for Naftogazu). I'm asking you to kill the Ministry of Health for hardness and callousness, and for their responsibility for the death of this child. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-07-m0.u163	Please give the next speech, National MP Ivan Sporish. He is given the right to speak by his colleague, National Deputy Sverk. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-07-m0.u164	Madam Chairman, the distinguished national deputies who have remained in the hall! Of course, it will not be unnecessary to welcome our Armed Forces of Ukraine again today. And it won't be unnecessary today to welcome our self - government day. You know, as a national deputy from five districts in Winnitzkin, I'm very pleased that they did put me up as a national deputy and you have to serve them. And they should serve their people, they should, our self - government, do everything in the villages to make people live better. Local self - government would be particularly desirable if local farmers were to work with them. Why? Because they add to each other. And we know very well that today the prices for farmed agricultural produce are quite low for farmers. Today, farmers are unable to deliver this product. I'm not talking about big holdings, I'm talking about small farms that work in the village today, for simple farmers that the Cabinet of Ministers, the Ministry of Economics, have to do everything they can to make this product as fast as possible and at higher prices to give to the farmer. I wanted to turn from this rostrum very much today because we entered the winter and the spring would come. And the spring will come, and these roads, which are repaired, unfortunately, by "The Stork" they can just come down again with the snow. And I think I'm going to say it again today, I've done it again and again from this rostrum, and I'm going back to the "Stood" again. In the spring, the road to Odessa, to Chisinau, will come on the Winniech of the Tomaspil region of limestone, High-Križopil. I'll tell you, these molds are already coming back from this road, they don't want to drive it, even though it's a Republican road. Please put it in the capital master plan. Enter, because soon we, I understand perfectly, the roads that are going between the district centers are ideal today or going to completion. But at the same time, this road is enough and quite necessary. And I'm asking that by 2019 this road could be introduced. I wanted to say a few words because there was a lot of talk about gas tariffs. I'm particularly interested in low-income gas, people of retirement age. And especially when I heard from this hall, I called into the villages and asked what the subsidy was for today. I'm going to tell you that mostly in the village, they consume up to 400 meters of cubic. For example, 364 meters [364 m] of Cuban pensioners pay 505 dollars, 344 to 392 bracelets, and 303 meters [303 m] of Cuban pensioners pay 450 dollars. I am.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-07-m0.u165	15 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-07-m0.u166	We have to protect our pensioners. We must protect the rural population. We have to because they have enough small pensions. But at the same time, subsidies have to work, they work for them. But it's our, it's our, it's our -- it's our -- it's our -- it's our -- it's our --
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-07-m0.u167	We thank you very much for your very constructive presentation, dear colleague Mr. Sporish. And we invite you to the words of Mr. Kisse's national deputy. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-07-m0.u168	Dear colleagues, the honorable elections! Anton Kisse, 142nd constituency, Clothing. I've already addressed the Prime Minister of Ukraine here today, I've been to the Minister, I've been to the Kravutodore, and I want to make proposals again. I very much ask the presiding officer to enter my proposals as a parliamentary request for these questions to continue their decision in 2019. First. Continue funding for 2019 by the KP road, checkpoint, Serpneve-Tarutine-Arciz-Saratov, is Odščina. This year work began on Tarutine-Arciz. We realize it's winter, but in 2019 it's time to set aside the funds and continue this road so that three district centers, the population of 140,000 residents, can come from the district centers, from the district hospitals when needed, to the district center of Odessa. That's the first one. The other one. The money for financing the road, the checkpoint, is the border with Moldova, KP New Trojans, Gardens, Cuba, Bolgrad. I note that it has already been completed, at the expense of urban funds, project and cost documentation and in 2019 it is absolutely necessary to make a financing decision. If we look at the road on the side of Moldova, all we have to do is take the example and implement it here in Ukraine. Question three. I didn't get the full answer from the Cabinet of Ministers, I'm asking you to ask that question. The Crucified Railways are to be made immediately by the TEO, a technical-economic justification, along with the Moldovan Railway along the Arciz-Bérezine-Basarabiasca railway (Moldova) - Bolgrad-Rani railway. It's a strategically important question. It's been a year since TEO. I don't think it's going to take too much money, it just takes initiative and desire. And the fourth question, which is strategically important. There has been no water in Bessarabia for 200 years. In recent years there has been an opportunity to fill up quality drinking water. This calls for the Cabinet of Ministers.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-07-m0.u169	15 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-07-m0.u170	continue to allocate funds for water supply in the southern regions of the Odessa region. It is the city of Bolgrad, the region of Balgrad, the district of Kili, the region of Arcisia, the area of Ishmael, and the district of Tatarbunar.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-07-m0.u171	Thank you. I'd like you to make a presentation by the People's Deputy Kisse as a matter of fact. And I invite you to speak to my colleague Jehor Sobolev, please, Mr. Yegor. I emphasize that we're working straight to the second, and we've got a couple of speakers left. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-07-m0.u172	I want to address all the people who think that Ukraine is them, and which, under any circumstances, under any circumstances, under any injustices, continue to establish this country anyway. These are people who fight for squares and parks for the environment. They are people who fight against the tax evasion of the whole country, the land of communities, the land of the state and society as a whole. It is, of course, the people who fight against the waywards, against the repressions, against the efforts to trample on the likes of them. We really want to protect you. We very much want to stop the great wave of repression, attacks, assassinations, which, unfortunately, we now have on the side of that Ukraine, which is for corruption, which is for "Russian peace", which is for saviour. We want to protect you, not after the attacks, as often happens, but before nothing happens to you at all. We can't do this in place of the Attorney General or instead of the Minister of Internal Affairs -- they're their direct responsibilities with which they can't handle it, and so I suggest you release them, you know that. But together we can make another more effective, more important decision. Let us warn each other of the danger in advance. I ask all who are doing a good job in the interests of their community or society to inform us if you feel a danger to yourself because of this matter. We're going to bring you into a special open list of people who need to protect society. We will pay attention to the police, the local community, the media, which is such a problem and that you need it. And, of course, if, God forbid, there will be illegal actions against you, we will come to your aid first with journalists, along with lawyers who are willing to defend you. Potential attackers, potential criminals need to know that you're not alone, they need to know that there are hundreds of thousands of people who are ready to come for you. We call this collective security system "Protection," and we ask that we don't let anything happen to anyone but good happen to us.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-07-m0.u173	Thank you. Please welcome the People’s Deputy Moses. We still have the speech of the national deputy Golovka and Mrs Ostrickova. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-07-m0.u174	Good afternoon, distinguished national MPs, distinguished Ukrainian people! Oleg Musei, 124th constituency, Sokalstina, Red City, National Control Political Party. First of all, I would like to welcome, of course, our defenders, who celebrated their professional festival yesterday, those who allow us to work in the Ukrainian Parliament and live peacefully in the unoccupied territories of our Ukrainians. A low bow and a big thank-you! And I would also like to welcome, today is the Day of Local Self-Government, our people who are doing their jobs in very difficult economic conditions, each in their own small region, and despite decentralization, a lot of complexity and misunderstanding, non-taxation, and the giving of authority is done with help. Thanks to the wrong position of the government, but I welcome you with a professional holiday, and I sincerely believe that the new Ukrainian authority that will come after this assembly of parliament and with the new President will necessarily end up in Ukrainian, correct, and local self - government decentralization. I also want to say hello. Today, you probably don't know everyone, Catherine's. So all Catherine would like to welcome their names. Most importantly, a greeting to say: Today, 75 years of my mother’s birthday is celebrated by my mother. Mother, I greet you with a holiday of 75 years! For God's sake, you've had years to live! I love you so much! Now I want to move on to a very important question, from my point of view, which my electorate is speaking to when I'm in the district, it's this affair that started with the cooperation of one of the Donkey oligarchs with Arsenius Yatsenuk and the People's Front. You know there's a gas problem. And today a lot of questions to the Prime Minister were about the monopoly of gas companies and gas suppliers of these gas outlets that are robbing our population, like July, along with the government, of rising gas prices. So here's another affair that's going on, and it turns out in those people who don't have hot water, they have a different consumption rate that's greater than two cabinet decisions 237 over 29.04. 15th and 203th of March 23rd of 16th. Please also, when this group is created to review relations with Naftogaz and gas companies, I must be involved with relevant materials. And immediately eliminate the discriminatory norm, especially for those with installed electric water heaters. In fact, they pay twice.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-07-m0.u175	15 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-07-m0.u176	For the untapped services. So I think it needs an immediate settlement, and I sincerely believe that you, Volodymyr Borisovich, will correct this situation. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-07-m0.u177	Thank you. People’s MP Mikhailo Golko is invited to attend.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-07-m0.u178	Mikhailo Golovko, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union, 164 constituency, Ternopolishte. Dear colleagues, distinguished voters! I asked Prime Minister Vladimir Borisovich Groissman today, and I wanted to ask him how he would like to put his last name in history, into history. I didn't get the answer. I realized that the strategy remains the same as for previous governments, he doesn't want to go into history, he just wants to get into it. As the previous governments of corrupters who have done nothing, they have only plundered our country on a large scale. And what did we see? We've seen the complete inability of today's authorities to make a difference, and they quietly observe NAC Naftogaz plundering Ukrainian society, looting their pockets, transferring billions of dollars into their relatives' accounts abroad. At the same time, when the gas is $60, they sell 8,000 500 dollars to the population and 15,000 dollars to the industry. This is, of course, the destruction of our state, of our economy. They're silent today as they see the Holding Foundation and the head of its Trubarov (mostly a separatist) making a total sale for priceless strategic enterprises, such as Centrenergo, such as the Odessaport factory, such as Suinenergo, oblenergo, Odesaoblenergo and so on. The estimate of them is ten times too low on self - worth. Recently, literally in the daytime, in Chernigov was sold a Northian combination, 25 percent of which was valued at over 2 million, for (think about the figure!) Thirty-eight thousand dollars, practically a penny. Such a total robbery is in areas where the state of war has been imposed. And what I'm saying is that it was in Santa on Monday that the auction took place. They sold an enterprise, a strategic enterprise for our state, the Ocean, a ship repair plant that's estimated at over 6 billion, for a sum, think about it! - 120 million dollars. Do you know who they sold to? It's the Russian Federation that's close to them. The auction was conducted by a man, the daughter of the Deputy Armed Forces of the LNR, a terrorist organization. Where's the D.A., where's the government? Why Groissman can't see it, why he can't see what's happening in our country today, which is really destroying our country, is being undermined that Russian capital and business are choking, destroying strategic enterprises. As the oil industry in its time, chemical industries, metallurgy, and shipbuilding, of course, are now being destroyed. Of course, as a freeman with my colleagues, I've turned to this authority over and over and over again: let's impose sanctions, let's introduce sanctions against the Russian business. We're initiating this process, we encourage you to support, to submit lists of all the businessmen, bankers, Russian capital, their oligarchs that are today. Grigorysin and others, Babakova, Deripasks, who now control capital in our country, who are buying up strategic enterprises that are destroying them. Here we have to fight, this is going to be sanctions, this is going to be a real state of war against the aggressor and the enemy.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-07-m0.u179	Thank you, Sir Michael. And the last performance. Today, we will conclude our traditional Friday debates, Mrs. Ostrikova. Aunt Ostrikov, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-07-m0.u180	Thank you. Good afternoon, dear colleagues, dear Ukrainians. I want to tell you today about the customs situation, namely the customs administration of used vehicles on foreign registration. By 9 a.m., only 682 cars had been formed to pay 46 million dollars of customs fees to the budget. But what is really going on? In almost all cases of customs clearance, the customs office of departure increases the customs value based on the SCHWAKE.net electronic catalogue . It's really a European electronic reference directory that contains a variety of information about the number of car owners, about running, about average customs values, about the state of the car, and so on. But does our Customs Code oblige the tax collector to raise the customs value according to the catalogue? No, it's not there. Our Customs Code obliges the customs to form a means of transport at the price indicated in the relevant documents: the invasion, the contract of sale, the documents of payment of the goods and so on. And only if these documents contain unreliable information or if they give rise to certain doubts and discrepancies can customs actually raise the customs value. When we are with you, when Parliament passed a law on the reduction of excise taxes entirely for all Ukrainian citizens, including those who are going abroad today, we went out with you for the main purpose of sweeping these cars and putting them on the Ukrainian bill. Instead, what's going on in the DFS today? There is a complete sabotage of the implementation of this law when the purpose of the law is distorted and when the DFS and the Prime Minister say that the purpose of adopting the law and clearing these means of transport on foreign registration is to fill the budget, patch up those holes of the budget that are today. It's a completely distorted reality that has nothing to do with the law that we approved. So I call on the State Fiscal Service, the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, not to sabotage the law, because as those people who went to do it today, they don't have to skin three of them. If there is no reliable information in their documents, the customs value they give should be accepted. Otherwise, during the remaining 90 - day period, unless all means of transport are cleared, the Supreme Council will then have to ask questions about either the review of the law or the extension of the debt period. Or let all of the owners of the cars to whom the DFS hinders, raising their customs costs, drive under the DFS, go to the performing duty of deputy on customs matters, and go to the Prime Minister's house. Because it's nothing more than a sabotage to enforce the law of blurry.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-07-m0.u181	Thank you very much, dear colleague. Dear colleagues, there are only a few minutes left before our work is finished. Let me also take a few words as part of the speech to make the following statement, which is the second women's congress in Ukraine on December 7-8. We wait literally in a few minutes for high guests: President of Ukraine Prashenko and Mrs. President of Lithuania, Dahl Gribauskate. The key thesis of a congress that brought together women politicians from both Kiev and various regions of Ukraine, women who represent Ukraine and who work today in the Ukrainian army, in other areas and in the direction of social and political life are the following. First. Ukrainian women have done much to preserve Ukraine’s territorial integrity and sovereignty. At the same time, the role of women in peace processes is not yet appreciated by society and power, including parliament. Today, in the Ukrainian army, 25,000 women are already in service on a contract basis with men. Of these, 3,000 are only officers. In fact, we have to overcome stereotypes, sexism, gender discrimination, and the power structures, but also in the walls of Parliament. Anyone who allows himself to be humiliated by a woman should understand that this is a violation of himself and his political career. And actually, the goal of the IFF is to overcome stereotypes, to fight sexism and to combat intolerance and gender inequality. And it is important that, among those performances by our high guests, representing the United States, the European Union, the European Union, all the high guests stressed the support of Ukrainian women in peacemaking processes, the need to increase this role, the key – support for Ukraine's territorial integrity and sovereignty, and solidarity with Ukrainian prisoners of war and sailors, and their families, whose liberation we demand. Thank you for this opportunity, too, to address the debates in the Supreme Council of Ukraine, and to testify that we continue to be parliamentary deputies and men who join the IFF "Equal Opportunities" we will uphold the principles of equality, mutual respect and do everything we can to increase the representation of women in power. And now, let me ask you a few important announcements. Ukraine’s national deputies, Alexander Revega, who had failed to do so, made a mistake in amending some of Ukraine’s information space laws, which took place on Thursday, December 6. He's asking to count his voice as "restraint," not "for" instead of "for." So our colleague, Mr. Krivenko, for Bill 9275, which was included in the agenda, and this is a question concerning the protection of the information space, he's asking us to consider his voice as "restraint." Also before the presidency came the address of the national deputy Davidenko, who asked to count his vote in favour of Bill 0206 – a key bill on the termination of the great Treaty between Ukraine and Russia – as a vote in favour. The card didn't work. Dear colleagues, I also have to read the following announcement. According to article 60.1 of the Ukrainian Act on the Rules of Procedure of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the creation of the Eighth Interfractional Decentralizers is reported in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The leader of this association was the National Deputy of Ukraine, Guza Igor, the First Deputy Leader, the National Deputy, Konstankević Irina, and the Deputy Head, the National Deputy, Kodolu Alexandra, of Ukraine. We wish our colleagues fruitful work on a very important reform of decentralization, where, indeed, the Ukrainian Parliament and government have something to report and what to be proud of. And so, too, honourable colleagues, there have been some technical errors of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's apparatus, we are all people who happened during today's reading of parliamentary questions where some names were misdeclared. And so, with your permission, I'm going to ask you a few questions where the wrong names of colleagues have been filed. So I'm announcing the questions of the Ukrainian national deputies: Michael Bondar to the head of the Bródí District Council of Lviv district, the first deputy head of the Bródí District State Administration, the Brodí City Head for the Brodí Children’s Hospital. Michael Bondar to Minister of Interior of Ukraine, Head of the Brodov District Council of the Lviv Region, Head of the National Police Department of the Lviv Region for the repair of the roof of the administrative building at: Brody, Freefield, 10. Igor Aleksiev to the head of the Ukrainian State Judicial Administration on the organization of the work of the Ukrainian State Judicial Administration. Igor Alekseieva to the Minister of Infrastructure of Ukraine, head of the Kyiv District State Administration for increasing the safety of road traffic. These questions are already valid, and I ask you to consider them. Dear colleagues, allow me, on behalf of the leadership of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, to thank all the deputies, all the factions who have participated actively in Parliament's work this week and who have joined the debate, and most importantly, the adoption by the Supreme Council of Ukraine of the key laws in the area of security and defence, the territorial protection of Ukraine, in other important ways. And of course, thank all the 277 deputies who voted in favour of the termination of the Treaty between Ukraine and Russia, supporting President Prashenko's initiative. Let me remind you that next week people's deputies are working on committees, commissions and factions, and this is very important, as well as in the TSC, those MPs that we have attached to these important committees. The next plenary meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine will take place on Tuesday, December 18, 18th, at 10 a.m. I remind you that this will be the last plenary week for us this year, and hopefully we will show a high presence and a concentration of our efforts. I declare this morning's meeting of the Supreme Council closed. And thank you all very much.
