ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-06-m0.u1	I'm asking the National Deputies to come into the hall and prepare for registration. Take up jobs. So I'd like the National Deputies to register. [[10:05:10]] 329 national deputies registered. The morning plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. And today is the birthday of our colleagues in Helen Volodymyrovna Ledovsky. Hello, Mrs. Allen. On Olga Valerian's birthday. Hello, Ola. And Tarasa Romanovich Kozak. Welcome to your birthday. [[Applause]] Colleagues, yesterday we had a very well - arranged and effective job on the Clean Thursday. Parliament has adopted four laws in general, seven laws on the basis and one decree, together with 12 decisions. And among these are the decisions of the North Stream 2 Building Decision, the National Security Act in the first reading, the Diplomatic Service Act in general. And finally, we renamed the assault squads and we stripped them of their old Soviet name. Today, Eastern Christians honor the saddest day of the year — the Passion Friday. But we know that after this tribulation comes the day of triumph and victory, the day of resurrection of Christ. Thus, Ukrainians, respected colleagues, welcome all in attendance for the coming festival. And I want to inform you that today we have a "hour of questions to the government" under the Rules. We welcome the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Vladimir Borisovich Groysman, and the members of the government. [[Applause]] Today, a report from the Cabinet of Ministers will be made by Minister of Energy and Coal Industry Igor Stepanovich Nasalik. And then it's traditional to ask questions from factions and questions from national MPs. So let's start with an hour of questions to the government. And I invite you to the speech of Minister of Energy and Coal Industry Igor Stepanovich Nasalik. Mr. Nasalik, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-06-m0.u2	Dear Andrey Volodymyrovich! Dear Vladimir Borisovich, members of the government, national deputies! Obviously, within 15 minutes, a complete picture of the fuel-energy complex is impossible. That's why the Ministry of Energy and Coal Industry has gathered all the speeches of the National Deputies, the comments that were made in the media, in television, in the hall, in the expert environment grouped by clusters, and today I'm going to try to answer these questions. And first. It's a shame when national MPs, especially MPs, who are directly related to the fuel-energy complex, say that there is no energy balance in Ukraine for our state. In the picture you can see that for the first time in 10 years, both in 2016 and in 2018, according to legal acts, the Ministry of Energy has set a predictable energy balance for our nation's combined energy system. This has enabled generating companies, distributed networks not only to balance the repair site, to develop an electricity production program, but also to balance the fuel structure. That's what made our energy system more predictable in terms of implementation. The Ministry of Energy went even further and together with the Danish Energy Center, we've developed a program, and I think it's going to be presented in 2019, on the energy forecast balance of our nation for three years. This is a new breakthrough in predictive issues. The position of the second and she spoke in this room that the Ministry of Energy and Government do not have an energy strategy for the development of the sector. I have to say that there were two energy strategies in our country before this period. One was about the nuclear industry, the other was about the coal industry. As a result of this strategy, we received at the beginning of April 2018: (a) a coal industry with debts of 18.5 billion dollars and 850 million wages. The implementation of the atomic strategy that was adopted in recent years has led to the fact that nuclear industry in April had blocked accounts and no economic activity at all. What this could have led to, I hope, is not necessary to explain in this room. So in 2017, in August, the government adopted the new Energy Strategy of our nation by 2035. It has united our commitments to European structures. In particular, with regard to the implementation of the Third Energy Package, regarding the implementation of the Association Agreement with the European Union. There was an extremely broad discussion of the implementation on the fuel-energy committee and in the expert environment. These three stages of implementation can clearly tell us where the energy system is being transformed and what we will expect in 2035. The main idea is to: (a) provide the population and industry with the necessary energy resources and give the consumer the right to choose. This was a recent meeting of the Fuel Energy Committee, which considered the criteria for selecting partners into the gas transport system, and Victoria Vojcicka, and Olya Belkova, made the right proposals for moving the gas billing point from the western and eastern borders of our state. But I have to say that it's no longer up to discussion, it's already in the new energy strategy and it's our nation's policy of implementation. Third position. How is energy reform going? Reform without a legislative basis cannot go through, in principle. So the joint work of the Fuel Energy Committee and the executive branch of power, the ministries have been able to complete the legislative base completely, starting with the Electricity Market Act and ending with the Independent Regulator Act. All the secondary documentation that is now being coordinated by the focal point, which includes the people's deputies and representatives of the committee, and the executive authority is going within the schedule that is foreseen. And I'm more than convinced that in July 2019 the Electricity Market Act will be fully operational. So these three basic things, the forecast balance, the new energy strategy and the sector reform is a GPS navigator of the energy system, three points in the space of time where every wanted Ukrainian can look, and what is the state and location of our energy system. There have been a lot of observations, I think there's a point today to say, and how reliable is the work of our energy system. It's the tradition that we had, starting in October, that we had to be critical of whether or not we had enough coal to go through the fall-winter period. I have to tell you that during the fall-winter period we entered with a stock of 1 thousand 400 tons, and came out of the fall-winter period with a stock of 1 thousand 700 thousand tons. Not only have we reduced but we have increased our coal reserves. You know, the previous heating seasons that took place in our country, they tended to be corrected by a focal point headed by a vice-premier. And virtually every Sunday we met to correct the work of a unified energy system. But for the past four months, we had absolutely no meeting, not because there was no time, no need. The system works in a state-of-the-art mode. But the best indicator is probably stress. And the fact that our Western neighbor is always willing to give stress to the basic energy sector is probably no secret to anyone. The position we received in March on the gas imbalance showed how the Ukrainian energy system works. Not just in 48 hours did we completely stabilize the situation, because we were not looking for a position, but what we needed to do. Two years ago, it was developed by the Energy Minister’s command to do what is necessary in such a situation. It took us about eight hours to completely stabilize the situation. Starting with the transfer of the generation from gas to oil, ending with the transfer of compressors from gas to electricity. There's only one position. In March, we spent more than two billion kilowatts of hours on electricity compared to last year. What does that mean? On some days, there was more pressure on the system than 3.5 atomic blocks. Even in Europe’s developed countries, the situation is counted as number one when two atomic blocks come out. We don't have 3.5 atomic blocks of power, we've sifted them in a state-of-the-art mode without any of them, and I want to stress again, without any notice of the state's energy system. The fifth position that is constantly criticized is the diversification of the fuel component. I'm not going to talk about coal, because to reduce coal consumption as a fuel structure in one year by 5 million, even the biggest experts said it was theoretically possible, virtually not. On the graph, you see consumption of anthracite in 16th and 17th years, and you see that it's reduced by 5 million tons. We've done this. But today, I just wanted a moment of your attention. As early as 2016 or early 2017, the diversification of nuclear fuel supplies from Russia would not even make sense, and most would say it's unrealistic and impossible. But today, I can tell you in the hall, and this is a big job, and it's a big job, and it's an atomizer and an energy company. If tomorrow the Russian Federation will stop installing thermal collections for VVER-1000 reactors, we'll be operating on a state-of-the-art basis, we've completely diversifyed the supply of nuclear fuel to our nuclear power plants. Moreover, for the first time in 26 years, since 2016, we have introduced the only nuclear project over the years — the central nuclear fuel depot. Starting with the first, second quarter of the 19th year, the turn comes into effect. At the opening of the works on the central repository of the deployed nuclear fuel company Holtec said that he had conducted a lot of projects in the world, but such rapid paces as in Ukraine he had not seen anywhere. Fifth position. It's probably a very complex position in the coal industry. Today I must tell the members of the Supreme Council that the government has found opportunities, and today we have paid off all our debts to miners, all without exception. But what I'm saying is that without funding into the coal sector, investing in modernization, the coal sector can't develop. The ministry has developed a plan for reforming the coal sector, a plan of action for implementation, but unfortunately no funds have been invented to implement this programme today. I want to confirm once again in this room, if this program is implemented, we're not going to have any damage mines. The Ministry and government gave the very basic to miners: the price they always asked for and the opportunity to implement. I've analyzed, and how many children are being talked about are funding their own sector: tens of billions of dollars. So today, by addressing the Supreme Council of Ukraine. For the last four years, we haven't had a single piece of funding for the modernization of our sector, and I would very much ask that in the budget review we review this position. Not only are we going to provide all the needs of our coal-fired fuel complex, but we don't have coal subsidies. And to the end. In summary, the energy system of Ukraine (a) is reliable today, (b) diversified and the third position is stable. And that's the result of work. Maybe we haven't been so pianist and there's no pear department in the Ministry, and this is a synchronized work, both by the Supreme Council, both by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and by the President of the State. Not so many areas in our country where we can synchronize our actions. Therefore I greet you with this and with the coming light of the resurrection of the Lord. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-06-m0.u3	Thank you. So, colleagues, it's now 25 minutes from factions and groups. And I'm asking the factions and groups that are going to ask questions to the government to participate in the record. Then there will be questions from the deputies. And please record from factions and groups. Please. From the People's Front, the question asked by Himil Mikhail Mikhailovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-06-m0.u4	Good afternoon, Reverend Andriy Volodymyrovich! Good afternoon, government officials! Vladimir Borisovich, I have a question for you. Vladimir Borisovich, I want to pay attention. Helen Volodymyrna, plant this. Vladimir Borisovich, I would like to remind you that on September 9, 2015, a law was signed, a treaty signed more faithfully between the government of Ukraine and Poland on the granting of a loan under the terms of the related aid. Today, there is a deadline for direct contracts between Polish companies and Ukrainian institutions, namely Autodora, DFS and the Border Service for the execution of jobs. None of the institutions entered into terms of contract signing, contract breaking down. I ask you to take control of the implementation of this agreement. And according to the last meeting of the working group that took place in Cracow, the term.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-06-m0.u5	30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-06-m0.u6	The deadline has to be extended. That's why I think the government needs to initiate speeding up the work data on both the Autodora and the DFS, and the Border Service in order to fulfil this commitment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-06-m0.u7	Good afternoon, Reverend Mr. Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, distinguished fellow national deputies! Thank you for your questions. In fact, overseas infrastructure needs investment. I can tell you that we have today even the cost of building six checkpoints that are in different states of readiness today. But we have a lot of legal problems that we can't handle because long-standing stories are problematic, and we can't use resources yet, we're waiting. It's a separate subject, we're looking for a solution. And the second topic you're talking about is really our intergovernmental agreement on 100 million, which in principle the government has led to a logical conclusion. It was. The tender was held, for this tender, I think two or three Polish companies. Then, as we spoke to you, there was a problem with the Antimonopoly Committee, where the results of the tender had already been blocked, but this problem was also solved, if my memory did not fail, on April 4. Now, for today, the DFS and the Kravtodor signed this deal. I have information that is not signed by any foreign service. Now I'm going to check it out literally today, and I think if I have to give them energy in the pen to sign, I'm going to find this possibility. Thank you so much for asking.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-06-m0.u8	Thank you. From Peter Dustenka's Block. Dekhtarchuk Alexander Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-06-m0.u9	Please hand over Rephat Chubarov.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-06-m0.u10	Thank you. Volodymyr Borisovich, reverend Prime Minister! See, with the end of January 01, 2016, to the full extent of the power supply for the temporarily occupied Crimea, we have managed to increase Russia's cost of maintaining Crimea many times. This was due to the civil blockade of Crimea, and I thank its participants. But I want to ask you something else right now. And now Russia is deceiving. The Crimea, temporarily occupied by Crimea, has four turbines of Siemens, and Russia is trying to launch them. They have some problems. But I want to ask what the government is doing to prevent these turbines from ever being launched into Crimea. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-06-m0.u11	Thank you for asking. I think that the details and actual state of affairs may be reported by the Foreign Minister who is concerned about the matter. But you know that we're taking measures in all directions -- both diplomatic and other channels -- to block and demand reactions, including the introduction of additional sanctions into the aggressor country. Appropriately, today this scandal that is taking place in the supply of these turbines is related to what is also a sanctioning policy, including. Please, Paul Anatolyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-06-m0.u12	Thank you for your question, Refate-aga. First, we've addressed both the German government and the European Union many times, and directly to Siemens. I met, in particular, with the Siemens leadership, and we coordinatedly tried to break it by filing appropriate lawsuits. Siemens continues these lawsuits to ensure that the turbines that were smuggled into the occupied Crimea did not work there. And I got from the Siemens leadership, and that's the kind of mediation we got from the German leadership that they're going to continue to act both politically and judicially to prevent it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-06-m0.u13	Thank you. From the Opposition Block to the question is asked by Yuri Pavlenko. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-06-m0.u14	Dear Volodymyr Borisovich, I know you as a man, I don't care about the children's plight, but as it happened, the government under your command approved just a year ago a decree granting the status of a child who suffered from armed conflict and military action, contrary to the law that was passed here two and a half years ago under your head. Why now you've decided that a child who has suffered an injury that has suffered psychological and physical violence has lost his home, lost his father-in-law, continued to live in an area of combat under fire, should with Minister Reva prove his suffering, including through trial and humiliating expertise. As a result, only 9 children out of 580,000 a year received this status. No child received help. Children who have survived a real war have the honor and dignity of not being humiliated in front of you. I have a question when you make a decision in accordance with the law.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-06-m0.u15	30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-06-m0.u16	And when, at the end of the day, the government under your head returns to the face of a Ukrainian child, stretches out its hand of help and protection? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-06-m0.u17	Thank you for asking. I'd split it into two parts of your question. The first part that touches my heart as a human. And there are no foreign children. And you told me the truth about how I'm very sensitive to the subject of children, and everything about the child is sacred to me. That's part one. Therefore, if there are technical differences, they will be hanged, especially when it comes to those children who are under constant fire or who are in very difficult circumstances. And my soul and heart are hurting, like almost 100 percent of all Ukrainians, no matter where they live. And as far as the point is concerned, I can clearly emphasize that I am absolutely open. If you see that there is a problem that needs to be corrected by the government's decision, we will do so immediately. And on a specific point, I think the First Deputy Minister of Social Policy, Crentovska, will now give you the answer. I'm just asking you, let's not make any loud statements on the subject of children that we can use to make someone like you. Let us love our children with our heart and work to make them comfortable in Ukraine. Thank you for asking.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-06-m0.u18	[[Unheard]]
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-06-m0.u19	Mr. Jury Alexiyovich, the changes to the decree you gave were prepared by the Ministry, discussed with the public organizations in particular and also on the committee, also with the local authorities and in the near future they will be submitted for approval to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. The practical implementation of this decision has enabled us to find out all of the issues involved, and this order will be improved in the near future.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-06-m0.u20	Rosenka, please, one more minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-06-m0.u21	Dear friends, honourable national MPs, I would like to inform you that, of course, what we are doing today in this area to say that the state was three years ago ready to determine the status of a child affected by the war, please tell us what country of the world has had this experience? We do it from the wheels. That is why we adopted a decree a year ago from the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, which for the first time in the history of the State established this status. Obviously this is an imperfect process, we've seen the problems that specific people have encountered in establishing this status. So last Tuesday, at a meeting of the government committee, changes to this decree of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine had already been voted on, which had been developed by the Ministry of Social Policy in conjunction with the public organizations that care about these issues. Now this is being worked out in the secretariat. I think that at the next government meeting, changes to this decision will be made.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-06-m0.u22	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-06-m0.u23	I'll just do it.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-06-m0.u24	From Semenach's Self-Help, Roman Sergiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-06-m0.u25	And I'm sorry, Andrew Volodymyrovich, Andrew Volodymyrovich, one second.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-06-m0.u26	Oh, please, one second.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-06-m0.u27	I'm just going to make a point, and I'm going to make it clear what the nearest government meeting is. It's Wednesday that this decision is going to be developed. discussed and approved. Thank you for asking. Come on, guys, let's get the kids together, okay? Thank you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-06-m0.u28	So, Roman Semenich, turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-06-m0.u29	Semenha Roman, "The Self-Help Union" faction. I have a question for the Ministry of Finance, a question for Mr. Prime Minister about government debt. We all know that since 2014, Ukraine has continued to grow government debt, and for 2014 it is about a trillion dollars, and for 2018 its limit is almost 2 trillion dollars. This is because it grossly violates the 18th article of the budget code on the threshold of 60 percent of GDP. The approved government budget resolution 2017-2019, unfortunately, does not provide for an understanding of what will serve the public debt, first of all external debt. Now, I'm pretty sure you know that only the following year, after the external borrowing of Ukraine, will return more than $7 billion, which is about 5,000 300 dollars from each Ukrainian's pocket. The gold - bearing reserves of the National Bank of Ukraine continue to decline every month as a result of external debt servicing. Therefore, the simple question is whether the government has a strategy for the return of government debt next year and what will make it happen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-06-m0.u30	I'll answer that. Thank you for asking. So what's the state debt situation? The government is running a coherent fiscal system policy to reduce the budget deficit that allows us to form resources to reduce the need for borrowing. And if we compare 2016 to 2017, our debt burden dropped from 81 percent in 2016 from GDP to 71.8 percent in 2017. This is the result of the government's consistent policy of increasing the stability of the financial system and reducing debt burden. The budget resolution for next year will plan a further reduction of the budget deficit to 2.2 percent, allowing us to continue this policy. And so we plan to reduce the debt to about 60 percent by 2020. That's politics, and I'm asking the MPs to support this policy. And when it comes to the adoption of a law that introduces medium-term budgeting no longer in pilot mode, but as bases for years to come, I ask Parliament to support it. Because these are the kind of documents that we can work together to strengthen the stability of the financial system and get out of the debt pit. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-06-m0.u31	If you'll excuse me.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-06-m0.u32	Please, Mr. Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-06-m0.u33	I thank the distinguished national MP for asking a question about government debt. You've heard the parameters that we're working on today, and there's a government debt management strategy. But what we need to do, and what's coming out of this rostrum, especially not once. Ukraine must become an economically strong and independent state. To do that, we have to open up opportunities for investment in the national economy. To do that we have to change the system of Ukrainian industry, we have to make Ukraine a national product that is competitive in the world. To that end, we also need to adopt a number of important legislative initiatives, both parliamentary and governmental. And in principle, maybe we could say that we're going this way. We didn't take those loans with you, we didn't create that kind of government debt burden. Ukrainians did not accept these debts as natural persons, but we must take responsibility for these debts. We only paid $1.4 billion in March. This is an enormous challenge and a tremendous effort for us. So we have to keep macroeconomic stability with you, we have to move on to a steady growth of the economy through the adoption of the necessary laws, because without it it's impossible to make and invest. And we have to make sure that, in the medium term, in the long term, we reduce Ukraine's government debt on account of the fact that the budget is going to be filled and there will be no holes that allow someone to go into the budget or into government finances and allocate these funds. So we need to unite around this and do it together, this is our shared responsibility. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-06-m0.u34	Thank you. From the Fatherland faction, Sergey Eutuszek, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-06-m0.u35	Sergey Eutuszek, "The Fatherland" faction. I have a question for Minister Nasalik. Minister, do you know that the Professional Association of Nuclear Energy and Industry Workers of Ukraine plans to conduct a protest in satellite cities on 22 March 2018. It's a protest action, because at present, the NEC Energoatoma has been deprived of the ability to obtain highly qualified workers and so on. And are you ready to have a dialogue with them? That's the first question. The second question. In accordance with the Law on Commercial Gas Accounting adopted here, we have made it possible to compensate those owners of the counters that have set them up. What is the status of the consumer compensation order? And second moment. Under another law, you had to foresee and approve a list of works in the maintenance of indoor gas networks. Because the oats had already begun to give to the Ukrainians. These tariffs, which are out of proportion, force the Ukrainians today.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-06-m0.u36	30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-06-m0.u37	They're forcing Ukrainians to go into debt. Or, otherwise, pretentious cases appear in courts where people do not go or think about how to live but go to court. Please give me an answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-06-m0.u38	Who Will Answer? There will be no answer, Mr. Sergey. That's not gonna happen.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-06-m0.u39	No, the answer will be. The distinguished national MP on the first issue of nuclear energy workers is having a permanent dialogue with trade unions, including atomists. The issue of the sectoral agreement and all the nuances between the union and the administration are now also being dealt with, more faithfully, by the governing body. And I think by April 20, as you said, these questions will be settled and there won't be the action you were talking about. Gas counters and compensations are being set up by an appropriate working group, which includes national MPs. There's also a solution on the way out, and that's why I think this issue will also be settled according to legislation. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-06-m0.u40	Thank you. From the Radical Party to the question is asked.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-06-m0.u41	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. I have a question for Prime Minister Vladimir Groysman. This week, the director of the NABU, reporting to Parliament, reported that the investigation had resulted in the dissolution of 150 billion dollars of Ukrainian money in Private Bank. Please tell me what the Ukrainian authorities are doing to recover these funds. Why do we hear reports of an investigation into the affairs of the former owners of the "Privacy" of Cologne and God-loving London, but we don't hear any investigations in Ukraine? You're telling us there's no money to raise wages and pensions. If you return the 150 billion dollars stolen by the Cologne and the God-loving, here's the money to set a minimum wage for the Ukrainians, up to 15,000 dollars a month, minimum pension is 8,000 dollars a month. I don't know any other country that would allow such impunity to rob Ukrainians, and so those who robbed them wouldn't be responsible. We're asking the government to do everything we can to get the money back.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-06-m0.u42	Thank you, Oleg Valeriovich, for your question. In fact, government finances and what belongs to Ukrainians are sacred, and no one should do anything except. As for this important and sensitive question, because it concerns tens of millions of Ukrainian citizens, it is a question. the question was answered by the finance minister at a previous government meeting in terms of what the government is doing. I can tell you that on behalf of the government, the Ministry of Finance is working on this issue with the full support of the government itself and the Ministry of Justice. Also, all legal issues are being handled directly by Private Bank, where a professional independent supervisory board is being set up. Independently, I emphasize this, from world-level experts and also the new completely independent management of Private Bank itself. Now there are hundreds or dozens of cases in the Ukrainian courts, and I know that I don't have the details of the investigation of both the Ukrainian Attorney General's Office and the National Anti-Corruption Bureau, what we've heard from this rostrum. And in fact, I think it's a matter of honor to bring it to a logical conclusion with these law enforcement structures. We have no right to conduct any investigation or other action. But I know exactly that the Ministry of Finance is very conscientious and openly working to give all access to all the information, to take all the legal steps necessary to restore justice and to determine the extent of the violations involved. I don't want to go further into legal detail, because all that we're going to speak publicly today as government representatives can be used against Ukraine. So that's basically the answer. Thank you for asking.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-06-m0.u43	Thank you. From the will of the people, please, Shahov.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-06-m0.u44	The political power of Our End, Sergey Shahov. Volodymyr Borisovich, please tell me, across the country today, there are thousands of Ukrainians standing in our country's reception halls for help, practically heart attack, because they went to the hospital on April 2, and there are no computers in the hospitals today, not in the hospitals of the Internet. But he's not in Kiev, not what's in the villages. Today, a person travels 30 miles [40 km] with his children to make a deal with a doctor but cannot do so. This is practically going to destroy the Ukrainian system of the MOH. People can't stand in line today. What health needs to be enjoyed! Would you please tell the minister that the children have moved to Ukraine? The minister's parents moved to Ukraine in the '80s to sign these agreements? We've got to do something about it! "Our country" was against medical reform and said it was cheese, and so it happened today: the queues today are going crazy in medical institutions. Please tell me, when will the Ukrainian Minister of Health be appointed?
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-06-m0.u45	30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-06-m0.u46	When? When the Ukrainian health minister, whose children live in our country, is appointed, please tell me! When will people stop begging in the streets because of this reform?
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-06-m0.u47	Look, I'll give you an answer right away on Ulysses Suprun. She could afford to live in any country of the world, she had enough resources, but she came to help the wounded in Maidan, and you can figure it out. [[B in m in s a l in]] I'm saying I came to live in Ukraine. And now for people and medical reform. [[B in m in s a l in]] So here's what I'm going to say, dear colleagues. The signing campaign has begun. [[B in m in s a l in]] So I have a question for the National MP: did you ask a question? Are you interested in the answer? Well, then, listen, please, and I'll gladly give you the answer. I'm stressing that the doctor's selection company started on April 1, and that doesn't mean it's due to end on May 1. It doesn't end. If a person doesn't choose a doctor, and we predicted, I think everyone predicted that this process would be, well, not that simple, it's going to be getting medical services where they get it today, no one needs to stand in any line, no one needs to go anywhere. If that's possible, people are going to make this contract and they're going to put a dot on it. What's the point of a contract? What we're saying is that we were against it, it's cheese or it's wet. Is this medical reform dry? Well, look at what pen has been proved to be the protection of Ukraine’s health, and look at how people live. People today live in conditions where they are treated. There are two choices. The first choice is to leave everything as it is, well, that's what happened to us. And the choice that I make is let's try to unite and do something about it. Well, how many can you get out of the rostrum and say, "People don't live well?" So let's finally do something to make people live better. There will be no change, no simple, no simple solutions to such difficult questions. And I'm only calling for unity, for everyone to think, if there's anything that needs to be improved, let's work it out together. If there's any way to help speed up the process, let's speed it up. But I want to say one thing, what is the point of this contract at all? Yes, in order for every person, a citizen, for example, to come to his family doctor, who will take care of his health, and the state will pay the doctor for Shahov’s citizen, not for windows, not for ceilings, not for anything else, but for a citizen who receives medical care.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-06-m0.u48	Please, just a minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-06-m0.u49	I'm fine with my throat and I can. [[Noise Nodes]] Sir.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-06-m0.u50	Fellows, please take your emotions off, there is no shouting in the room during your questions.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-06-m0.u51	I'm asking you to put a mirror there. If you raise your voice, raise your voice. And if you need to tell me something, come and tell me. I just can't come into the hall, I'd come to see you. So what I'm saying is, this is about changing the health funding system, but we still have to figure it out. Listen, colleagues. In fact, all health - care facilities are either local authorities, or areas, or areas, or cities. And we need to use decentralization today to define it as a priority, and the government has set it up to create normal, proper conditions in FAP, in the family doctor's infirmary, in the clinics and in the hospitals. It takes time. We can come out of the rostrum, talk, so good, yeah.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-06-m0.u52	Give me a minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-06-m0.u53	Let's just do it, do it together. See faults in some system. Let's make suggestions and count. To see what's hard for people, tell them where we're going to help. But I stress, there is no criticism that it is tomorrow that we have to stand in line to make this contract. So I would like to help people get a better perspective, and I am deeply convinced that as a result, people will get a normal, quality health system. Thank you for asking.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-06-m0.u54	Thank you. Now a question from the National MPs. So, national deputies who intend to ask questions to the government, please prepare for the recording and please record. Litvin Volodymyr Mihajlovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-06-m0.u55	Volodymyr Litwin, Žitomirščina. Dear Prime Minister Volodymyr Borisovich, an epepoch has been in progress for more than a year with the pollution of the Rivers of Gomorrah and the Sun. There were dozens of questions. I ask you to sit down and let me see the Prime Minister. There were dozens of questions, answers. But it turns out that the U.S. Attorney's Office, the President of Ukraine, cannot solve one problem, because any decisions that are made remain on paper. At the same time, on March 28, 29, 30, April 3, the water drains, thinking and counting on the high water to overcome all of this. Moreover, there was, for example, the removal of a sanepides station in the Baran region in the process of reform, and there was no one even to do the analysis. I got a reply from the minister on Facebook.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-06-m0.u56	30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-06-m0.u57	It's all right, and there's nothing anyone can do about it. It turns out they can't find authority for the district government in Hmelnicki. I'm asking you to take the necessary measures, people are indignant, they say there is no authority in the country.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-06-m0.u58	Thank you, Reverend Vladimir Mikhailovich. As I have just been informed by the Minister of Ecology, he's completely in the material and he's dealing with it. And what's more, I understand it's already been prepared for trial. Ostap Mikhailovich, please comment.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-06-m0.u59	Thank you, Vladimir Borisovich. Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. In fact, I would like to thank you, answering your question, for your active participation in this process and for supporting the actions we are doing together, and for the positions of citizens who are fighting for the clean river. I'm not going to tell this story for long because you know it very well, and we've talked about it in this room over and over again. The latest developments since the emergency commission, together with Zitomirska and Hmelnicka District Administrations, have resulted in a protocol that has unfortunately not been implemented by the district administrations. This is a fact. And that's what we're going to have to talk to the heads of administration about. But the government, for its part, has carried out all possible measures that we have in our tools. According to the recent amendments to the legislation, the Ministry of Nature today has been given the right to appeal to the court for annulment of a special permit, which I have informed you about. We have made an appropriate appeal to the court, but unfortunately, the court is still trying to avoid justice. I think we're going to do this work together through the legal procedure for the cancellation of the permit and we're going to stop that contaminant that pollutes the two rivers that carry this pollution further along its course. And this pollution not only applies to the Zitomir region, but it refers, unfortunately, to larger habitats. Thank you for your support. And I think we're going to solve this problem as soon as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-06-m0.u60	Thank you. Kirsch Alexander Viktorovich. He's handing over Paul Ungurian. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-06-m0.u61	Dear Prime Minister Volodymyr Borisovich, can I have your attention? Dear Vladimir Borisovich, Prime Minister Volodymyr Borisovich, thanking the entire government and welcoming you to the upcoming Easter, I would like to ask you two questions. First. As a speaker of Parliament, we talked to you about the need for institutional security at the level of government responsible for State policy in family policy and the protection of Ukrainian family and Ukrainian family. Please speed up the work from the institution or from the Authorized Government, or resume the ministry’s work on family and youth and sports, as you know your position, that it is the Ukrainian family in which children are born, and that it is strong.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-06-m0.u62	30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-06-m0.u63	is your priority as Prime Minister. And we want to help and support you. And the second question. This is the critical state of the Danube, and this is actually the almost crisis state of the watersheds and the dams in the Danube, because we know that winter was very serious in Europe and rising levels in the Danube. There are small funds from the reserve fund, 82 million everything needed to ensure that the whole Ukrainian Danube is not submerged. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-06-m0.u64	Thank you for your questions. The first is regarding family matters. There is no doubt that family is the foundation at all. And we're going to work on that. I know that you give these matters a lot of personal attention. We've talked about this recently. And as soon as there is a solution in which form we can systematize this work, I will definitely inform you. And as for the Danube, I heard, we're working, and the question, and the figure, and the problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-06-m0.u65	Thank you. Weaver Hennady Vitaliovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-06-m0.u66	The word of Souslow Irina.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-06-m0.u67	Dear Mrs. Lilia Mihailovna, please explain to us, the national MPs, and the Ukrainian citizens how the draft order of MON has been subject to discriminatory rules that introduce the practice of registering children to the 1st class or the notary contract of rent. The Peter Prashenko faction believes that this violates the constitutional right of citizens to education and contravenes Ukrainian legislation. We ask and ask you to have a broad discussion of this draft order and not to approve it until a position is agreed upon, including with representatives of the parliamentary committees. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-06-m0.u68	Thank you for asking. I want to say it's actually a project, and it's going to be put out for public discussion, and there's going to be an expert and public discussion. And this bill comes out of this practice, which is, by the way, in many civilized countries, when a primary school child learns as close as possible to a place of residence. And now we're also working with the Office of the Commissioner for Human Rights to reduce, well, these bureaucratic requirements to the maximum extent possible under the legislative requirements. And then what's the procedure that's planned for now in the project itself. The Education Act makes it clear that primary school is the same for all and should be as close to home as possible. So if there is room available, by certain criteria, clear, transparent, then there are counting of children from extra areas that are not serving areas of this school. I want to see why this rule ever appeared in the law. Because all parents are disgusted when they come to the 1st grade, perhaps not all but most Ukrainian citizens, and they are forced to pay bribes because someone calls or bribes is putting a child in a school. And parents can see the school from their windows and can't have a child there, because those who were able to set up for bribes or phone calls were able to do so. So we want to make this situation fair by very clear, transparent rules. Please join the task force, we invite you personally. And you can work with us on transparent rules.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-06-m0.u69	Thank you. Roman Semenach gives the floor to the question of Irina Sisoyenko. Please, Mrs. Irina.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-06-m0.u70	Vladimir Borisovich! We believe that you do not want to become the Prime Minister of Ukraine, with the total destruction of the State Emergency Health Service. I have spoken to you many times, and you have promised to hold a joint meeting with the directors of emergency care centers. There's a huge problem in all the regions. There is not enough car transportation to reach patients who call at number 103. The car that drives the roads of Ukraine is already an antiquariat, which at the right time can be transported to the morgue. Emergency care workers will find the format of a change in health - care reform pay. And today these people who save the lives of Ukrainians get the minimum wage. Mass layoffs from emergency medical teams. And I demand that either the government solve this problem immediately, or I suggest you turn number 103 into a government telephone line, into a hot line of government. Please make up your mind.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-06-m0.u71	Thank you for asking. I'd like to be the Prime Minister, who will be left with a good lead and a good memory in people, not those who have destroyed something. I haven't destroyed anything in my life at all, in my professional life and in my personal life. I think you know, first of all, when I promise, I always do. Last week, we contacted you and the deputy director of the Apparatus to identify the participants in this meeting. In view of the fact that my schedule is tense enough (sufficiently tense, to put it mildly), we determined that it would be next week. And today I'm finally going to approve the schedule for next week, and I'm going to tell you just what day it's going to be, and we're definitely going to meet because the issue of emergency medicine is very, very important. There are not some authors of this emergency medical reform that began there in 2011 - 2012. After this reform, it's much weaker and needs to be strengthened both technically and materially, I understand that. We'll meet with the participants, we'll talk, we'll make decisions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-06-m0.u72	Thank you. Sergey Eutuszek gives the floor to Alexander Kugel’s question. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-06-m0.u73	Vladimir Borisovich! First of all, I want to thank you for your position on the non-interference of law enforcement in business. And I'm asking you to keep doing this, because believe me, you know that business is calling me immediately, as it turns out. This kind of business trip, like now, 30 percent take off, is mostly the D.A. and the D.A.'s office. Vladimir Borisovich, where you were at the start of InterHim in Kharkiv, yes, a new factory in difficult times, six months without letting the company's manager work, is doing some business at the BSI. And I say, here Babakov has eight skynergos, a Russian, an aggressor, a deadly business simple. Yesterday, a 30 - year - old boy was locked up, the D.A. arrived on a leak, and for three hours, he was knocked out of the door to find some cocaine.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-06-m0.u74	30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-06-m0.u75	They put a guy, 30 years old, in S.I.A., in charge of the D.A.'s office because Dad's a jeweler. Mr. Groissman, I'm asking you to initiate a meeting with the President. As the deputy head of the Committee on Enterprise and Industry, we ask you, we're all going to stand by, it's just impossible, they're so hard, and they're just being torn apart by law enforcement right now. Most of it's the D.A.'s office and the D.A.'s office.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-06-m0.u76	Thank you so much for your question. Yeah, I'm really worried about this because I think we're talking about economics here, we're talking about government debt, we're always talking about that we need to invest more money in improving people's quality of life. How can this be done if those who produce a national product are constantly under the pressure of so - called law enforcement officials? Because there are many representatives of law enforcement agencies, really, fighting, beautiful people, I respect them and appreciate them. But there are those who put on pursuits and pursue honest business. And it's impossible to deal with this, because it's ruining all of our opportunities and the power of investment and normal economic development. We're in charge of implementing the law that you've passed, honorary fellow members of the national MPs, 312 votes for mask-show stop. A commission was set up on Wednesday to deal with such cases. And our assignment, literally, I'm going to ask you to come to these board meetings. I want to go public on every such occasion in detail. I am not going to interfere with the work of the prosecutor’s office, or the B.S.A., or other law enforcement agencies. But I'm going to figure out essentially, and where there's no real violations, and where I'm going to use this force of drive to push, I'm going to protect this enterprise, the entrepreneur, and I'm going to protect the national economy, the national manufacturer, the national entrepreneur. Because we have to move away from those savage practices that were favored by the system that was born in Ukraine. We're supposed to destroy it and leave it, you know, broke the legislation, stole it from the budget -- prison. But if you are not guilty of anything, let him go to prison who has wrongly committed a crime against you and does not allow you to live and work peacefully. This is my policy, mine as Prime Minister and our government. Thank you for asking.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-06-m0.u77	Thank you. Dekhtarczuk Alexander Volodymyrovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-06-m0.u78	Dear Volodymyr Borisovich! I would like to draw your attention to the fact that we thank you, the united communities thank you for the transfer of land outside the population. But I have received numerous appeals from the united communities regarding this matter. Land transfers do not pass on land under farmyards. And that's a big problem. Although the farmyards and the land beneath them are compared according to Ukrainian legislation to agricultural lands and are to be passed on, they are not to be passed on to the united communities. Please study the question and make sure that these lands can be the hubs for infrastructure in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-06-m0.u79	Thank you so much for your question. You know that the government has decided to transfer land to the united territorial communities outside the population. And the second position in this government decree is to prohibit the alienation of the land without the decisions of such united territorial communities and, in general, local self - government bodies. This ensures publicity and the inability to speculate on this issue. But at the same time, it is a condition that the land, if placed somewhere, should appear only through auctions. It's about the extremities. Literally yesterday, 27 united communities in Ukraine were given over 2,000 acres [2,000 ha] of land to their property. The questions you've just broken are technical. I've been assigned to process and inform you. I stress that by the end of 2018, all the united territorial communities will have received government decisions to own and own land and land that they had previously owned. Which they didn't control before. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-06-m0.u80	Thank you. The head is passing on to Shahov. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-06-m0.u81	Sergey Shahov, the political power of Our End. Questions to the Minister of Social Policy. Please tell me, Mr. Andrey. To Andrew Reva, please tell us how long it will be for the abuse of the settlers. When we met with Kurt Volker, he said we had to transfer envelopes to that area. Pensions made by people in 40 years, wrapped in yellow and blue tape. It doesn't happen, people lie paralyzed and don't go to referendums. Next. Today, the settlers are standing on the IDP on zeros, they can't get through, and then they can't get into the Pension Fund, they can't get into social protection, they're being checked all the time on the apartments. Do they have to put their cuffs on? What are they, arresters? Do they need to wear electronic bracelets? They don't have the right to get their pensions? At the expense of today's migrants -- 6.5 million from Crimea, from Donbas -- you want to close a hole in 200 billion dollars, which, as Vladimir Borisovich rightly said was stolen 30 years in the state.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-06-m0.u82	30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-06-m0.u83	And you want to cover this hole today at the expense of 6.5 million Ukrainians. Why didn't the law enforcement agencies, the Attorney General's Office, the Bureau of Anti-Corruption Office today? Why didn't they ask who stole the money? And we have to go back. Not just looking abroad, but in the country. Count this year -- 200 billion dollars. And there is no need to bully the Ukrainian people today. They have the same ears, they have the same eyes, they have the same legs and the same hands, they want to live in Ukrainian. We did.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-06-m0.u84	Please, Mr. Andrew. Mr. Prime Minister, who will answer the question? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-06-m0.u85	Thank you for asking. Pensions are paid to all citizens who have the status of internally displaced persons. Those who want to make the system uncontrollable, without procedures, and who want to give their pensions to those who may be terrorists will not be able to do so. Today, 570,000 people who are internally displaced receive pensions. They have created all the favourable conditions in the Pension Fund and in the Retirement to receive these pensions. But the first person to turn gets his pension payments in the past period. All procedures are carried out in accordance with valid legislation. The status of the internally displaced person has just been introduced by the laws of Ukraine in order to make the pension administration system transparent and controlled and uncontrollable here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-06-m0.u86	And a final question. The guilty one passes the question to Maxim Burbak. A final question, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-06-m0.u87	Dear Vladimir Borisovich, yesterday the Supreme Council supported the People's Front initiative and voted in favour of the Order to refer to the World Society for the Prohibition of the Construction of the North Stream-2. You know this is going to be a challenge to the energy security of all of Europe, not just Ukraine. Since the year 14, the government of Arsenija Yatsenuk and your government have continued to increase energy security and the production of their own gas. Please tell us the EU Association Agreement, which was also signed in 14 years, provides for a mechanism of consultation with the European Commission on the prohibition of this construction that will harm both Europe and Ukraine. Remember, we get $3 billion from gas transit. So please tell me, when will appropriate consultations begin with our European colleagues, because Germany, yesterday Finland, agreed to build in their territories and we know that our partners in the United States openly oppose the construction of this pipeline? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-06-m0.u88	Maxim Yuriovich, thank you very much. You know, the issue of Ukraine's energy security is a matter of extremely serious importance. I don't think so, but experts believe that Ukraine is a gas country, we have second-hand gas deposits, third-largest in Europe. And every year and we each year, more precisely, our rulers traveled to Moscow, bowed our knees, heads, and everything else to get some gas relief from Russia to Ukraine, and most importantly, in exchange for our independence and our freedom. At a time when the gas was not developed, everything about the possibility of obtaining gas in Ukraine was destroyed. As far as our policy is concerned, we are speaking today, and not only are we talking, but we are doing, conditions under which the amount of Ukrainian gas will increase by at least a billion per year. And thank you to the Ukrainian Parliament today for adopting the relevant laws that allow for faster production of Ukrainian. the gain of Ukrainian gas. This will ensure our permanent independence from anyone who supplies gas to Ukraine. Now for North Stream Two. There is no such meeting, no such meeting with the President, no Prime Minister, no ministers of profile, no European Commission level, no international partners, no matter where we touch the subject of the North Stream. The point is that it's not a commercial project, it's a purely political project, a project that will be used by Russia to put a hook on a hook, if you want, on a needle of gas across Europe. And those who do not see it either do not want to see it in Europe and in the world or close their eyes for unknown reasons. We need to do everything we can to stop this hybrid aggression, and this is a weapon that will be used against democratic Europe.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-06-m0.u89	Thank you. And a question from First Deputy Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Irina Heratchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-06-m0.u90	Thank you. Dear Prime Minister, dear colleagues! During numerous meetings with the Kremlin’s political and hostage families, the need for a government to secure one of the vice - prime ministers of office, i.e. to coordinate the efforts of all ministries and authorities to assist the families of the hostages, to assist legal lawyers working to support both Crimean Tatars and Ukrainians in the Russian Federation. And as far as I know, there is some progress on this issue right now. We would very much like you to provide information relevant to the families of the hostages who in the government at the level of Vice Prime Minister will coordinate the efforts and the ministries of the temporarily occupied territories, and the Ministry of Social Policy, and the Ministry of Finance, and other departments for such assistance. And the second important question. After all, the government has taken the right initiative in supporting financial, such a one-time payment to those hostages who were released at the end of December last year. We thank you for this initiative. Still, the hostages have not received these compensations. At what stage is the payment made? When will the hostages receive them? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-06-m0.u91	Thank you so much for your question, Irina Volodymyrna. You give a lot of your energy to fight both for the hostages and then to adapt them, in general, to the conflict, Donbas. And all you have to do is thank you for that. As far as social issues are concerned, this is the vice-premier we have, most of which is the issue of social protection. If there is a legal need, this can certainly be coordinated by Deputy Prime Minister Pavel Rosenko, this is social policy. If you need me, I can help. That's why the vice-premier is, I'm asking you to contact him. And we're going to help solve these problems. He also coordinated work on payments to hostages who had been released from Russian captivity. I want to emphasize that the government has made the right decision, and the government has reserved the funds, but we can only pay them when the special services give us the certified people that these people are, well, there's no fault in front of our state, and then we'll count the costs. That is why we are waiting for special information today. So I understand that this test is over, it obviously takes some time, because it's not that simple. After that, they will be helped. Costs are reserved, we're willing to pay them as soon as it's verified that they're people worthy of State support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-06-m0.u92	Thank you. Thus, the time for questions from the national deputies is complete. Can we believe that a government report has taken place? No, it's not. Okay. Next Friday. So we just finished the questions from the national MPs. I'd like to point out that I've had two factions say that they're willing to take a break from the rostrum, from Self-Help and the Radical Party. And I'd like to invite you to Kuprienka's performance. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-06-m0.u93	Oleg Kuprienko, faction of the Radical Party of Oleg Lašek. Dear people of Ukraine, welcome to the coming Easter! I wish everyone health and a beautiful, generous basket. But most of our people, this greeting sounds like a mockery of what's going on. Dear government officials, I'm addressing you, perhaps you don't know, so I'll tell you that many peasants today don't know how to survive. You officials, Volodymyr Borisovich, I am addressing you, you are banning peasants from selling milk, you are banning the sale of meat. In fact, you forbid the cultivation of cows, you forbid the cultivation of livestock. In fact, you're forcing the villagers to die. Not all pensioners are there, and there are people who have nothing to live for except support farming. Yes, you have led to the WTO standards of production requirements. But the Radical Party of Lights requires you to harness the horse, place it in front of the fraud. First, let's do some sort of European production in the countryside, and then we'll make production requirements. And that's how it works. My mother's neighbor, who held three cows six months ago and sold 30 bracelets for a three-liter jar of milk with a fat of 3.6, cut the cows and now barely holds one. He says we're afraid to grow, we won't sell tomorrow. What's she gonna do? And she's not retired yet. Another problem. I'm divulging a terrible secret for the government: almost a million peasants are not gassed by their homes, the villages are not gassed. There's no gas! They promised, but they didn't. What are they doing? They're driving a balloon gas. You remember these red balloons, propane, butan written, from a distant childhood, it's not a memory, it's a reality. The mass of the village is not gassed and lives on the basis of the balloon gas. And it turns out that on April 1, someone didn't set the price for this gas, they couldn't make the auction, and those who won the tender couldn't bring the gas. Vladimir Borisovich, thousands, millions of peasants can't belt ranges today, there's no gas. The Radical Party does not require you in the process, but as a result, tell us when the number of the damn auction will be held and when suppliers will be able to bring the balloon gas to villages where the authorities have been promising gasification for 25 years and have not done so.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-06-m0.u94	Prime Minister of Ukraine Vladimir Borisovich Groisman is invited to the closing remarks. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-06-m0.u95	Thank you, Mr. Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. You know, the fact that the people's deputy Kuprienko has raised questions from the Radical Party faction is absolutely relevant. And so question number one. This is a question of banning the sale of milk and meat from private households. There's no prohibition and there won't be. And I talked about it at the government meeting, and I reassured all the villagers. And if anyone forbids it, we will react harshly to prevent it. This is the first position. Second position. It should be kept in mind that the product produced by Ukrainian peasants and transferred for further processing must be safe. Right? So we need to organize a basic control of basic hygiene during hope, during cattle slaughter, and so forth. It has to be done, it's easy, but no one's going to ban anything. This is the second position. So we have to take care of those who grow and so on, and those who eat are all Ukrainians. Now, as far as we're concerned, our view of the agro-industrial complex is concerned. I want to stress here that we don't have any differences with you and your party leader, Oleg Valeriovich, about supporting the agricultural sector. What's more, I think we've done a lot together in 2018, and you as factions and parties, and we as the Ukrainian Parliament and government. What we did with you is actually an unprecedented program to support the agro-industrial complex in 2018. The first emphasis is on farming. Ukraine’s farms can now receive a circulation cost of up to 3 million below 1 percent in bracelets for 3-5 years. That's the first one. Buying a handmade agricultural technology from Ukrainian metal, which is localized in Ukraine with a 40 - percent discount. You've bought 1 million 400,000, you'll get a return as a farmer. Next. Plant Ukrainian gardens. We see that over 3,000 gardens can now grow, 3,000 hectares of gardens. And we're making up for 80 percent of the value of landing material in this year's project. Next position. We are talking today about the cultivation of a large cattle that we have in principle an extremely promising course. But there was really no support for the state, and you and I have decided that 2.5 thousand dollars should be passed on to every peasant who will grow a young man, so that they will have nothing to feed the young. It won't happen again. For dairy complexes 1.5 bracelets on the head of the milk cow. This is all that will contribute to both the increase of the headship and the increase in overcrowding and the employment in the countryside. This is our government policy. And thank you for your policy. Now, as far as I'm concerned. We need to rebuild farms in Ukraine, we need to rebuild dairy complexes. What did we do? If you're building a dairy complex in Ukraine, a farm, all the meat stuff, please, 25-30 percent of the cost of construction and equipment is being compensated by the state. This means that it will be another strong step toward restoring the normal quality of life in the Ukrainian village. I'm not saying that our large-scale decentralization program allows more than 700 communities to increase their own budgets. There are united communities that are already building gardens, FAPs, clinicians, roads. But that's just the beginning, because our job is to get people in the country to have jobs, normal medicine, normal education. This requires serious, not political, but serious, responsible decisions. Why do I react like that when they ask questions about everything and nothing? But because the heart needs to take the pain of people and think about how to make that pain go away so that people get a new quality. Without parliament, without government, without our unity, we cannot do this. So it's important that Parliament, the government, the President -- all work to make real use of the opportunities by October 19th of this year to make sure that Ukraine is stable, that people are safe, and that people get a visionary Ukrainian future. But not once in 20 years, but today. As for the tenders, I'll take care of it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-06-m0.u96	Thank you. Thank you to the Prime Minister of Ukraine and to the members of the Cabinet of Ministers for participating in the meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. I'll see you next time. Good luck with your work. We now have 30 minutes under the Rules to announce requests. And I'd like to invite all the national deputies to the interrogation room, please. Please take up jobs. And I invite you to read the questions of the First Deputy Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Irina Heratchenko. Please, colleagues, let's go into the hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-06-m0.u97	Thank you, Mr. Head. Dear colleagues, we have enough questions today. 258. We will all publish them in order to receive timely replies from other institutions and departments. And there are a few questions for the President of Ukraine. As you know, we need to vote in favour of the request. And I'm voting on Victor Razwadowski's request. No, we don't have any questions for the President, I'm sorry, colleagues, I'm sorry. I'm moving on to the publication of the questions that have come to various institutions. So Victor Razwadowski, until he was temporarily acting as Minister of Health of Ukraine, head of the Zitomir District Administration for the allocation of funds for rapid intervention in changing the ball’s joint to the inhabitants of the city of Zitomir Zamlily Galina. Victor Razwadowski to the Deputy Prime Minister of Regional Development for the allocation of funds for the construction of a water well in a village of Romanov County. Group of People's Deputies (Timishenko, Yvchenko others) to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, head of the NAC Government of Naftogaz Ukraine, on the disclosure of information on companies consulted on their involvement in the administration of Ukraine's Single Gas Transport System. Jacob Bezbach to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, the Ministry of Energy and Coal Industry, Nazcomsia, which regulates state energy and utilities, the Public Shareholders Association "Dniprogaz" on the illegal increase in natural gas use standards in residence No. 25 on the street of 20 years of Victory in Dnipri. Anatolia Denisenka to the Prime Minister about the creation of new jobs in Ukraine. Anatolia Denisenka, until the temporary duty of the minister of health to take measures to diagnose oncosa at the right time in Ukraine. Valery Pisarenko to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the provision of accommodation to the Kharkiv Interdistrict Specialised Medical and Genetic Center for Rare (orphan) Diseases for the opening of a hospital ward for the treatment and rehabilitation of patients with hereditary rare diseases. Valérie Pisarenko, under the temporary responsibility of the minister of health to conduct a thorough investigation into the misuse of professional duties by medical personnel, has caused serious consequences for the health of the newborn child. Groups of National Deputies (Sysoyenko, Markevicha, more than 200 deputies) to the Prime Minister of Ukraine to prevent the destruction of Ukraine's emergency medical care system. Dmitra Sphenov to the Prime Minister for the improvement of the mechanism for obtaining permission to travel by road from means of transport, whose parameters are more than normative. Julia Yooffe to the Prime Minister on the need to provide State support and financial support for the capital repair of the road of the village of Lower Lugansk Region. Helen Stotnik to the minister of culture for the construction of the hotel complex on Andrievski vozně, 14-16 in Kiev. Dmitra Špenov to the Prime Minister on the implementation of measures for the proper implementation by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine of the requirements of the Education Act of Ukraine, as part of the increase in pedagogical salaries. Andrija Nemirowski to the Minister of Internal Affairs, the Attorney General, for conducting a fair, impartial, objective trial for the murder of a minor child in the village of Milniki of the Lowland region of Chernigiv district and for carrying criminal responsibility suspected of crime. Andrija Nemirowski to the Minister of Internal Affairs, the Attorney General, for the conduct of a fair, impartial, objective trial of the murder and assassination attempt in the city of Pavlovgrad of Dnipropetrovsk and for the prosecution of criminal liability suspects in crime. Igor Lapin to the Deputy Prime Minister - Minister for Regional Development, Head of the State Architectural Inspection, Head of the Kiev City State Administration on the verification of the facts and circumstances cited in the reference. Arthur Martovicki to the Prime Minister on the water supply problems of the mining cities of West Donbas. Arturo Martovicki to the Prime Minister for violations of the constitutional rights of children with diabetes. Groups of National Deputies (Babia, Burbaqa and others) to the Prime Minister on opening the entry point in the Ivano-Frankow region. Stepan Ivakhiv to the Minister of Social Policy for the provision of health-care services for persons with disabilities who are involved in the elimination of the consequences of the accident in the Chernobyl AES. Stepan Ivakhiv to the Acting Director General of the Public Shareholders Association for the restoration of the post office of the Public Shareholders Association in the village of Melniki Shaka district of Volin district. Jury Bublika to the minister of justice, temporarily acting as head of the Ukrainian State Service on matters of geodesy, cartography, and cadastral issues of disagreement. Jury Bublika to the Attorney General, Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, on non-reacting with the leadership of the Public Prosecutor's Office of the Poltavian Region and the Chief Executive of the National Police in the Poltavian Region for the criminal inaction of employees of law enforcement structures under their jurisdiction in a long-term investigation into criminal conduct of fraud against the pensioner Bagry Maria Stepanovna. Jury Pavlenko to Henprocuror regarding the activities of juvenile prosecutors Yuri Pavlenko to the minister of internal affairs regarding the activities of the authorized department in the affairs of the children. Sergia Labazuka to the Ministry of Regional Development, Construction and HKG of Ukraine, the Hmelnicka District Prosecutor's Office, the National Police Directorate of Hmelnitské District to address the issue of housing in the new Hmelnitské city housing cooperative. Vladislav Buhareva, head of the Committee of the Supreme Council on Budget Affairs, Prime Minister of Ukraine, on the allocation of funds from the State Budget for 2018 to provide the necessary assistance to the newly created Chernecchin village community in the district of the district of Ahtyr. Sergey Ljowczina to the Prime Minister on the need for urgent measures aimed at combating unemployment. Michael Bondar to the Prime Minister for the development and financing of the State Program for the replacement of roofs covered with slate, for others, using safe materials without the use of asbestos. Michael Bondar to the director of the National Anti-Corruption Bureau, head of the Security Service, Minister of Internal Affairs, Attorney-General for the purpose of verifying the objectivity of criminal investigation No. 42017140000000346 of November 10, 2017, according to the fact that employees of law enforcement officials in the Lviv area were abused in criminal investigations into the fact that land was voluntarily occupied. Taras Jurik to Henprocuror regarding the inaction of the Donetsk District Attorney’s Office. Victor Pinzenik to the Head of the Supreme Council for the purpose of determining the circumstances, Bill No. 6542-d was introduced as an alternative to the agenda of the day plenary meeting on December 21, 2017. Igora Shurma, head of the Ukrainian Security Service, Secretary of the Security and Defence Council, on the inadmissibility of the Ministry of Health initiatives to allow for implementation outside Ukraine of components of donor blood and drugs made from donor blood and its components. Igor Shurma to the Prime Minister on the incompetent actions of the Ministry of Health on the prohibition of medical devices that threaten Ukraine's national security. Maxima Burbak and Mikoli Fedoruka to the Prime Minister for the provision of a computer tomographer at the Municipal Hospital No. 3 of the city of Chernivci. Maxima Burbak and Mikoli Fedoruka are under the executive responsibility of the head of the Government of the Public Shareholders Association "Ukrainian Railway" for the railway connection of the city of Chernivci with other cities of Ukraine. Vitalia Barwinenka and Alexander Pressman to the Minister of Interior of Ukraine, Henprosecutor of Ukraine on the illegal actions of the group of persons after the 30 March 2018 plenary meeting of the Tatarbunar District Council of the Odessa Region. Igor Alekseyev to the director of the Institute of Legislation of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the strategy for the development of the national model of probation. Jury Boyka to the Prime Minister for giving Akkerman (Bilgrade-Dnistrov) the status of the historical and cultural reserve of national importance. Olesia Long to Minister of Social Policy of Ukraine, head of the Kirovograd District State Administration for the transport of credit categories of citizens by car. Yuri Boyka, Yuri Pavlenko to the Prime Minister for the approval of the 75th anniversary of the Copenhagen Tragedy. Vasil Janicki to Prime Minister, Minister of Social Policy, Head of the Ravenna District Government for the provision of relief to citizens affected by the Chernobyl disaster, through the provision of all forms of transportation in Ukraine. Mr. Vasil Janickov to the head of the Government of the Public Shareholders Association "Rivneoblanergo", Head of the Volodimiretsk District State Administration of the Plain Region, Head of the Vladimirsk Region of the Public Shareholders Association "Rivneoblanergo" on the implementation of measures for the proper provision of electricity to the inhabitants of the Volodimirecki region of the Plain region. Igor Guza to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the issue of the construction of the 13 km section of the N-22 Motorway (from the Ustilug Customs Point to Volodymira Volinsky City). Igor Guzah until the temporary duty of Minister of Health, Minister of Justice, Minister of Youth and Sports to cancel the order of the Ministry of Health and Minmoledomsport No. 5232/1746 of December 27, 17. Irina Konstanovic to the Minister of Education for information on the readiness of educational institutions to a new school year in accordance with the State Standard for Initial Education. Irina Konstankević to the Acting Director-General of the Public Shareholders Association for the provision of information. Vladimir Aresonkova to the Minister of Infrastructure for stopping train No.141 Kiev-Lviv / No.142 Lviv-Kiyev at the Lugina station of the Žitomir region. Vladimir Aresonkov to the Prime Minister for the removal of the unjust and unjustified distribution of citizens in categories in the course of the execution of judicial decisions. John Baloga to the Prime Minister about the allocation of funds for the capital repair of the roads of the Beregow district of Zakarpat. John Balloga to the Prime Minister about the allocation of funds for the capital repair of the roads of the winegrower district of Zakarpat. Dmitry Dobrodomov to the Prosecutor of the Ternopil district, Head of the National Police Department in the Ternopil area, on the status of pretrial investigation of criminal conduct No. 120162000000193 in relation to the unestablished investigation of the person who ordered the murder of a public official, Deputy of the Kremenack City Council of Vitalia Vashchenka. Dmitra Dobrodomov to Deputy Prime Minister for Regional Development, Minister of Ecology, Minister of Finance, Head of the Ternopil Authority on the threat of environmental disaster due to the absence of clean buildings in the area of Kremenac Ternopil district. Vladislav Buhareva is the head of the Committee of the Supreme Council on Budget Affairs, Prime Minister, on the need to allocate funds from the State budget of Ukraine for 2018 to overcome the consequences of submerging individual territories and private households in the city of Ohtyrka Sumska district. The Group of Nadputts (Babia, Zastavan – only 9) to the Prime Minister on the customs handling of the Society's cargoes with limited liability "CARPATANAFTOCHIM" at the Ivano-Frankiv Customs of the State Fiscal Service of Ukraine. Savchenko's hopes for the Prime Minister for Leonid Kravec's activities as head of the Lvivribooprotection, which was found to be unsatisfactory by the decision of the Lviv District Council. Vadim Krivohatka to the Prime Minister on the critical situation of non-payment of salaries to employees of the Public Shareholders Association Zaporozhye blannergo. Vadim Krivohatka to the Prime Minister for the use of budgetary resources during the financial year. Andrija Lopushanski to the Energy Minister for the conclusion and payment of the use of GDR gas distribution contracts with operators. Andrija Lopushanski to serve as head of the regional branch of the Lvivska Railway Public Association of Ukrainian Railways on the need to stop the suburban power plant in the village of Ternavuk in the district of Lviv. Vladimir Parasuka to the head of the Supreme Council of Justice, the Attorney General of Ukraine, for ensuring that a comprehensive, full, impartial judicial investigation is conducted in criminal proceedings on charges of Igor Masik's SBU employee for committing a crime, as provided for in article 189 of the Criminal Code of Ukraine (a claim that caused property damage on a particularly large scale, or committed by an organized group, or combined with serious bodily harm). Vladimir Parasuka to Minister of Education and Science, Rector of Lviv National Agrarian University for the transfer to the Dublin City Council of the Dublin City Hospital of the Jovkow District for the preservation of the integrity and proper functioning of the medical facility. Borislava Bereza to Deputy Head of the National Police of Ukraine, Head of the National Police Department in Kiev, for the failure of the tender for the renovation of the park zone. Borislav Bereza to the minister of education and science regarding the construction of the school Paul Rizanenka to the temporary duty of head of the State Service of Ukraine on matters of geodesy, cartography, and cadastre to take measures to prevent violations of land laws in the activities of the regional authorities of the State Ministry of State in granting permits for the development of land administration documentation for the transfer of land to the property of a private farm. Edward Matthewchuk to the Ministry of Regional Development, the Ministry of Internal Affairs, the Odessa State Department, the Odessa Region and the Odessa Region regarding the objective review of the address of Kulik Maxim, who lives in the Kyiv district of Odessa, on the subject of the unfinished construction of the housing and construction cooperative "Soysny" located in the village of Limanka Ovidiopolski district of Odessa, the provision of legal aid and the escorting of the resolution of the affected issues on the merits of the appeal. Edward Matviychuk to the Ministry of Social Policy, the Ministry of Health, the Odessa Observatories, the Odessa Region, and the Odessa Region regarding the objective review of the appeal of Jerbakan Eugenia, a multi-child and single mother who is currently registered in the Odessa Region and currently living in the Kyiv district of Odessa in connection with the treatment of a disabled child, the need for all-inclusive care and housing, as well as the adjustment of other issues. Groups of National Deputies (Gorvata, Lunchenko, Petovka) to the Prime Minister on the conclusion of the Agreement between the Romanian Government and the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the opening of the crossing point across the state border of the "White Church-Sigetto Marmatiye". Alexander Suprunka, head of the Ukrainian State Service for Food Safety and Consumer Protection, is temporarily responsible for the head of the State Environmental Inspectorate for carrying out the inspection of the host subject, which carries out air pollution in the territory of the Darnitsk district of Kiev. Alexander Suprunenka to the Kyiv City Head for an improper examination of citizens’ appeals regarding the quality of repairs. Alexander Nechayev to the Sumskie City Head on the urgent investigation of the theft and damage of the monument Gerasim and Paul Kosikov in Suma. Ljubomir Zubak to the minister of justice regarding the provision of state notary activity in the territory of the Bari district of the united territorial community. Andrija Illenka to the director of the Kyivtodor municipal corporation, head of the Kyiv City Department for Predicting in the special budget fund of Kiev the construction of asphalt-covered inter-quartered passage along the streets of Zhukov, 27, 29 and 31 in the right-hand district of Kiev. Andrija Illenka, acting as head of the government of the Ukrainian Railway Public Shareholders Association, Minister of Infrastructure of Ukraine, on the timely and full information of passengers on the current schedule of all the suburban trains of the Public Shareholder Association of Ukrazalznica on the official carrier website. Sergia Kiwalova to the Prime Minister on the organization of life security education and civil protection in educational institutions of the Ukrainian education system. Dmitra Kolesnikov to the Prime Minister for the Universal Population Census in 2018. Dmitry Kolesnikov to the Prime Minister for the rapid increase in debt on payment of wages. Hanni Hopko to the head of the State Administration on the need for the immediate provision of areas in the Ukrainian House for the temporary placement of the Museum of the Dignity Revolution. Hanni Hopko to the Minister of Infrastructure on the need to change the traffic schedule and upgrade the mobile warehouse to properly secure the passenger rail connection between Kiev and Mariupol. Alexander Gerega and Andrija Šinkovič to the Prime Minister for the compensation mechanism for local budgets in the event that the rations are cancelled. Alexander Gerega and Andrija Shinkovič to the Prime Minister, temporarily acting as Minister of Health to prevent the closure of the field-based obstetric and obstetric sites in the rural area. Mikhail Golka to the Prime Minister, Minister of Education and Science, head of the Ternopil Authority for the additional funding of the schools of the Skorkov village community in the Podvolocchi district of Ternopil. Mikhail Golka to the Minister of Education and Science of Ukraine, head of the Antimonopoly Committee on Anticompetitive Action by the Ministry of Education and Science of Ukraine. Michael Dovbenko and Andrija Lopushanski, head of the National Commission for State regulation in the areas of energy and utilities for the provision of commercial natural gas nodes by means of remote data transmission. Alexander Kodola to the Prime Minister, Minister of Information Policy of Ukraine, on the coverage of the border areas of the Chernig region by a network of national television broadcasters. Alexander Kodola to the Prime Minister for the financing of the capital repair of Magda Street in the village of Žuravac in the region of Chernigiv. Alexander Kirsch to the Minister of Justice to assist members of the "Friendship" cooperative in registering ownership of individual underground funerals located on the street of Late 7 in Kharkiv. Vitalia Gudzenka to the Public Shareholders Association Kiwoblanergo for the provision of information and documents confirming the right of ownership of the Public Shareholder Society Kiwoblanergo for airline support in the settlements of the Bilocerkow district of Kyiv region. Vitalia Gudzenka to the Prime Minister, head of the Kyiv Observatories, for not allowing the closure of the municipal out-of-school educational institution "Child School of Arts" of the Biotzerkow District Council of the Kyiv Region. Ruslana Demczak until the temporary duty of the Minister of Health to publicize the public health care system. Aunty Bachevi to the Prime Minister on the problems of overcoming tuberculosis in Ukraine. Romana Macola to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, Minister of Defence, Head of the Security Service of Ukraine, Deputy Attorney General of the United States for the conduct of an objective investigation into missing persons in the course of hostilities in an antiterrorist operation. Romana Macola and Andrija Shinković, until the temporary duty of Minister of Health of Ukraine, the head of the Hmeljna observatories to provide necessary medical treatments for rare diseases - Bullous Epidermosis of the girl Vladislav Kirilishin, 2014. John Rybak to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Education and Science, head of the Montenegrin Ombudsman for the non-admission of the total number or individual parallels of educational institutions in small settlements. Igor Popov until the temporary duty of the Minister of Health regarding ownership of the Helsinki Information System. Igor Popov to the head of the State Service for Special Liaison and Protection of Information in Ukraine on Technical Protection of Health Information System Medical Information System Helsinki. Ruslan Solvar to Prime Minister of Ukraine, Deputy Prime Minister, Minister of Regional Development, Minister of Ecology, Head of the Kyiv Authority for the resolution of the issue of the separate collection of garbage and the non-acceptance of the environmental disaster in Ukraine. Sergey Melnika to the head of the National Police Department in the Hmelnicki district to stop the process of privatizing individual land in the service cooperative "Levada-Greece". Sergey Melnika to the procurator of the Hmelnicke district for the legal interests of members of the service cooperative, the Lavada-Grecan Association. Groups of People's Deputies (Dublika, Timchuka) to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the granting of the National Museum of Valuable and Decorative Stones status to the State. Paul Dzüblik to the Prime Minister on the breakdown of the privatisation process of the State Enterprise "Ukraine" by officials of the General Directorate of the State Department of the State Department in the Zitomir Region. Sergey Lechchenka to the head of the Kyiv City State Administration for repairing the cover of an underground pedestrian crossing on the street of Natalia Zhvij and the avenue of truth in Kiev. Sergey Lechchenka to the Minister of Education and Science for the Reconstruction of the Administration of the Laboratory Corps of the Ukrainian Institute of Science and Technology and Information known to the Chinese as "Tarylka". Paul Rizanenka to the Prime Minister to ensure that the Cabinet of Ministers and the Ministry of Justice are brought into line with the requirements of the Ukrainian Law on Commercial Reporting of Heat and Water Supply. Gregory Times to the head of the Central Electoral Commission for the speedy appointment of the Central Electoral Commission for the additional election of the Tereblecan Rural Council deputies from the local community of the village of Bukovka of the Rural Council, which decided to join the Terreblecan Rural Integrated Territorial Society. Gregory Timesa to the head of the Montenegrin District Authority on the use of measures to inform residents of the village of Crnivka Novoselicka District of the Chernobyl region about the level of the threat to environmental safety caused by the operation near the town's garbage dump used by the Crnovets city council. Ruslan Solvar to Prime Minister, Minister of Infrastructure of Ukraine, Acting Director-General of PAT "Krošta", Head of the Kyiv obrada, Head of the Kyiv Observatories to prevent the reduction of the network of Public Shareholders' offices in the rural area. Vladimir Litvina to the Prime Minister for raising tariffs for cold water and water supply. Vladimir Lithuania to the Prime Minister on the use of immediate, exhaustive measures to respond to a catastrophic environmental situation. Alexander Briginz to Kiev City Prosecutor's Office No. 7 on the possible illegal construction of a large apartment building at the address: Kiev, Podilski district, Vishgradska Street, 47-J. Alexander Nechayeva, head of the National Energy Regulatory Commission, Director-General of the Public Shareholders Association Kyivénergo, for the immediate restoration of the work of the public building for the calculation of thermal energy and for the provision of central heating services in February 2018 to the residents of the house in Kiev. Anton Kisse to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on speeding up the capital repair of the roadways of general use of the state value T-16-08 "Bulgrad-Red Army-Arciz-Sarat" and T-16-27 of the "Serpneuve-Tarutine-Arciz-Tatarbunari" checkpoint on the area of Arciz-Tatarbunari. Oleg Osuhovski to Deputy Prime Minister for Regional Development, Prime Minister of Ukraine, President of the National Academy of Agrarian Sciences, Head of the Presidential Administration, Head of the Ravenna Archaic, Head of the Revenna Observatories for the activities of the DP Research Farm "Grodetske". Oleg Osuhovsky to the Head of Administration of the President of Ukraine, the Prime Minister, the Minister of Education and Science, the Head of the Plains Authority, the Head of the Ravens Oblast of the city of Ravens about the preservation of the "cobs" class in the Plains District. Andrea Kota and Mikoli Lušnjak to the Prime Minister of Foreign Affairs for the opening of the Jordanian Embassy in Ukraine. Roman Semenha to the Minister of Finance on the current volumes of government and state-guaranteed debt and previous accounts for the service and payment of government and state-guaranteed debt in 2019. Roman Semenha to the Minister of Education and Science on the provision of information on the number of internally displaced students in higher education institutions, particularly those living in hostels. Groups of Nardepas (Romanova, Didenka, and others) In total, 10) to the Prime Minister, the Minister of Infrastructure, in charge of the Head of the State Agency for Road Traffic, on the insufficient condition of roads and on the allocation of funds for their repair. Sergey Rudik to the Head of the Supreme Council, the first deputy director of the Supreme Council's Apparatus, who manages matters concerning the deliberate delay in the consideration of vital drafts of Ukraine's laws and regulations of the Supreme Council of Ukraine for my authorship. Sergey Rudika to the Prime Minister for the immediate repair of the most emergency areas of the roads of general use of the state importance of the Cherka region. Sergei Vlasenka to the head of PAT's Automobile Company Bogdan Motors on the collaboration of Bogdan Motors with the aggressor country of the Russian Federation. Sergey Vlasenka to the Head of the President’s Administration for the performance of constitutional duties by President Peter Prashenko of Ukraine Groups of National Deputies (Nayima, Germany) Only 15th) to the Prime Minister of Ukraine to improve the procedure for the formation of public control councils. Sergey Kaplin to the Minister of Social Policy, the Head of the National Mediation Service and the reconciliation of urgent measures to address the critical situation of violation of the labour rights of twenty-three thousand employees of the Public Shareholders Association ArcelorMittal Krivi Rig. Sergey Kaplin to the Minister of Energy, Head of the State Labour Service, who is responsible for the Head of the State Fiscal Service for taking action to stop the gross violations of the law by the Barrier State Enterprise. Yuri Timoshenko to the Prime Minister of Ukraine about the possible liquidation of a strategically important enterprise. Yuri Timoshenko to the city head of Johno-Frankow district for the possible installation of temporary buildings near the school area. Ivan Melniczuk to the Minister of Internal Affairs, the Attorney General, the Head of the North Office of the Derjaudit Service in the Vinnitsk Region, on the possible corruption by the management of the Energosurs utility of the Žmerinsk City Council of the Vinnitsk Region during the implementation of the project of the reconstruction of the Sport and Health Institute in the town of Žmerinka. John Melniczuk to the temporary duty of Minister of Health, Minister of Social Policy, Head of the Vinnitsky Observatories, Head of the Vinnitsky Oblast to ensure proper consideration of the appeal of the citizen of Eleanor Ternopolski to provide material assistance for treatment. Andrija Shinkovič to the Head of the Security Service of Ukraine on the verification for citizenship of another Ukrainian citizen Romanenka Hennadia. Groups of National Deputies (Shinkovica, Gerega, Macola) to the Minister of Culture to promote the participation of the Kyiv choir band "Cantus" ("Cantus") in the Ohrid Horov Festival. Alexander Dombrovski, until he was temporarily acting as Ukraine’s minister of health, was involved in providing treatment for a severely ill child named Tebidze Mikoli. Alexander Dombrovski to the Prime Minister, Minister of Infrastructure for the Determination of Cash Payments for All Means of Transportation for General Use on Urban, Primorski and Intercity Routes for Persons with Disabilities and Some Other Categories of Citizens. Jury Lewchenk, under the temporary responsibility of the Minister of Health, the head of the Dnipropetrovski oblada, the Crimson City Head, the head of the Dnipropetrovski district public administration, for the non-admission of the financing of the municipal institution "Civorozska mišnica no. 1" Dnipropetrovsk. You've got to be Jury Lewchenka to the Minister of Social Affairs on the illegal actions of officials of the State Service of Ukraine on the issue of work concerning the Novotar Training Centre. Victor Romanyuk to the Head of the Ukrainian Security Service, Director of the National Anti-Corruption Bureau, Attorney-General for the mass bribery of the Obukhiv and Vasilkovi constituencies of the Kyiv region with shampoos and moss towels. Jurya Solovya to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the development of mountain areas and on the socio-economic development of the highest areas of Ukraine, the Verkhovinsky region and the Kosovo region. Jury Devyanka to the Prime Minister on the need to define the Anti-Corruption Policy Principles (Anti-Corruption Strategy) for 2018-2020 and the approval of the State Programme for the Implementation of the Principles of State Anti-Corruption Policy in Ukraine (Anti-Corruption Strategy) for 2018-2020. Jury Derevyanka to the Cabinet of Ministers on the need to provide funding for the provision of a family medical clinic in the village of Battles in the region of Ivano-Frankov to ensure accessibility and quality of health care for the population. Jaroslava Markevich to the Minister of Ecology and Natural Resources of Ukraine for the violation of the requirements of environmental legislation of Ukraine's Private Shareholder Society, Fans and Plates. Jaroslava Markevich, head of the National Police of Ukraine, on the use of measures to prevent violations of citizens' rights and to meet the requirements for the protection of Ukraine's environment. Paul Kishkar to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, the National Anti-Corruption Bureau of Ukraine, the Attorney General of Ukraine, the National Olympic Committee, the Public Organization Transparency International Ukraine, the Public Organization TOM 14 on the systematic illegal involvement of officials of Minmolodysport in the work of the Ministry of Sports. Victor Krivenk to the prosecutor of the Kyiv region for the improper investigation of the illegal use of State budget subsidies. Andrija Giurgia to the Minister of Finance for the formation and maintenance of the Temporary Register of Refunds. Alexander Villukla to the Prime Minister on issues worthy of social protection for the victims of the Chernobyl disaster and persons evacuated from the 10-km alien zone in 1986, for whom the cause of disability is linked to the Chernobyl disaster, participants in the elimination of the consequences of the accident in the second category of the Chernobyl AES, persons evacuated from the 30km alienation zone in the area of the unconditional (mandatory) relocation from the moment of the crash until the adoption of the Resettlement Order, as well as for widows and widowers of the deceased invalids, other persons with disabilities who have a cause for disability with the Chernobyl disaster. Alexander Vilkula to the Prime Minister, Minister of Energy and Coal Industry, President of the State Enterprise "National Atomic Energy Company Energoat" on security issues and financing of the modernization of nuclear power plants in Ukraine at the end of their lifetime and the further share of nuclear energy in the medium and long term. Oksana Bilozer to the Minister of Education and Science to ensure that the provisions of article 75 of the Education Act are implemented in order to make available free online free electronic versions of textbooks or electronic textbooks for full general secondary education. Constantine Jarinic to the Minister of Finance, temporarily acting as Minister of Health of Ukraine, head of the Kirovograd Observatories for the use of appropriate measures to address the problem of underfunding the health and education sector of the Bobinecki district of Kirovograd. Dear colleagues, I continue my sessions for five minutes in order to be able to publish all the parliamentary measures. I'm continuing our intermission session so that we can publish all the requests. Constantine Jarinič to the finance minister of Ukraine for the possibility of funding municipal non - commercial enterprises for the second and third levels of medical care at the expense of medical subsidies. Victor Wolfe to the Cabinet of Ministers on the organizational and institutional integration of the scientific sphere of Ukraine into the European Open Science Cloud. Irina Suslowy to the Minister of Education and Science of Ukraine for the non-admission of discriminatory acts that limit the rights of the child to education at the most close to the place of residence of the educational institution. Groups of National Deputies (Lucenka, Yatzenka, others – only 9) to Henprocuror of Ukraine for the conduct of an official investigation into the activities of the head of the National Prosecutor's Office of the region of Chernigiv. Groups of National Deputies (Geraschenko, Gerasimova, etc.) to the head of the Kyiv City State Administration for the allocation by the City Council of funds to improve the living conditions for training in the Kiev Military List of Name John Bokhon. Igora Lucenka to the head of the State Migration Service, Head of the Ukrainian Security Service, for carrying out the verification of information obtained during the exercise of parliamentary powers to comply with the requirements of the current Ukrainian legislation on citizenship. Roberta Gorvato to the Minister of Social Policy of Ukraine on the illegal and unfounded decisions of the territorial bodies of the Ukrainian Pension Fund in the assignment of pensions to Ukrainian citizens. Victoria Ptašnik to the head of the government of the Public Shareholders Association of the Ukrgazbank Stock Exchange, head of the Kiev City Government Administration on the illegal installation of slugbaum and blocking devices that impede access to the instigation area at 16-22 Bogdan Hmelnicky Street in Kiev. Dear colleagues, this is where we ended up with you, and you and I have completed the inquiry. I'm reminding you that 258 requests have come today. We have several deputies who have submitted to the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Apparatus statements of dissatisfaction with the answers they have received. Two colleagues present in the hall are Ms. Victoria Ptašnik and Viktor Mikhailovich Litwin. I'll give you three minutes, and then we'll announce a break of 30 minutes, and then we'll continue our work with the speeches of the deputies in the "Rizzne" section. Please, Your Honor, I invite you to speak.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-06-m0.u98	Thank you. Good afternoon, dear Ukrainians! First, I want to wish you the light of the Passover, to celebrate it with your families in warmth and comfort. But on this Passion Friday, sadly, I am forced to express my indignation, indignation at the actions of some high officials. And today I'm going to talk about the First Deputy Prime Minister, Minister of Economic Development and Mr. Stephen Kube's trade. You know, I've always thought that the best example of how to do it, to follow legislation, and how to clearly show, in fact, that you, entirely your actions, are in line with legislation, should be shown by high-level employers. I sent my request to Mr. Kubov regarding the submission by the Cabinet of Ministers of the bill on the creation of a national intellectual property authority instead of a decommissioned state service and the failure to implement the Mineconomy concept of reforming the state system of intellectual property protection in Ukraine. But instead of answering the question, Mr. Cubans decided to ransom his deputies. So from this rostrum, I want to clarify the standards of legislation that all high - ranking workers must adhere to. In particular, I would like to point out that, in accordance with the Cabinet of Ministers Ordinance "On the Approval of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine Rules", paragraph 123 states that the reply to the Deputy Prime Minister, the First Deputy Prime Minister and the other Cabinet of Ministers is given by the official person to whom it is addressed. And now essentially this question. You know, as early as June 1, 2016, the government adopted the Concept for the Reform of Intellectual Property, which was one of the tasks of the National Intellectual Property Authority. But to date, the Ministry of Economic Development and, in particular, its chief, Mr. Cubans are delaying this direction. I was addressing Mr. Kubov with my delegation's remarks, in which he indicated to me that the relevant bill on the creation of this national body would be introduced in the fourth quarter of the 17th year. But we don't have a project today. What is the investment appeal of Ukraine that we can talk about when the ministry is working to eliminate organs in order to simply get the authority, to take over the authority of the decommissioned body, and then to keep it there. Instead of engaging in foreign investments. Instead of showing that they care for our artists, inventors, authors, and their rights. Instead, unfortunately, the Ministry is involved in developing the concept of raising congregations that will have to be paid by authors, artists, inventors. So for the moment, I'm asking Mr. Kubov to answer my question, which one?
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-06-m0.u99	30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-06-m0.u100	Which I directed on February 28, 18, I'm obliged to respond to. There are two questions. And I'm asking you to report on the reasons for the non-implementation, in fact, of the reform concept that was approved by Kabmin, and to indicate the time frame for the introduction of the relevant bill on the establishment of a national authority to the Supreme Council. If I don't get an answer soon, I'm going to have to start a procedure for administrative misconduct and ask you to be attracted.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-06-m0.u101	Thank you. Please, Vladimir Mikhailovich Litwin, 3 minutes. You have two addresses, but three minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-06-m0.u102	Dear colleagues, two months ago I asked the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine for the fact that children who live in the Chernobyl area do not eat according to the laws. The reply to the MP’s request came late. At the same time, no recommendations were received that were essentially affected. What's the problem? Imagine that children live in the village of Kočchine, where 80 percent of the areas are affected by Chernobyl, but go to school in the nearby village of Mala Glumča. The first village has a third category, where children learn, the fourth Chernobyl area. In 2014, in the session room, when considering the state budget, laws were repealed to guarantee free nutrition at the expense of the children’s budget. At the same time, the decrees of the Cabinet of Ministers governing nutrition were not overturned. This has been a decree since 1991. It states in this decree that the village of Mala Glumcha refers to the area of enhanced radiological control, and children are then obliged to eat. Moreover, there is a 1997 decree of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, which provides for compensation for families and children if schools are not provided with food. And the corresponding sums: children between 6 and 10 years of age -- 360 dollars, 11 to 14 to 370, and up to 18 years -- 380 dollars. The reply that came from the Cabinet of Ministers declared that everything had been abolished by law. Then nothing works, and the children will not be fed. Decide on the enormous possibilities that exist in united territorial communities and outside of united territorial communities. At the same time, I have to remind once again the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine that the Emylchin region is one of the largest in Ukraine. Secondly, an area that is struck by Chernobyl; an area where no investment can be made to develop industry and other infrastructure because it is impressed by Chernobyl; an area that is completely forest-dependent. People can't survive, there's no jobs. Although I'm surprised to hear that we don't have a problem with unemployment. Once again, I refer to the Cabinet of Ministers with a requirement: according to the valid decrees of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, which because of forgetfulness they did not cancel, solve the problem of nutrition of children and provide an answer to that request.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-06-m0.u103	Thank you. Dear colleagues, a break of up to 12 hours is announced for 45 minutes. And then we're going to start with you immediately recording the performances in. Twelve o'clock, 45 minutes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-06-m0.u104	Dear colleagues, we are continuing our meeting. I'm asking you to return to the session room of all the national deputies who want to participate in the "Rose" section and sign up for the performances in this section. Dear colleagues, so we are, I'm announcing a record for all those who want to get dirty in the "Rizzle" section. We'll be working today in 2 hours 15 minutes. Please sign up, Your Honor. Please, Igor Mosiyczuk, you are welcome to speak.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-06-m0.u105	Igor Mosiyczuk, Oleg Lachka Radical Party A nation that can cover roads to protect a school of art is invincible. Last week, I visited Ternopilska. And in the famous, beautiful city of Ternopolis, he had a meeting with a group of art schools called Guerreta. Regrettably, the district council has not heard the people, and by restructuring it virtually destroys this school, a unique art school. People are forced to go out and cover the roads. I would like the Prime Minister of Ukraine to pay attention to this situation. Because if we don't protect the art school, we don't protect the Ukrainian culture, then what do we fight for, what do we fight for in the East, and what do we stand for? At the same time, I visited the family of Vladimir and Nelly Terlecki in the village of Bolaguza in Ternopilish, in the hamlet. Not that the national MPs of Ukraine were present in a tent that was not even part of the district council. This is a family that has three surviving cows. What did I hear? I've heard that government policy pushes the Terletsky family into it, and this is a multi-child family, where seven children are cut up to cut cows to make children go abroad. If Ukrainian government officials don't understand, I want to tell them that there are villages in Ternopolska where 70 to 80 percent of the working Ukrainian population have gone abroad to earn money. That's why our Iron Party team, Oleg Lalashka, is offering a real program for rebuilding the village, restoring the Ukrainian economy. We demand an immediate and immediate consideration in Parliament of a bill banning palm oil, which will clearly allow for the restoration of animal production, we demand support for processing. Because that's all there is to saving the Ukrainian village, because there will be no village, there will be no Ukraine. Protect the village and Ukraine! Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-06-m0.u106	Thank you. Please welcome to the floor, Olena Sotnik, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-06-m0.u107	Thank you, Chairman. In our country, a person can be sentenced to life imprisonment even when the defendant’s alibi has been established, and the chronological expertise clearly indicates that others have committed the crime. This line has not been the first year I have been approached by an eternally condemned citizen of Ukraine, Polisko Vjacheslav Ivanovich. We have long been in cahoots as a result of the adoption of Bill 2033a in Parliament in the first reading, which we gave a chance to those who were sentenced for life under the old Code of Criminal Procedure of the Soviet Union to have a chance to review their sentences. The verdicts that were handed down were based on the fact that people were simply beaten up and actually carried out life sentences on the basis of these demonstrations. So one of the convicts, he knows almost the whole world, Rafalski, even the UN made a separate decision about him. He has not yet seen the adoption of the bill by this Parliament. He died with the hope that he would ever be vindicated. The Soviet machine and the Soviet Union, and then this legacy, which was in Ukraine, in the form of an old Criminal Procedure Code with a human being, they made an empty space. And it allowed actually the militias and prosecutors to do statistics to kick the show. With this bill, we gave people who were so condemned to go to court and charge these sentences, to prove that they weren't guilty. I have a call from the Euro Optimists IFF, who recently, in western Ukraine, promised people that we would initiate a second reading of this bill, and we're asking the chairman to do so. To finish my talk, I also want to finish with the lines from the letter of Polychka Viacheslav. "In accordance with the basic law, the highest social value in the state of Ukraine is the life of a man who, contrary to all the laws and in general, has been taken away from me. There is a chance in the Ukrainian Parliament that such people will regain the right to justice and the right to life." That is why I ask both the presiding officer and the entire Parliament to support this law and allow people to restore justice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-06-m0.u108	Thank you for the talk. The National Deputy Bondar is invited to attend. Please, my dear colleague.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-06-m0.u109	Thank you, Mrs. Ira. Dear colleagues, I would like to address Prime Minister Vladimir Borisovich of Ukraine. Research into a range of scientists, asbestos use, and asbestos - containing products may be responsible for diseases such as asbestos, mesothelioma, and lung cancer, reports the Ministry of Health. It was recalled that the International Cancer Agency of the World Health Organization referred asbestos to the first most dangerous category of compounds in the list of carcinogenic substances for which there is reliable information about their human toxicity. Statistics show that most of the roofs in Ukraine were covered with a cipher. The foundation of this building material is asbestos. The Ministry of Justice registered an order from the Ministry of Health dated 29.03. 2017 by No. 339 "On the Approval of State Sanitary Standards and Rules on Safety and Protection of Workers against Harmful Effects by asbestos and Materials and Products Containing asbestos." The production and use of asbestos was prohibited regardless of its type and asbestos products and materials in technological processes and in construction and assembly works. It was also predicted that asbestos - based insulation materials and low - density products of one gram per cubic centimeter would be subject to primary replacement and disposal. The adoption of the document would allow for the introduction of legislation by the ILO in accordance with international and European legislation. But the Order of the Ministry of Health did not take effect, and it was excluded from the State Register of Law Acts of Ministries and Other Executive Authorities on October 10, 2017. The health issue cannot leave anyone indifferent. We have such materials that cover a large number of schools, preschools, homes in villages, hospitals, and others. It is not excluded that both the composition and other building materials, the mixing or the insulation products, are made up of asbestos. Please give the task to the relevant structural units, analyze the situation, organize with the Ministry of Education, Mincult, MOH complex tests of the design and cost-effective documentation of educational facilities, culture for use in repair or construction work, building materials containing harmful substances. When it is necessary to provide for the development and financing of a government program to replace roofs covered with slate and other asbestos products. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-06-m0.u110	Thank you. Please welcome national deputy Halasyuk. He has six minutes after such a complex system of voice transmission from his colleagues by faction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-06-m0.u111	Victor Halasyuk, Oleg Lachka Radical Party. Dear Ukrainians, the President of Ukraine claims that emigration is a normal process of integrating the country into the European labour market. Oleg Lazko and I are a team of the Radical Party, absolutely the opposite view of this issue. We believe that this multimillion-million-dollar emigration, which is taking place from Ukraine and not just in the countries of the European Union, is a sign of a totally flawed economic policy that is being pursued today: millions of Ukrainians are being forced to flee abroad in search of a better destiny to feed themselves and their families. This is a completely abnormal situation, and we need to radically change the country's economic course. And to that end, our team is proposing, in principle, a new economic policy. The low laws necessary for its implementation have already been adopted by Parliament but are being sabotaged by the executive branch of authority. The Export Credit Agency Act, which you and I adopted in this room at the end of 2016, required the government to create it in the summer of 2016 to make loans to Ukrainian producers, producers cheap and to help export markets. What we have today is 280 days' delay in implementing the Export Credit Agency Act. As a result, loans in Ukraine are expensive, it is more convenient to import imported products, and Ukrainians are unemployed and are running abroad to feed their families, and this is absolutely insane, and it needs to be rectified immediately. Industrial parks, you and I in this Parliament have adopted in the first reading this strategically important initiative to give tax incentives, investment incentives in Ukraine to those who create new productions, to those who expand existing production, who create new jobs. The minimum wage for industrial parks is 11,000 dollars, and to this day the vast majority are sabotaging this very important law. Why doesn't he take it to the hall? Why is the minister of the economy not coming and from this rostrum not convinced that he needs to be accepted immediately? All they do is draw in the Parliament Hall -- lobbyist laws, corruption laws, laws that they manipulate with Doing Business ratings, anything but to develop their own industry, their own economy. The adoption of this industrial park legislation will allow Ukraine to attract billions of investments from abroad and inside the country and create hundreds of thousands of new jobs so that Ukrainians can go home and work decently and make a living in their own family and live with their families, it's a fundamentally important task. The next strategic bill is "Buy Ukrainian. Payments to Ukrainians" which our team of the Radical Party, together with their fellow thinkers, proposed in Parliament and Parliament supported: 241 votes. It is extremely important to give economic advantages to Ukrainian products in public procurement. [[Applause]] Because today the import dependency of the Ukrainian economy is absolutely critical. Today, more than 55 percent of the Ukrainian economy is imported, in the US and China, is less than 20 percent, i.e. a catastrophic difference in indicators not in favour of Ukraine. Unfortunately, the policies of the previous and present authorities have turned Ukraine into a raw colony when we supply raw materials abroad for priceless, talented people and working hands, and in return we get imported goods that are being bought in debt on foreign loans. This is an absolute model that cannot ensure the success, independence, sovereignty of Ukraine. We definitely disagree with this raw model, which makes Ukrainians hostages who give birth to poverty, emigration, corruption, dependence on IMF loans. Our team is proposing a radical change in this economic course. By enacting the law, "Buy Ukrainian! Paying Ukrainians" we'll set the same requirements and standards for those operating in the United States since 1933: 12 percent advantage for a national producer, requirements for placing factories in the country to be able to supply products on the market. If the United States and Europe have acted in a similar way today, what should we Ukrainians not learn today? We need to learn in the most successful countries and do what they did to become successful, not to listen to the empty foreign advice that our country with you turns into a raw colony. [[Applause]] Other countries are comfortable with us as a comfortable supplier of raw materials, talent, and resources. Just us. Ukrainians need a strong, strong economy and a strong Ukraine that is able not only to feed but also to provide a prospect for future generations. This should therefore be economic policy, not what the authorities are doing today. Saving and wise use of our resources is vital. That's why we recently introduced a new metallurgical law with our colleagues from different factions and groups to increase the export duty to 42 euros. Yesterday the committee agreed to accept him as a whole. It's extremely important to eliminate the trade deficit for Ukrainian factories, because it's 25 percent of exports, it's 25 percent of the industry. Therefore, it is important to support Ukrainian metallurgy rather than work abroad. And finally, the forest law that we're going to have with you to save the moratorium on the exports of roundwood, despite all the criticism, despite the pressure and blackmail, because these are the lungs of Ukraine. Forests are normal living conditions in Ukraine and an opportunity to develop the economy and create new jobs. Just like that! Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-06-m0.u112	Please welcome Svetlana Zalitschuk. She is given the word Sergey Lechchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-06-m0.u113	Dear colleagues and respected Ukrainians! I was approached by defenders and asked to remind me of one of our Ukrainians who needed our support, our word, and our help. I'm talking about Vladimir Baluch. Today, defenders are beating the Nazis that our prisoner in prison in Crimea is on the verge of death because about two weeks ago he announced an act of starvation. And to this day he is asked to stop this action, but he does not seem to be provoked by Russian prison officials who are constantly bringing him to his prison, to his prison, various foods, thus provoking him. But he's holding on. I would like to remind you that Vladimir Baluch is the man who, after the occupation of Crimea, did not give up his citizenship, did not recognize the occupation of Russia. And there was always a Ukrainian flag on his house. This led to the first time he was arrested in 14 years, the second time he was arrested in 15 years. Then he was allegedly accused of stealing parts from the tractor. In this way he was searched, and it was as if again he had found bullets for the rifle. After that, he was sentenced to more than three years. Recently, the Supreme Court (in paws), the Supreme Court of Crimea changed its sentence and reduced its sentence by 2 months, to 3 years and 5 months of the general regime. Vladimir Grigorovitch Baluch is a farmer, with a family, his mother, his wife, who is in distress today. And today I want to support him from this rostrum, as do many of our other Ukrainian prisoners, but especially him. And on this Passion Friday, ask, first of all, your colleagues, and second of all, those Ukrainians who can help, perhaps call people you know from the families of our political prisoners, and help with what you can. I'm going to do it myself. And on this Friday, I also want to read his words, the last words he said when his sentence was read to him. He said, "I don't want my children, the children of all Ukraine, to complain to me that I was somewhere scared and weak." These are just words of a Ukrainian, a man who doesn't seem to be the kind of person who needs our help today. That's why our Parliament. On behalf of the entire Parliament, I want to support Vladimir, say hello to him, and I want to urge all of us today to address those people who need our help. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-06-m0.u114	Thank you, Mrs. Svetlana. Dear colleagues, please allow me, on our behalf, to join in the words of Volodymyr Baluch. Also, let us ask him from all of us to stop starving, for both his family and Ukraine really need him to thank him for his pro - Ukrainian courageous stand. And to assure you that both the Ukrainian authorities and we are in all of those talks and consultations on the issue of the liberation of Ukrainians, we are now negotiating, and we are ready to hand over 23 Russians who have committed crimes against the Ukrainian State and are in prison for these crimes in order to free the Kremlin’s political prisoners. And of course, among those people whom we demand to be released are Vladimir Baluch, like other Ukrainians, and the Crimean Tatars. I invite you, please, to the word of Mr. Karpuntsov, National Deputy Valérie Karpuntsov. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-06-m0.u115	Yuri Solovay, 89th constituency, Gutzulščina, and Pocust. Honorable Ukrainian people, distinguished voters, distinguished national MPs! Traditionally, on Friday, I try to draw attention to the problems of my district and the problems that voters are addressing me. In particular, last week when I worked in the district, I had several meetings with medical professionals and especially with the employees of the Supreme District Hospital, with the head of the Kosovo Hospital District, during which people called on me and asked me to help solve the critical problem of debt from the wages that occurred in the territory of the Highlands and Kosovo in the medical field. For example, in the area of the Verkhovin region today, wages are paid up to 46 percent for March. In the territory of the Kosovo region, the medical salary is paid to a total of 40 percent of the need. This is a challenging situation, especially on the eve of the great festivals, when, unfortunately, the state does not fulfill the obligations it has undertaken. That's why I'm asking this high court to form this as my request to the finance minister of the Ukraine of Mr. Daniluk, to the leadership of the Ivano-Frankov District Administration and to the leadership of the Ivano-Frankov District Council immediately take all measures to remedy this disgraceful situation and to settle the debt owed to employees, medical workers in the territory of the Supreme and Kosovo Region. In addition, I also want to take this opportunity to draw attention to the problems and so-called medical reform that are about to arise and which will be most painfully reflected in the mountains. Because I didn't once speak from this rostrum and continue to say that financing mountain areas and, in particular, financing health services, financing educational services, it can't be done on a template basis, as it is done in plain areas or in cities of regional importance. There can be no situation when a medical practitioner has to have the same requirements in Kiev for patients living in a single house of 2,000. And these same 2,000 patients in the Highlands when they have to be collected within a 40 - km radius. That's why I demand and turn to the Ministry of Finance on the basis of a basic grant to finance the health and education sector to anticipate higher rates and that's what I'm talking about.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-06-m0.u116	30 seconds, complete.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-06-m0.u117	This was discussed during a visit by the Prime Minister of Ukraine to a meeting on the development of mountain settlements. And I would like to take this opportunity to welcome all Ukrainians and national deputies with Easter celebrations and to wish peace, harmony and love to all of us, to all of our families, and to our Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-06-m0.u118	Thank you. Please, Vladislav Dove invites you to his word. If you would like to make an appointment, you will have many who wish to speak today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-06-m0.u119	Thank you. Dear Ukrainians! First of all, with the coming Easter holidays. Madam Chairman, colleagues, dear Ukrainians! We hear a lot about the need to fight corruption. However, all these years after the Dignity Revolution, words unfortunately go beyond what is real. And it is no longer a secret to anyone that such a situation leads to discouragement. Disappointment in the very fight against corruption, distrust of power, and all those involved in anticorruption. Recent events around the newly created anticorruption bodies have made it clear that people are the basis for the establishment and effective functioning of anticorruption institutions in our country. We can talk a lot about corruption and the fight against it, but until there are honest, principle and willful people present in positions of government and at the local level, nothing will change. Today I will not talk about corruption in the higher authorities. I'm going to say a few words about the activities of NABA and corruption at the level of Ukrainian cities. Remember, when the NAB was created, many in our country viewed the office with a certain skepticism, ridicule, and wickedness, in the best traditions of such treachery for Ukraine. However, NATU does not simply exist, but it also produces results. To avoid being loud, let me give you an example from my constituency. The city of Złotonosza Cherkaskie district. Since 2015, I have been struggling with high - ranking corrupters in the city. During that time, my opponents threw a lot of dirt at me, believing in their impunity. Why so? Because before the Dignity and Creation Revolution, they could always solve their questions because they lived by the principle of having a "breath" and so that this "breath" wouldn't leak. The city’s authorities, Goldoschi, were cynical about the cost and the problems of the townspeople. The facts of corruption were fixed by me during the reconstruction of the city’s sewage plant and sewage collector. Immediately, a dirty campaign began against me, even involving some of my fellow Ukrainian national deputies. And now, on March 29, 2018, the district court of Kyiv chose precautionary measures suspected of criminal conduct in the amount of 2 million dollars on 31 March 2018, where 12 million were stolen from the 29 nations to repair the power collector in Złotonos. I'd like to look into the eyes of my colleague who came to the city of Goldilocks in the summer and tried to expose these corrupts and ask if your paphosic pyar was worth it to keep people suffering from these corrupts. The question is rhetorical, and everyone must answer it according to the canons of his own conscience. But I want to remind everyone of what Plutarch said when he said, "Who is capable of removing their own benefits from public affairs is capable of robbing graves." I want to end my speech by saying to Mahatma Gandhi, "They're gonna start with you."
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-06-m0.u120	Ten seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-06-m0.u121	"At first they won't notice you, then they'll laugh at you, then they'll fight you, and then you'll win." Thank you again for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-06-m0.u122	Please, National Deputy Rudik will take the floor.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-06-m0.u123	Ladies and gentlemen, normally on this day in the "Virgin" I address people because there are no people in the hall. Today, I decided to turn to you. We were registered on the evening side of 43 colleagues. That's what I'm talking to you about. Vita, I'm sorry, but now the whole air is seeing me, and I'm talking to you that you're good, and you say you're bad. Don't talk to yourself. Society, my colleague talked about corruption, and I support him in everything. But there is an even greater problem for Ukraine than corruption. It's handlessness, it's irresponsible, it's gibberish, it's the way you treat people's problems like Martian problems, not your own. Not only did the spring bring us the snow that everyone was looking forward to but it also showed us a half - meter hole. To start stealing, you have to start doing, and some don't even start doing it. In the past year, I beat, in the direct sense of that word, for the needs of my district for roads of government worth 340 million dollars. Of these, 320 are personally in the district. Do you know how much they used? Forty million, the rest have returned to the state budget as unused. What I've been beating up, I'll explain. Because the budget committee had two, no, three years of the right, which we have chosen by a difficult struggle against the government, to agree on a list of roads of state importance that everyone makes at the expense of the state budget. That was the position. If you look, Kyiv-Stand, do you know how much money you put in a section of the shoe? In four years, almost one and a half billion dollars. And the road between this is called Kiev-Zanka, and it goes not only to Opuhov, but in a strange coincidence it goes also through Kiev the whole area, then through all of Cherkaska and ends up all the way to Kirovograd. And then what are the Martians going to do? We used to have an impact, and now the government personally, the Minister of Infrastructure, the Prime Minister, the Vice-Prime Minister, who is responsible for the issue of roads. All of it. I have a question, I understand it's unanswered, so I'm addressing you, colleagues. Let's create an interfractional union independent of political affiliation, a majorist, you or a lister, a union called "For the Roads!".. Not for the quality of the roads, but for the availability of roads, let's start with that. Let's work and push for the government to redistribute the funds that are so far incomprehensible to what is being set aside on roads that are unfortunately also needed by Ukrainians, but are located in other regions of our country. Please support me. I'm just finishing the holiday. I'll be right with you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-06-m0.u124	Thank you. Please make the next statement by Igor Šurm. Please, Mr. Igor.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-06-m0.u125	Igor Shurma, Opposition Block. Sadly, the changes to be made in health care began on April 1. I don't know what to call this day, whether it's a day of lying or a day of laughter, but today we have the first six days of some kind of preliminary summary. All of them are very much aspiring to launch electronic health, an electronic health system. You know, the best leader and advocate for reform is the first person in the state. Now today was a government day, and I didn't have a chance to ask, and there were government officials sitting there -- ministers, deputy ministers -- who made a deal with the family doctor today. Any of them have a family doctor? First of all, it's about, let's say, Minister. That's an example, she should have come and said, well, I made a deal. And why don't they make a deal, I'll just give it to you. That's a lot on the surface. It turns out that the World Bank has spent a lot of $3 million on developing an electronic health system. This is to make it clear how much this is, this is 100 million dollars. For those 100 million dollars, the system had to be developed. Do you think you've developed it? Only the implementation plan was broken. Today, the system is imperfectly trying to adapt to our realities and says that it will take a long time to do so. It will have to be done forever. You know why? If you look at what 200,000 people have signed in five days throughout Ukraine, it will probably take 700 days for 40 million people to sign. That's 700 days they're going to sign. Who knows if we have family doctors, and how many do we need? It was a paradox when, at a meeting of the ministerial committee, the minister did not know how many family doctors it took to start this so - called reform. What's more, I know why government officials don't register for today, don't go or register. Do you know why? In order to register, all of you — from a child to a grandmother who can't walk — have to bring a passport, an identification code and a phone with you, which is personal data that is protected by law. To whom do they have to pass this on? In the register. Who? The average medical staff. What will you be offered for this? And you're going to be offered a model contract contract, and this model contract agreement is not registered by any legal authority, not even by a minister's order. Who is he registered to? And he's registered, so think, by order of the public organization. That means you're handing your personal data over to a public organization, in other words, into private hands, which will then go to all kinds of insurance companies. Under such circumstances, there is no need to talk about what that reform will do. The only thing we'll be waiting for when they're all the first to set an example is to find their doctor. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-06-m0.u126	Thank you. Please, Mikhail Golovko. Mikhail Golovko, you are welcome to speak.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-06-m0.u127	Mikhail Golovko, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. Dear Ukrainians, welcome to all the upcoming Easter holidays. I want to say that, you know, on April 3, our political power, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union, along with other nationalist forces, marched the Forces of the Nation. And in this march, we've come up against the oligarhat, which, unfortunately, has been in the Ukrainian state for 27 years now, which is robbing our country and impoverishing the Ukrainian people. We called for the adoption of a package of anti-oligaric laws, unfortunately, which have been in these walls for years but are not being introduced into the session hall. Of course, we are outraged by the fact that today our government policy is aimed at total looting of our country and the final sale of state-owned strategic enterprises that have remained in the state that have not yet been stolen from the Ukrainian people. What I'm saying is that this year, according to the 2015 Order, 271 is planned to sell more than 800 public property objects, and strategic enterprises like Odeski Portowal, Sumihimprom, in that. Many: Centrenerego, Odessaoblenergo, Donbasenergo, Sumienergo. And what I'm saying is that even in comparison to the last one and this year's led by the Holding Fund, it was found that those companies that were costing over there, for example, the sum of 370 million dollars, eventually got 150 million dollars, the Odessaoblenergo, for example, was 670 million dollars, given the figures of almost 100 million dollars. So some businesses went down 3-4, even 9 times. This tells us that the holdmain Foundation, like its leader Trubanov, who's actually working for the oligarchs, and the servants are the oligarchs, want to finally pillage the strategic enterprises that remain in our state property, of course, that's an unacceptable fact. Instead of actually creating jobs instead of having a government policy, what Groisman always says is government. Our state can't be an effective manager or an effective owner, it needs to be changed really by the sorry drivers that. give the opportunity to start production in our country, to give credit to small, medium-sized businesses, to create jobs, to adopt our laws that without customs and VAT would bring equipment here to create jobs, and they aim to sell everything as seafarers who think of the category of one day -- robbed and fled. So this approach is unacceptable, this is a policy of marauding. We condemn such a policy, we demand that such a Trubar be released immediately. The head of the Holding Foundation, who today ineffectively manages and damages the state and draws all corruptioners to account. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-06-m0.u128	Thank you. Please welcome national MP Victor Wolf, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-06-m0.u129	Victor Wolf, the faction of the Radical Party of Oleg Laska. Ladies and gentlemen, last week the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Ukraine suddenly became clear. The deputy minister, Helen Zerkel, publicly stated that it was necessary to break the great Treaty of Friendship between Russia and Ukraine because of Russia’s gross violation of its basic positions and this, think of it, during the fifth year of the war. And in 2014, when the Committee on Foreign Affairs was discussing the denunciation of this treaty through Russian aggression, the same Mrs. Similarly, the MCS did not support the initiative of Oleg Lášk to recognize Russia as an aggressor country. We have recently published copies of those disgraceful letters from the Ministry of Internal Affairs because the archives are not burning. In 2015, the Supreme Council was able to adopt a decree recognizing Russia as an aggressor state. However, the so - called Friendship, Cooperation and Partnership Agreement between Russia and Ukraine is still valid. Many Ukrainians are surprised that under the existing treaty, the relationship between Ukraine and Russia is still defined as a strategic partnership. Even the most ostentatious articles of this covenant have not been suspended. Similarly, during the fifth year of Russia’s 451 interstate agreement between Ukraine and Russia, only 44 agreements were broken. This is a sign of the incompetence and incompetence of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, which has been entrusted with the full inventory of the legal base of our relations with Russia. What is the result of the work of the Ministry of Internal Affairs? During the fifth year of the war, less than 10 percent of the agreements with the aggressor state were broken, with the most damaging agreements with Russia on military cooperation, military intelligence, military inter-State transportation and security of classified information being denounced in 2015 on the initiative and insistence of the Radical Party of Oleg Lášk. Unqualified hypocrites headed by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs are unable to see a few steps ahead and act in advance. They only follow events, making Ukraine extremely weak in the international arena, usually as a debased beggar. And despite all the noise of adoption yesterday under the reform of the diplomatic service of the Clano-Lobost and cynical regarding the citizens of the Law on Diplomatic Service, it will not change the situation for the better. Ukraine’s strong and effective foreign policy will be given power by the team of Oleg Láška. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-06-m0.u130	Please, Valeria Zarzorko invites you to her word.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-06-m0.u131	Valeria Zarztko, Oleg Lachka Radical Party. Good afternoon, dear Ukrainians! Good afternoon, fellow countrymen! A few months ago, I received a request from a mining union. I would like to draw your attention to the critical situation in the coal sector and in particular to the state-owned firm Selidewwowiel. The situation is very difficult. Employees don't get paid for months. The state has lost coal layers, although this complex belongs to the state, and at the company we see opaque ownership. For five years, working groups struggle without success. The workers even tried to resolve the issues themselves and were set up to negotiate. The shafts placed their very clear and clear conditions. First. Pay off your wages. The other one. Raise tariff rates on salary. Third. Return the coal layers to state ownership. Unfortunately, the miners did not hear again. After that, trade union representatives declared hunger, demanding that they meet their demands. The hungry were kept out of the press, the lights were turned off, and the lights were turned off. And that's in the heat of the ice. Nine days of famine in Mr. Nasalik’s ministry. Several protesters ended up in the hospital after the protest. Nasalik, a professional minister, is openly harassing miners. Only after the famine did the miners pay 38 percent of the wages for the month of February. On several occasions, Minister Nasalik promised to meet the demands of the mining trade union. 1.5 months ago, the minister even promised to come to Donbas and personally manage the process. But he never kept his promise. Several times Mr. Nasalik’s visit was postponed. At the moment, he was canceled at all at the last minute without any explanation. He again deceived people who had lost their jobs and had no means of livelihood. Apparently, the minister doesn't want to or is afraid to solve the situation at the state-owned Selidewwicil company. So once again, I want to draw attention to this very painful question. And I still have questions for Mr. Nasalik. How many more ministers are there to bully the common people? When's the state-owned Selidewowbeel business going to settle? Why he does not think of people who are within the limits of survival, who have nothing to feed their children, what to treat and live for. What should happen if Mr. Nasalek heard the miners and kept his promises? I want to assure you that the Radical Party will not allow you to avoid your direct duties and will force you to keep all your promises. We are always ready to protect Ukrainian workers, coal miners in particular. We insist that work is worthy of pay and a high level.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-06-m0.u132	30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-06-m0.u133	It has to be in every coal mine, because these people work every day, getting Ukrainians black gold. And this is the basis of the Ukrainian economy: Ukrainians -- Ukrainian coal, Ukrainian miners -- have a decent standard of living. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-06-m0.u134	Please, the national deputy of Aresonkov is invited to speak.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-06-m0.u135	Vladimir Aresonkov, 64 constituency, Žitomirščina. Dear Madam Chairman, distinguished colleagues, distinguished viewers! Welcome to all the upcoming festivals. And may the Lord help in all things, and may the authorities do their utmost to improve the lives of men. I want to inform you that on April 10th in Kiev on the Brovarsky Prospect, there will be an event in the National Exhibition Center, which seems not to have such a planetary scale, but which is extremely important for the life of our nation and the neighbouring state of the Republic, it will be the celebration of the Belarus Day in Ukraine, where presentations will take place, exhibitions of producers, industrial enterprises, and so on will be held on the discussion grounds of our scientists, cultural scientists, economists, entrepreneurs and so on. The question is of great importance because in recent years, unfortunately, the relationship between our countries has become more complicated, to say the least. I'm being approached by representatives of the northern districts of our Gitomir region and they're saying that the work of joint ventures, and even just visiting Ukrainian citizens individually, has been complicated for various reasons. So it's very important to me today to do everything we can to have a partnership, a tolerance, a good neighbourly relationship with this republic. We're going to participate. And in May, I'm sure we'll be in Gomel at the same time. But I have one question: Can we get to the border with the Republic of Belarus? The point is that the Hmelnicki Way through Zitomirščina, through Ovræ, On Mozir, Gomel today is in such a state that it will soon be impossible to move on. It is a shame and a disgrace to our guests from neighboring countries who see a very different state of roads in Belarus and today in Ukraine. I want the government to focus on this, so that we have a decent opportunity to move. And I now address my colleagues, Oleg Valeriyovich, including you, you are the author of Bill 4442. This is about the support of the Chernobyl family. Today, in the ministry, the Ministry of Social Policy continues to starve eight public organizations of Chernobyl. At 3 p.m., there will be a meeting with the deputy minister in a joint strategy for further action. They demand the adoption of Bill 4442, which should address the issue of financial security for citizens affected by an accident in CHAES. I want to encourage everyone to work together and try to resolve the issue of Chernobyl. Dear colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-06-m0.u136	30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-06-m0.u137	Dear fellow MPs, I know that many factions support this subject, and we just need to focus now, find common ground with the government and resolve this issue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-06-m0.u138	Thank you, Your Honor. And I invite you to the speech of the national deputy of Lozov.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-06-m0.u139	Andrey Lozovy, Radical Party of Lazka. Dear colleagues, do you know the Ukrainian Night? The stars — one, the other, the third, the fourth, the fifth — must have been angels in their houses opening windows and looking at us. Two hundred and nine years ago, the Great Soročinians in Poltavska gave birth to a large Ukrainian, stressed Ukrainian writer, Mikola Gogol in the family. [[Applause]] In the family of the progeny of the Hetman of the Coastal Ukraine of Ostap Gogol. And when today, consciously or knowingly, many people urge us to give up ours, this is, in other words, unwise. Because giving up Gogol is, on the contrary, a game of so-called "Russian peace." Which has nothing that stole something from us Ukrainians, something from the Chinese, something from the Germans, something from the French. They don't have anything of their own. And we Ukrainians are a great nation with an incredible cultural heritage, and we have to protect it. And we have no moral right before future generations, to give ours. Giving up Gogol is the same thing as giving up our Ukrainian Donbas. Giving up Gogol is the same thing as giving up our Ukrainian Crimea. Who better described the Ukrainian village, Ukrainian night, Ukrainian love, Ukrainian family, Ukrainian Cossacks? Who said better about Carpathian? "The Carpathian Mountains are where the clouds sleep at night." Who better to show Gogol the rotten Russian office-bureaucratic apparatus at the Auditor, the Dead Souls? Our Ukrainian Gogol has shown all the world Russia "dead souls" in which even a "troika bird" that seems to be moving forward is driven by a drunkard, and in sleds is sat a failed fraud by Paul Ivanovich Chichikov. Dear colleagues, let us not give up ours. Let us remember that we are a great nation. Do you know how different the mosquitoes are from the Ukrainians? The ballad has three strings, and the bandits have sixty - five strings. They've got nothing, they've stolen everything. And Gogol himself wrote very finely about it. It's about "the property of the people with the helmets is the dog's face, the German legs." Gogol himself wrote that they don't have a culture at all, even a household, that "the damn helmets even eat with the ravens, and all the holy men and lovers of God eat the shingles." Our goal. We won't give it to anyone. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-06-m0.u140	Please, the People's Deputy Musai is invited to speak.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-06-m0.u141	Good afternoon, fellow countrymen, distinguished Ukrainian people! On the eve of Easter, I would like to welcome everyone with this coming celebration, especially the voters of my district – Sokalščina, Czervonograd, 124 district, Galicina, Lvivščina. I was moved by the so - called European integration of Ukraine. And, you know, there are limits, it seems, to be, the boundaries of the Ukrainian Euroustrim. What started with the Ministry of Education, and especially the Cabinet of Ministers, which commissioned Arsenius Yatsenuk's signature a year and a half ago, which is called "The Plan of Action for the Implementation of the National Human Rights Strategy for 2020"? A few weeks ago, as a textbook, I'm going to focus on this as a textbook for educating younger children in kindergartens and undergraduate school years, and this is what came up as a beautiful, bright book called "The Open Talk about It," as the new Ministry of Education gathers to raise Ukrainian children in kindergarten and in high school. Let me quote you a few things. First. "There are different ways of expressing sexuality. Not all people have the same feelings and desires. Most guys like girls, but they're the kind of guys they like. Girls can also like girls. There are also homosexual couples made up of men and women, men and men, girls and girls. When a person is sexually attracted to a person of different sexes. To our sex, we call it a homosexual drive." Next page for the kids. "The man is having an erection, and the woman is feeling wet in the vagina. After a while, the man directs the penis into the vagina of a woman, accompanied by pleasant feelings for both partners. Such pests lead to the ejaculation of a man, and millions of sperms enter the vagina." With a picture of a sex member entering the vagina For the children of kindergarten. People good, I go to the minister of education, who gave you an analysis of the permission to distribute this edition with beautiful pictures for children in our kindergartens and schools? And the Ukrainian Security Service will conduct a proper investigation. There are articles of the Criminal Code and 301, and 156th, 152nd, 153rd. Please imagine how unformed children can perceive this if they are shocked by national MPs. I hope so.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-06-m0.u142	I won't give you 30 seconds, we've listened to everything we can today, thank you, dear colleague. But I'm also asking you, today we have this action going on in the hall, stopping ourselves during your performances. Please, Borislav Bereza, allow me to have a word with you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-06-m0.u143	I am glad that some deputies read books. It's better if someone reads any books. But it is better for them to engage in legislative activities. But today I want to talk about something else. I want to talk about what very rarely happens in this room is about culture. We have the Ministry of Culture. The Ministry is not okay with culture. You know, there's a lot of complaints at all. I understand why. Because when deputies around the children’s book become in the middle of the halls and are viewed as such inadequacies, they may not know that this book has been sold in Ukraine for 15 years. But okay, it's their business. I want to talk about something else. The Paris Literature Salon recently passed in Paris. This is the largest salon that has ever taken place in Europe. Ukraine has done very well there, very well. This is a special thanks to our MSA, a special thank you to Mrs. Irina Carpey, who has done all she can there. Thanks to Paul Rosenck, who made an effort to make this happen, for if not for his help, this may not have happened. And thank you to all those who helped. But where is the Ministry of Culture? He's not here at all, he wasn't there. And the main question now is, why isn't there a translation program in the Ministry of Culture? It's been more than six months since it was supposed to be introduced. None. Perhaps the more important issue is to give permission to the Ministry of Culture itself for construction work in the historic center of Kiev. Well, yeah, it's probably a more cultural phenomenon when Mincult allows new walls to appear in the historic center of Kiev. What's the point of doing exhibitions, promoting Ukrainian culture in the West? They probably don't work for that. Now there's a new question, the Institute of the Ukrainian Book. It's a very nice setup. But why is he in charge of the person who came from the energy segment and who is linked to Mr. Boyk? I understand that if we've heard of Boyko's heights before, we're going to hear about Boyko's Institute. I understand everything, maybe we'll work on something else. So I have a question for Mr. Destroyer, and I want him to answer it. Why did she follow his lead as Mrs. Taran, who headed the institution? Like the man who came into this position right now, why she did. What is she doing there, and when will a program of translation of the Ukrainian book be launched? Terrence, I'm sorry, Mrs. Terrence. Because if we still have that kind of culture ministry, there's nothing left of culture in Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-06-m0.u144	Thank you. I understand that we have many colleagues in the hall to this day thought that the babies were brought and found in a cabbage, and today you were enlightened. Surprised, yes. I now invite you to the floor of the People's Deputy Silantiev. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-06-m0.u145	Dennis Silantiev, faction of the Radical Party of Oleg Lášk. Respectable citizens of Ukraine, respected colleagues! I'm sure all of you know that there is such a thing as a disabled person. But I'm also sure that not all of you know how hard it is to live with these people in the realities of our state. We all see that even healthy people are looking for a better destiny abroad, because they don't have the ability to realize themselves here in our country. Imagine the challenges and problems that people face each day with disabilities! Take the basics: just to get out of the apartment, get to something. At a pharmacy or a store, I don't talk about going on public transportation anywhere, and ending up with more global problems, it's about getting into kindergartens, schools, schools, colleges, some, especially getting a job to do and earn for myself. That is why last week I was initiated as a deputy from the Radical Party of Oleg Láška and a representative of the Committee on Family, Youth Policy, Sport and Tourism to hold a round table on "Professional Education and Employment Problems for Young People with Special Educational Needs", which was attended by representatives of public institutions, national deputies, scientists, scientists, experts and so on. During the round table, many questions were raised regarding the problems of young people with disabilities and autism, and so forth. Unfortunately, today there are a very large number of people who need attention from the State because they are physically. They have physical disorders, and the only way they can implement themselves is through education and employment. And so is the state. You need to create all of these conditions so that they can self-fulfill themselves. What do we see from the State? And the fact that she's willing to pay some small fee to these people so that they don't sit under their feet. I think that's unfair, unfair to such people. We do. [[Applause]] Today, the state remembers that there is a person with disabilities when our paralympics or defolimpics come out of the race for victory. Then they are! - Then they're good, then they're heroes. For the rest of the time, government officials pretend that such people do not exist at all. The faction of the Radical Party does not agree with this shameful attitude toward people with disabilities, people with special physical needs. That's why during the committee's meeting, proposals were made for a bill to encourage the employment of young people with special educational problems, which includes changes to a number of Ukrainian laws that apply to this direction. And in the end, the Radical Party team turns to colleagues, respectable friends, let's do good together, let's help young people with education.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-06-m0.u146	Thank you. Please, Yuri Pavlenko, also has 6 minutes in him, has some changes here with his colleagues after. Yuri Pavlenko, 6 minutes, yes, yes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-06-m0.u147	The Honourable Chairman, the Honorable Fellows, the Honorable Citizens, today, during the "hour of questioning to the Government" he would appear to have asked Prime Minister Volodymyr Groissman a simple question. Why in 2.5 years of the Act on the Protection of Children Affected by Armed Conflict, why did only nine children acquire that status in four years of military action and a year of action by the Cabinet of Ministers? This is because international organizations and the government themselves at international meetings, when they ask for help, speak of 580,000 children who have suffered from armed conflict, 19,000 of whom are still living in the war zone today, and at least once a month are under fire. More than a thousand children today have been injured, disabled, or physically or psychologically abused. These figures are confirmed from various sources. Instead, the government, contrary to the law adopted in this room, has established such an order that compels a child who has already survived the war to prove to the Prime Minister, Minister Reva or an official in the Ministry that he has actually survived the war, which, in fact, has been wounded, which has indeed been suffering and violence in relation to him. There must be demeaning procedures, expertise, and a body of help. What's on the way out? And on the way out of all these years, the line has never developed any methods, no programs for a child. to help a child who has either suffered physical harm or suffered psychological violence. So, on the one hand, the government rejects these children from themselves, humiliating them, on the other hand, are children who have actually survived the war. These are families that have often lost a breadwinner either in the ATO area or a soldier’s breadwinner, an officer. Hence, they have the honor and dignity of many government officials who continue to abuse their children by their cynical, unprofessional policies. And that's a simple answer. I'd like to hear from the government what he thinks they're doing. Unfortunately, we have not heard a traditional clear answer from the Prime Minister or the Ministry of Social Policy or the Deputy Prime Minister in this room today. All they've done is talk about how they love babies. But in doing so, he failed to carry out his direct duties. Yes, they did say that on April 11th, changes were being prepared that seemed to agree with public organizations. But one more time here in the Supreme Council was deceived by the Supreme Council Hall. Because the changes they've made, yes, they're slightly better, yes, they've been worked on by public organizations, but they're actually bringing to government a project that's not accepted by public organizations, but rather, in terms of which there's a lot of feedback. That's why I'm addressing the government from this rostrum. That project you're talking about today, that's where this discriminatory norm remains when you force a child to prove that she's been through suffering and has survived the horrors of war. I hope that this meeting will be attended by both public organizations and national deputies involved in the drafting of this bill. Unfortunately, this is not the only problem in childhood in an irresponsible, unprofessional, anti - child policy of an active government. I felt that it was no longer possible to overcome the anti - child decisions of the Yatzenuk government. But Vladimir Borisovich and his government succeeded. Just a few problems. One of them is children in united territorial communities, reformed by the government. Today, almost 1 out of every 7 children lives in a united local community. Instead, there are no procedures and responsibilities and activities of the body of care and care to date. And the decisions taken to protect the child’s rights in OTG simply do not work, today children are vulnerable, living in united territorial communities. Even worse is the situation with orphans, children deprived of parental care. National adoption, fostering children in the family, falls. At the same time, the government is proud that the number of orphans is shrinking. But no, it's not shrinking, we have a hidden orphan growing from the irresponsible.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-06-m0.u148	Thank you. Please, next. Juro, there's a lot. Ten seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-06-m0.u149	No doubt there are other problems, but I would ask that my speech be a parliamentary request to the government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-06-m0.u150	Please describe as a parliamentary address the statement of the deputy Pauline. And I invite you to the speech of the People's Deputy Krivoshi. Please. People's MP, are you speaking? I'm going to continue the meeting for exactly 15 minutes. And I'm going to ask you to go into the rules, quickly approach the rostrum, because the letter you want is still long enough. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-06-m0.u151	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Thank you, Your Honor. Dear Ukrainians, first of all, I want to welcome everyone with the coming Easter holidays, and I want to wish everyone the good, the good, the best. And I want all of us here to find understanding with you, no matter what happens quite often, that most of us are doing populist statements here, the pianist. My speech will be very brief. I just want us to pay attention to the good in these Easter days, in honor of the good in order to pay attention to our attitude toward those around us. Because if we don't protect the people around us, if we don't treat them with respect, then I think it's gonna be a big sin on our hands, and we don't have to let that happen. I want to wish you all a good holiday. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-06-m0.u152	It's very concise. Thank you. Please give the next speech by the People's Deputy Krivenka. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-06-m0.u153	Victor Krivenko, National Movement of Ukraine. Today, the Prime Minister demonstrated how painful he is in his heart, how he is about animal welfare, and before that he has made decisions by the government, which actually give 2.3 billion dollars to large companies. In that year, a billion 200 received one large grant company. It's when we cry that we don't have enough money for a bunch of social initiatives, there's no way to raise our medics so they don't go to Poland to earn money. This year, they've moved on, and the appetites have increased to 2.3 billion. I don't mind big companies, but let's be honest, let's say that agroholdings are so large and we won't lie that it's the support of all the animals. Yes, it was given separately for small farms, but 2.3 billion conditions were laid down that it would actually go to agroholding. Instead of distributing 5, 7, 10, 15 million support to create animal complexes, and it would be hundreds of businesses in hundreds of villages, and it would really save the village, it would be jobs, it would own these businesses on earth, and it would preserve Ukrainian culture. Instead, we see. I would like the Prime Minister to explain separately what his motivation was last year to put 1 billion 200 into one hand, and this year to accept a position that has been foiled, but because of a lot of demands, a small company will not allow a resource of 2.3 billion dollars. I very much hope that he will review his decision and lower the bill from what currently stands at 150 million dollars of support in one hand on an objective basis, and on one person there may be two, and three, and five objects, and at least there, put a plank at 10, 15, 20 million. Next question. I would like to invite environmentalists to participate in the deep debate on Bill 6606, because a registered bill will allow pesticides and chemicals to be imported into Ukraine without a certificate of country of origin. So some kind of development is going to be developed, and it can be introduced into Ukraine for trials. What it's going to be, a ton, 100 tons, 10,000 tons, then the government will change its position so that we don't become a test range. So here I'm asking for a discussion and I'm willing to take an active part in it and take a stand with our citizens. Next question. We're back in pursuit of Euro-integration, which. Of course, we need to make mistakes. They're going to ban the home invasion. I personally grew pigs in the 1990s to survive, three times a day I plucked grass and then shoveled it in my pocket and fed it to 16 pigs. Our family would simply not survive if someone else then forced us to go to some special complexes and kill them. And nothing.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-06-m0.u154	Ten seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-06-m0.u155	And in the 1990s, and in the 2000s, and now people survive on it. So I ask the government to think about it. Same question in milk. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-06-m0.u156	Next performance by the National Fisherman.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-06-m0.u157	Dear Ukrainians, someone famous said that they were not so terrible traitors or murderers, for they could only betray or kill as terrible apathetic people. Unfortunately, today we have no concern, no concern for the problems of children, no concern for orphans, no concern for displaced persons, families that are many children and are not in the power of strategic vision today, and incentives to support these categories of our citizens. There's this vision in the Radical Party faction, but we wouldn't want to solve these problems manually. Some I'd like to talk about. Two weeks ago, Oleg Lazko, our leader, saw the problem of poor Mikita Kozakov in the media. A 15 - year - old boy in my hometown, Dniper, tried to take away part of the apartment and to intimidate all relatives who were there. We intervened in this situation, and the criminal case was closed within a week following the pressure of our faction, including the district council. And I'm sure we won't put an orphan in court at lunchtime, and no one will take that apartment away from him. The second question. That's two weeks ago, we had to fight for the life of five-month-old Anastasia Kardashian kid from Ternopilish. She was the victim of a small vaccine. First, the doctors couldn't diagnose for about a week. Second, for a week, the family insisted that the doctors move her to resuscitation and finally diagnose her. Our party and faction intervened in this situation, and we brought doctors from Ohmatdit to Ternopolska. She was diagnosed, and she was transferred to Kiev. The baby’s life is saved, but there are consequences. And we have a question: Who will be responsible for the health of these little children today? This is the outcome of the medical reform that the authorities are offering us today. Question three. It's very simple, it's our newspaper Voice of Ukraine. Everyone there read about the birth in my family of 12 children in Oleg and Eleanor of the Sheep. But no one asked, but what can be done to help. And when our team in Dnipropetrovska arrived, we heard that a lot of people were coming, but few were coming back and asking, and what can we do to help? Why am I talking about this today? I would very much like the MPs to ensure that our faction does not solve the problems of children, family problems and the problems of displaced persons by hand, and that the authorities have incentives, are not indifferent, and that the law is working in the country. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-06-m0.u158	Thank you. Please, Tetjana Ostrikova invites you to her word.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-06-m0.u159	Aunt Ostrikova, Self-Help faction. Dear Ukrainians, welcome to the next Easter. To all I wish a merry Passover, a delicious Passover, and God’s blessing to all. And on this hot Friday, I want to talk about the inconvenient economic policy that our current power is running. Today, a representative of the Self-Help faction, my colleague, Roman Semenich, asked the Prime Minister at the "hour of the government" a question about why in 2019 the government was going to pay off the International Monetary Fund, which is where we're going to take the money, because it's about 5,000 dollars from the pockets of every Ukrainian? And you saw, essentially, the government didn't give answers just general words about investment and growth. But what does valid authority do today to engage in the economics of those inner hidden reserves that are now in the shadows? There's still strong pressure on business, searches in "New Mail" the last vivid example, continued bribery on customs, we read every day about bribe arrests by those or other customs officers, continued groundless delays in the customs processing of those or other goods, initiated surveys of sampling, particularly by the Security Service, the Anti-Smuggling Departments, the goods at this time are unscathed, stored in inappropriate weather conditions, damaged, no one is responsible for business losses. What is more, last week, tax evasion resumed. Where does it go? Once again, the tax overheads of small and medium - size businesses are blocked, their work blocked, and circulation costs eliminated. Who's going to be responsible if we don't have a DFS manager or a customs deputy, and the Tax Police, who's going to fight against schemes and not entrepreneurs, has been out of commission for more than a year? It's not the stories of the success of this power, it's the stories of the underprivileged tax policy that the government in particular is running. Today, Ukraine is able to compete with its neighbours for the involvement of an external investor. We don't have a fair, fair trial. We don't have a stable cash unit. We have no effective protection of property rights, only a favourable tax environment remains. And that's why Self-Help requires the tax to be abolished and the tax to be taxed on distributed profits. It's about a tax bill on the capital that makes money stay in business and not taxed if they don't pay for consumption. And that's why we think this bill will allow you to invest in new jobs, increase wages and do it without taxes. Making money in Ukraine and paying Ukrainians. All with the coming Easter! Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-06-m0.u160	Thank you. Colleagues, we have nine minutes to finish our work. I mean, this is how we're going to share this time with you. He's got six minutes for Oleg Lazko. Then there will be Mustafa Najam and Mr. John Sporish. And that's where we're going to finish our performance today. Please, Mr. Oleg, give me your word.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-06-m0.u161	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Dear Ukrainians! On the eve of the great light festival of the resurrection of Christ, our team, the "iron" team of Oleg Lacha, welcomes you all with this holiday. We want everyone to meet this celebration in the family circle, among the people closest to us. Among parents, if they are alive, give them health, children, relatives, and loved ones. In the environment of those with whom you rejoice, with whom you enjoy yourselves. This is a family holiday, and at this celebration, all of us want a resurrection of Ukraine, a wish for the good of Ukraine, a restoration and restoration of our home country. I want to assure you that the Easy Team will do whatever it takes. But at the same time, let's look at reality. Unfortunately, for millions of Ukrainians, the basket’s value has increased more than twice. Many of our people meet this festival and cannot fill the Easter basket in order to go to it to dedicate it and to meet it with joy. Because price increases are one of the biggest problems that concerns Ukrainians. The cost of tariffs, the cost of medicines, the cost of food is all that people need every day, unfortunately too much, is debilitating. And today's authorities, led by President Prashenko, do not pursue Ukrainian policies to protect Ukrainians from being tempted by these prices, like annoying flies, so that wages and pensions do not become scarce. Our team is proposing an action plan to stop inflation and stop prices. In order for the price to rise, the price to be devalued did not underestimate people’s savings. And so little wages and pensions that everyone gets, and they change those prices every day. We demand that the government reinstate the government's regulation of prices for products and commodities. It's going to be a government price inspection. There can't be a 200-300-per-cent profitability, like today's Crushing Company. Who pays for that profitability? From the pocket of every Ukrainian, money is drawn to pay for space tariffs. And it's to establish the profitability that drug dealers don't get as profitable as our Crushing Company does. Whether food or medicine prices are imported, 80 percent of the drugs are imported, and as a result, because of the decline in the rate of the dollar, each person in his pocket can feel these prices rising. And most of the time, older people go to pharmacies. Therefore, we demand that the government restore state price regulation, restrictions on trade prices. A maximum of 20 percent is the cost of bread, food, sugar, eggs, other essentials, utilities. The only way to reduce the cost of utilities is to extract more of their own gas. A large-scale energy-generating program for housing and utilities, the real energy-freeness of our country. This will double the cost of tariffs, three times the cost of tariffs. Anyone else who promises you something else, keep in mind that they are lying! They're just trying to fool you again. We don't want to lie to you because you're going to cross a false field and you're not going back. The advantage of Lalashka is honesty, it's honesty, it's openness, and it's an internal lever that allows for the protection of Ukraine's national interests both inside and outside the country. So the price issue is crucial, and we know how to decide how to stop prices, how to save Ukrainian savings, how to save wages and pensions. When President Poroshenko boasts yesterday at a meeting with the mayors, what a great achievement: it turns out that the problem of unemployment has disappeared in Ukraine! Because the Ukrainians have gone abroad, and this is a normal process, and so we no longer have a problem of unemployment in Ukraine. Mr. President, Peter Alexiovich, what are you boasting about? Instead of boasting about exports of finished products, you boast that there are no people in Ukraine today who will work for the Ukrainian economy for their own family, and you boast that people have gone abroad! Don't be bragging about it! We should boast about economic growth, creating jobs in our home country, introducing housing for young people, hundreds and thousands of kilometres of new repair roads, open schools, hospitals, kindergartens, and FAPAs, which is something to boast about. And today's policy of power, unfortunately, is that millions of Ukrainians are denied the right to receive medical care because health is the key that each of us will want on Easter and every day for our own. The Radical Party team has a plan of action to enable Ukrainians to receive adequate, affordable medical care. We demand the resignation of Uljana Suprun, director of the Ministry of Health, whose policy deprives Ukrainians of medical care. If only medicines for asthma, hypertension, and diabetes are now financed, we suggest that the list of free drugs be expanded with antibiotics so that millions of Ukrainians can be treated and decently lived in their home country. With Easter, dear Ukrainians! Believe in yourself, believe in the Lord God, and we shall have all things. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-06-m0.u162	Please welcome Mustafa Najem to the floor.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-06-m0.u163	Good afternoon, dear fellows! I'd like to refer to last week's events, last week, when, you know, New Mail "found" law enforcement. This is not the first time we have law enforcement agencies used by politicians and officials to make money at the expense of business. That was the case during the presidency of Viktor Yanukovic, and that is what is happening today. But today we have another law-enforcement monster waiting to be built in the Presidential Administration. A bill on the National Bureau of Financial Security was recently introduced to the Supreme Council. This bill is defined by the president as urgent. I now wish to convey to our Prime Minister Vladimir Borisovich Groissman a big welcome, in September of last year the government has drafted its own bill to create a civilian financial investigation service, unfortunately Mr. Groissman has not passed this bill on to the Supreme Council, which is the contractor from which they will then be baptized. What does the President propose now? The President is proposing that we create a law enforcement body that will actually assume all the functions of investigating business from the Ukrainian Security Service, from the tax police, from the National Police and from all other bodies. Instead of eliminating these departments in these organs, we're creating another monster. Above all, this bill contradicts all our obligations under international treaties. The president promised the IMF that we would create a new civilian body, instead we would create a law enforcement body. This body will be accountable, not to the Ministry of Finance, as in the entire civilized world, not even to the Ministry of Internal Affairs, it will be accountable to the Supreme Council, but to a specific committee and, most importantly, to the President. The President can release the head of the National Bureau of Financial Security alone. This means that we're actually going to get another president-dependent law enforcement officer, and we're actually doubling the Ukrainian Security Service, which is taxed in one body. What, then, can this lead to? This will lead, first, to the emergence of another body that will duplicate the functions of the Department of Economic Crime of the National Police, the Tax Police Department, the Security Service, and the Public Prosecutor's Office. This connection has always existed for all the presidents. They worked together to make business a nightmare. Now all of these functions are concentrated in the same organ. And most importantly, the last thing I'd like to say. This bill contradicts all conventions on access to information, contradicts European Union standards. But now we're going to put this bill through our knees in this room. I warn our colleagues that we are now being watched by all the business that is afraid of such a monster, rather than by Mrs. Eugene and Mr. President, without paying attention to what experts say, what the business says, they are still trying to create this organ despite.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-06-m0.u164	Thank you. Please, Yegor Sobolev. I was embarrassed that I had not seen him on these lists. He was given the word of his colleague Seminog. Please. And then John Sporish, and we say "thank you" and "good-bye."
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-06-m0.u165	I would like to remind Parliament of a law that. I think it's the most important of all the laws we have to approve. It's the Anti-Corruption Court Act. I will remind all of society that we have been working so hard for this bill to appear in the council and that the council should start voting for it. And on March 1, more than a month ago, the law was passed in the first reading. This opens the way for us to vote for the bill as a whole and create a court that will start sending out for top corruption. The fact that it is absolutely necessary yesterday, every day, every week we receive a witness. I think that a lot of people and a lot of people have noticed the final decisions of the acting judges to allow Edward Rosenblatt, the Ukrainian national deputy charged with the Anti-Corruption Bureau and the Anti-Corruption Prosecutor's Office to go abroad. Deputy Rosenblatt argued that he should participate in a conference in the United Arab Emirates in Dubai. The creation of a court that will be ruthless to national MPs, ministers, all high-ranking officials who go through anti-corruption legislation is a task without which we cannot get out of this room with our heads raised. I want to tell people that all the amendments have already been registered in Parliament, and the deadline for amending the law is now over. There was a document left to put into the hall and a vote remained. Unfortunately, neither the speaker of Parliament nor the other majority of the N6-national MPs are taking any initiative to get the document approved. I think it's very important that every citizen and citizen today ask their representatives in parliament, and when you vote for that decision. Likewise, I ask Western diplomats to take all possible steps to ensure that this law is approved. It is in the interests of Ukraine, it is in the interests of the civilized world, without it we cannot go any further. This decision needs to be made within a few weeks.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-06-m0.u166	The final talk for today is by our distinguished colleague John Sporish.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-06-m0.u167	Dear Chief! Dear National Deputies! I think I'm short because we're already wasting time. I'd like to focus on Bills 7403-2 and 7403-d, because if, again today, it wasn't said, but, if yesterday at the sessions of the Supreme Council, the issues of agriculture were raised, and it's very important today that all of my voters, farmers, and so on, if we do again, if there are low prices for soy, it won't be sown. That's a pretty painful question. That's why I think we should accept these bills. In addition, my district says that the Ministry of Health can shut down TB dispensers sooner or later. This is also unacceptable. I believe that the Ministry of Health should do everything to overcome this illness in Ukraine. In addition, contracts between patients and doctors are now under way. Here I'd like very much to have ours. In order for our instead of the show, television, to be presented by representatives of the Ministry of Health, to speak every time, and to explain to people, this should be the first time that this explanation should be made among people in order for them to get right and conclude these contracts. And to conclude, I would like to welcome everyone with the celebration of the Resurrection of the Cross. First of all, I wanted us, the people's deputies, to bring in the mind, the union, so that we could all join together and work together for the benefit of our Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-06-m0.u168	Thank you. Dear colleagues, thank you all for taking part in today's plenary meeting. Let me remind you that next week, Ukrainian national deputies work on committees, commissions, and factions. The next plenary meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine will take place on Tuesday, April 17, at 10 a.m. Allow me to join in all those greetings to the Ukrainian people, those Ukrainians who will be celebrating Easter in two days. To wish peace to all Ukrainians, whatever religion they may be, to wish everyone a delicious belt, a merry holiday. And I declare the morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine closed. Thank you.
