ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-06-m0.u1	Dear colleagues, good morning! Please come into the hall and prepare for registration. Dear national deputies, invited and guests of the Supreme Council of Ukraine! National deputies of Ukraine are requested to prepare for registration. Please turn on the "Council" system and ask the national MPs to register. [[10:05:06]] 357 national deputies registered. Dear colleagues, guests of the Supreme Council of Ukraine! At a meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine there are Prime Minister of Ukraine Vladimir Borisovich Groysman and members of the government. Hello. [[Applause]] Heads of central executive bodies Leaders of the judicial branch The present officials elected by the Supreme Council of Ukraine are appointed, appointed and approved to serve, representatives of public organizations and the media, heads of foreign diplomatic representations. Other officials. Dear colleagues, in accordance with article 83 of the Constitution of Ukraine, the eighth session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine declared open.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-06-m0.u2	Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-06-m0.u3	The morning plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-06-m0.u4	Dear colleagues, distinguished national MPs, distinguished members of the government, guests, invited! The head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Andri Volodymyrovich Parubius, is invited to attend. Please, Your Honor, Mr. Head.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-06-m0.u5	Dear colleagues, today we begin the work of the eighth session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the eighth call. We have a lot of questions in our agenda, and the committees are preparing them, and the factions are offering them. But I would like to determine, to my conviction, the key prerogatives for this session. There is no doubt to me that for the Ukrainian Parliament, at a time when the Ukrainian army is holding back Russian aggression, there is no question of number one remaining on the issue of security and defence. And this cluster of issues, as in the previous session, when we passed the Depopulation Act, and today we can unlock it, should remain key. Among the security and defence blocks, I would define the National Security Act, which is not only important for security sector reform, but essential for Ukraine's integration into NATO. And NATO integration for us is one of the key issues of foreign policy, and this has been confirmed by the Supreme Council of Ukraine by its vote. I am also convinced that it is important for us to take another step in the major judicial reform that we are taking together with the President of Ukraine, the government. And we're in the day-to-day order, perhaps the last of the most impeccable laws in the judicial system is the Law on the Establishment of the Anti-Corruption Court. Today we will be able to include it in the agenda. And on the basis of the first and second readings, I'm sure we can process and take into account the recommendations of the Venice Commission. I would like to remind you that in fact all of our laws relating to judicial reform have received the previous conclusion of the Venice Commission and have been taken into account. I think we can do the same with the Anti-Corruption Court Act. Moreover, it is not only part of the Ukrainian reform, but today it is also our international commitment to our international partners. The next important block is a cluster of issues needed for European integration to fulfil Ukraine's commitments to our partners with the EU. I want to thank both the committee and the government and the Prime Minister of Ukraine for preparing a common road map under the laws that are most necessary today to fulfil our obligations. That's a lot of laws. They are from different backgrounds: both economics, and ecology, and decentralization, a few important laws. But a road map has been drawn up, and we have made a commitment that at each session several laws that are important for European integration should be in order daily. And by the way, today the first two laws, which are in the order of the day, are also part of the package of our commitments and on our way to European integration. And here is the very important work and cooperation that was in the previous session and that is and will be in this session between Parliament and the government. Also, a cluster of economic issues that the government jointly worked on and the Committees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, which were presented, were 35 legislative acts. And this is also the result of our cooperation and cooperation between the government and the committees and the Ukrainian Parliament. And of course, the big question for this session is human resources. My colleagues, I remind you, are ahead of our appointment to the Central Electoral Commission. There's already a submission from the President. I have made an urgent decision for a special review, and I am confident that Parliament will make this decision soon. It is also the appointment of the head of the National Bank of Ukraine, as well as the appointment of the Commissioner for Human Rights and the Court of Auditors. These are the commitments that are before the Ukrainian Parliament and that the Ukrainian Parliament, I hope and I believe, will be able to resolve in this session. We have many important issues, among them I would like to call Parliament reform. We've had a lot of debates, a lot of consultations. At the level of the working group, we identified two key bills that we made a commitment to accept here in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. This is a reform of Parliament, which is primarily necessary for the Ukrainian Parliament, but it is also a commitment with our partners from the European Parliament. I'm sure we're all full of energy and energy. I am sure that we will be able to put aside any political opposition to the state's important tasks, which are not only before the Supreme Council, but before the Ukrainian State, because here, in the Supreme Council, the agenda of the Ukrainian state is being formed. In times of great challenges, in times of opposition to the Russian aggressor, I'm sure we're all full of responsibilities, full of energy for work, for Ukraine's future, for Ukraine's strengthening, for the building of a powerful European Ukrainian state. In a good way! Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-06-m0.u6	Thank you, Mr. Head, for the key perspectives you have set out for this session.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-06-m0.u7	Dear colleagues, today is a very busy day. And I would like to thank the Prime Minister of Ukraine, I would like to thank the members of the government, the diplomatic authorities, all those invited to participate in the opening of the session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. [[Applause]] Thank you. I hope for active cooperation and hope for fruitful and constructive work. My colleagues, I would like to point out that today is the birthday of our colleague Vladimir Miroslavi Solar, and let's say hello to our friend Strela, the self-defense fighter of Maidan, the Idar with his birthday. Welcome, Comrade Vladimir. [[Applause]] And in accordance with article 25 of the Rules on Tuesday, we have 30 minutes for statements by authorized representatives of the MPs and groups with proposals, announcements, messages. I'd like you to sign up for the factions and groups. Please participate in the recording and registration. Please. From the Peter Prashenko Block to the word, the head of the Arthur Gerasimov faction is invited. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-06-m0.u8	Dear Irina Volodymyr, distinguished colleagues, distinguished voters! The faction of the Party of Peter Poshenko, first of all, welcomes a fellow Parliamentary with the first plenary session of the eighth session. The Supreme Council faces ambitious plans for the development and strengthening of our country. We have two main challenges: strengthening Ukraine's defence and economic growth. During this session, Parliament should pay special attention to matters of national security and defence, for the struggle to restore Ukraine’s territorial integrity does not stop for a moment, and each one should remember that. I would like to remind you that this year, a record 165 billion dollars have been placed in the budget to strengthen security and defence, which offers more opportunities to resist the aggressor. Last year showed Ukraine’s potential for economic growth and development. The Peter Prashenka Party faction believes that there is a need to continue to stimulate the development of entrepreneurship, investment and the creation of new jobs. In particular, I stress the initiative of the President of Ukraine to create a financial security service and introduce tax on the capital. Both bills are discussed directly with business community representatives, investors and experts. The economic development is inextricably linked to overcoming corruption. Already today, we need to unlock the work of the committees on Ukrainian Presidential Bills on the Establishment of an Anti-Corruption Court (7440 and 7441). And by the way, I'll remind you that it was the President of Ukraine who initiated most of the key anti-corruption initiatives: and the creation of the NAB, and the creation of the SAP, and the creation of the NAM. I would also like to remind you of the Presidential draft of the Land Deconcentration Act (7363) is another step towards overcoming corruption in the field of land relations. The adoption of such a law will allow the territorial communities to manage the land on their own, significantly reducing corruption risks and creating an additional source of funding for local budgets. Cancelling the electronic declaration for public organizations is about Bills 6675 and 6674. These initiatives are an important component of the development of democracy based on the European experience of accountability of public organisations, directly to society. In this session, we also have to consider human resources decisions, such as the selection of the NABU auditor, the new composition of the CSF and the head of the National Bank of Ukraine. Association Agreement with the EU The position of the faction of the Party of Peter Poshenko and the President of Ukraine is one: we must not limit ourselves to success, we must work on greater integration into the economic and security space of the democratic Western world. And finally, on behalf of our faction, I would like to remind you of the need for the adoption of Bill 6659 on the creation of the Memorial Museum Complex of the Heroes of Heaven. I sincerely hope that Parliament will unanimously support this decision. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-06-m0.u9	Thank you, Mr. Arthur. And now we invite the distinguished head of the People's Front faction Maxim Burbak. Please, Mr. Maxime.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-06-m0.u10	Hello, colleagues, Madam Chairman! Yesterday, the People's Front registered a draft decree on the appeal of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to international co-operation in connection with the illegal preparation of the election of the President of Russia in the temporarily occupied part of Ukraine, in the Autonomous Republic of Crimea and Sevastopol. The Ukrainian Parliament should address the world community to prevent the so-called elections of the President of Russia and, in fact, the redefinition of Putin to be held in Ukrainian territory. The process of electoral preparation and the establishment of the occupation regime in Crimea and Donbas is accompanied by systematic and widespread violations of the rights of the local civilian population, repression, murder, and torture. The cynicism of the toll killings is well traced to the date they chose to vote in order to emphasize their reverential and aggressive mood. This is March 18th, the fourth anniversary of Crimea. We must declare the preparation of illegal voting in the occupied Crimea, as we did during the so - called elections to the State. Then, for the initiatives of the leader of the People's Front, Arsenius Yatsenuk the Supreme Council passed the decision not to recognize elections to the State as a whole with appropriate legal consequences. Today, Parliament is to do the same to the whole world to prevent the so - called elections of Putin in Ukrainian territory. Crimea and Donbas are officially recognized as occupied territories. We urge Parliament to vote in favour of this ruling as soon as possible. The People's Front also insists on unlocking the law on temporarily occupied areas of Donbas. We call on Parliament not to vote in favour of the ruling that a bunch of pro-Crem3 wastes in this room are trying to harm the Ukrainian people. You're not gonna make it! Donbas and the fact of the occupation of these territories are recognized in Ukrainian legislation. The law is the basis for the formation of a whole system and a consistent state policy on the aggressor state and the creation of preconditions for the restoration of Ukraine's territorial integrity. The basic principle in this policy should be to strengthen national security, the security of all Ukrainians and our state. Russia will be called to account as an aggressor who has grossly violated the fundamental principles of international law. There can be no attempt to give us a scenario to solve a situation that is contrary to the nature of the conflict. On Donbas and in Crimea, there is an external invasion, not invented by Kremlin propagandists of internal conflict. Next. The People's Front is in favour of creating an Anti-Corruption Court. We are convinced that Parliament should begin its consideration of the relevant bills as soon as possible. Many lengthy discussions are ahead, but we need a just, effective justice system. In exchange for the Christmas judges, new, chosen professional personnel are expected to come. Thousands of criminal acts against corrupters launched by the U.S.S., the U.S.A., the U.S.S.A., must finally be brought to a legal end. Only a fair court in anticorruption matters will guarantee that the authorities concerned do not engage in political persecution and empty piazzars. Once again, I would like you to show patriotism and common sense in today’s vote. National security and the enemy's reprisals must be.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-06-m0.u11	Thank you. From the faction of Self-Help, I invite Yegor Sobolev. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-06-m0.u12	What tasks of Parliament do we see before all of us now? First of all, we have to pay our debts. What was promised is what people stand for in Parliament: the Anti-Corruption Court Act, the new election rules, the restrictions on parliamentary integrity and the President's impeachment procedure. We have to put everyone before the law, we have to make the law over any officer. And this is a very important task, without which there will be no confidence in many other decisions we make. Next, we have to give business freedom. I think a lot of people have noticed that Ukraine is in one of the worst countries in Europe in terms of freedom of business. We need to put a tax on the capital we have put out to give the business a fair chance to pay it and manage it with their profits. We need to create a financial investigation service instead of a terrible scarecrow that we now have in the traditions of the Tax Police. Finally, we have to eliminate all the vetting, penal institutions that, apart from the nightmare for business, bring nothing, starting with the famous "K" administration, the most honest administration in the Ukrainian Security Service, which is what it's called: corruption. This has to go away. And we think we should move on by lowering the tax on wages. Those steps that we have taken in this Parliament have shown that it is good for business, good for people and good for paying taxes. So we need to move on so that the concept of pay in envelopes will disappear in our lifetime. Finally, the decisions that are important to the defense of our nation. We continue to insist that trade with the enemy, when it continues to attack our lands, attack our people and, according to many estimates, prepares for a large - scale invasion of Ukraine, such a trade is immoral. We offer to reduce its power for new attacks, to refuse to buy in Russia all the goods and services that we can produce ourselves or purchase in friendly countries. This is a very important, honest and responsible step that the Ukrainian Parliament has to take, even when the Ukrainian President, along with the other oligarchs, is enriched in this trade.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-06-m0.u13	Thank you. I'd like to invite you to the floor of the People's Deputy Valery Pisarenko of the Rebirth Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-06-m0.u14	Dear colleagues, welcome to the start of the new session! We very much hope that this session will be more productive in our decisions, where people will feel that Parliament is really grappling with people's real problems. As we communicate every day with our voters, including my district in Kharkiv, we realize that we are very far away today from the issues that people really care about. And unfortunately, the reforms that we're talking about don't come to people, they only come to tariffs, they increase prices daily, and people feel it from our activities. That's why the last few years have been Parliament. The level of trust in Parliament has fallen to the lowest level in the history of our parliamentary system. So we need to review our attitude towards the order of the day session. And we need to take care not only of commercial issues, we need to take care not only of how we work with business, but also of social issues. I want to say that one of the challenges for this session will be the issue of the Anti-Corruption Court. We have registered our draft law, and we believe it is the most effective one with regard to its compliance with both the Constitution of Ukraine and other laws of Ukraine. Within our judicial system today, our Bill 7440-1 will fully meet the requirements of the Venice Commission. We've taken all the requirements into account, and so have we. The Venice Commission, as well as most of the requirements of the International Fund and the World Bank. This reform is essential. We need to form an independent Anti-Corruption Court, because today we have an alarming situation. Ukraine holds first place in the world at the level of bribery and corruption in business. The vast majority of Ukrainians -- 80 percent -- find the fight against corruption unsuccessful. The international partners no longer believe that we can launch an anti-corruption system, here. And the last. Everyone saw how recently even a humanoid robot with artificial intelligence couldn't do it, depending on what he was asked to do with corruption in Ukraine. So we suggest that we move on to this issue as quickly as possible and consider our bill on the establishment of the Anti-Corruption Court. We also suggest that Parliament not postpone the appointment of members of the Central Electoral Commission, because we have actually started a campaign. Including, please consider changing the head of the National Bank in order to balance stability today in the financial system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-06-m0.u15	Thank you. I invite you to speak to the faction of the Party of the Fatherland, Sergey Sobolev. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-06-m0.u16	Dear colleagues, no doubt, the Anti-Corruption Court -- but only according to the conclusions of the Venice Commission. The issue of immediate changes to pension legislation so that 5 million out of 12 million rural pensioners will finally feel what pension reform is. And the issue of the country's security is the questions that stand in the order of the day of this session. But what is surprising is that when owners of companies sit in this session room, the appropriate judicial authorities testify to their direct relationship with the FSB authorities, who are notoriously destroying the country’s security. I just want to quote a ruling from a court that decided to remove all the documentation from a company owned by a Ukrainian national deputy and is in this sessional room. I read: "The confusion is motivated by the fact that officials of the Ministry of Defence, acting with knowledge and prior conspiracies with representatives of special and intelligence bodies of the Russian Federation and owners, starting in 2016, have been supplying innocuous oil for tanks, which has led to the stopping of more than 20 tanks that can actually be dumped today." Who supplied this olive? So-called "Agrinol." Who owns this company? Alexander Ponomaryov, former head of the Berdjansk Regional Party, is now an active member of Parliament. And that's not all. After the authorities discovered this fraudulent affair, which contained marked coins that appeared as bribes to representatives of the Ministry of Defence, one of the largest warehouses in Slovenia, where 350 tons of this so - called oil was stored, burned on January 27, this year. So they tried to hide all the ends, as they hope, these adventurers, but it's no longer an adventure, it's already a known destruction of combat technology. We're all over the world asking for weapons, Javelins to destroy and protect us from Russian tanks, and we have our tanks destroyed in the back. My address is to be considered as a reference to the B.S.A., the D.A., and the N.A.U.U. And I would like to get the answers of the relevant authorities as to how these individuals will be punished. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-06-m0.u17	Thank you. From the faction of the Opposition Block, National Deputy Yuri Boyko. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-06-m0.u18	Dear National Deputies! It became evident that the authorities had finally lost confidence both inside the country and abroad. All without exception of initiative and reform are aimed, not at the benefit of the Ukrainians, but at the harm. In order to avoid further deterioration of the socio-economic situation, our political power insists on meeting requirements that are of practical importance to all Ukrainian citizens. First. Finally, listen to the government report and resign. Adopt the country's exit program from the economic crisis. If not, we are ready to present our program. Adjust and accept the budget. Reduce the cost of a power block for the benefit of social programs. To put an end to the policy of increasing conflict on Donbassa. Cancel the Reintegration Act. All recent initiatives by the authorities undermine the trust of Western partners. Adopt a clear program to end the conflict in the east and return to the territory of the people. In view of the international resonance, to revise the Education Act, to maintain relations with neighbors, and to ensure a decent level of education for our children. We demand that the government and parliament abolish pseudomedical and pension reforms. Stop lying to retirees, especially the military, and provide them with a decent pension under the law; stop using the country as a medical research field; find among doctors; and appoint a competent health minister. We demand an immediate report from the force force, a special session of Parliament and the government on the criminogenic situation in the country. We demand that alternative paramilitary units be banned and disbanded, which force ministers stamp to strengthen personal power. This destroys the foundations of statehood. This authority is used because it is uncontrollable to anyone in the country. We demand that, as in a normal European state, hand over the opposition to control functions: the Ombudsman, the Court of Auditors, a number of committees of the Supreme Council, representatives of the CLTC, which should be reflected in the Opposition Act. And the last. We believe that in a country where people don't trust authority, we need new elections, early elections. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-06-m0.u19	Thank you. And I invite you to the speech of the People's Deputy, Oleg Lášk of the Radical Party, Oleg Lášk. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-06-m0.u20	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. For our team, the top priority and the new political season is overcoming the poverty of Ukrainians. Because security, national defense, economic development, they're like these waves breaking down into a huge rock, a rock of poverty, a raw addiction, a beggary. When we look at sociology, when 55 percent of young people want to leave Ukraine, because they don't see the prospect of realisation, because the low wages, because the pensioners who have worked their whole lives, get a copy pension. If we don't solve the global Ukrainian problem, the problems of poverty, we won't solve any other problem. There's no future country where people can't see the future. There is no future country where people do not link their fate to their home country and where they seek happiness abroad. So the key task for our team is to change economic policy radically. Too bad there's no government, there's no international corps, there's no government. Instead of listening to the demands that the political powers place on today’s authorities. Our demand is to overcome poverty through economic policy change, through the protection of a national producer, through all programs that will help create jobs for Ukrainians, raise Ukrainian incomes. To trade, not raw materials, but products. Trade, not national interests, but promote national interests. What kind of authority does politics have today? We're told that you can't raise wages, you can't raise pensions, but you have to raise tariffs, you have to raise prices, you have to sell land, you have to do everything else that makes Ukrainians forever dependent and raw. We're against this policy. We're asking the government not to raise prices on. House-communal tariffs. Because these prices that are, people can't pay anymore. A massive default crisis. More than 70 billion dollars are budgeted for utility subsidies — in fact, the preservation of poverty and the preservation of addiction. We demand not just the appointment of the head of the National Bank, but a radical change in monetary policy, in order for the national business to get cheap and long loans so that there is money in the economy so that we can stretch our goods in the external markets. That's what politics should be like! Unfortunately, the authorities can't hear us. Unfortunately, the authorities live one day, they get loans because they know tomorrow they're not going to return those loans, and we're going to, my team is going to have to pay back the loans they get. I will pursue such a policy that Ukraine will not owe anyone as Turkey. If we respect ourselves, we value ourselves.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-06-m0.u21	Thank you. I invite the people's deputies to return to the hall. And we're moving on to the day-to-day issues.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-06-m0.u22	Wait a minute! I'll ask you! Colleagues! I am. Excuse me? Listen carefully to the Head of the Supreme Council. We colleagues have one very important question that we need to resolve without delay. After our jointly responsible Depocation Act, which requires immediate signature and decision-making, a draft Decree on the Cancellation of the Decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine of 18 January 2018 on the adoption of the entire draft Law on the Specialities of State Policy for the Promotion of State Sovereignty was registered. In order for me, as Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, to sign the law, it is necessary to consider the decree and cancel it so that this law can be signed. And I would like us to be able to speak with the first question and this determination, so I would recommend that we reject it so that we can sign this law. The rejection order does not need to be placed in the agenda of a day’s session and is considered immediately after the committee’s decision. We have a decision in our hands by the Rules Committee, and we can move on to this ruling. I would like to remind you that it is being considered automatically by a summary procedure, which, as you know, is being considered and then: two in, two in, and two in, against. And I'm announcing the transition to Project Order 7163. And I invite you to the report of the National Deputy of Ukraine, Papiev Mikhail Mikolaiovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-06-m0.u23	Thank you. Honorable National MPs of Ukraine, distinguished TV viewers! It is now under review in the decree to cancel the decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, which was adopted on 18 January 2018, regarding the Ukrainian Law on the Specialities of State Policy and the State Sovereignty of Ukraine over temporarily occupied territories in the Donetsk, Lugansk. Why did this decision come about? I would like to draw attention to this Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, because we have a systematic violation of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. And yet we need to learn to abide by the law of Ukraine, because the Rules are approved by the law of Ukraine, and this is the basic rule that we must adopt laws so that they will not be questioned about the procedure for their adoption. For example, there is a comparative table, but there is a clear rule of law that it should be given to the Ukrainian National Deputies ten days before the second reading of the bill. What do we see? The comparative table on January 12 was missing at all and appeared in the evening, four days before the beginning of the discussion. Thus, the consideration of the bill from 16 to 18 January 2018 was totally not in line with this rule of the Rules – this is article 117 of the Rules. Next: Article 116 of the Rules states that it is necessary to consider only those amendments to those articles and standards that were adopted in the first reading. In a comparative table, there is an analysis, which says that all the amendments included, even those articles that did not exist in the first reading. So this is an absolute violation of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules. Dear colleagues, and most important.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-06-m0.u24	Please, 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-06-m0.u25	And basically, if we're talking about Europeanism, I'm pointing out that the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe adopted Resolution No 2198 of 23 January on the humanitarian consequences of the war in Ukraine. And we need to take these positions and social issues into account, and the humanitarian issues in this law. So the faction of the Opposition Block has not voted in favour of this law, voted against, I would like to support and repeal the adoption of this law as one that was adopted from.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-06-m0.u26	Thank you. The co - report invites the first deputy chairman of the Committee on Rules of Procedure, Phinenic, Pavel Vasilovich. Please, Mr. Paul.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-06-m0.u27	Dear Head, the country's distinguished deputies of Ukraine! The Committee on the Issues of the February 6th Rules discussed a draft Supreme Council Regulation repealing the decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine of 18 January 2018 on the adoption, as a whole, of the draft Law on the Specialities of State Policy for the Protection of the State Sovereignty of Ukraine in Interimly Occupied Areas in the Donetsk and Lugansk Areas (registration No. 7163), introduced by the National Deputies of Ukraine Boyk, Wilkull, Papiev. Registration number of this Decree 7163-P of 19.01.2018. As well as the written application of these National Deputies of January 19, 2018 for the annulment of the Supreme Council decision on the adoption of the bill as a whole. And according to part of article 48 of the Rules, the Committee adopted a conclusion that: the procedure for the annulment of decisions of the Supreme Council is defined by the provisions of article 48 of the Rules and, in particular, provides for the referral of the People's Chamber to the chairman of the plenary with an application in the event of a violation of the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine when considering and voting the bill, as well as the submission of a written statement to the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine at the same time as the adoption of the relevant draft regulation. People's deputies, the authors of the legislative initiative: Boyko, Wilkul, Papiev, according to the provisions of the 48th Rules, after the consideration and voting of Bill 7163, have complied with these requirements, made a written statement to the Head of the Supreme Council and submitted an appropriate draft decision for consideration by the Supreme Council. The Committee has drawn its conclusions in detail – you have the opportunity to get to know them – and invites the Supreme Council to decide whether to adopt or reject the draft decision by voting. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-06-m0.u28	Thank you. Please record: two in, two in. Please. The opposition block is Boyko Yuri Anatoliyovich. Please, out of the way.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-06-m0.u29	Dear Mr. Head, distinguished national MPs! Our faction did not vote. I voted against the law called the Law on Reintegration, because we believe that this law is contrary to all the international agreements that our nation has in the way of restoring the territorial integrity of the country, the return of territories and people. We think that this law has given an extremely negative signal to people who are waiting to return to Ukraine in uncontrolled territories, and this has become a very negative signal to them that we do not see them again in our nation. Moreover, we believe that this law violates the constitutional foundations of our nation because it does. It opens the way for the further usurpation of power by the President of Ukraine and the possibility of distinguishing elections in any region of our country, using the norms of this law. That's why our faction essentially welcomes the PARJE Order, which requires that civil consequences be taken into account -- the consequences of the East conflict and the humanitarian disaster. And we think we should consider this position. And our faction will oppose this law and vote in favour of it. We call on Parliament to listen to this voice and to make the appropriate decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-06-m0.u30	Thank you. From the Self-Help faction, Roman Semenich. Please, Mr. Roman.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-06-m0.u31	Semenha Roman, "The Self-Help Union" faction. Unfortunately, dear colleagues, the Supreme Council for the fourth year of war did not make war the most important: it did not call war a war, that is, it did not recognize the reality. And the debate in today's Parliament reminds me of the debates 100 years ago among members of the Central Council who hesitated to declare war on the Russian Federation, while Poltava, Kharkiv, Hadzic were already occupied by the Bolshevik army. And today, the Western world is once again proposing to us in the draft law that we include references to the Minsk Accords. But I want to remind you of the story, because that's all there is. Similarly, in 1919 the Treaty of Versailles did not see the blood - flowing Ukraine in the civilized European world. Similarly, the civilized European world was criminally silent when, in the 32-33 years, Ukraine hid its citizens for millions. Similarly, the civilized world in Yalta in the 45th year split Europe in half, giving it half under the Kremlin yoke. Dear colleagues, I'd like to address you, I'd like to address the citizens of Ukraine: the diplomats are not returning their territories. Because just like 100 years ago, Gruszewski convinced Central Council deputies, Petluru was solely on a diplomatic path. But only his own army, his own Armed Forces, returns his own territory. The Supreme Council acknowledged and took the first step through this bill – it recognized Russia as an aggressor, but it was not enough. We have to move on: stop any occupation trade, break all international contracts that are with Russia today, because we can't sit on two chairs like this -- reality has to be recognized as a reality. So Self-Help voted in favour of this bill in the first reading and proposes not to vote in favour. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-06-m0.u32	Thank you. From the People's Front, the word is given to the head of the faction of Maxim Burbak. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-06-m0.u33	Dear colleagues, I call on all responsible deputies, regardless of which faction, the political party they belong to, to vote in favour of repealing this decision. So no vote for the decision of the occupying bloc to block the signing of Ukraine's law, which for the first time is recognized by Russia as an aggressor country, should be given in this room. I would like to propose to those colleagues -- the authors of this decree -- if you are so concerned about the social protection of the Russian occupation regime, then make a bill about it, don't impose on us the paradigm that you're being handed over from the Kremlin because of your Medvedchuk's sprawl with the fact that in eastern Ukraine the civil conflict is an open aggression of Russia. And Russia, according to the law in force, will be responsible for materially, criminally, politically for all the crimes that it is currently committing in eastern Ukraine and in the temporarily annexed Crimea. Not much, once again, yesterday's People's Front has been registered with the rulings that have been applied to the entire world community to prevent the holding of so-called presidential elections, and in fact Putin's redesignation by the President of Russia in Ukraine. We can't let these elections happen, and these elections should be illegal. We've done this once before, when the so-called elections were held to the State and when the leader of the People's Front, Arsenius Yatzenuk, registered the decision, we all voted and supported it. Therefore, we will not allow a rematch of the fifth column of the Kremlin in this room and will do our utmost to unlock the signing of this bill. Dear Mr. Head, put to the vote, we don't give a vote, we sign, and the law goes into effect. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-06-m0.u34	Thank you. Kishkar Pavlov Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-06-m0.u35	Paul Kishkar, National Movement of Ukraine Of course, the value of this law is both to help our diplomats and to recognize Russia as an aggressor. But it will probably be more valuable to do and implement it, and the work that Kabmin must do, which then has to be done by military and civilian administrations in places. I think it will become our government's mind to fill this law with concrete actions, to find specific mechanisms for providing human security in these areas, to ensure their social guarantees, medical services, and the quality of other services that the State will provide in the territories when they are repossessed. We're going to do everything we can to help our government form such institutional bases, fill it with resources, people, fill it with the ability to do so so that people can hear us, that we don't leave them, that these territories and these people we think are Ukrainians and Ukraine. And let's do everything we can to make them come in as clearly as possible and go back to Ukrainian life. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-06-m0.u36	Thank you. The word is given to Irina Heratchenko. In two minutes, the vote will take place. And I'm asking all the national deputies to come into the hall. Please invite all the factions of the factions to the Hall. Please, Mrs. Irina.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-06-m0.u37	Thank you. Honorary colleagues mentioned the last resolution of the very important Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe on the humanitarian consequences of the war on Donbass, a resolution by the Russian Federation. As a member of our delegation, I should point out that this is the first time that the Ukrainian Law on Depopulation is recognized in this resolution. What's more, the importance of this law that we passed with you is that for the first time, there are rules of international law that are being established on Donbas today by the effective control of the Russian Federation. And this legal international norm is set in dozens of resolutions and the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, and the Parliamentary Assembly of the OSCE, and resolutions of the European Parliament. As a permanent participant in the Minsk Humanitarian Subgroup, I want to point out that one of the key challenges that we have in Minsk is that participants from the Russian Federation pretend that "we're not there," and they're playing, you know, Vanku-ass of themselves there, playing that scene that seems like Russian troops, Russian mercenaries, Russian weapons are not in Donbas territory. So this law, it just finds out the truth, it finds that this territory, just like Crimea, is occupied today. The only difference is that the occupation of Crimea has been recognized by Russia, and Donbas does not admit it. And we need to help them. At the same time, I want to go to the session room and not show cognitive dissonance. When in some cases we listen to the position of our international partners, such as the issue of a very important anti-corruption court, and in others we pretend that there is no international support or recognition of the Minsk Accords. The Minsk Accords did not resolve the war. They help to restore peace. And this law is not at all contrary to the Minsk covenants. Because the Minsk Accords are enshrined in another legislation: the Amnesty Act, the Law on the Specialities of Local Self-Government, which we have voted with you. And actually, we're moving for it.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-06-m0.u38	30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-06-m0.u39	We're moving with you to free Donbas by combining two paradigms: diplomatic efforts and reinforcements of our army, fighting for those people, for those three million citizens remaining in occupation on occupied Donbass. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-06-m0.u40	Thank you. So the discussion is over. I'm asking everyone to take up jobs. We move on to the vote, to the decision-making process. So, colleagues, I'd like everyone to come into the hall. After this vote, we will vote in favour of the agenda for this week. And I'm asking everyone to come into the hall and remind themselves of the draft Decree 7163. And whoever backs the signing of the Law on Bribery votes against it. So that we do not lose sight of this vote in the hall. Therefore, who is in favour of not signing the Law on Depilation, he is voting in favour of this decree. You got it, right? So, I am voting on the draft Decree repealing the decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine of 18 January 2018 on the adoption of the entire draft Law on the Specialities of State Policy to guarantee the State Sovereignty of Ukraine over temporarily occupied territories (7163). Please vote, please identify yourself. Let's vote, colleagues. I'd like to make a statement. [[11:00:33]] For-37 The decree is rejected. This opens the way for the signing of the Law on Depopulation. Congratulations, colleagues. Now, colleagues, could I have your attention for a moment? I've announced this on the Conciliation Council on Thursday and Monday that not all the committees have made proposals on the agenda for the entire session. Nine more committees have not submitted their proposals; they will only be submitted on Wednesday. Therefore, it is suggested that we approve the weekly schedule of the session. The one you got, the one we talked about, the one that's on your hands. In order for us to be able to work fully, we need to establish a weekly routine. Everyone, please come into the hall. Colleagues, I just want to emphasize the important thing. Literally this morning, the committee was drafted by a draft decree on the application of the Supreme Council of Ukraine in connection with the approval of Sejm and the Senate of the Republic of Poland to amend the National Memory Institute Act. And it's proposed that we establish the order of the week's week, but the first law in this order of the day's week was this draft decree. I am convinced that the Supreme Council of Ukraine should respond quickly and effectively to the challenge we have been facing in the past week. I believe that this was a blow to the back of the warring Ukraine, which protects the whole free world, including Poland, and so there is a proposal that, in considering the order of the weekly session, we should first ask the Order on the application of the Supreme Council of Ukraine regarding the decisions adopted by the Seimas and the Senate of the Republic of Poland. Can we keep it up, colleagues? Shall we go to the vote? I ask everyone to prepare for the vote. And one more thing, colleagues. I prepared a committee in the morning to build a memorial complex for the Heroes of Heaven (6659). And there is a request that we include him in the weekly agenda. Does everyone support that? It is a common issue of honoring our heroes. And so, colleagues, I ask you to proceed to the vote. Please take your seats so we don't vote a few times. Please take up employment in a disciplined manner. And I put to the vote the weekly agenda of the plenary meetings of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on February 6-8, which is given to you, with the first draft of Decree 7553 on the application of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, as well as on the memorial complex of the Hero of the Heavenly Sotny (6659). Please vote, please support. Colleagues, every voice. Please vote, please support. We're voting carefully. Please be supportive. Careful, fellows! Vote! [[11:03:50]] For 186 186, colleagues. Let me show you through the factions. I'm asking you to invite the deputies to the hall. And I, my colleagues, want to stress once again the importance of making this decision. Please invite everyone to the hall. This is a procedural moment that we have to accept. Without it, we will not be able to move on to issues of order and, above all, to the Order of the Supreme Council of Ukraine in connection with the approval of Sejm and the Senate of the Republic of Poland of changes to the National Memory Institute Act. We can only deal with the second reading, so that we will not be able to accept this decision. I'm asking everyone to invite the deputies to the hall. I see that insufficient numbers are MPs, factions. Everyone please take up their jobs. Everyone, please come into the hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-06-m0.u41	For the weekly agenda, the first question will be the Order of Our Answer to the Polish Seima. [[B in m in s a l in]] The first one. To start with it. [[Noise Nodes]] For a week, but that's the first question. So the first question is this decision. So, can we vote? Please. For a week. [[Noise Nodes]] So, colleagues, I'm once again asking you to take up jobs. I am voting on the proposal to approve the weekly agenda for the Supreme Council Statement in connection with the approval of the Seimas and the Senate of the Republic of Poland to amend the National Memory Institute Act. Everyone please take up their jobs. Please vote and please support. Colleagues, I ask everyone to take part in the vote. Please vote and please support. Jaroslav Moskalenko, please vote. Let's vote, colleagues. Please be supportive. Each voice has a weight. Vote. [[11:06:34]] For-191 Tell me about it, colleagues. [[B in m in s a l in]] So, if we don't vote for the weekly agenda now, we won't be able to consider either the Supreme Council of Ukraine response order, we won't be able to address the issue of the memorial complex of the Hero of the Heavenly 100, we won't be able to consider ratifications of international agreements tomorrow. You explain the logic to me. Is it logical to block Parliament's work? Is that what this is all about? Colleagues, I say, if there are no votes, we're going to move on to second reading, but it will be the personal responsibility of everyone who hasn't voted. Personal responsibility. I'm going to call it not only factions, but I'm going to call it MPs who didn't vote, personally, that they didn't let Parliament vote today in response to the Polish Senate and the Seima. And please do not engage in political intrigues and stop political games on the first day of the session! So, colleagues, I'm asking everyone to take up jobs. I ask you to prepare for the vote. Please show me your final vote on the factions, please. The last vote on the factions: "Clock of Petra Poshenko" – 84, "National Front" – 63, "Resistance Block" – 0, "self-help" – 16, "Radical Party of Oleg Láska – 15, "Fathership" – 0, "Will of the People" – 0, "Resurrection Party" – 4. I have a question. Is that a principled position? "The will of the people," Jaroslav Moskalenko! Is it a principle position not to vote in response to Seim and the Memorial Hero of Heavenly Hundreds? Colleagues, is this a principled position? I don't understand? It's some kind of intrigue that I don't understand. So, colleagues, I'm voting again. Please take up your jobs. Please take your seats, prepare for the vote. So once again, I am proposing to vote to support the weekly agenda of the plenary meetings of the Supreme Council of Ukraine with the amendment that the draft Decree 7553 on the Supreme Council's application in connection with the approval of the Seima and the Senate of the Republic of Poland of amendments to the National Memory Institute Act and the draft Law on the Construction of the Museum-Museum Complex of the Heroes of Heavenly Sotany (6659). Please vote. Please be supportive. Every voice has a weight, fellows! Please vote and please support. Vote, fellows! Please be supportive. Please vote. [[11:10:00]] For 238. Decision taken. Yes, I say thank you, I say thank you for understanding all the factions and groups that have joined the vote. This is a responsible position, as it should be in the Ukrainian Parliament, which ensures stability in the state. And so we are moving to the draft decree on the application of the Supreme Council of Ukraine in connection with the approval of Sejm and the Senate of the Republic of Poland of amendments to the National Memory Institute Act, the Commission for the Investigation of Crimes against the Polish People and Other Legislative Acts (7553). I ask you to support the consideration of the reduced procedure. Please vote, please support the reduced procedure. [[11:11:01]] For 205 Decision taken. And I invite you to the report of the Ukrainian National Deputy Hopko Hanna Mikolayevna. I would like to remind you that, on my orders, the committee has worked out this decision with the participation of all factions, with the participation of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, and will now be able to present it to Hopeko Hanna Mikolayevna. Please, Mrs. Hanna Mikolayevna. The author, as an author, is an author.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-06-m0.u42	No, no.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-06-m0.u43	Then, Hanna, I'm sorry, I was given that in the document. Then I invite Mr. Tarasyuk as the author, and then he will be the head of the committee. Please, Mr. Boris, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-06-m0.u44	Dear Mr. Head, distinguished national MPs! Learning about the decisions of the Polish Seima and the Senate, you inadvertently conclude that the Polish deputies want to surprise and offend the entire nations. And I think they're doing it. This is evidenced by protests in Poland itself. This is evidenced by the reaction of Ukraine, the United States, Israel, Canada, and the European Union. It seems that Polish parliamentarians at the national level are engaged in anti - Ukrainian politics, resulting in chauvinistic rhetoric, physical attacks on Ukrainians, destruction and embezzlement of Ukrainian monuments on the graves in Poland. The authors of this statement point to the unwarrantedness and legal futility of the adopted National Memory Institute Act. And we believe that only objective, considered and impartial assessment of all historical circumstances, common knowledge of the facts of history, the application of personal rather than collective responsibility, the crimes against humanity and war crimes that took place during the first half of the twentieth century, due respect and equal concern for the memory of all the victims in the territory of both our nations and the sincere Christian forgiveness to which Saint John Paul II urged us to avoid the mutual mistakes of the past and to build a strong and reliable strategic partnership between Ukraine and the Republic of Poland, which is a guarantee of peace and security throughout Europe and the world. The authors of this statement call on the President of Poland.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-06-m0.u45	Please, how long does it take? 30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-06-m0.u46	They call on the President of the Republic of Poland and together with Sejm and the Senate of Poland to return to the Ukrainian-Polish relations due diligence, rationality, kindness and strategic partnership. Glory to Ukraine! Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-06-m0.u47	Thank you. And I invite the head of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine in the foreign affairs of Hopeko Hanna Mikolayevna to report.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-06-m0.u48	Good afternoon, fellow Ukrainians! In our statement of the Supreme Council in connection with the approval of the Seima and the Senate of Poland of amendments to the National Memory Institute Act, the Commission for the Investigation of Crimes against the Polish People and Other Legislative Acts, we make it clear that such a law would pave the way for open dialogue, free exchange of thoughts and academic freedom. That is why such a law caused resentment not only in Ukraine but also in the United States, Israel, and the countries of Europe. This law is incompatible with democratic values and also opens the way for manipulation and strengthening anti-Ukrainian trends in Polish society. The Supreme Council of Ukraine does not explicitly accept and reject the politics of double standards and the imposition of ideas of collective responsibility on the Ukrainian people, as well as the attempts of the Polish side to compare the actions of all fighters for Ukraine's independence to the crimes of the two totalitarian regimes of the twentieth century – Nazi and Communist. Having adopted such changes to the National Memory Institute Act, which introduces criminal responsibility for denying so - called crimes of Ukrainian nationalists and gives a biased and contradictory definition of this concept, the Polish deputies took another step towards the politicization of history, the oppression of hysteria and the creation of artificial tension between Poland and other countries. And that is why, on behalf of the authors of our draft statement, namely, the majority of the factions of Parliament and of the Committee in foreign affairs, I call for the unanimous support of the Supreme Council's statement. And I would also like to thank the authors of another statement -- 7551, which we rejected, but the authors supported. Because I think that the Ukrainian Parliament should show unity and a consolidated position to give its assessment to the totally unfriendly steps of the Polish Seima and the Senate. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-06-m0.u49	I'm asking you to do the recording: two in, two in, two in. And, colleagues, we're discussing a dual issue not only for Ukraine, but also for the international dimension, and I would ask for constructiveness and restraint when we discuss the issue. First of all, I'd like to invite you from the People's Front Medunice. Medunica gives the word to Mikola Knieżick. Please, Mr. Mikola.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-06-m0.u50	The People's Front, of course, supports this decision. We are deeply outraged by the disgraceful claim that puts responsibility for terrible crimes against mankind in fact against the entire Ukrainian people. We support the statement made by the President of Ukraine, we support the statement made by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, we testify once again that we will never offend the Ukrainian minority in Poland, nor the memory of the Ukrainian people, nor of the Ukrainians who are currently working in Poland. At the same time, I would like to thank those Polish parliamentarians who did not support this law, from all of our Parliament, voted against it. I would like to thank the Polish intelligence, and I would like to thank the Polish politicians who continue to stand up for our strategic solidarity, to support us in the fight against the Russian aggressor, and to point out once again that the initiators of this Polish law clearly do not act in favour of Poland and not in favour of Ukraine. We are already repeated witnesses, as the third party, the Russian Federation, which is fighting with us, is using strained relations between us. We call on the wisdom of Polish politicians, ask the President of Poland to commit this law and to demonstrate our solidarity with all the peoples who defend the right of democracy in Europe. People's Front will vote in favour. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-06-m0.u51	From the Radical Party to the word Igor Mosiychuk is invited. Please, Mr. Igor.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-06-m0.u52	"We forgive and beg your pardon" is the very words of the great Pole Karol Entered, better known as Pope John Paul II, should be based on Ukrainian-Polish relations. Sadly, though, in the Polish Parliament and Seima, most of them came to power by Polish chauvinists, late Pilsudsky supporters, supporters of people who killed Ukrainians and who sowed enmity between the Ukrainian and Polish people. The adoption of a law that our journalists sometimes called "antibanderian," although there is no mention of Stephen Bandera's famous memory, is actually anti-Ukrainian, not anti-banderian or anti-milling. It is anti-Ukrainian, and the reaction of the Ukrainian Parliament and the Ukrainian authorities must not only be in regulations and empty words. We do. The faction of the Radical Party of Oleg Láška requires: first, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs to call for consultations by Ambassador Petr Prášenk of the Republic of Poland, as the Israeli Knesset proposes; second, we ask the President of Ukraine to meet with his Polish counterpart immediately and to persuade him not to sign this anti-Ukraine law. And the last. We demand that a working group be set up in Parliament, led by our colleague Yuri Romanović Shuhevich, who will consider the bills, proposals and regulations and assess the genocide against the Ukrainians who made the Poles during the Visla operation and so on.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-06-m0.u53	30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-06-m0.u54	and the so-called "pacification." The Ukrainian Parliament and the Ukrainian authorities must act with dignity and give a worthy repudiation. If we do not respect ourselves, no one in the world will respect us. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-06-m0.u55	Thank you. Before I give Sergei Sobolje's word, I want to make a little announcement. There is now an Albanian delegation headed by the Foreign Affairs Committee, Mimi Kocheli. Let's welcome our colleagues from Albania, our brothers. Welcome! [[Applause]] Thank you for your support, and we look forward to your next cooperation. And now I'm inviting Sergey Soboljeva of the Fatherland faction. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-06-m0.u56	Dear colleagues, I would now like to address you not even the citizens of Ukraine. There's a live broadcast going on in the Polish Seima of our session. I would like to address the Polish parliamentarians who endorsed this decision. For the Ukrainian people, the Smolen tragedy, when the flower of the Polish nation died, was the same tragedy as for the Polish nation. For our people, all the abuse of the Communist Fascist regime was the same tragedy as for the Polish people. And so when we are told today that radical forces have awakened in Poland and are trying to pass such laws in the background, I have one question: who is leading these radical forces with their hands? Was it not the same Putin in Moscow who wrote a draft of this law that you approved? You know, when there was a famous film in Ukraine by Jerzy Hoffman, which is controversial, but which ends with the key words, "While the Polish Way and the Ukrainian Cossacks were cleaning each other up, the big, "the friendly" Eastern Partner took over everything and made us slaves." Let's not repeat the history of such complex but at the same time such wonderful Ukrainian-Polish relations. The one thing is, let's face it, there's one possibility today that we can fix this and turn that bill that you've approved into history. And no one has the right over the centuries to appreciate what happened. And there will always be Polish-Ukrainian friendships. The glory of Ukraine and the glory of Poland!
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-06-m0.u57	Thank you. From the "Rebirth Party" Kulinich Oleg Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-06-m0.u58	Please pass the word to Volodymyr Litwin.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-06-m0.u59	Please, Mr. Vladimir.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-06-m0.u60	Dear, distinguished colleagues, apparently the Supreme Council's response is necessary, but the problem is what this reaction should be. To my deep belief as a person who has made a lot of effort along with the people's deputies here to build up Ukrainian-Polish relations, it is very important. To my deep conviction, we must make a decision if it is a decision, and it must be a wise decision. We should not take the lead in national politics by trying to convince the Polish side. To begin with, it was necessary for the deputies to become acquainted with this law. Then we'd probably have fewer bullies. This is the first time. Secondly, it would not be unnecessary to mention some of the laws adopted by the Supreme Council of Ukraine that made international relations more difficult, including Poland. And finally, about this content of the law, this statement. To some extent, it acknowledges what the Polish law says. We read, "Contradictive definition of the term "crime of Ukrainian nationalists." So the concept is, it's the only one that's contradictory. And so on and so on. If you already write, you have to write a reasonable text in terms of logic, in terms of politics and in terms of grammar. Finally. Where is our Ukrainian-Polish Assembly in Parliament? Perhaps we should offer and have a meeting? I suggest that if you accept this application, you work it out. But in this statement, to propose a meeting of groups of national MPs, intelligence, to invite experts, to listen to their opinions, and to make a joint informed decision. If you vote for this statement, I guarantee that the next day or the same day, the law will be signed. We're just the Polish President.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-06-m0.u61	Please, 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-06-m0.u62	We are simply our statement by the Polish President, urging him not to sign the law, forcing him to do so! I offer to include cold judgment and to make a judgment, not a hasty decision. But a wise and responsible decision is needed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-06-m0.u63	Thank you. From the Self-Help faction of Irina Podoljak. Two minutes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-06-m0.u64	Dear colleagues! We all need to teach a great lesson to our Parliament and to us as politicians from those laws that are now at the stage of approval in the Polish Parliament. We can see the consequences of the thoughtless instrumentalization of historical science in politics. It causes crises, causes misunderstandings, and causes conflicts. This should be a big lesson for us if we are going in a democratic way and if we are to share common values with Europe. But the most important thing in the attention of the Ukrainian Parliament is more than a million Ukrainian labour migrants who are now working in the territory of the Republic of Poland, who are now helping the Republic of Poland to maintain and raise its economic level. They are now threatened with these laws. Freedom of speech and free communication are threatened. These labour migrants, who are now being rebuilt by Poland, the Polish government is calling refugees, thus covering our citizens from the hundreds of thousands of refugees that they could receive from the Middle East. Poland and Ukraine are now the cornerstone of European security in connection with the war against the Russian Federation. And this has to be decisive for the future of Ukrainian-Polish relations. Therefore, we do not require anything in the Senate or in the President of Poland, we simply demand that Polish-Ukrainian ties be brought back to a constructive path.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-06-m0.u65	30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-06-m0.u66	We demand that our ties be restored to constructive cooperation, pragmatism, and neighborliness. We propose to support this application. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-06-m0.u67	Please, now, Andrew Illenko, two minutes, co-author of another decision that was rejected by the committee. And from the non-fractionals, Andrew Illenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-06-m0.u68	Andrew Illenko, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. For Ukrainian and Polish patriotic politicians, it has always been an axiom that in the face of Moscow aggression it is necessary to put aside all historical contradictions and unite our efforts against the common enemy. But today, Ukraine is experiencing a Moscow invasion, and at this very moment, some Polish politicians have shown an insurmountable desire to grind up historical wounds and raise conflicting historical topics, doing so in a highly inappropriate, Hamic and supreme way. We do not force Poles to be considered heroes, although certainly many may not like us. But please respect our right to have an identity, to have a history, and to have a state. And that's actually the whole point of our response. We, the representatives of Freedom and the National Corps in Parliament, have submitted our draft Order 7551, in which we call for a firm, firm response to what is happening today and to address the Seima, the Senate and the President of the Republic of Poland in order for them to come to their senses and stop doing this. We also realize that in this situation we need to work together. The Balto Black Sea axis should not be buried. Ukraine and Poland are the nucleus of this axis. And today, these actions of Poland, they unfortunately undermine it. And here I'd like to say a few more words about Ukrainian power, which very often, in a one-sided order, gets on its knees, takes a position in the essence of a comprehensive capitulation, where it also very often provokes such a reaction. So there has to be a strong position, there has to be a state position. We call for a vote, including in favour of this project, which is currently under consideration, although there may be questions to it. But that is the position that must be taken in order to come out of this crisis. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-06-m0.u69	Thank you. From the Opposition Block, Scorch, then Jurinec. And this is going to be the final performance. There will be a vote in four minutes. Please invite the deputies to the hall. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-06-m0.u70	Mr. Chairman, distinguished colleagues, respected Ukrainian citizens! From the faction of the opposition block party, I wanted to address all the colleagues in this room without voting for this application. I'll explain my position very simply. Poland has always been not just a friend to Ukraine but a key partner of Ukraine in the European Union. Poland remains our strategic partner in all directions. I believe that Ukraine, as the largest European state, should live in peace with all its neighbours. Today we have problems, and this statement will definitely strengthen them, problems with the Republic of Poland. We have problems with Hungary. Hungary today stated that it would require the introduction of a separate OSCE mission in Zakarpat. We have quite a serious dispute with Romania. I mean, if we listen to our authority, we live in a complete environment of enemies. A few years ago, we lived in an environment of friends or states with which we had quite a normal relationship. This statement is a continuation of a totally weak foreign and domestic policy that leads only to the division of people by nationality, by ideology, by language and so on. I very much ask my colleagues not to support this bill. Because once again, this is going to have a pretty serious impact on our bilateral Ukrainian relations. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-06-m0.u71	Thank you. And a closing statement from Oxana Jurinec's "Peter Dust Block." There'll be a vote in two minutes. Please invite everyone to the hall. Please, Mrs. Oksana.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-06-m0.u72	Dear Mr. Head, distinguished national MPs! We are not living in a simple time, both in Ukraine today and throughout Europe. Today, we politicians, Poland, and Ukraine depend very much on us. I would like to recall this week's story that it was the President of Ukraine's statement today that stopped the signing of this bill. But this is not the end of the story that started today between our Polish-Ukrainian relations. Both the Assembly and the Polish-Ukrainian Friendship Group are trying to hold this discussion. Today I want to contact our colleagues in Poland. Our task is to lead our peoples, to lead our nations. Our job today is to do everything we can to build the future. Returning to the past does not do us any good; we must remember it. As stated in the statement, "We're sorry and we're sorry" is the best formula a great man could come up with, the great Polish John Paul II. Today, we stand at a crossroads where we have to make the right informed decisions. Every word we say, every action we take and every step we take is a responsibility. Let us be responsible politicians! The Peter Dustenka faction supports this statement and calls for the whole hall to unite. Today, the position is not separate from that of each of us, but rather the position of the representatives of the State. Be statesmen, and then we'll be fine. In unity, our strength, our prosperity, and our victory! The glory of Ukraine and the glory of Poland!
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-06-m0.u73	Colleagues, therefore, have concluded the discussion. Now I'm asking the committee head to say for a minute, actually, a summary of the discussion. And I invite everyone to the hall and I ask you to prepare for the vote. Please, Mrs. Anna, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-06-m0.u74	Good afternoon, dear fellows! There are two amendments from the Radical faction that they want us to do editorially. In the first paragraph, "responsibility for denying the so-called ", we add "crimes of the Ukrainian nationalists" and "prejudiced and contradictory" instead of "disputable anti-historic definition of the concept." Therefore, I would like to support the text of this statement, taking into account these editorial amendments, the soundings, and those that have been considered on the committee. Please vote and support this statement now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-06-m0.u75	Thank you. So, colleagues, let's move on to making a decision. Take up jobs. And I put to the vote a draft decree on the application of the Supreme Council of Ukraine in connection with the approval of the Seimas and the Senate of the Republic of Poland to amend the Act on the Institute of National Memory – the Commission on the Investigation of Crimes against the Polish People and Other Legislative Acts (No. 7553) on the basis of and in general with technical law, and with the amendments that Hanna Hopko has made to the transcript. Please vote, please support. Vote, colleagues, please. [[11:37:42]] For 242 It's been decided. Colleagues, I welcome you to make your decision. But I hope that we will no longer have to make such decisions, I hope that the Polish side will hear us, our great partners who have helped Ukraine both in Midan and in recent years, and during the ATO. And I've stressed many times, when Ukrainian soldiers protect not only Ukraine, but the whole free world, and Poland, including, we want to know that there are reliable comrades and trusted brothers with us. So I hope that the war of declarations and the war of laws will be stopped, and we will jointly build our common future, including the Balto-Black Sea arc, and together we will stand against the only enemy -- Russian imperialism. And now, colleagues, as we have voted, the next is the draft Act amending the Final Provisions Act of Ukraine's "Regulating Urban Activity" on some of the issues of building a memorial museum complex of the Heroes of Heaven. These are the two laws that we have included and then the economic bloc and the Society with limited liability. So let's move on to Bill 6659. I hope we will consider it quickly because it supports everyone because it unites everyone. And I ask you to support the consideration of the reduced procedure, please. [[11:39:28]] For-191 Decision taken. And the report invites Ukrainian national deputy Heratchenko Irina Volodymyrna, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-06-m0.u76	Thank you. Dear colleagues! It's the law. Bill, it's technical. As you will recall, on March 16, last year, the Ukrainian Act "On Making Changes to Chapter V "The Final Position" of Ukraine's Law "On Regulation of Urban Activity" on measures to ensure the respect for the feat of participants in the Dignity Revolution and to perpetuate the memory of the Heroes of Heaven. We then adopted this law as a basis, and in general, we took into account both those observations, and the nuances that were proposed at the time, for example, by MPs representing "Freedom," other political groups and factions. At the same time, in the process of agreeing to take away this land area, it was found that the area to be built under a memorial-museum complex consists of several land areas of municipal property and also parts of land activities. State-owned areas that are in the constant use of the State-owned Hotel Ukraine. And after consultations with the Kyiv city authorities, we were told that in order to speed up all these procedures, the Supreme Council would simply change the law. And I pointed out there that it's supposed to be an appropriate piece of legislation not to mention the specific addresses of the land that are provided for the construction and installation of the entire building and the building of the museum complex. It is very important that this bill has been discussed on the Pro-Profession Committee on Prevention of Corruption, and it does not reveal any corruption component. Likewise, I thank you today for considering this bill and recommending it to the vote. And I'm asking very much from a group of authors, and this is to MPs from almost all the factions of Parliament, to take it as a foundation today, and in general, to speed up the building of the memorial, and to make a decision for the anniversary of the destruction, the murder of the Heroes of Heaven. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-06-m0.u77	Thank you. The co - report invites the first deputy head of the Committee on Construction and Urban Affairs, and the Andriewsky Dmitry Josephovich. Please, Mr. Dmitri.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-06-m0.u78	Dear National Deputies! Dear Mr. Head! The Committee on Construction, Urban and Housing has today considered a bill to amend paragraph 6-2 of Chapter V of the Final Position Act of Ukraine on the regulation of urban activities on certain issues of building a memorial museum complex of the Heroes of Heaven. The committee unanimously supported this bill for the implementation of construction measures in the full scope of the National Remembrance Complex of the Heroes of the Sky, the Museum of the Dignity Revolution. Please support Bill 6659 as drafted by the committee and accept it in the first reading on the basis of the suggestions that are presented under the transcript.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-06-m0.u79	And in general, right?
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-06-m0.u80	Yes, and in general.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-06-m0.u81	Thank you, colleagues. Please record: two in, two in. Let's talk about it very briefly, because it's there. Please. From Peter Poshenko's Block, Antonisztak Andry. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-06-m0.u82	Dear Society, I propose to support this bill as a whole. I urge all the deputies of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to vote in favour, because that is the minimum that we can do to perpetuate the memory of our brothers who died in Maidan. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-06-m0.u83	Thank you. And, colleagues, a closing statement from the People's Front, and in two minutes, there will be a vote. That's why I'm asking all the heads of factions. Give it to you, right? Okay. Okay. Please invite everyone to the Hall and ask the factions to invite the deputies to the Hall. The People's Front is Kodola Alexander Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-06-m0.u84	Alexander Kodolah. The People's Front faction will support this important decision. Vote in favour, please support everyone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-06-m0.u85	Thank you. From the Fatherland faction, Igor Lucenko. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-06-m0.u86	Dear colleagues, the Fatherland faction is really going to support this initiative, but two points need to be highlighted. First of all, it's about to be the fifth year since Heaven's 100 died. So far neither the city authorities of Kiev nor the Cabinet of Ministers nor the Ministry of Culture have settled the issue of the memory of Heaven’s hundreds, nor the building of the necessary facilities to house the Maidan Museum and other facilities. At the same time, I recall that there was an illegal construction in Kiev of President Mikitas and Kononenko's business partners, including a large number of illegal buildings in other areas. So illegal construction happens successfully, instead of the Celestial 100, we forget all the time. And I remind everyone that the best monument of the Celestial 100 would be the convictions of the Berkuts and the other criminals who killed them.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-06-m0.u87	Thank you. Another minute from the Radical Party, Igor Mosiyczuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-06-m0.u88	Igor Mosiyczuk, Oleg Lachka Radical Party We will, of course, uphold this law, vote in favour. But I'd like to pay attention to a little bit of another thing. On the way out of Lukyanivsk, yesterday, a man was severely beaten by the memory of the Celestial 100. Why did this happen? This happened because our inadequate courts punished him for up to four months at the end of the year. We demand that any encroachment on Ukraine, on Ukrainian values, on Ukrainian heroes should be punished adequately. Because if the law of law doesn't work, the law of power starts to work, and then we can lose the state. Let's not let that happen!
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-06-m0.u89	Thank you. So the faction discussion is over. One minute from the committee, and we're voting. Prepare to vote. Please, one minute, Dmitri Andryewsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-06-m0.u90	Dear colleagues, I thank you very much for supporting this very important law that we are taking with you in order to speed up the withdrawal of the land and to resolve the urgent issues that the MPs have been talking about. I would like to read from the transcript of paragraph 6.2, which in principle takes away all the questions that were before this bill: "To establish that the operation of part three of this law does not extend to the provision of land in Kiev in the use of the National Remembrance Complex of the Heroes of the Celestial 100 – the Museum of the Dignity Revolution for the construction, operation and maintenance of the memorial complex and its components. It is prohibited to change further the target destination or owner of land listed in paragraph 1 of this paragraph and to transfer land, parts or premises of a museum to a lease or sub-rent. Thus, we have only one possibility of building a museum complex there that honors the memory of the heroes who died in Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-06-m0.u91	Thank you. So let's move on to making a decision. And I'm voting on the draft Law amending section V, paragraphs 6 to 2, of the Final Position Act of Ukraine on the regulation of urban activities on certain issues of the construction of the memorial museum complex of the Heroes of Heavens Hundreds (No.6659) on the basis of and in general, taking into account the Committee's proposals and with technical and legal remedies. Please vote and please support, colleagues. Vote, please. [[11:48:30.]] For 255 The law is passed. And we're moving to the chapter of economic policy. And now the first question in the order of the week, the one that we've approved, we're going to have, we're going to have a draft of the Limited and Additional Responsibility Society Act (4666) is an extremely important bill. It's got about 500 rights. But at the same time, it's important to the Ukrainian economy, and it's important in the path of European integration. And I invite the head of the Economic Policy Committee, Ivanchuk Andriy Volodymirovich, to report. As long as Andrew Volodymyrovich comes along, 30 seconds to announce Irina Heraszczenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-06-m0.u92	Dear colleagues, thank you once again for voting so consolidated for the important Law on the Monument of the Hero of the Heavenly Hundreds. And a statement came to the fore from the national deputy Alexander Dehtirczuk asking that his vote be disregarded for the draft Decree 7163 on the annulment of the decision under the Law on Reintegration. Our colleague is simple. the button didn't work properly. Thank you so much for taking this position into account.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-06-m0.u93	Thank you. So Ivanchuk Andry Volodymyrovich. We're starting the process of considering a large and important bill. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-06-m0.u94	Good afternoon, Mr. Head, distinguished national MPs. Welcome to the opening of the next session of the Supreme Council. And for your consideration, there is Bill 4666 on Society with Limited Responsibility and Additional Responsibility. I would like to inform parliamentarians that this issue is regulated today by legislation that was adopted in the far-reaching 91st year. And society with limited responsibility is the very common form of business in Ukraine. More than half a million companies with limited responsibilities in Ukraine. So it is very urgent for us to adopt this bill, to make this reform so that our Ukrainian medium-sized business gets quality European legislation. Dear friends, there were 503 amendments to the bill, 360 more than sixty percent of them counted. And I thank all the authors of the legislative initiative for the attention they have given to the bill. During my meeting with all the factions and groups of the Ukrainian Parliament, we discussed controversial things on the final line. And we agreed on everything. So, Mr. Head, with your permission, I'd like to read under the transcript what we've been working on in order for it to be included in the body of the bill. Article 24 of the bill excludes. The project foresees cases where the participant may be excluded from the association, especially if he has not made or has not made a full contribution (art. 15, part two, para. 1) if the heir or successor does not appear for a long time (one and a half years) (art. 23, part two). At the same time, the project does not establish the consequences of such exclusion. In particular, should the Society pay off the value of a portion of the disfellowshiped? If so, how is this cost calculated? When is the company supposed to report the cost calculation, and so on? So it's proposed that article 25 of the "Participant's Exit" project be added to some of this content. "Paragraph 13. Part eight, article eleven, also applies to the consequences of the general congregation’s decision to exclude a member from association. Not later than 30 days from the date of adoption by the general congregations of the participants of such a decision, the Society is obliged to inform the former participant or his heir or successor of the value of his share. The cost of the particle."
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-06-m0.u95	Colleagues, a very large bill. And the committee head is asking for another three minutes. I don't think there's gonna be any objection to him sounding that compromise position that was agreed upon during the committee's work last night until late night. Please finish for three more minutes, Andry Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-06-m0.u96	Thank you. "The cost of the particle is determined by the condition of the day preceding the day of the decision by the general assembly of the participants to exclude the participant from the association." On December 21, 17th, the Supreme Council passed Law 6016, on Auditing Financial Reporting and Auditing. Therefore, article 42 of the project on the conduct of audit in part of the use of terms is proposed to be aligned with the new Law on Auditing Financial Reporting and Auditing Services. In the Final and Transitional Positions of the Project, article 17 of the Ukrainian Law on State Registration of Legal Persons, Entrepreneurs and Public Forms is to be supplemented by a new part of five. In particular, in sub-paragraph 2 of this part, paragraph 12 of Part Five, paragraph 2, states such a document as a judicial decision that has gained legal power to enforce the purchase of a portion of the participant. And in paragraph 22 of Part Five, there's a reference to this point e. At the same time, the project does not provide for a form of protection, such as the possibility of bringing a lawsuit for the enforcement of a portion of the participant. The project foresees only the possibility of being disfellowshipped in two cases. It is therefore proposed in the new part of article 17 of the Ukrainian Law on State Registration of Legal Persons, Natural Persons - Entrepreneurs and Public Forms, to exclude paragraph 12 (order 499). In paragraph 22, the characters "e" should be deleted (line 507). A new part of article 25 of the Ukrainian Law on State Registration of Legal Persons, Natural Persons - Entrepreneurs and Public Forms - is to be ruled out (order 510). In addition, it is proposed to take into account the rights of the People's Deputy Sidorovich from the Self-Help faction number 257 to paragraph 2 of Part One of Article 28. That is, the company's property is not enough to satisfy the creditors' obligations that are due or not enough to decide whether to pay dividends or make payments." During the discussion at the "Paternity" faction, it was proposed in the "Principal Positions" of the State Registration Bill to prohibit the registrar from registering changes to the Society Statute if such changes were accepted without taking into account the votes of the deceased. It is proposed to make appropriate additions, as well as to introduce appropriate technical and legal remedies. And, Mr. Head, given that I am the author of this bill, it would be inappropriate if I did not thank everyone who had joined in writing this bill because it was wrong. I would particularly like to thank Valentina Ivanovni Danejewski, who is now the Head of the Supreme Court, who was then the director of the Commercial Law Center. Office of the National Investment Board, National Securities Commission, Ministry of Economic Development, Ministry of Justice, European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, lead.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-06-m0.u97	Please, 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-06-m0.u98	To all the top leading law firms in Ukraine, and also to all the national MPs who care about them, who have made a very large contribution to this bill being born, I thank you all. The committee asks for support in the second reading and in general.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-06-m0.u99	Thank you again to the Head of the Supreme Council, please. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-06-m0.u100	A special thanks to the Head of the Supreme Council for having started the next session of our Parliament with such an important reform. Thank you, Andrey Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-06-m0.u101	Thank you. That's right. So, colleagues, we've heard a thorough, systematic report from the committee head. I'm reminding you, 500 rights have a bill, 360 of them are included. A very large and systematic work was carried out. And I suggest that the right-wing authors prepare, especially, Mr. Chairman of the Committee, I ask you for a recess to discuss with Mrs. Victoria the Bird in a separate opinion and position. I want to stress right away, because there's a letter to announce a separate position. Such a rule is provided only during the first reading of the complete procedure. Lawyers can confirm that. And you talk during the break, how, whether you insist on all the adjustments, or whether you're allowed to speak once, but longer. You can talk about it. But I think that all of us are interested in making this bill as systematic as possible, as harmonious and as positive a decision as possible. Now, according to the Rules, we have a 30-minute break. I ask the right-wing authors to prepare themselves. At 12:30, we will move on to the discussion of the rights to draft Law 4666. And I'm asking the right-wing authors who are unaccounted for to take a half-hour break for a constructive dialogue with the committee head. I'm calling it a 30-minute break. At 12:30, I invite everyone to the conference room to continue our work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-06-m0.u102	Dear colleagues, the time for recess is over. Everyone, please come into the hall. I would like to ask the head of the committee, Ivanchuk Andrija Volodymyrovich, to take up the post of battle. And while the deputies enter the hall, I want to read two announcements that have come to the presidency. The first one. In accordance with part three of article 60 of the Ukrainian Act on the Rules of Procedure of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, I report the withdrawal from the MP's "Block of Petra Prashenko" by the Ukrainian national deputy Krivenk Viktor Mikolaiovich. Second announcement. In accordance with part three of article 60 of the Ukrainian Act on the Rules of Procedure of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, I report the withdrawal from the MP's "Block of Petra Prashenka" by the Ukrainian national deputy Kishkar Pavel Mikolaiovich. Colleagues, so I remind you, we have begun a review of the draft Law on Society with Limited and Additional Responsibility (No. 4666). A report came from the chairman of the committee, and after the break, we agreed to move on to the law review. [[B in m in s a l in]] So I'm asking the right-wing authors to get ready for work. Now I'm giving Victoria the Birdman three minutes. She made about 40 right-handers. I give her my word. And then we'll go all the way down. Please, Mrs. Victoria, three minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-06-m0.u103	Thank you. Dear National Deputies! I wanted to inform you that as a member of the Economic Policy Committee, I took advantage of my right to give a separate opinion and a limited-responsibility bill, and regarding that editorial that is being proposed to you today. I want to draw your attention to the problems that exist today in the paper that is proposed. And try to destroy this problem so that we can have a really good text on the way out that will protect members of limited liability societies, their heirs and all the participants in the right relationship. In particular, the project provides for rather substantial problems in the inheritance of a share in the statutory capital of societies. Because according to the project's proposed second reading, heirs may be deprived of their share regardless of the heir's will. I mean, imagine a situation where, for example, a member of a society who has a will to get a share of his business, but according to an editorial prepared for second reading, his former associates can gather and deprive his wife of the right to an inheritance. In addition, part of the inheritance does not regulate the payment of interest to the heirs of the deceased participant. The project does not provide for the possibility of excluding a deceased member from the company and, in particular, is defined in part two of article 23 of the project. But it does not provide for an order of reckoning with such heirs, which means that if a former member of the deceased is expelled, no account will be taken of the heirs. Moreover, the editorial that you will be invited to consider also provides for and read out to the head of the committee does not provide for the duration of any reckoning with the heirs of the deceased. The project foresees the mandatory admission of heirs to a dead member of the Society. This means that if the heirs of a deceased participant wish to receive at least some compensation from their share, they will necessarily have to be thrown into the company to obtain any compensation. Imagine that, God forbid, a young man dies and that his mother or his underage children inherit that portion. In order to obtain compensation, they will have to be part of the Society’s membership, become such managers, attend the general meeting of the participants in order to continue to resolve the issue of receiving compensation. The project also allows individuals who are not even part of the association to get out of association. Except.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-06-m0.u104	Please finish 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-06-m0.u105	In addition, the project limits the idea of dispossessing relationships and the ability of participants to determine for themselves the rules by which society will carry out its activities. In particular, the project does not provide for the right of participants to agree not to apply the institution of exit from the association at the level of the statute. The project prevents participants from agreeing on and banning the sale of particles to third parties if they decide to do business in the future, for example in the same warehouse as they started.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-06-m0.u106	Please finish 10 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-06-m0.u107	So I'm asking you very much to pay attention to the problems that I've heard, and I've described in my own particular thought, which, unfortunately, has not been added to the committee's decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-06-m0.u108	Thank you. And, colleagues, please ask the right-wing authors to prepare for a fruitful and constructive discussion. I will, as always, call the license numbers, when someone wants to put on confirmation, he will do it by raising his hand. I'm just going to call the adjustments that are rejected. So let's get started. 1st. Don't insist. 2nd. Don't insist. Third. Don't insist. 6th, Roman Semenha. He insists. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-06-m0.u109	Dear colleagues! Semenha Roman, "The Self-Help Union" faction. My readout refers to the following. According to the draft law, members of the association who have not fully contributed are jointly responsible for the company’s obligations within the cost of not making part of each contribution from the participants. Therefore, it is my right to clarify that such participants are responsible only in those cases of non-contribution after the end of the deadline for submission. According to the draft law, it is proposed that the state registration of society be granted after six months. In my view, clarification is not the same as in the statute of the future enterprise, but in the body of the law it will provide a clearer answer to the questions and contradictions that arise between members of society. Thank you, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-06-m0.u110	Please vote in favour of Amendment 6. Sixth Amendment of People's Deputies, please. [[12:39:51]] For-50 Excuse me, please, 50 votes supported your amendment, it's not coming through. Next: 10th, Sidorovich. Sidorovich insists? Don't insist. Thank you. Odarchenko, 12. Don't insist. Captain, 15th. Please, the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-06-m0.u111	Olena Sotnik, Self-Help faction. Thank you. The fifteenth amendment refers to the limitation of the limited number of members of society, because today the authors of this bill are proposing an essentially unlimited number – this means that there may be a thousand, and two, and three thousand participants, as I believe, in terms of corporate governance and the enforcement of minority owners' rights, this will be a very serious problem. So in my amendment, it is suggested that I limit the number of participants. In all other cases, these are, in fact, shareholding societies. That's the first one. And the others. Still, I wanted to know from the head of the committee, with all due respect for him, the readouts and the changes to the second reading, were they still the decisions of the committee? So on what basis are we going to do this? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-06-m0.u112	Please comment to the committee head.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-06-m0.u113	On the first question, the national MP, Stonik, suggests limiting the number of participants. At a committee meeting, we decided that the participants themselves should determine whether they needed a limited liability society, a new one, where there would be more than 100 participants, or where there would be more than 150 participants, where there would be fewer participants. So they have to make this decision for themselves. So the number that would limit it. So let's say this is a model situation: there are 100 participants, there are one dead, and there are three heirs. It's going to be a hundred and two. What can we do about this with limited responsibility? So this is such a counterversive observation, and I think it's better if there's no such restriction and let the participants decide for themselves. What about the amendments I read? I read them, they're on the basis of the committee's decision, and at the request of the people's deputies and the Ukrainian Parliament, they're going to decide whether to count them or not. As is the case with amendments that are considered or not taken into account by the committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-06-m0.u114	Thank you. We vote in favour of amendment No. 15 of the People's Deputies of the Sotnik. Please. [[12:42:40]] For-59 59 votes. No, you're not. If I don't name someone, if you'll excuse me, raise your hand, and I'll announce it. Lechenko, 28. Don't insist. Sidorovich, 67th. Don't insist. Man, 68th. Don't insist. Birdfowl, 95th. Don't insist. 98th, Bird. Don't insist. Sidorovich, 104th. Please, 104 revisions. And before that, there was the 103rd Bird, look, Mrs. Victoria, if you insist, I'll give you my word. Please, Sidorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-06-m0.u115	Ruslan Sidorovich, Self Help Unit. The amendment refers to a situation where participants may not fully form statutory capital. And the bill suggests that society can then accept one of them."and there's still a list of solutions. Paragraph 4 suggests that one solution can be to eliminate society. Well, I think it's completely illogical in the case that one of the participants didn't make his contribution, which should even lead theoretically to the elimination of society. In some situations, this may even lead to some manipulation and abuse on the part of such a participant. That is why I propose that part four of article 14 be excluded. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-06-m0.u116	I've got the position. Colleagues, I'm asking for a 104th amendment of the Sidorovich People's Deputy. [[12:45:02]] For-59 59 votes. Not supported. 106 repairs, Semenha. Please, Mr. Semensi's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-06-m0.u117	Semenha Roman, "The Self-Help Union" faction. Ladies and gentlemen, my appeal also suggests that we clarify the circumstances in which contributions are made by participants. That is, I propose to include in the draft a rule that, if a member of the association has made a contribution, including not making a contribution to the repayment of the debt over the additional term, the association, a member of the association, which together accounts for 10 percent or more of the statutory capital, which has fully contributed, may file a claim against the court for compulsory execution of the obligation to pay the participant’s contribution. Apply the legal age of one year to such requirements. Please support me, because this will also remove the likely manipulations. And it's more right to bring it into the body of the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-06-m0.u118	Thank you. Colleagues, please proceed to the 106th Amendment of the People's Deputies of Semimenha. The committee turned her down. Please make up your mind. [[12:46:17]] For-66 Not enough to support. Next up: 118th, Odarchenko. Don't insist. Next: 150th, Bird. 143rd? I didn't see it. Now, okay, 143rd. Edited. But Mrs. Ptashnik, the author insists on taking full account. Please, Mrs. Bird's microphone. 143 revisions.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-06-m0.u119	Dear colleagues, the table given to you says that the amendment is edited, although it is completely unaccounted for, it is rejected. The correction is precisely based on the principle of dispossessiveness. This means that participants at the statutory level can agree on how to further alienate their shares. So we suggest that, at the statutory level, participants may impose a ban on the alienation of a share and correspondingly by unanimous voting to third parties. So they can agree on the shore that they will no longer let anyone into their business, they have a limited circle of participants, they have a limited circle of associates, and they're going to make a unanimous decision, and they're going to anchor it in the charter. So please support my amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-06-m0.u120	Please comment to the committee head.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-06-m0.u121	I confirm that everything that Victoria the Bird has said is in this law. They have the right to stipulate that without their consent, no part of the parties will go anywhere, in the statute, please, but not in the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-06-m0.u122	Thank you. You insist. Yeah? Please vote. [[12:48:19.]] For-60 The decision is not taken. Next amendment number 150. Don't insist. 142nd. Please, National Deputy Sotnik.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-06-m0.u123	142. An amendment is for confirmation, because I think it was not before the first reading, and here it is proposed that the committee head's amendment actually introduce the possibility of excluding the majority of the participant's right to ransom. I believe that this contradicts the established theory of civil law and, in principle, the Civil Code that is in force today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-06-m0.u124	Please comment on the committee head.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-06-m0.u125	Dear Mrs. Siroid, we're introducing the concept of corporate agreements. When the participants signed a corporate agreement and agreed to it, why are we giving them this stock deal? Why do we introduce the concept of a corporate contract, if only it will be regulated, as it is now, our legislation has been outdated since the 1990s, just a statute? So I demand and ask all deputies to support this amendment. We accepted it on the committee so that it would be in the body of the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-06-m0.u126	Thank you. Please confirm amendment number 142. The committee is in favour, please. [[12:49:55]] For-67 The decision is not taken. Next amendment number 159, People's Deputy Sotnik. 159th. No, it doesn't. 166th. Please, National Deputy Sidorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-06-m0.u127	Ruslan Sidorovich, Self Help Union. Colleagues, in this case, it's a pretty important thing. We predicted that in the case of a portion of the portion belonging to the debtor where the execution is carried out, it is offered to the participants first before being auctioned. That's logical and that's right. At the same time, I would like to add that before we put the stake on the auction, we offer to sell it to the company itself, because the participants may not physically have the opportunity to buy the stake, but companies may have the circulation costs. In order to avoid allowing outsiders inside a society with limited responsibility for enterprises that, as rules, are created for a limited circle of persons, I propose adding that it is necessary to offer the company before the auction itself to buy out the share that is owed to one of the participants. Please put to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-06-m0.u128	Thank you. Will the committee comment? Oh, no? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-06-m0.u129	Mrs. Chairman. We believe that if the company has funds, the participants can get material aid from it and buy it out to the contractors. I mean, you don't have to. Well, put it on confirmation.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-06-m0.u130	Please vote. Amendment No. 166. [[12:51:50]] For-69 The decision is not taken. Next amendment number 169, national MP Sidorovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-06-m0.u131	Dear colleagues! In this case, it's another question that's actually going to happen today in a really old edition, but it has legal regulation. And in the new, in many respects progressive, though flawed, law is failing. What are we talking about? In that case, when a company buys a share from a participant, it is obliged to arrange it in some way. And it would be wrong if this part continued to be owned by society for a year, two, three, five, ten. The proposed bill does not set limits at a time within which society should determine what to do with this part. Either alienate it from the participants or the third party, or reduce the size of the statutory capital. So I suggest we limit it to one year in which participants have to determine whether they're alienating it or if they're reducing the statutory capital to the right size. Please put to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-06-m0.u132	Thank you. Please vote. [[12:53:17]] Z-71 The decision is not taken. Next amendment number 170. Don't insist. Next: 175th. 174, please, Ptashnik People's Deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-06-m0.u133	Dear colleagues! My amendment refers to the institution of inheritance, which refers to the right of the heir to determine whether he wants to become a member of the association or whether he wants appropriate compensation for the portion he inherits from his deceased participant. I'm asking you to support her. And at the same time, I would like to point out that I'm extremely sorry that such a bill, which the entire business community really needs, is becoming a hostage of actually one of the inheritance institutions that they want to use, probably those who want to deprive the heirs of some dead participant, probably in a large business of making payments accordingly. don't settle with him or pay that part. Therefore, it is extremely important to improve the institution of inheritance at the level of this law and yet to adopt an adequate regulation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-06-m0.u134	Thank you. Please. You're insisting on taking the whole thing into account. Please vote. [[12:54:49]] For-63 The decision is not taken. 175. Don't insist. 179. Please, People's Deputy Ptashnik.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-06-m0.u135	This amendment also applies to the inheritance of a portion in limited - liability societies. And here we were just trying to write a more detailed procedure so that there wouldn't be any dispute between the participants, the former dead party's companions, and the heirs, respectively, so that these would be civilized relationships, so that there would be less court disputes that are today. But the text proposed for the second reading is, unfortunately, even worse than the original edition of the Civil Code. After all, the Civil Code for today provides for the possibility of carrying out calculations with heirs of a deceased participant, even if the heir does not become a member of a limited - liability society. It cannot be denied the right to maintain appropriate compensation for the cost of a share in business. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-06-m0.u136	Thank you. Please vote. [[12:56:12]] For-58 The decision is not taken. Next amendment number 182. 181. Please, People's Deputy Ptashnik.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-06-m0.u137	I ask that the 181 amendment concerning the institution of inheritance not be confirmed. Because this is a change to article 24 of the law, which says that a portion of the corresponding deceased participant may not become the property of the corresponding heir. I want to point out that there was some extraordinary mistake when we didn't even discuss the possibility of taking this amendment into account, we didn't vote, we didn't support it. But after the editorial had already been released by members of the committee and voted, someone intervened in the drafting of the limited - liability society bill and included article 24. It was vital for someone to make sure that a portion of the deceased participant did not pass on to his heirs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-06-m0.u138	I'd like the committee to comment.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-06-m0.u139	Madam Chairman, the first sentence of my report under the transcript was that article 24 of the bill should be deleted. So I think there's nothing left to talk about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-06-m0.u140	Thank you. Are you going to insist? It's off. It's already been ruled out. [[B in m in s a l in]] Please vote. [[12:58:03]] For-43 The decision is not taken. 182 revisions. Don't insist. 183rd. Don't insist. 184th. Don't insist. 186. People's deputy Birddog. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-06-m0.u141	Once again, Amendment 186 refers to the order of settlement with the heir of the participant who did not become a member of the association. I would like to point out that the children of a deceased participant, perhaps his elderly parents, should not be obliged to become part of the association in order to receive any compensation from their deceased relative. Imagine a situation where you get a will and you get some compensation, but they say, you go in first, you become a member of the company, and then you sell your share to get the corresponding compensation. The current legislation provides for a completely different order. Let us then maintain a better order of legislation than to deprive the heirs of the right to compensation in the future.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-06-m0.u142	Thank you. Please vote. [[12:59:36]] For-67 The decision is not made. 190 revisions. Don't insist. 192nd. Please, People's Deputy Ptashnik.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-06-m0.u143	This amendment refers to the institution of exit and the principle of dissatisfaction that we all talked about when we worked on the relevant bill. This amendment indicates that participants on the basis of their statutes can foresee appropriate changes and agree that such an institution as a way out of society will not be applied at all to society with limited responsibilities. This is their right to make a unanimous decision and to realize that there may be risks in the future if one of the participants wants to become a member of the association because the exit procedure always follows the payment of the corresponding compensation for the value of the part of the participant that comes out. Therefore, give your participants the right to make an agreement as to whether they want to apply the institution of exit or not.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-06-m0.u144	I'd like the committee to comment.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-06-m0.u145	Dear Victoria Yuriovna, I'm sorry, but you propose to legalize slavery in Ukrainian legislation. Me and the committee against it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-06-m0.u146	Thank you. Please vote. [[13:01:15]] For-39 The decision is not made. Next amendment number 193. Don't insist. Please, People's Deputy Ptashnik.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-06-m0.u147	This amendment also applies to the exit of a member of the association, which I propose that if the other is not provided for by the statute, a member of the association, whose share of the statutory capital of the association is 50 percent or more, may leave the association at the agreement of other participants. Again, it's a principle of dispossessiveness around which the drafters of the bill were united. Which suggests that the statute may provide otherwise, for it is not the right of the State to intervene in the internal relations of members of society, especially in private companies. In the form of limited - liability societies, we have the majority of private businesses. Allow them at the statutory level to set the rules of the game that they will continue to live by. I'm asking you to support this amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-06-m0.u148	Please vote. [[13:02:35]] For-52 The decision is not made. Next amendment number 194. Don't insist. 196. Don't insist. 197. Don't insist. 198. Don't insist. 202. Please, National Deputy Odarchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-06-m0.u149	Thank you. Yuri Odarchenko, Fatherland faction. Dear colleagues, this bill answers the question of what would happen if the participant applied to leave the company and the company did not do anything about it. It is suggested that the participant loses his status as a member of the association on the day of the state registration of the member of the association. Furthermore, it is considered indivisible and does not take part in the vote, including with regard to the consequences of the participant’s exit. Otherwise, there may be roadside situations: Four participants, for example, each 25 percent, if two of them leave the company, will not be able to hold meetings for further association activities and distribute a portion of the participant. Please support our revision.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-06-m0.u150	Please vote. [[13:04:11]] For-46 The decision is not made. Next amendment number 212. Don't insist. 213. Please, National Deputy Sotnik.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-06-m0.u151	Thank you. Amendment 213. The first reading provided that the rules of the article regarding the withdrawal of members of the association also apply to the relationship between the withdrawal from the association of the heir or successor. Thus, we guaranteed both the heirs and the successors of the participant, which, particularly if they wanted to get out of society, would guarantee them payment of compensation or payment of the cost of the share. Sometime before the second reading of the amendment by the chairman of the committee, this provision of article 10 was excluded. Thus, how the reckonings with heirs and successors will be carried out is in fact not regulated. So I'm putting this amendment to confirm, and I suggest you go back to editing your first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-06-m0.u152	Is the committee going to comment?
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-06-m0.u153	The committee supported the amendment, and I ask the Ukrainian Parliament to support the committee's position. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-06-m0.u154	Thank you. And please vote. [[13:05:37]] For-65 The decision is not made. Next amendment number 2219. Please, National Deputy Sotnik.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-06-m0.u155	Thank you. Olena Sotnik, Self-Help faction. 219, my amendment was partially taken into account. In fact, the bill only determines when a person has the right to marry other participants. When will such an agreement take place? At the same time, this bill does not regulate the way out of society, and the absence of such regulation at the level of a special law may lead to a violation of the rights of participants. First of all, we don't have an exit application requirement, particularly a notary certificate, obviously a notary certificate as a security against raids. Second of all, there's no fixed point from which the participant is thought to have left the company. So it's not clear when a participant actually loses the right to participate in making decisions that can also be manipulated. There are also significant shortcomings in the order in which the estimate of the portion is made. For example, the bill proposes to determine only on the basis of market value. But it is totally unfair to consider only assets if the company has significant liabilities, such as debts. So there should also be a clean asset method that I suggested in my amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-06-m0.u156	Thank you. Please, the committee to comment.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-06-m0.u157	Dear Mrs. Sotnik, that's not true. We've taken your editorial opinion into account, namely, that the participant is considered to have left the society on the last day of the month in which the company received the participant's application to leave the society -- that's your authorship, and we've transferred it to the body of the law, which I thank you very much for.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-06-m0.u158	Are you insisting? Please, 119th. [[13:07:41]] For-45 The decision is not made. 218th. Please, National Deputy Sidorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-06-m0.u159	Ruslan Sidorovich, Self Help Union. The amendment is somewhat related to the problem that arose with my colleague, Stonik. It refers to the exit procedure of a participant, primarily one that owns more than 50 percent of statutory capital. What are we talking about? In that case, if participants do not agree to leave the company, such association will not be able to continue its normal work. In my amendment, one part, I proposed the following legal structure, which is that if participants who own less than 50 percent of the shares in statutory capital do not agree to the exit of a participant who owns more than 50 percent, it is considered that the decision to eliminate has been taken. Otherwise, we're going to have an incomprehensible legal structure, and sooner or later, this enterprise is going to be eliminated, because normal work can no longer be organized. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-06-m0.u160	Thank you. Please vote. [[13:09:13]] For-60 The decision is not taken. The next 224 amendments. Don't insist. 228th. Don't insist. 230th. Don't insist. 236th. 234th. Please, People's Deputy Ptashnik.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-06-m0.u161	I don't know why the table contains links that it's partially accounted for. I ask the secretariat to pay attention to this, because an article that I propose is not in the tablet or in the right column. In particular, it's about establishing an industrial buyout institution. Because it is possible that the deliberate inactivity of the participants will block the activity of the association. And with this amendment, we propose to foresee the possibility of an industrial redemption of a share of a participant if its actions are of great harm to society. And so we're setting up fuses so that we don't have any sort of raiding patterns going on here. In particular, it is possible to do so solely through the courts and there is also a precautionary system in place for subjects who may refer to the court for an industrial ransom. In particular, it is less than 50 percent of the participants. After all, it may be obvious that another participant has a share of more than 50 percent. So I propose to support this amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-06-m0.u162	Thank you. Please vote. [[13:11:00]] For-43 The decision is not taken. 235th National Deputy Sotnik.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-06-m0.u163	Thank you. Captain Olena. The 235 amendment is an amendment to the committee head. I also place it on confirmation because it excludes the proposed edition of the first reading of the position regarding the mandatory redemption of particles. I think that's an unwarranted position, because it was meant to protect the minority participants, the owners of the particles. Considering that the notion of rightfulness with interest and also considerable rightfulness was completely changed to the second reading, I believe that minority participants are placed in totally unacceptable conditions when they, on the one hand, are held hostage to the decisions of those who have a greater share -- first and secondly, they will not even be able to get out of society and obtain compensation in the event that their rights are violated by such rights. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-06-m0.u164	I'd like the committee to comment.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-06-m0.u165	Dear Mrs. Sotnik, well, I don't know, over the years that I've been leading the committee, it's safe to say that Ivanchuk is equal to the "protector of minority shareholders," and to accuse me of restricting someone's rights. That's not true. But it's the Limited Responsibilities Act, and we've taken into account the view of the entire legal community, the whole business. Please support the text proposed by the committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-06-m0.u166	Thank you. Please vote. [[13:12:58]] For-53 The decision is not taken. Next amendment 236. Don't insist. 237. Please, People's Deputy Ptashnik.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-06-m0.u167	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I fully agree with the position of Helen Stotnik, who has just raised the question of forced redemption, because it is indeed a right to defend the rights of minority members of society with limited responsibility. Taking into account that the 235 amendments made by Mr. Ivanchuk were not supported by the session hall, I ask that you support my 237 amendments regarding the mandatory ransom. parts of the participant’s company and actually improves the institution’s mandatory redemption of the part offered in the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-06-m0.u168	Thank you. Please vote. [[13:14:10]] For-54 The decision is not taken. 238 revisions. Please, People's Deputy Ptashnik.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-06-m0.u169	This is the same amendment, referring to the institution of compulsory redemption of a part of the participant by association. I understand that, given that Mr. Ivanchuk's amendment has been excluded, we are still going back to the first reading and this institution will be foreseen in the final draft of the bill. So I propose to support my 238th amendment, which says that this institution of compulsory redemption should be applied not only in cases of a society of interests, but also in cases of agreement by the general congregations on the making of significant rights, including in the decision to grant prior consent to a significant right. This edition of my amendment improves the edition of the first reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-06-m0.u170	Thank you. Please vote. [[13:15:26]] For-46 The decision is not taken. 239 revisions. National Deputy Ostrikav, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-06-m0.u171	Dear colleagues, this amendment in the package with amendment 241 clarifies and complements the list of decisions of the general congregations of associations that may give reasons for a member of the association to demand a corresponding share of the necessary ransom. In the project, this refers to the doing of a significant right. And I propose that this list also be supplemented by decisions on, including prior consent to do a significant right. This is the principle of a decision for society, we must properly protect the interests of all without excluding its participants. In addition to what Ptashnik correctly pointed out, amendment 235 of the national MP Ivanchuk was excluded from the text of the bill, so we returned to the first reading edition, where it was article 25. As a result of the deletion of other articles, the numbering has increased, making it very difficult to work with the table. But what I'm talking about right now is article 25, "Obligatory buy-out of a part of a member of the association," in an editorial that was proposed for the first reading. So please support my amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-06-m0.u172	Thank you, yes. 239th. Committee, please comment. The committee. No, it's not. Please vote. [[13:17:06]] For-58 The decision is not made. National MP. Amendment No 240. Please, People's Deputy Ptashnik.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-06-m0.u173	Colleagues, considering that the session room did not support the deletion of the article on the mandatory buyout of the participant’s share because there are not enough votes, I understand that the session hall still stands for what it is. The need to include the mandatory purchase of a share of a member in the final drafting of the bill, I propose to support my amendment, which relates to cases where this mandatory ransom will still be made. This is especially true of decisions when a participant voted against a decision that was taken by the general congregations of the participants regarding the granting of consent to do so by a society of rights for which interest is vested. And the decision to change the size of statutory capital. This will protect the rights of this minority participant, who was present in the congregations and voted against the appropriate decisions, and will accordingly have the right to demand that his share be redeemed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-06-m0.u174	Please vote. [[13:18:34]] For-55 The decision is not made. 241 amendment. Don't insist. 242th, please, folk. 241. Please, Tetjana Ostrikav.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-06-m0.u175	Dear colleagues, this amendment, 241, goes into the 239th amendment. In fact, it refers to an expansion of the basis for the mandatory redemption of a portion of the participant who voted in the general meeting against consenting to a rightful society for which interest is vested and against a change in the size of the statutory capital. If there is a participant who has voted against such cooperative decisions, we propose to grant such a participant the right to sell his share and the Society will be obliged to buy it. So please support Amendment 241. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-06-m0.u176	Please vote. [[13:19:42]] For-59 The decision is not taken. Next amendment number 242. National MP Odarchenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-06-m0.u177	Thank you. Yuri Odarchenko, Fatherland. Dear colleagues, we suggest that if the company has decided to increase its statutory capital and the participant has opposed such an increase and does not wish to make an additional contribution, the company is obliged to buy its share at a real price at the time of the situation. Thus, we avoid the risk of a society violating the right of a minority participant, forcing him to make additional capital that he is unable to pay in time. We believe that if we guarantee a participant a ransom in a situation where a society has committed a significant injustice without its consent, in a situation where the participant has a reduced share, the more he should be entitled to its ransom. Please support our revision.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-06-m0.u178	Thank you. Please vote. [[13:21:08]] For-50 The decision is not taken. 244 revisions. Please, People's Deputy Ostrikav.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-06-m0.u179	Dear colleagues, this is an editorial clarification that more clearly and correctly defines the provisions of the draft Law on the Obligation of a Buy - Out Society to a Participant who disagrees with the decision of the general congregations to make a significant right and right with interest. I would like to point out that in the cases provided for in part one of this article, associations are obliged to buy out the right share. Please be supportive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-06-m0.u180	Thank you. Please vote. [[13:21:58]] For-59 The decision is not taken. Next amendment number 246. Don't insist. 248. People's MP, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-06-m0.u181	Thank you. Dear colleagues, this amendment refers to the introduction of a new article that regulates the order for participants to exercise the right of a compulsory ransom by association with a suitable share. Since we have returned with you to the first reading, and the required ransom will be foreseen, I feel it is necessary to improve the first reading and provide for a clear order. In particular, there's also the order of price per share, and it's about the fact that this price can't be lower than the market price, and the order of the participants to apply to the company for the redemption of their share. I would like to anticipate the schedule and order of the accounts with this participant, who requires a necessary redemption of the portion. So I'm asking you to support this because it improves the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-06-m0.u182	Thank you. Please vote. [[13:23:23]] For-58 The decision is not taken. Next amendment number 257. Don't insist. 260. Don't insist. 264. Don't insist. 265. Don't insist. 266. Don't insist. 276. Don't insist. 280. May I have 280 of you, People's Deputy Bird.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-06-m0.u183	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the amendment in question concerns the competence of the general congregations of the participants. And in particular, I ask that it be assumed that the responsibility of the general congregations of the participants is to carry out the obligation of a member provided by a share of the company. This is a more correct formulation if compared to the first reading. So I'm asking you to consider this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-06-m0.u184	Please vote. [[13:24:38]] For-56 The decision is not taken. Next amendment number 297. Don't insist. The next is 306, the Ptašnik People's Deputy. Don't insist. 308, Ostrikav People's Deputy. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-06-m0.u185	Honorary colleagues, Amendment 308 refers to the exclusion from the bill of entry of reports by members of the Society of changes to the order of the day of the general assembly in 10 days. In fact, leaving such a rule that any changes to the agenda are reported 10 days before the meeting date makes it impossible to make changes to the agenda. This is contrary to the operational and operational objectives of the company. So I suggest that part nine of article 33 be deleted and that the following parts be renumbered accordingly. Please support Amendment 308.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-06-m0.u186	Thank you. Please vote. [[13:25:55]] For-61 The decision is not taken. Next amendment number 312, People's Deputy Ptashnik. Don't insist. 313, Ostrikav People's Deputy. 311. Please, National Deputy Sotnik.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-06-m0.u187	Thank you. Captain Olenna, Self-Help faction. 311 A revision of the committee’s head, which refers to the order in which the general meeting is held, includes such a concept that participants can participate by means of electronic communications other than a video conference. And I think that, in principle, such a general definition, which does not contain any criteria in the identification of the participant, or actually without establishing a clear order, would call into question the legitimacy of such participation and the conduct of such a form of general assembly. So I suggest that I go back to the edition of the first reading, where it was very clearly defined that yes, the participant could participate with, for example, video communication, but this guaranteed that it would be identified and clearly established, who was participating in the general meetings. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-06-m0.u188	Please vote. [[13:27:24]] For-65 The decision is not made. 313. Please, People's Deputy Ostrikav.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-06-m0.u189	Dear colleagues, my proposal in Amendment 313, regulates participation in the general congregations of associations by means of a stealth vote. In particular, this amendment proposes to strengthen the written form of the will of the member of the association, as well as that his signature on this document, which is marked by his will, should be notarized. So I would like to support especially given the fact that there is a rule in the bill that there can be participation in the general audiences of participants in video and teleconference. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-06-m0.u190	Thank you. Please vote. [[13:28:28]] For-51 The decision is not made. Amendment 315, People’s Deputy Ptašnik. Don't insist. 316th. Don't insist. 317. Don't insist. 323rd. Don't insist. 327. Don't insist. 328th. Don't insist. 329th. Please. No, it doesn't. 332nd. Don't insist. 336. Please, People's Deputy Ptashnik.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-06-m0.u191	My fellow Members, with this amendment, I propose that I prohibit, within 7 months of the death of a member of the association, other participants from deciding on the alienation of the assets of the association. As well as doing significant rights and deeds of interest because there may also be an unrepentant scheme of associates of a former deceased participant. Because as long as the heirs are doing what it takes to make an inheritance, which takes six months in accordance with the law, to discover an inheritance, non-lethal companies can just take all the assets and transfer them to another company. So I suggested that during at least the first seven months of the day of death, no such decisions could be made, no assets could be pooled and managed, no law could be done with interest and no significant rights could be done accordingly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-06-m0.u192	Thank you. Please vote. [[13:30:10]] For-67 The decision is not made. Next amendment number 337. Please, National Deputy Sotnik.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-06-m0.u193	Olena Sotnik, Self-Help faction. 337 revisions. There's actually one of the key, probably, moments that caused a lot of discussion, hot debates -- that was the moment of inheritance. And just now, Victoria the Bird has just sounded the correction, and it's very similar to mine. It refers to the security and guarantees of the rights of heirs during the period of succession and, in fact, this period cannot be managed by a share or by a vote. Thus, in order for other parties not to make decisions during this period, not to make changes to the statute, not to change the actual position of these heirs, not to sell the assets, and so on, it is necessary to establish that there are certain limitations on making decisions that may affect the interests of the heirs of the deceased. Therefore, I would like to vote in favour of this amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-06-m0.u194	Please vote. [[13:31:36]] For-69 The decision is not made. The next amendment is 338. Don't insist. 339. 338, I'm sorry. They're the people's deputies.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-06-m0.u195	Semenha Roman, "The Self-Help Union" faction. Dear fellow Members, my bill relates to two changes in the calculation of votes in the general meetings of the members of the association. In particular, I would suggest that the number of votes of the participant who partly spent the contribution, i.e. partly paid for it, in determining the results of the vote in the general meeting be determined in proportion to, in fact, the contribution made by such a participant. Second, to establish in the body of the law that the presence of a part of a member of the association under arrest is not a reason for not counting the votes of that member in determining the results when making decisions with the general congregations of the members of the association. I'm convinced that clarifying this rule will prevent, reduce potential manipulation by these things. Please be supportive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-06-m0.u196	Thank you. Please vote. [[13:32:51]] For-65 The decision is not made. Number 339. Don't insist. 340. Don't insist. 344. Don't insist. 346. Don't insist. 348. Don't insist. 350. Don't insist. 353rd. Don't insist. Please, 356 amendments, National Deputy Sotnik.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-06-m0.u197	Thank you. I don't want to waste time: 356th and 357th amendments to the committee's heads, which were considered by the committee, change the first reading edition, including the possibility of additional powers of the Supervisory Board, including the identification and selection of the executive body. I believe that the selection of the executive body of the Society’s Governing Body should be solely the competence of the general congregations, cannot refer to the competence of the Supervisory Board. Moreover, I would like to remind you that there are a whole range of limited liability societies, where there is a participant, including the State of Ukraine and state parts, and so on. Formulations may be acceptable exclusively to private companies and associations. But since you don't set any safeguards for government property, I think they're risky and unacceptable in terms of government ownership. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-06-m0.u198	Thank you. Please vote. First I'm going to ask for confirmation of Amendment 356 then - 357. Please vote. 356 revisions for confirmation. [[13:34:43]] Z-71 The decision is not made. Next amendment 357 is also for confirmation. Please vote. [[13:35:03]] Z-71 The decision is not made. Next amendment number 360. Don't insist. 361. Don't insist. 362. Don't insist. 369. Don't insist. 378. Don't insist. 373. Please, People's Deputy Shkrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-06-m0.u199	Alona's splinter, Fatherland faction. In fact, the revisions in modern practice by the audit commission are in principle a rudimentary one, and very often it is created only to formally execute the prescription of the law, not to test the formal economic state of society, which, in principle, is trusted by professional auditors, so I propose this amendment. And I would also like to say essentially the law itself. I thank you for taking into account many of our amendments and excluding article 24. And you certainly should not make this bill hostage of really issues of just inheritance. But in order for us to be precise that there are no risks to heirs to whom the proportion and risks of the stenogram read out by the committee head, I ask him to re-read the stenogram part of article 25 of the project -- the exit of the participant from the association, where the position of part eight (thir) -- the eleventh of this article applies to relations. I'm just asking you to repeat that under the transcript. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-06-m0.u200	Please, the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-06-m0.u201	I confirm and read under the transcript that part eight, ninth, tenth, eleventh of this article is also applied. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-06-m0.u202	Thank you. Do you insist on voting? Please vote on taking fully into account the amendment. [[13:37:03]] For-72 The decision is not taken. Next amendment number 379. Don't insist. 389. 387. Please, National Deputy Sotnik.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-06-m0.u203	Thank you. Captain Olena, Self-Help faction. 387 amendment. It refers to a change in the first reading of the term "significant right." In fact, the criteria of that minimum percentage are excluded when the right is significant. I can tell that's mine. From my previous experience, the legal experience of dealing with corporate disputes, the very significant rights and rights of interest, are key in terms of rights violations, especially minority shareholders. Therefore, it would be right on the part of the committee and the author of the bill when they first identified in the first part of this article, which is a significant right, and then allowed all other points to govern the participants. So I suggest that I go back to editing the first reading, and she was more successful, and she was protecting the minority participants. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-06-m0.u204	387th, please vote. [[13:38:52]] For-46 The decision is not taken. Next amendment number 389. Don't insist. 390. Please, People's Deputy Ptashnik.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-06-m0.u205	Dear colleagues, with my amendment, I propose that we determine what is happening in the event of a significant right. Especially, clearly. I propose that it be clear that a significant right, first of all, can be determined to be invalid for the solicitation society or its participant. Besides, I propose that my amendment predict when. In order not to be abused, to be manipulated with a significant right, I propose that we determine in which cases the court is refusing to comply with the requirement that a significant right be declared invalid. These are, in particular, three cases, listed, that is, a comprehensive list so that, on the one hand, the minority can defend its right in court, and on the other hand, the court does not. There was no abuse in the court; only three specific cases could be found to have committed a significant offence in violation of the requirements laid down in the law to be null and void.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-06-m0.u206	Thank you. Please vote. [[13:40:20]] For-74. The decision is not taken. Next up, 391. Please, National Deputy Sotnik.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-06-m0.u207	Thank you. Captain Olena, Self-Help faction. It's okay. It's This is my amendment, which has been rejected by the committee and which refers to exactly, once again, one of the critical elements of protecting minority shareholders, particularly the regulation of significant rights and rights of interest, which could prevent participants from making profits or assets of the company by a person who controls the executive body, i.e. it has a majority. And for some reason, the committee refused to allow such participants to file lawsuits if they felt that these significant crimes violated their rights and were committed with a violation of either the law or the statute. I think that if the head of the committee were to be such a great advocate of the minority, he would support the idea that they would be able to go to court and defend their rights in court. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-06-m0.u208	Thank you. And please vote. [[13:41:45]] For-66 The decision is not taken. 392th, right? Captain, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-06-m0.u209	Olena Sotnik, Self-Help faction. 392 amendment for confirmation. I also believe that the first reading was more successful. Because of the amendment, it refers to the right - hand system with interest and in fact completely degrades the situation. The general order of action should be provided for in the law, including that of the general congregation itself. And in this case, the right-hand side simply determines that the statute can provide for order. This law completely clears conflict of interest, removes the prohibition of voting for officials who have a primary interest in those or other rights. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-06-m0.u210	Thank you. Please vote. [[13:42:57]] For-63 The decision is not taken. Next, 393rd. Please, People's Deputy Ptashnik.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-06-m0.u211	Colleagues, I wasn't going to make this amendment for confirmation, but given that 392 amendments to the session room didn't confirm, I think it would be logical to confirm my 393 amendment, which is precisely about a more precise and prescribed procedure for deciding whether to grant consent to do the right thing for which interest is concerned. It's more perfect than the first reading, and what she just said about Helen the Sotnik, it just reflects on the level of law the moments that have just been sounded. That's why I'm asking her to support me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-06-m0.u212	Please vote. [[13:44:04]] For-76 The decision is not made. Next amendment number 394. Don't insist. 395. Don't insist. 396. Don't insist. 397. Don't insist. 398. Please, National Deputy Sotnik.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-06-m0.u213	Thank you. Amendment 398 again refers to rights of interest and broadens the circle of persons who are considered to be committing crimes of interest. In particular, they are persons who are ultimately beneficial owners of society, or their affiliates. I've already explained earlier that rights of interest are usually key ways of making profits in favour of major players, and just in spite of the minority interests. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-06-m0.u214	Thank you and vote, please. [[13:45:18]] For-72 395, 6, 7, 8. Oh, we've been through this. We've been through this. So this is 98th, yes, it was. Sorry, that's it. 399. Please, National Deputy Sotnik.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-06-m0.u215	Again, it refers to the expansion of the circle of persons who are considered to be committing wrongs of interest. In this case, officials who, in one way or another, are either beneficial owners or actually profiled. Therefore, please also put to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-06-m0.u216	Please vote. [[13:46:23]] For-78 The decision is not taken. 400 repairs. Don't insist. 401. Please, People's Deputy Ptashnik.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-06-m0.u217	Fellows, given that we've returned to the first-reading edition of the right-wing section with interest, it would be perfectly logical to support my 401 amendment, which speaks of who is considered to be the person who is interested in doing the right-wing society. And in particular, the point here is that such a person is a party to such a right or a person who is a member of the executive body of a legal person who is a party to a right; or a person who receives a reward for doing such a right from the association or official persons of the association or from a person who is a party to a right; a person who as a result of such a right acquires property or a person who shares in the right as a representative or mediator. It is clear that these persons have an interest in the commission of certain rights and that we should accordingly protect the rights of minority participants who may be deprived of their rights violated during the commission of acts of interest. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-06-m0.u218	Thank you. Please vote. [[13:47:57]] For-64 The decision is not taken. 402. Don't insist. 403rd. Don't insist. 404th. Don't insist. 405th. Don't insist. 406th. Don't insist. 407th. Don't insist. 408, don't insist. 409, don't insist. 412. 415th. Please
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-06-m0.u219	Thank you. Correction. Captain Olena, Self-Help faction. This is my amendment, which was rejected by the committee. I offered to complete article 46 with a new part. In particular, to determine that rights of interest committed in violation of the requirements provided for in this article may be declared null and void as a legal society or as a party to it, which is logical. I don't think in this case, if the interests of either association or participant are being violated, we have to deprive ourselves of the possibility of a court appeal. So please put this amendment to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-06-m0.u220	Please vote. [[13:49:25]] For-58 The decision is not taken. Next amendment number 436. 428th. Please, National Deputy Sotnik.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-06-m0.u221	Also, to save time, 428th and 29th amendments, for confirmation. The proposed formulations of part one need to be reconciled with article 105 of the Ukrainian Civil Code, by which the deadline for creditors to submit their claims to a legal person who is terminated cannot be less than two and more than six months from the date of publication of the decision on the termination of a legal person. That is, refusing a valid norm for bringing creditors to the knowledge of the cessation of society through publication is contrary to the provisions of the Civil Code and may lead to a violation of creditors’ rights. Moreover, the formulation of all known creditors is very vague and allows for different readings. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-06-m0.u222	Please vote. 428th, right, correction? [[13:50:45.]] For-51 The decision is not taken. Next amendment number 429. Will the committee comment? It's for confirmation. Considered by the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-06-m0.u223	Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-06-m0.u224	The committee's asking for support. Please vote. [[13:51:14]] For-54
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-06-m0.u225	54. The decision is not taken. Dear colleagues, we held consultations. We tried to get us to vote before lunch, but as a minimum, there's an insistence on ten lashes. But it's not just you. And so, colleagues, it looks like we won't be able to make a decision by noon. And that's why we're going to allow all right-wing authors to express themselves, and then I'm going to ask that when we're talking about it, we do it productively, and we're going to be able to maximize it by four hours. And we will be able to allow all the authors of the amendments to speak. And I'm asking Mrs. Oksana to continue the discussion.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-06-m0.u226	Please. Next amendment number 436, People's Deputy Ptashnik. Don't insist. 436. Please, People's Deputy Ptashnik. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-06-m0.u227	Dear colleagues, I would like to take advantage of my right to speak and point out what has been read by the head of the Economic Policy Committee before the beginning of the consideration of the bill today. In particular, the head pointed out that the project did not establish the effects of the disfellowshipping of the heir, nor did it establish whether the company should pay off the value of the disfellowshiped portion. At the same time, however, he sent, suggested (under the transcript) that he should refer to a part of the article that in no way solves the problem, since it refers to the heir’s access to documents, the obligation of the company to pay the cost of the portion, but does not refer to the part that sets the specific period during which the accounts with the heirs of such a deceased participant are to be made. So I would like to draw your attention to these questions also during the final editing.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-06-m0.u228	Please comment from the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-06-m0.u229	Honorable Presidium, distinguished national deputies, well, we see two texts: one proposed by the committee, and the one proposed by the Ptashnik People's Deputies. They're identical, but we think that the editorial proposed by the committee is much better. Victoria Juryovna, look, "Conceal that the Ukrainian Act on Economic Societies has become effective." with the following changes: in the part concerning limited liability societies and additional liability societies.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-06-m0.u230	Please vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-06-m0.u231	436.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-06-m0.u232	436. Don't you insist? No, it's not. Please stop voting. There's no insistence on a national MP. 441. People's MP Rybchin. 440. I'm sorry. Now it's 440 and then it's going to be 441. 440. Please, National Deputy Sidorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-06-m0.u233	Ruslan Sidorovich, Self Help Union. We had actually had a discussion before the draft was considered that the amendment should be deleted, but it should be put under the transcript for confirmation. The 440 amendment should be removed from the text of the bill because the amendment proposes to introduce procedural law into the substantive law. That is to say, this contradicts the very logic of building legislation. Procedural law cannot be placed under the rules of material law. Because English case law will just seem the funniest and the simplest. That is why, if such things are to be introduced, they should be discussed in preparation for changes to procedural codes. So I suggest you make a 440 amendment for confirmation and not vote for it.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-06-m0.u234	Can I have a comment from the committee, please? Please, head of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-06-m0.u235	Dear Mr. Sidorovich, you agree with me that the amendment that was taken into account by the committee, we wanted to take the following steps: that the plaintiff should submit a certain amount to the court's deposit account so that when the court decides, these costs would either be paid to the plaintiff or returned for a portion. But Mr. Sidorovich insists that we will now make changes to the Master's Procedural Code, and that we do not introduce this law, which is what we have prescribed in the amendments to the Master's Code. We agreed, and, in principle, I think we can support Mr. Sidorovich's proposal and not include in the body of Law 440 the amendment. So put her to the vote, Mr. Head.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-06-m0.u236	The national MP Sidorovich does not insist on voting.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-06-m0.u237	It's got to be done! We have to put it to a vote!
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-06-m0.u238	Okay. The committee supports the position of national deputy Sidorovich and asks for support for this amendment. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-06-m0.u239	For confirmation.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-06-m0.u240	For confirmation. Let's put it on confirmation. The committee agrees with the position of national deputy Sidorovich. Please. [[B in m in s a l in]] [[13:57:10]] For-46
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-06-m0.u241	Colleagues, I want to make a message that we'll start after lunch with the amendment of the People's Deputy Rybchin, and we'll start with it. [[B in m in s a l in]] Two more announcements, we'll have to notify them by two o'clock. So we're starting work after lunch with Rybkin's repair. Now, one announcement. Oksana Siroid, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-06-m0.u242	Dear colleagues! The Presidium came up with a statement by the national deputy John Krulk, co-author of Bill No. 7553, which is a draft decree. This is a decree voted by Parliament today in response to the law of the Polish Seima. Unfortunately, because of the problems in the Council system, the National MP’s card did not work. And we announce that his voice has been counted.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-02-06-m0.u243	Thank you. And, colleagues, please, now, pay attention! There is now an Order to Eliminate Disagreements in the text of Ukraine's adopted Law on the Specialities of State Policy in Securing Ukraine's State Sovereignty over Interimly Occupied Areas. The Security and Defence Committee, after reviewing the bill, has come to understand that Article 131 of the Rules requires some clarification. It applies to technical rights, and this clarification applies to the continuation of the work of military and civilian administrations. This decision is now being distributed in the hall, most of you obviously have it. I ask you very much during the break to examine and study these regulations so that after considering the Society with Limited Responsibility Act, we can vote on the clarifications in the Depopulation Act so that we can make this decision today. I address all factions, I know how important it is for everyone to prepare carefully, to read it so that the decision is not unexpected. During the break, you will be able to get to know each other. And I'm asking you to define the position of factions so that immediately after the Society with Limited Responsibility Act we can get a quick vote, because it doesn't need to be discussed, it's just a vote, it's going to be a vote, it's going to be a precision in the Depocation Act, and today in public in this room, I'm going to be able to support the Depocation Act. I would also like to point out that, after two issues of the economic bloc, we have a question about the inclusion in the agenda of the day session and the commission of the committee to review the Anti-Corruption Court Act. It's a very important question, it's Parliament's responsibility. And I ask everyone, after lunch, to be in a high level of discipline so that we can have a positive vote. And now, according to the 14-hour regulation, I'm calling it a break. I declare closed the morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. We made an important decision, we considered a very large bill. I'd like to remind you that we'll start after lunch with Rybkin's repair. And I ask everyone to come to the hall at 4:00 to continue our difficult but important work for the country. Thank you.
