ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-16-m0.u1	Good afternoon, dear fellows! Please enter the hall, prepare for registration. Please take up your jobs. So, are the colleagues ready to register? National deputies of Ukraine please register and participate in the registration. [[12:33:18]] There are 332 national deputies registered. The morning plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Today is the birthday of our colleague Dmitry Ivanovich Golubov. Welcome to our friend's birthday party! [[Applause]] And also, colleagues, I would like us to join together in welcoming our parliamentary delegation to Paris, welcoming her with this important victory that Ukraine and Ukrainian international policy have won during the Paris meeting! And I would like to thank all the national MPs of our delegation who have been able to unite and demonstrate unity in defending Ukrainian national interests. This was an example of how the Ukrainian collective works, this was an example of how the Ukrainian foreign parliamentary policy works. Welcome, fellows, to you! Let's give them a round of applause. [[Applause]] Also, colleagues, I would like to point out that these days there are milestones in history. I welcome all the decisions made by the Synod of the Ecumenical Patriarchy, the first of which is the decision on the process of granting to the Ukrainian local Orthodox Church autocephaly. Convinced that the All-Ukrainian Orthodox Council in Kiev will soon take place, in which all the hierarchy — the patriots of Ukraine — will take part, who will announce the creation of the only local Ukrainian Orthodox Church. And after the unifying council in Kiev, the Most Holy Patriarch of Bartholomew will hand over the elected council to the chairman of the local Ukrainian Orthodox Church, Tomos, on autocafalia. Colleagues, I remember the day when the Supreme Council of Ukraine first accepted a petition to Patriarch Bartholomew. And I remember with blessing and with God’s help we started this way, this way of generations of Ukrainians restoring our historical justice and our spiritual independence. I want to thank all the people's deputies. I want to thank all those who have taken part in this event, the Patriarch of Philaret and the President of Ukraine, Peter Prashenko, for joining this historic decision. We continue to fight for the creation of our only local Ukrainian church. I call on all national state MPs to unite around this issue, because this is also a matter of national security for Ukraine, this is a question of affirmation of Ukrainian statehood. Hello, fellows! And today we have another important event: the taking of an oath by our colleagues, by Ukraine's new national deputies. In accordance with article 25 of the Rules before giving the floor to the people’s deputies, I would like to begin the process of reading an oath. On October 12th, 18th, the Central Election Commission registered the Ukrainian National Deputies elected to the election on October 26th, 14th, in a state-wide multi-mandatory constituency: Gulak Alexander Mikolaiovich, who was included in the election list of the Radical Party of Oleg Ljashka, and Savak Ivan Ivanovich, who was included in the election list of the political party "The People's Front". In accordance with article 79 of the Constitution, Ukraine’s national deputies take an oath before the Supreme Council of Ukraine before taking office. And to make an oath, I invite you to the rostrum of the National Deputy of Ukraine, Gulak Alexander Mikolaiovich. Alexander Mikolaiovich, please. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-16-m0.u2	I swear allegiance to Ukraine. I pledge to defend Ukraine’s sovereignty and independence by all my actions, to take care of Ukraine’s homeland and welfare. I vow to abide by the Constitution and the laws of Ukraine, to carry out my duties in the interests of all the countrymen.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-16-m0.u3	Congratulations, Alexander Mikolayovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-16-m0.u4	Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-16-m0.u5	Heroic glory! Also, take up a job. The National Deputy of Ukraine, Ivan Ivanovich, is invited to make an oath to the rostrum. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-16-m0.u6	I, Colonel Force Special Operations Force of the Ukrainian Armed Forces, Sauka Ivan Ivanovich. I swear allegiance to Ukraine. I commit myself to upholding Ukraine’s sovereignty and independence by all my actions, caring for the welfare and welfare of Ukraine’s people. I vow to abide by the Constitution and the laws of Ukraine, to carry out my duties in the interests of all fellow countrymen. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-16-m0.u7	Heroim Slava! Welcome, Ivan Ivanovich. Welcome to our newly elected deputies. Convinced that new blood will give us new strength to work. And now I'm reminding you that we have 30 minutes to speak to the authorized representatives of the MP factions and groups. And I'm asking the factions and groups that are going to take part in the discussion, to participate in the recording, and to sign up for the performance. Please. From the "Fatherland" faction to the performance is invited by Sobolev Sergey Vladislavovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-16-m0.u8	Dear colleagues, the Fatherland faction, Sobolev. In fact, two and a half months before the moratorium on the sale of agricultural land was completed. Our faction has prepared two corresponding bills. The first bill is how to unlock civilly the moratoriums on the sale of agricultural land, but only for farmers. The project was adopted in the first reading. It allows a step - by - step purchase from 5 to 20 hectares [20 ha] of land for farming. This makes it possible in a civilized way, under the conditions of war with the Russian Federation, not to allow large latifunds, foreign owners, foreign owners of large agrarian companies to buy Ukrainian land at no cost. But, at the same time, it will allow it under the special conditions proposed in this bill, with absolute control over it, to which exactly this land comes to be used for the use of electricity, so that this land is exclusively in the hands of a small producer, those hundreds of thousands of farmers that we hope to create, thus stimulating the creation of farms. But, at the same time, we urge our colleagues in parliament to continue, at least for a year, the moratoriums on the sale of land for agriculture, which will not apply exclusively to farms, which will allow all relevant decisions to be adopted, and, crucially, this moratorium cannot be stopped in conditions of Russian aggression. And that's why our faction insists on clearly dividing the land of agriculture that farmers and small farmers are processing, from 5 to 20 hectares, and all the other land that can be bought at no cost, including foreign owners of agrarian latifunds, in fact, when the land does not have its real market price. I think this is an urgent issue that needs our vote. The bill is registered, and we'd like to put it in the session room as soon as possible. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-16-m0.u9	Thank you. Please give the next speech to the head of the Self-Help faction, Oleg Barresuk. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-16-m0.u10	Ladies and gentlemen! As a management system, the state has completely broken through. What are some signs of this? They hide themselves from the saints and organize circuses with robots, but physically, cynically, they go into the pockets of every citizen in the Ukrainian state. How? It's very simple. In one night, nearly 50 percent of the fare is raised. And this is a gift to whom a peasant, a farmer, who will get more than 50 percent out of his pocket for transportation and give to whom the oligarchs? They got into the pockets of people who would buy this bread that they were growing. 9 percent increase in rent per frequency. Who's in their pocket? Common people who use it. Education and medicine subsidies have failed. Who's pulling out the money? Crowds pay teachers. What is more, the government forces schools to be closed by pocketing teachers who will not find a job and will be forced to go abroad. Why is this all happening, this total robbery? Because the government serves an oligarhat that makes people go into their pockets because the Transfer Price Act is not being implemented. And money is being dumped abroad in the offshore. Because the government doesn't want to build its budget on a law that doesn't want to take taxes on the capital. Because this tax will enable the economy to develop and to become strong entrepreneurs. The government has a DFS that doesn't have leadership, just because it's the DFS that serves the law enforcement organs and the oligarchate. Farmers today demand an immediate cancellation of the increase in freight tariffs. Today, entrepreneurs and Ukraine are demanding where the head of the DFS is, and the immediate introduction of a tax on capital to the Supreme Council of the Law. Without this tax, building a budget next year means continuing to put the Ukrainian economy on the back of the oligarhat. The world saw it, the IMF saw it, and said, we're not giving you any more money to steal it. And the government is dating a robot named Sofia. If Sofia's robot finds out about Rotterdam Plus, Sofia's robot won't come to Ukraine because it's not stupid enough to get energy at such cable prices.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-16-m0.u11	Thank you. Please give the next performance, Alexander Wilkul of the Opposition Block. I'd like to have a word with you. Please, I announced you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-16-m0.u12	Dear people of Ukraine! Dear colleagues! We meet people all the time, and I can tell you, what really bothers 100 percent of Ukrainians is the next increase in utility tariffs. As an expert who was responsible, including for the HKG and tariffs, I am sure that it is unfair to force people to pay for Ukrainian gas at current tariffs. And the Ukrainian state-owned company Crushing is getting as much gas as our Heatcommunerge is using. Because the production of Ukrainian gas costs 2,000 dollars for 1,000 cubic meters, and people are already paying almost 7,000 at the rate, and the expected increase to 11,000 will be a very severe blow. After all, more than 20 percent of the funding cuts are planned in the 2019 budget project, which will reduce the number of recipients. This is because the debts for the utility company have already exceeded 38 billion dollars. The question most frequently asked at meetings is how to pay for a European price utility when wages and pensions in Ukraine are the lowest in Europe. So our task is not only to reduce tariffs but also to get people and the country out of the crisis. According to the IMF report, in our country, GDP per capita has dropped 1.5 times and is $2.8 thousand, which is also the lowest in Europe. Experts from the World Bank calculated a week ago that it would take Ukraine a hundred years to catch up with Poland in today's pace (in paws). I'm an industrialist, and I have a pragmatic approach: we need to make sure that people get a decent salary and look to the future for sure. This applies not only to the management of enterprises but also to the State. So we need an effective and pragmatic strategy for the country's movement. It must first be built to protect national interests, support our manufacturers, science, education, and medicine. We need to look at, including trade relations with the EU, and build a truly mutually beneficial relationship, get away from the quotas that we choose back in January. The economy needs to be built, not on credit, but on job creation, internal market development, and export support. And we have submitted to the Supreme Council bills to implement these strategic tasks. We're confident that the tariffs are going to go down, and we're going to provide real, not inflationary, as is happening now, wage increases and pensions, and we're going to do everything that millions of people are looking for, but it's going to take political will and ability to work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-16-m0.u13	Thank you. And from the Rebirth Group, please, the People's Deputy Kulinich will be speaking.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-16-m0.u14	Dear Madam Chairman, distinguished colleagues, distinguished voters! I'd like to draw attention to a very important problem that has arisen recently, and it's about raising freight tariffs by the Railroad. This question was raised on the Conciliation Council today, especially by the faction of the Fatherland, the question has just been raised by the Self-Help faction in the session hall. What happened? The Crucifixion, as a monopoly in October of this year, has raised freight tariffs by an average of 50 percent, which will hurt in metallurgical and coal business, and that's what's going to hit the agrarians more. By the beginning of the year, those tariffs had already been raised by 12 percent. But given the last raise of 48, the total is 60 percent per year. I'd like to remind you of the leadership of Crossroads that we have in the autumn harvest, we have in the heat of harvesting corn, sunflowers, soy, and such actions of a state monopoly are not for the benefit of the state, nor of the business. Recently, the Prime Minister recommended that "The Crossroads" review their tariffs only after agreeing with professional associations and business. Clearly, there is a problem with the wagons, and there is a huge problem with the tractors. With the tow, with the locomotives, they're just gone. The rotation of the wagons fell very sharply in a year. If it was four or five days ago, now it's 12 or 14 days per car. We've analyzed the purchase plan for "The Crucibles" for 2019-2020. And what do we have? There's no draw for the grain wagons and, in fact, the grain wagons themselves, i.e. the outlook for the agricultural sector is zero. So the logical question is, why should an agrarian be paid for the calculations at work, for the aging of the park, for the absence of wagons? What does that mean in numbers? And in these experiments, the agrossor spends up to 4 billion dollars a year, because it's going to react to the market and buy prices. We are in the midst of the autumn harvest. 4 billion dollars is almost 60 percent of all government support for 2018 for the agrosector. We understand that there are problems in the Railroad with debt, aging the park, but all of these innovations can lead to a collapse in the agrarian sector of the state, which generates 15 percent of GDP and gives 40 percent of the monetary output. Therefore, the Rebirth Group is requesting Prime Minister Vladimir Groysman to take this matter under personal control and to appeal to the PAT "Urzlzliznica" government to return the previous level of tariffs. Besides. I ask you to consider my statement as a parliamentary request to the Antimonopoly Committee for the purpose of verifying the validity of the increase in the tariffs for Pat "The Crucible". We hope that we will be supported by all the MPs and groups, as well as by the non-fractional MPs of Parliament. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-16-m0.u15	Thank you. My colleagues, I would like to ask everyone to be more attentive to the speakers, and not so loudly to communicate in the hall. Please, Radical Party. Which one of you will act? Which one of you will act? The faction's head will be speaking, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-16-m0.u16	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. During the days, the International Monetary Fund published a report that acknowledged that Ukraine had the last place in Europe at the level of economic development and at the level of citizens' income. This is how cynical we need to be, this authority has clearly been following the direction of the International Monetary Fund for the past three years, and as a result, we have Ukrainian salaries lower than that of the Moldovan brothers, and the lowest economic development in all European countries. Take Cyprus, take other countries where there is nothing, and see how they live. And take Ukraine, which has everything: land, resources, a talented nation, scientists, technology, industrial development, and they tell us that we live the worst in Europe. And so when the authorities continue to hang on to their ears today and tell them that there is no alternative to cooperating with the International Monetary Fund, that we have to raise gas tariffs for the International Monetary Fund's loans, I'm asking everyone who's going to vote for it to remember how this cooperation ends. The lowest level of economic development in Europe, the lowest salaries of Ukrainians in Europe, the lowest pensions for people who have worked for decades. Do we need this kind of policy? No, because this policy will never lead our country into development. This policy will never stop labour migration. This policy will never allow us to give up humiliating borrowings that require us to sell land, raise our retirement age, and sell the country. Me and my team, we're proposing another policy -- a policy that will allow workers to be returned to Ukraine. A radical increase in the income of Ukrainian citizens through economic recovery, the support of a national producer, the development of their own industry, their own sectors of the economy. No country can be strong if it is weak. No country will win when it is weak. Our power at stake for domestic reserves, in faith in our own citizen, in support of our own national producer, in the struggle for Ukraine's national interests. No one in the world wants Ukraine to be strong. For them, Ukraine is weak, dependent, and will be demeaning all the time. We Ukrainians need a strong country. Our strength in restoring the economy, in the bet of our own strength. As Taras Grigorovitch Shevchenko wrote: "Teach better, but do not turn away from your own." Today’s government is overthrown by the country. We're going to change this situation. We will make our Ukraine strong, developed and worthy.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-16-m0.u17	Please, from the Peter Prashenko faction, the head of the Arthur Gerasimov faction is invited to the performance. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-16-m0.u18	Madam Chairman, honourable colleagues, dear fellow countrymen, the faction of the Party of Peter Poshenko warmly welcomes the Ukrainians with a past celebration of the patronage of the Holy Mother of God and with the historic decision of the Holy Synod of the Patriarchate of Constantinople on the irreversibility of the process of granting Ukraine autocephaly. Ukraine is on the final straight for spiritual independence. Historical justice restored. Constantinople declared the illegal takeover of the Kyiv Metropolis by the Moscow Patriarchate in 1686. Along with gaining spiritual independence, Ukraine will continue to win territorial independence. The day before Ukraine’s Defender’s Day, extensive military training took place in Priazawa with the use of aviation, tanks, artillery. Our Marines, the Border Guards, and the National Guard have been working to destroy the enemy landings on the coast of Ukraine and in attempts to secure positions on the coast. And Ukrainian society, and the aggressor, who's convinced themselves -- the Ukrainian army is capable of resisting the enemy, including in the event of an armed attack by the Azov Sea. The president of Ukraine attended these trainings, as well as the frontal Mariupol, where he communicated with military medical personnel and 61 mobile hospital wounded. The Head of State assured us that military medical infrastructure and the army would continue to develop and adapt to NATO standards. Therefore, the faction of the Party of Peter Prashenko considers it a priority in the budgetary process to set up funds to continue to strengthen the Ukrainian army and to secure our soldiers with dignity. At the beginning of October, it was known that the threats of torture had forced our fellow countryman, Oleg Sonsov, to stop starving on the 145th day. The faction of the Party of Peter Prashenko requires the Russian authorities to allow the prisoners of the Ukrainians Saints, Baluch and other Ukrainian ombudsmen and our doctors. And to the Council of Europe, other international organizations are asked to respond to violent cases of human rights violations. Also last week, at the autumn session of the OSCE Parliamentary Assembly, our delegation provided intrusive evidence of the presence of new Russian weapons and personnel at Donbas. The entire civilized world has become convinced of Russia’s military invasion of Ukraine. This evidence will be another strong argument in further cases in international courts and a tool to increase sanctions pressure by the coalition of democratic states. As far as Parliament's work is concerned, our faction urges the Hall to focus on developing the 19th year budget. In addition to the security and defence sectors, we require further attention to the significant increase in medical costs, the significant increase in the protection of underprivileged people. We would also like to say that when we talk about increasing medical expenses, we insist on increasing the cost of oncological treatment and treating our sick children. And finally. 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-16-m0.u19	Please finish 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-16-m0.u20	Finally, we remind ourselves of the need to further strengthen our cooperation with our partners and especially with the United States in the area of financial and economic information exchange. It is the ratification of the 0179 Agreement and the adoption of the related changes to domestic legislation in the editions 8189 and 8190. The adoption of these decisions will join Ukraine in supporting the implementation of FATCA laws and in resisting tax evasion. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-16-m0.u21	Thank you for your attention to the theme of the Kremlin’s political prisoners. And here is Mr. Labazük, national deputy of Labazük, who will speak from the "Will of the People" Group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-16-m0.u22	Dear colleagues, dear Ukrainian people! The heating season began, and the problems remain old. It's warm in Ukraine until they feel it. In Kabmin, responsibility for the start of the heating season was transferred to the local authorities. Instead, they say, start the heat early because there is no average temperature plus 8. What's the result? There are cold kindergartens, schools, FAPs, infirmary, hospitals. And at this time, when Ukraine is attacked by three strains of flu. So the MP's "will of the people" group insists that different kinds of authorities join in and engage in the burning of a social target first and determine where the real need is. We need to be guided, not primarily by the economy, but by the interests of the community and their health. Moreover, Naftogaz in all the holes says enough gas to warm up to the spring. So today we have to take responsibility for what we have to say. We also demand that we listen to the position of the Ukrainian City Association and provide 19 billion dollars of subsidies in the State budget for the 19th year to offset the difference between the actual cost of energy and the approved tariffs for the population and the budgetary institutions. Equally important today is the TKE companies, which accumulate debts due to the inadequacy of real-cost tariffs, and the Naftogaz monopoly bears no liability and counts fines. For a second, the total debt of TKE and TEC companies today is over 27 billion dollars before NAC. What does this talk about? To take on social responsibility, Naftogaz instead of backing up again, they only take sanctions and they don't support anything. "The will of the people" urges the Supreme Council to support our draft Decree No. 8108 and to establish a moratorium on disengagement from the heat during the heating season. Of course, this decision is like a bone in the throat of an energy lobby in Parliament. We call on all factions to side with the Ukrainian people and protect people in such a difficult situation. Colleagues, the agrarian bill block is scheduled for this week. Among them is number 7060 on the promotion of the development of family farms and number 3157 on the arrangements for the transfer of water objects to rent. An important Euro-Integration Bill 6527d on Agricultural Cooperation and 8275 on Promoting Domestic Engineering. These bills are prepared by an agrarian committee, along with professional associations, an expert environment.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-16-m0.u23	Please finish, 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-16-m0.u24	Please support these bills and work fruitfully together in the session hall on them. During the last session in Paris, our delegation proved that when we work together with one team, we get a positive result, we are able to be alone and protect the interests of our nation. So let us learn, unite, and work together to achieve results. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-16-m0.u25	Thank you. Last performance from the People's Front faction, please, Maxim Burbak, head of the faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-16-m0.u26	Congratulations, fellows! Once again, I welcome the Ukrainian Orthodox believers with the decision of the Synod of the Patriarchy of the Universe to give car Cafe to the Orthodox Church in Ukraine. It is a confession of many years of effort, sacrifices, and prayers of Ukrainian priests led by Patriarch Filaret. This is the result of the hard work of the laity movers -- both Peter Poshenko, and many deputies, including the People's Front faction, and thousands of other faithful ones. Yesterday's RPC in Minsk is a powerful demonstration of their powerlessness. The decisions of this Synod have only one effect: the RPC has led itself outside the world’s Orthodox system, they are real dissectors and politicians who serve the Kremlin faithfully. I'm sure they're going to canonize Putin now. But the Ukrainian Church will be independent and Ukrainian, and no Russian kegebists will prevent this. We will not allow anyone to interfere with our church affairs, but we will allow Moscow, which is the fourth year of war against the entire Christian world. The war for independence continues, the war for the soul and the body, the enemy not only stops the attack in the Donbas trenches but also inside the country. The People's Front faction insists on sanctions against the media that deny the fact of Russian aggression and broadcast Kremlin dungeons. We demand that the relevant bills be considered as soon as possible. First of all, we need to unlock the signing by the Head of the Supreme Council of the Resolution on Sanctions on Enemies. In the democratic countries of the West, sanctions against the Putin TV propaganda have long been imposed. Britain has repeatedly fined and ruled out Russia Today’s Kremlin Channel for violating journalistic standards. In the United States, John McCain’s amendment is in place, and the law now allows distributors to refuse the content controlled or financed by Russia without explanation. Colleagues, this is the minimum Ukraine has to do with Kremlin zombies. For example, the People's Front suggested in September that the Act on the Compulsory Registration of Foreign Agents be passed in favour of the Russian aggressor country. Action, transparency, and legal action will be a real obstruction of the putin godfather. Medvedczuk is not an empty office -- it's a television channel that broadcasts out loud and controlled by the Kremlin. Next. The People's Front proposes that we start the public budget review as soon as possible so that we can get the country's state budget for next year in November. The People's Front emphasises that the budget is to provide funding for the army, national security and defence at least 5 percent of gross domestic product, a real increase in salaries for military and law enforcement personnel, financing of no reforms, support for united territorial communities, all that was implemented by the government of Arsenija Yatsenuk. About the Inca explosions. The People's Front faction supports the National Security and Defence Committee's demands for a public report at an open session of the parliamentary committee, the General Staff and the Ministry of Defense for the bombings at military depots in Balaklia, Kalinovitsa and Ichnya. We demand that the commanders whose negligence has led to the destruction of ammunition be punished. In all the working discussions.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-16-m0.u27	30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-16-m0.u28	In all the work discussions on the financing of wages and the provision of technology to coalition deputies, especially the People's Front, always on the side of the Ukrainian Armed Forces. And we demand a public and transparent report. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-16-m0.u29	Thank you. So statements from factions and groups are completed. Let's move on to the agenda. And the first is the question of consenting to the criminal responsibility of a national MP. Honorary colleagues, in accordance with part three of article 80 of the Constitution of Ukraine, article 27 of the Ukrainian Law "On the Status of People's Deputies" The Supreme Council of Ukraine agrees to bring criminal responsibility to the national deputy of Ukraine. On September 18, 2018, the Supreme Council of Ukraine received the submission of Jury Vitaliyovich Lucenka, the Attorney-General of Ukraine (he arrived in the Hall and is in the General Prosecutor's Chamber) for consenting to the criminal responsibility of the national deputy, Villekul Aleksandra Juriovich. According to the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the prosecution of the Dnipropetrov region is conducting a pre-trial investigation and procedural guidance in criminal proceedings since 07.09.2017, following the signs of criminal offences provided for in part two of article 364 of the Ukrainian Criminal Code. The findings of the committee and the explanation of the Ukrainian national deputy Vilkul and the submission of the Attorney General of Ukraine were distributed to you on the registration tables during your registration. So we're going to look at this question. And the word is given to the Attorney General of Ukraine, Yuri Vitaliyovich Lucenk. In 15 minutes, the report, if there's time, there's answers. Colleagues, it is important for us to be able to consider this issue by noon, so I urge everyone to be flexible and to work effectively. Please, Yuri Vitaliovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-16-m0.u30	Dear Mr. Head, distinguished national MPs! The Dnipropetrovsky District Procurator’s Office conducts a preliminary investigation, a procedural direction in criminal proceedings following the signs of criminal offences provided for in part two of article 364. In order to brief you on the progress of this matter and the wrongs that appear in it. Please show me the slides. In fact, this is a matter of breaking up the budget by avoiding taxation of certain transactions through active, then in 2010-2012, officials in the Dnipropetrov district and district government. Episode one. During 2011-2012, the head of the Dnipropetrov Regional Authority was Wilkul Alexander Yuriovich, who issued an order that unlawfully changed the target destination of land belonging to the Katerinovsky Cologne, as well as another "Hoorko" CSP from their collective property to industrial land, resulting in damages to the public interest for more than 12 million dollars. I want to emphasize, please show the next slide that the illegally alienated land of collective property is being completely destroyed today by the collapses of the GOK. And in this case, it is quite obvious that these lands were not state-owned, that the protection of Mr. Vilkul is misleading the public when he refers to the relevant decision of the Supreme Council, it does not apply to the land of these cadastral numbers. Mr. Wilkull’s defense is misleading, referring to the decision of the village council to transfer these lands to the land of stock. There is no such decision, as is evident both by the acting and then by the head of the village council. It is also obvious that the State acts on these lands belong to only two CSPs, and they could not be passed on to the land of industry. The second episode is an even more obvious, service violation, probably the head of Mr. Wilkull’s district government in 2012. In August 2012, Mr. Wilkul gave orders that illegally altered the target destination of a limited-liability company's Art Land to a total area of 45.39 hectares from agricultural land on the land of industry. And I'll point out that these were the lands that were classified as a fir, 45 acres. And in order to transfer them to the land of industry, there is no other legal way than a special decision by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. Nevertheless, Wilkul himself, on the phone, gives instructions to his subordinate, the head of the district government, who, in carrying out his instructions, signs orders that change the assignment of land from "rilli" to another agricultural assignment, "passenger". According to valid legislation, it is necessary to preserve the land for three years, which has not been made, because the purpose of all these tools was completely different. Next. It's an order. Next slide. By order of the district government, signed by Mr. Wilcule himself, with the signature of the head of Statecommunity being falsified, he did not place it, it was a forgery, it was transferred to the land of industry, I'm paying attention to you, clearly from agricultural lands in the land of industry. The next slide will show why it was made. It's simple and cynical. Next slide. All of these equipment, according to Vilkula's direction at the district level and then, according to his personal signature, were made at the district level to pay not 8 million dollars in the budget, as it is due to the loss of the grill, but 3 million dollars, as it is due to the loss of the land of the pasture. Thus, the government budget losses amount to about 5 million dollars, which, at the rate of the dollar that the former leaders of the Opposition Block so like to mention about the stability of Yanukovich's time, amounted to about $800,000. This is the cost of the budget, the pensioners, the budget, the defense, and all other budget assignments. At the stake of the gentleman. To protect Mr. Wilcule about the torture of the head of the district government, who gave allegedly falsified demonstrations, I would now like to demonstrate the recording of the fragments of the court hearing in which Mr. Kobilyka gave his testimony. I would like to point out that Mr. Vilkul's claim is false that Mr. Kobilecki, a former Ukrainian security officer, was subjected to torture in a cell that seems to fall under the signs of torture. Yes, indeed, Kobiliyka, who is going through his case under the article "Service negligence", was delayed for about 8 hours in a detention unit in December, where we have information on normal conditions, including heating in this institution of the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine. It is not true that he was taken from there to court, for the trial with the witness Kobilitzki took place only a few days after his departure from the isolation centre of temporary detention in the presence of his lawyer of his goodwill. Now we have a chance to hear what Mr. Kobiliyaki said in this court. I'm asking for a sound. [[Audio transmission]] ) Dear National Deputies! We are also prepared to demonstrate to you a court decision in the Kobilitsky case, in which a black-and-white ruling by the Ukrainian court, which has entered into force, states: "In a court hearing, by questioning the defendant Kobilitsky and studying the materials of criminal conduct, it has been established that the action which has been committed to the latter has indeed little place; the action contains the composition of the crime envisaged in part two of article 367 of the UK K. It appears from criminal conduct that the illegal actions of Kobiljak took place from July to August 2011." And the last. A very fresh decision, which has literally entered into force today, is a resolution in the case of the officials of the society itself, with limited responsibility for Art Land, which conducted all of this equipment. The decision states: "The established person, knowing that the type of land plots of the total area of 26 hectares and 19 hectares located on the territory of the Podgorica City Council has been changed from farming to pasture illegally, has prepared and issued an order for the head of the district public administration to change the purpose of the assignment and has obliged ART LEND to make compensation for the loss of agricultural production on an appropriate scale. The total amount of loss – the court considers – of agricultural production caused by the removal of agricultural land is the corresponding amount in the bracelets." Thus, two court rulings confirmed that the head of the district administration, acting under Mr. Vilkul's direction, had altered the unlawfully targeted assignment of land, and that the management of the limited liability society had contributed 3 million dollars less compensation under the authority of the district government, signed by Mr. Vilkul than would have received the Ukrainian budget. Thus, the investigation considers that by his deliberate actions, Wilkul Aleksandar Yuriovich has committed possible abuse of the position of duty, that is, deliberate in the interests of third parties to use the position of official in the face of the interests of the service, which has led to serious consequences for the public interest. In the first episode of the damage, social damage reached 12 million, while other losses to the state budget amounted to 3 million dollars. In this regard, it is necessary to carry out a number of investigative operations with Mr. People's Deputy Alexander Vilkul of Ukraine, for which I, as the Attorney General of Ukraine, request the Supreme Council to take a decision to remove his parliamentary immunity.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-16-m0.u31	Thank you. So, colleagues, three minutes to question the Attorney General. Please hold the recording. Pavlov Constantine Yuriovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-16-m0.u32	Yuri Vitaliyovich, please tell me, while the prosecution is implementing the scenario of political persecution, the stockpiles of ammunition have been undermined five times in the country for the past four years. At the same time, the huge volume of financial resources makes the budget available to them. Are you saying that under military conditions in the country, no one is really interested in this issue? Tell me, are there any specific facts on these 5 facts of any particular person who is involved in criminal responsibility or who is not? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-16-m0.u33	Thank you for the very precise question in the order of the day, but I can answer it. In all cases of emergency, appropriate criminal conduct has been disrupted in warehouses. The investigation considers the main version of the explosion in the Kharkiv region to be a diversion by an unmanned drone that dropped thermobaric charges. The mass of the expert on this point of view confirms this point of view. With regard to the explosions in Kalinovka, the main version is a diversified group, as well as an inappropriate attitude toward the official duties of those who were to stop such attacks. The same situation with warehouses in the Chernigiv region. The main version is the diversified squad, as well as the likely mistreatment of the military base’s leadership in the performance of its duties. On all these matters, there is a need for very careful expertise, which unfortunately takes place for more than a year in each case.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-16-m0.u34	30 seconds to complete.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-16-m0.u35	So there's a lot of expertise. It's usually about ten in each case, and they need a lot of expertise. Therefore, no charges have been handed down at this time.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-16-m0.u36	Thank you. Please, Scorch Mikola Leonidovich. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-16-m0.u37	Good afternoon, Reverend Yuri Vitaliovich. Spark, Opposition Block. Two questions, actually one. First, from the media, what I heard was actually passed on to government property. I mean, I don't understand what Mr. Vilkul's intention was about. And another point, once again, from the media there were a lot of comments about the falsification of the case by prosecutors. How can you comment on this? Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-16-m0.u38	Thank you. According to the documents, not the statements of Mr. Vilkul's defence, these lands are owned by collective enterprises. They couldn't be reserve lands, which means they couldn't have been transferred to the HOC or the mining-rich combination. This is quite obvious from the documents, because there are state acts against the CSP and the Collospo, there is a lack of consideration of this issue in the Rural Council about the transfer to the DDRs and a number of other documents. Thus, it is a fact that Mr. Wilkul took the land that belonged to the rights of the collective property of the SAI and transferred it to one of the host subjects in the land of industry. And once again, the current legislation prohibits the transfer of land in the land of industry, and even more forbids, yours, Mr. Skork, an apartment to the Supreme Council, for example. Because it's your property. And this is the property of the state. No change in the form of ownership or voluntary.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-16-m0.u39	30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-16-m0.u40	or the owner’s voluntary consent, in this case a group of people to whom these lands belonged, could not have done so. The order was totally illegal. It's about the investigation. I have already said that the head of the district state administration in court with a lawyer under oath stated that Mr. Wilkul was the initiator of the illegal signing, as the court has established, of his authority at the level of the district state administration.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-16-m0.u41	30 seconds to complete.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-16-m0.u42	Which then led to another illegal order from Mr. Vilkul himself. As a result, the budget lacked 3 million dollars.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-16-m0.u43	Thank you. Question time's up. I would like to take the floor to explain to the National Deputy of Ukraine, Mr. Alexander Yuriovich. Mr. Alexander, within 15 minutes, according to the Rules, you have the opportunity to explain yourself to the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Please. I asked you to attach the videos.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-16-m0.u44	Deputies, distinguished representatives of the diplomatic corps! Dear journalists! And above all, the distinguished people of Ukraine, all those who are watching this meeting right now! You just heard the Attorney General's speech. Basically. So in the Henprosecutor's report, there are two episodes of allegedly criminal cases in which I appear to be a figure. It's a short story. After the first episode. Some company called ART LEND changed the destination of the land that it owns from farming to pasture without changing ownership rights. Property rights, as this "Land Art" has had for 20 years, they have them now. I would like to emphasize that this is the case in 2011. The decision was taken by the district government, not the district administration, but by the district government. And this case is closed by the court on March 30th (I gave this decision to the committee) without establishing the fault of the head of the regime. Which is why Wilkul, who was the head of the government at this point, is what you're going to ask. According to the investigation, it was as if I had ordered the head of the district administration to meet with the company’s employees. The charge seems to be based on testimony from the former head of the regime, Kobilyka himself, who was charged with a criminal case after his arrest and completely illegal, without a court order, with his cell. He was offered the opportunity to give a witness on this matter. What happened next, I suggest you look at his personal video record. I've already shown it on the committee, but I think all the national MPs should be familiar with it. Please. [[Video recording broadcast]] Thank you. I hope that you, as well as I, are ashamed of the actions of law enforcement. 70 years old, old man. As I have already noted, the criminal case against Kobiljak was suspended by the court’s arraignment on March 30th. Besides, as you can see, the case they're putting me on is not just a warehouse but even a crime scene. The investigators, however, accuse me of violating some normative acts that had lost their power many years ago. The last one in 2001. There is nothing more in this matter, no matter what you are told, there are only forgeries. And from the testimony of the chief witness, this is the main witness, the Mare, leaking out at least two things. One: even under torture, actually, it was December 7th, and he was there day after day, he refused to testify against me. Second, his testimony in court was fabricated, which he now directly speaks of. The second episode is actually even more interesting. The GPU blames me for transferring 20 hectares of land from state supply to the Orjonikidev mining and enrichment unit, which in itself is not a crime and is under the authority of the head of ODA, it is important. Because the prosecutor’s office deliberately distorts the truth and silences the inconvenient facts. The public prosecutor's office for the first time at a committee meeting, they prepared themselves, they saw the orders, they then publicly admitted that they had not seen it, that by 1999, this land was actually owned by the Katerinsky College. But in 1999, the Supreme Council of Ukraine decree No. 517 of 18.03. In 1999 the land was removed from the property of the Cologne and transferred to the Ordjonikidzewski GZC for 5 years for the development of useful fossils. All these documents I gave to the committee, and all these documents are now, please show everyone right now. I mean, I emphasize that it was the Supreme Council of Ukraine, not the ODA that led me. And to carry out its decision, the Pochrov Village Council specifically removed this land, and there were specific numbers of holdholds that had been annulled. This is the document that the D.A. thought she destroyed, but we have it, and we showed it to the committee. I know that yesterday a woman who was the head of the village council at the time was caught and forced to say what that decision was, but something, her signature didn't seem very like her, it was yesterday. And they saw this decision a week ago when they were sure that they had destroyed it. And when I showed up on the committee, and these decisions, and the decision of the D.A. for the prosecution's office, it was a revelation, they just saw it in me. So in 1999, the Supreme Council removed it from the Cologne and leased it to the Ordjonikidev GZK, they say it's not this land, so I'm telling you that there's no other land, they've removed the whole country. Five years after the lease was concluded, the land was returned to the land of the holding until 2011. In 2011, the urban enterprise of Ordjonikidzewski GZK, one of the main employers and taxpayers of the region really stopped, you can check it on the Internet anywhere. And then the Dnipropetrovska ODA, which I was in charge of at the time, does the same thing that the Supreme Council did 12 years ago, transferred the same land to a paid lease to the same company for 5 years without the transfer of ownership, was state-owned, remained state-owned. And now, in 2016, in 2011, I handed over the ODA I led, five years later, the lease came to an end, which came to 2016. In 2016, the contractual relations between the State and the Ordjonikidzewski GZC were confirmed by the present - day Minjust and leased by the already active head of ODA. I mean, he created the same actions that the Supreme Council created, and then I, and the earth, and now it's a state thing, it's interesting. I've presented to the committee all the statements from the logbook that testify to this, and I can show everyone right now. And all of a sudden, now attention, and all of a sudden in 2018, 25 years later, there's a private firm with the sole founder and statutory capital of 2,000 dollars, but with debts of 50 million dollars (it's the approval of the court, I've given it to the committee, I can now each date), which says it represents the interests of the spiders that were eliminated in 1999 and claims to be on this land, 25 years later. Are you surprised? This was also shocking to the members of the regulatory committee who were sure to ask the prosecutor. So you want to give up the state land, the state, the private firm that's in bankruptcy? 2,000 bracelets are signs of fictitiousness. The prosecutors wanted to avoid that question, but basically they said yes. All of this has been heard by committee members, all of it is broadcast. There are a lot of questions here. Who is this company? On the basis of what she decided to take away from the state a land that had not even been gutted, and which, by the way, could not yet be pulverized, because it contained beneficial mines of State importance that had been developed since 1886, it was not legally possible to do so. Why were they not tried in 1999 with the Supreme Council, in 2011 with the government, in 2016 with Minnesota and the new head of ODA? No, they appeared now, in 2018. And now, dear colleagues, there's not enough hours to count all the forgerys and violations that have been committed for one purpose: to falsify the case against me, the opposition policy, or maybe to steal state land. And now, dear fellows, I will blame you. To accuse as a citizen of Ukraine, a national deputy and, finally, one of the victims of the criminal activity of the prosecution. I demand that the criminal responsibility of officials of the Civil Service be brought to justice on the grounds that their actions contain signs of crimes provided for in the following articles of the Criminal Code: 364 – abuse of power or official status”; 366 – service forgery; 372 – attraction of a criminally innocent person to criminal responsibility; 191 – intentional criminal acts aimed at the seizure of foreign property through abuse of an official position; parts of the first article 127 – torture, i.e. intentional injury through beatings, torture for the purpose of forcing the victim to commit an act contrary to his will, including obtaining information or recognition from him; parts of the first article 365 – the exorbitration of power or official powers, i.e. the deliberate commission of an act of service. which clearly go beyond the rights and powers conferred on it; Article 351 is a barrier to the activities of the Ukrainian National Deputy and the creation of artificial obstacles to its work; part two of Article 163 is a breach of the mystery of investigation, telephone conversations, telegraph or other correspondence transmitted by means of communication made against public and public officials or committed by a service person, or by means of special means intended for the non-voting of information. So everything I'm saying here is backed up by relevant documents and will certainly be proved in court if it is. You all know what "dark" is. This is how the dungeon that distributes the U.S.S.A. on my case is shaped to say that if you're not guilty, if you're a man, there's nothing to hide for inviolability, to prove your case in court. This means that each of us can be falsified, then violated our rights for years, including many of the cases that the Supreme Council has already agreed on, have not been brought to trial for years because they will be dissolved in court. So I say that this behavior of the prosecution is a dangerous precedent and manipulation of human rights. I am prepared to defend a good name both in Ukrainian courts and in the European Court of Human Rights. But I'm also going to be available to me in any way I can try to bring criminal responsibility to forgers and criminals in pursuits. Because if they allow themselves to be like this about me, the national MP, one of the leaders of the opposition, you can imagine what they do with the simple defenseless.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-16-m0.u45	Please finish 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-16-m0.u46	Please, three minutes. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-16-m0.u47	Give me a minute, finish up, please. We just don't get through all the questions on a daily basis. One minute, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-16-m0.u48	There was also illegal permission in court to listen to my phone, and I proved it during the regulatory committee. To this day nothing is done in this matter; it is an illegal hearing of a national MP; it is a crime. And I ask the Head of the Supreme Council to accept my parliamentary request, because I demand an answer as to how this criminal case is being investigated. Please, colleagues, support this request. In view of the numerous testimonies, the facts and documents regarding the abuse of the actions of prosecutors, I propose that we refrain from gratifying the Attorney General. And in order for these actions to be investigated objectively, I ask you to stop for the period of investigation of the designated prosecutor’s office. I believe that sooner or later we will find an objective investigation into this situation. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-16-m0.u49	Thank you. Thus, honourable colleagues, the word to announce the Committee's conclusion is given to the first deputy chairman of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, Phinehas Pavel Vasilovich, up to 10 minutes. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-16-m0.u50	Dear Head, dear fellow national MPs! At its October 8th meeting, the Committee considered, with the participation of the Attorney General and the participation of the People’s Deputy Vilkula, the submission of an agreement to bring this national MP to criminal responsibility. The report states that the Dnipropetrov district prosecutor's office has been investigating criminal conduct since September 7th, 17th, under part two of article 364 of the Criminal Code, this abuse of power or official power, which has caused serious consequences. The text of this submission was identical to the submission of May 15, 18th, which was made by the Attorney-General concerning the People's Deputy Vilkul, except for individual words on separate pages, and there was also a clarification regarding the drafting of part two of article 364 of the Criminal Code. As always in such cases, the committee notes that motivation and soundness should be provided with compelling arguments, facts, evidence that would sufficiently support the involvement of the national MP in the commission of a socially dangerous act and justify the need to involve him in criminal responsibility for the commission of a crime. The submission of a social and dangerous act by National Deputy Vilkul, which is provided in part two of article 364 of the Criminal Code, is based on the identification of certain information, in particular that in about the beginning of May 2011, Vilkula, who was the head of the Dnipropetrov District Administration, had a criminal intention aimed at unlawful transfer to the benefit of Pat "Orzhenikidevski GZK" in the lease of land that was approved by collective property, issued an order to the head of the district government, which changed the target area of nearly 3 hectares. As a result, land was eliminated from the rights of the wrongdoers, former members of the reformed colonies, which resulted in their loss. It is also alleged that, in the interests of Ordjonikidzewski GZK, Wilkul Alexander Yuriovich, using his service position in the face of the interests of the service, gave orders to change the target assignment of the land from the land of the collective property of the successors of the Katerinsky College on the land of industry and leased the plot to the same GZK. This resulted in damage to the state to the sum of 486,000 133. 486133 bracelets 50 copies by removing the soil cover of the fertile soil from the land as a result of work without permission. During the committee’s meeting, additional materials were provided by the National MP, Wilkull. In particular, copies of the decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the removal and granting of land for non-agricultural purposes and the prior acceptance of locations of objects from 18.03 were made. In 1999 Paragraph 2 of this regulation provides for the removal and temporary use of the Catherinian Cologne for the extension of the North, Shevchenkovsky, Čkalovski No. 1 for the production of marganic ores by the Orgenikidev Mining and Enrichment Society for a period of 5 years. By decision of 27 December 2000 No. 110 of the Pochrova Rural Council of the Dnipropetrov region of Nnipropetrov region, the Pochrova Rural Council has been removed from the collective property of the land of general use, unspoiled land and transferred to the land of general use held by the state. State acts of collective property rights to land are recognized as having become invalid. In addition, the report notes that Wilkul directed the head of Dnipropetrov’s district government to help Kobilík to resolve land issues, thus creating conditions for further illegal change in the target destination and lowering the amount of agricultural production lost when land was removed. Wilkul seemed to have ordered the change of destination of the land owned by TOV "ART LEND", which was approved by the Land Administration's Land Administration project, changed the target of the land plots and obliged the ART LEND company to pay compensation for the loss of pasture production. As a result of his illegal actions, Vílkul has caused damage to public interests in the form of a failure to compensate for the loss of agricultural production due to the change in the target destination of land to a total of more than 250 times the untaxed minimum income of citizens. In view of the above, National Deputy Villukul also provided an explanation at the meeting of the Committee of Citizens of Kobiljek, who was the head of the Dnipropetrov Regional Authority of the Dnipropetrov region, in which he reported that pressure was exerted on him during the pretrial investigation by law enforcement authorities, but he pointed out in his testimony that Wilkul did not provide any guidance on changing the type of land area or any other violation of the law. On this point, Kobilecki testified in an inquiry into the case of Vilkul to the investigating judge at the Nicopolski Court of the Dnipropetrov region. In addition, a copy of the approval of the National Court of the Dnipropetrovsk District was given by the People’s Deputy Villuck. In 17 on granting temporary access to items and documents, such as the telecommunications services of the subscriber Vilkul, and the approval of the Pecher District Court of Kiev of 22.11.17 on the inaction of the official of the Henprocurator regarding the failure to report to the Single State Register of Investigative Investigations following the receipt of the application of the People's Deputy Vilkul. Thus, honourable colleagues, on another occasion forced during the report by a similar issue, to point out that the right of national MPs to be in touch with the secret of telephone communication is systematically violated by law enforcement authorities in Ukraine. We have not yet received any explanation from the prosecutor’s office. There was a promise from the Attorney General to deal with the situation. We're waiting for an answer. The committee pointed out that the initiator indicated that Wilkul had committed abuse of his duty, as a result of which there were warnings, namely, that the General Prosecutor would carry out further verification of the ownership of the land in the data, and that the evidence in the file could be based on assumptions and evidence obtained by the illegal route, and the Attorney General intended to verify them. Thus, in our conclusion, we found that the submission of the Attorney General was legal, since the submission was initiated and submitted by the appropriate subject, and the observations on the justification and adequacy of the submission were set out in our conclusion and as set out above. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-16-m0.u51	Thank you. Thank you. Dear colleagues, I now request that you register representatives of the MPs and factions to express your position on the issue of the elimination of inviolability. And we're continuing the voting session on the issue that we're currently considering. Please, from the People's Front faction, Mr. Timoshenko, Yuri Timoshenko, present his position. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-16-m0.u52	No, no, I'm asking you to give my word to Lord Parasuku.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-16-m0.u53	Please, Volodymyr Parashuk's word.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-16-m0.u54	I'm going to be very brief. You can imagine that, from all the violent activity of Villukul, there's this little episode that nobody here understands, some people show us. This person voted in favour of changes to the Constitution, and then the boys and girls died in Maidan. Yuri Vitaliyovich, I don't know what kind of professionalism you were talking about, but do you believe that he did no more crime for two years as head of the district government? It's self-inflicted. You see what's going on in Parliament! It's just a theater. They have come in pairs of men of the coalition, for they will seem to be voting, that there may be light. Indeed, they agreed that no one would deprive anyone of his integrity and bring him to justice! Do you know what it's called? It's called the Pharisee and you'll be responsible. And such a person as he will be a fair trial and he will soon come. So keep in mind. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-16-m0.u55	Please, from the Opposition Block, Yuri Boyko.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-16-m0.u56	Dear Chairman, distinguished national MPs! Ukrainian citizens expect clear answers to several questions from law enforcement authorities. First. When will the resonant crimes that have created a climate of uncertainty and chaos in Ukraine be investigated? I want to remind you. On August 31, 2015, the Supreme Council was confronted with a terrorist act that resulted in the death of four Nazgwardians, who were protecting everyone here. Guilty are not punished. After that, two journalists were shot and killed and journalists were demolished in downtown Kiev. After that, five law enforcement officers were shot in the village of Knežici. Then the fourth arsenal goes into the air without any response from the law enforcement agencies, and there is no punishment. Diversants, negligence, who else? Who will be responsible? And that's why I think today's action has two goals. The first is to distract Ukrainian citizens from the complete impasse in the investigation of the resonant crimes of the past two years that have occurred in the country that are destroying its international image. The other one. It's the pressure on opposition deputies from the Opposition Block faction. Because it is the fifth and today the sixth MP will be left behind. will be voted in favour of removing the inviolability, while other factions do not have such statistics. Our faction has its position. We voted against it, and we will vote against the selective removal of the inviolability. We think that the inviolability should be removed at the level of the law of all the people who have it, starting with the President of Ukraine, the deputies, the judges, because we promised our electorate, that's what we went to the elections with. And when the Law on removing the immunity from the MPs in this room finally emerges, we will vote for it to stop all these theatre shows that are simply distracting the attention of society and parliament. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-16-m0.u57	Thank you for the position presented. Please, from the Self-Help faction, Egor Sobolev presented the faction's position. I'd like to have a word with you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-16-m0.u58	"self-help," of course, will vote in favour of depriving the national MP of national integrity. You know, we stand for taking her out of all the people's deputies and ready to start with ourselves, there's no problem here. But with the documents that Yuri Lucenko brought to the Supreme Council, there are huge problems. Regrettably, it is no fun which the Attorney General, as well as filing for the removal of parliamentary immunity. We ask all fellow Members of Parliament to join in the vote on their consent to the criminal responsibility of the People's Deputies, and at the same time to join our initiative to express mistrust to Attorney General Yuri Lucenk. There will be no justice with him in this country.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-16-m0.u59	Please, from the Peter Dust Block, Arthur Gerasimov. And the other factions I'd like to address right now. Are there no more willing to express themselves? So this is the last position.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-16-m0.u60	Dear Andriy Volodymyrovich, distinguished colleagues, look what's going on. Once again, we are wasting Parliament's time to capture the integrity of one, two, or three individuals. That's why we'd like to pay attention and support to those, and to support, above all, the President of Ukraine, who's clearly brought it to Parliament, and we know this Bill 7203 on the lifting of parliamentary immunity. So the position of Peter Dustenk's Block is very clear, and we've always taken it, and we keep taking it. We must fulfill all the factions of Parliament, the pre-election promises and finally abolish the parliamentary integrity, as promised by representatives of all democratic factions before they went to the elections. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-16-m0.u61	Thank you. Please make six minutes for the people's deputies. Please hold a recording, six minutes for the national MPs. We cannot violate the rules of the Rules. Parachutes, please. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-16-m0.u62	Please give me the word of Levchenk.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-16-m0.u63	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-16-m0.u64	Lewchenko, Freedom, 223 District, Kiev City. You know, we're seeing in the Supreme Council again a series of circus shows around what it's like to want to take someone off the hook. Well, first of all, for all those who speak out of power, especially for the Attorney General and for members of the majority, I remind you that the inviolability of a national MP is not recorded when there is a vote to allow him to be brought to criminal responsibility, but the inviolability is recorded when there are three votes: the right to be held criminally responsible, the right to be detained and the right to be arrested. Only when there are such three effective ballots are there considered to be inviolability removed from the MP. Why is that so? And because now, even if the Supreme Council votes in favour of allowing Vilkul to be held criminally responsible, even though we can see that there's some kind of half-empty room, and that's not the fact that it's going to happen, but even if they let him be held criminally responsible, he'll still be able to escape at any time, because he can't be detained, he can't be arrested. And that's why he can at any moment get on a private plane of his to Moscow to take off, get on a car, cross the border, if there's a wish, otherwise, and at any moment he can escape. As it is said, it has happened repeatedly with other national MPs who have been allegedly trying to bring criminal responsibility here. So we see that this is actually a circus. Why is there no detention permit? Why is there no arrest permit? And because everything that's going on right now is just an osmosis. They're making a picture for our television audiences and radio audiences to make people think that the powder power is fighting the Cloud, they're fighting the Fifth Column of Moscow, and in fact, the Opoblok and the Party of Regions are part of that power. In fact, if we look at the vote in the Supreme Council, if we look at the most oligarchic bills, we see that they are accepted by the voices of the BP, the People's Front and the Opobloka. So obviously no one really wants to plant either Vilkul or Boyka or Ljovczyn or all of these other brothers who are always voting with BP. By the way, I remind all Ukrainians that recently, literally two weeks ago, this whole brothers together with the BP and the People's Front voted in favour of the continuation of the illegal anti-constitutional law on the federalization of Ukraine, where they gave essentially individual rights, federal rights to the occupied areas of the Donetsk and Lugansk region. And this was all voted by the Party of the Regions. That's why there's no detention today or Vilkula's arrest, because it's just a pear-painting painting so that Poshenko and his friends can say before the election that he's fighting, actually, with "The Cloud." Mr. Head, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-16-m0.u65	The next speaker, Illenko, gives his speech to Yuri Lechchenkov. So please continue for three minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-16-m0.u66	Thank you. In fact, in this power, if she really wanted to fight corruption, to fight the Russian fifth column that she's friends with in the Supreme Council, it would be possible, in four years, not just to take it off, but to transplant all of these people. But we can see that there is no such desire at all, the desire is to be friends with them and to adopt terrible anti-national laws along with them. And now, if we're talking about untouchableness at all. Well, we don't have to have this discussion at all right now in this room, not at all. And I, by the way, you know, it's funny, the truth is laughter through tears, like some MPs who've been tearing their shirts off on their chests for years before the election, and after the election, and before the next election, and they're talking about how they want to undo the parliamentary immunity at all, how they want to remove this standard from the Constitution. They're going to the rostrum right now and they're starting some kind of conversation about whether or not it's a good thing to file for Vilkula, and somehow it's not a good document, and it's not even clear whether it's legal. And by the way, it's Wilcule himself, and it's "The Cloud" that comes out and it's always talking about what, you see, they're canceling the inviolability, and now they're talking about the fact that filing isn't good. People are good, excuse me, will you please decide whether you want to undo the inviolability or not? Because if you're concerned about undoing the inviolability, you don't care at all about the quality of this application, you don't care at all what's written in this data, and because it doesn't have to be in nature at all. Why is every citizen of Ukraine, so if he did any, if there's a suspicion that he's committed a crime, there's a trial, immediately brought to trial by an investigating judge to arrest, arrest, may be taken, yes, and there's no vote by the Supreme Council? And the court decides whether he's guilty or not. Why do national deputies still have an institution called the Supreme Council before them? Where did this caste come from? Yes, I'm sorry, please decide then, you're still intact, if you're intruding, you shouldn't be interested at all, you don't care at all what quality this submission is. You have to vote in favour of making an untouchable, withdrawing from any MP, independent of what's written there, because there should be no such procedure at all. This is "Freedom," actually, it does, because we're going to vote in favour of any annulment, of any inviolability and of any national MP, regardless of that submission, because we're against this medieval institution. And you will deal with outright hypocrisy, as Peter Alexiyovich Prashenko does with hypocrisy by his shuler bill on undoing the inviolability, where he proposes to do so only in 2020, and it will only work through one call from the Supreme Council, and not a fact, by the way, because the next call will continue by a simple majority of 226 votes. So stop this circus. If you really want to undo the inviolability, vote in favour of Bill 6773 of the People's Deputies for my authorship to immediately remove this from the Constitution, so that everyone is truly equal before the law, not this medieval caste.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-16-m0.u67	Thank you. So, colleagues, in six minutes, we're going to vote. The final word is Wilkul and Lucenko. And, colleagues, I ask all the heads of factions to invite deputies to the hall. I would like to point out that we are not a court or a prosecutor, we are fulfilling our commitment in the coalition agreement to remove parliamentary immunity. Therefore, each one will answer to his own electorate. Look, the factions' heads, who are not here, invite them to the hall. This vote will be a sign. And I'm asking everyone to maximize their mobility, get into the hall, in six minutes, there'll be a vote. I now invite you to the closing statement of the Ukrainian national deputy, Vilekul Alexander Yuriovich, 3 minutes. I'm not going to continue, because otherwise we won't be able to make it in the time-limited vote. So I'm asking at the time prescribed by the Rules to enter for the speech. Then we go to the vote. Please, Alexander Yuriovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-16-m0.u68	Dear colleagues! In the end, I'd like to go to Henprocuror. Dear Yuri Vitaliyovich, I will not escape, I was born, I will live and I will live in Ukraine. My health is strong, and I will continue to fight, and I will not make a deal. Once again, in the "darks" that are now being sent out, we all know that this is, this is the message that if Wilkul is a man, he has to go to court and defend himself, and it doesn't matter what evidence there is against him at all. Although I am on my way to interrogation, my phone is being listened to, by a national deputy, to the decision of a pocket judge at the Nicole Court. So I don't have to prove that I'm a man. I am, and I'm gonna stay like this forever. I will protect not only myself but all who are being humiliated and abused. At the same time, I ask, and I demand that the pressure on the witnesses and my lawyers be stopped. A 70 - year - old man who was planted in a non-flammatory cell in winter was threatened with a mistrial. Please stop. There's a claim to me -- well, there's me, I'm here, why touch witnesses and lawyers? The request to stop bullying other Witnesses by threatening to force them out of their jobs, to expel their children who work in government or in local self - government, and to blackmail families. Sadly, social media, social networking, and the Internet have begun harassing my lawyers. On the Regulatory Committee, they argued that the laws on which the charges were made had lost their force back in 2001 as the Earth Code, and we had no collective property at all since the date of the adoption of the Ukrainian Constitution. We have three properties: state, municipal and private, and collective until the year 96. What was done in response? When insulted, this lawyer was harassed, although a lawyer is a figure protected by law, and perhaps we should not argue with lawyers who have protected many people. And once again, here I am, and I'm asking you not to touch anyone else. Dear colleagues, you've all seen -- now the decision is yours. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-16-m0.u69	Thank you. Colleagues, there'll be a vote in three minutes. Once again, I stress the responsibility of every national MP to participate in the vote. Heads of factions, please, see who's not here, and invite the deputies to the hall. I ask the Secretary of the Supreme Council to invite all the deputies to the Hall in three minutes, the vote. And I invite you to the closing statement of the Attorney General of Ukraine, Lucenk Yuri Vitaliovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-16-m0.u70	Dear colleagues, there is such a popular expression of "crocodillary tears," which is what we have heard today from this rostrum and from the People's Deputy Vilkul. He asks not to touch the former head of the Kobylyak regime, for he says he is forced to do something. He should not have been touched when you called him and said it was illegal to sign a change in the agricultural assignment of the land, for which he was already convicted by the court and in court, as I showed on the screen today, under the oath of yours, Mr. Wilkul. Nor do you need to hide behind his deputy, who then, in January times, when you were the "full crocodile" of the Dnipropetrov region, refused, and his graph disappeared upon signature. Just as your head of the State Commission refused to sign your illegal orders, and you forged, one of your crocodiles forged this signature. Its signature, already installed by expertise, forged. So don't hide for the people, Mr. Wilkul, take responsibility for yours. Because the head of the regime is condemned, the head of a limited-liability society, who has saved thanks to your government budget paper 5 million, condemned, and today you want to hide behind parliamentary inviolability. Today you have to become the third in this triad. The person who signed the first directive at the district level replied that the person who signed it at the level of the area should answer and stop hiding behind the inviolability, and the one who had a profit of 5 million dollars unpaid to the budget should also respond. It's a very simple figure, look at this slide: they were going to pay 8 million -- they paid 3. This is where all these high-rises come from, fighting so hard for the budget and for all the simple people. This is the price of farming some government officials who are specially signing decisions so that they do not go into the budget. Where they came from, I can't prove it yet, I'll keep my mouth shut. But when I go on the road and I see a crocodile crying for all the poor people who don't get paid from the budget, I guess. So let's stop these crocodile tears. Just like your auditioned phone. That's a lie. He hasn't been listened to in a day. The point is that the case against your colleague, also the great crocodile Udoda, who was giving the command to beat up all the fieldmen, the beast, with the heads bashed, you took him abroad, he's hiding there. And all the phones that communicate with him had to be listened to. The operating services also provided a telephone that your father probably used. The moment they found out it was your phone, the court's decision was stopped. Your phone, a distinguished national MP, has not been listened to in a minute. This is a legal fact established by the National Police. And please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-16-m0.u71	30 seconds. And finish it, Yuri Vitaliovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-16-m0.u72	A request to stop lying. You want to defend yourself, use legal arguments instead of crying about torture and counterfeiting. We all know the value of your tears. The MP's touch on the table and answer as well as those you forced to make the wrong, illegal decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-16-m0.u73	So let's move on to making a decision. I'm asking everyone to take up jobs. My colleagues, I remind you, we vote in favour of withdrawing the inviolability, as everyone promised when they went to the elections. Every faction and every deputy. I ask you to prepare and take part in the vote. And, colleagues, invite everyone into the hall and take up jobs. It's a responsible vote, and the authority and the parliament, and every deputy, and every faction. And I am voting in accordance with article 80 of the Constitution of Ukraine, part seven of article 221 of the Ukrainian Act on the Rules of Procedure of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, on the issue of consenting to the criminal responsibility of the national deputy of Ukraine, Mr. Alexander Juryovich. Please vote. Please be supportive. Let's vote, colleagues. Please vote. Vote. [[14:14:51]] For-137 Please show by factions. Please show by factions. "Block of Peter Poshenko" – 46, "National Front" – 36, "Resistance Block" – 0, "self-help" – 18, "Radical Party of Oleg Ljashka" – 9, "Fathership" – 5, "Will of the People" – 0, "Party of Rebirth" – 0, non-fractional – 23, colleagues. I'll tell you my personal opinion. This is a disgrace to the Ukrainian Parliament! This is a disgrace to the Ukrainian Parliament: as we went to the elections, we promised to remove the inviolability. So, colleagues, after lunch, we're going to have an extension of this consideration. Both the faction and the MP will be responsible for these decisions that we make in Parliament. I believe there has been wickedness in front of our electorate and in front of our community. I would like to inform the Attorney General of Ukraine that, according to section 9 of article 221, the decision to remove the inviolability of the People’s Deputies of Vilkul Alexander Yuriovich is inadmissible. The decision is not taken. Thus, colleagues, the morning plenary meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine I declare closed. At 4 a.m., our work will continue with the next submission of the removal of parliamentary immunity from the Ukrainian national deputy Kolesnikov. And we'll start work at four o'clock.
