ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-20-m1.u1	Dear colleagues, please come into the hall and prepare for registration. Colleagues, while the MPs are in the hall, I ask you to come to me with the authors of the decrees: Gorbunova, Denisenko and Fedoruka. Please come to me, Mr. Fedoruk. And I'd like you to invite the deputies into the hall. So, colleagues, please prepare for registration. And please register. [[16:09:20]] 358 – a.k.a. registered, registered. I declare the evening session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine open. So, colleagues, as I reported, as is the case in the daytime, we have three questions about decommunization. One question is the Order to Rename the Kirovograd district of Kirovograd to the Kropivnitsky region. The following is a draft Act amending article 133 of the Constitution of Ukraine (rename the Kirovograd region). And the next. The same draft Law amending article 133 on the renaming of the Dnipropetrov region. The sequence will be as follows. First, we're going to consider the district decree, and then we're going to look at both areas. In time, we go in. In order for colleagues to be able to gather and vote decommunization. So, colleagues, I know there are meetings of certain committees. I ask the heads of factions to invite all the deputies into the conference room. I'm going to name who was missing and not voting after decommunization. I emphasize once again, it's a question beyond political conflict. Tens and hundreds of years will pass. No one will remember the political debates we had, but everyone will remember the reform of decommunization that was carried out by the present parliament. So I ask all the heads of factions to be held accountable. And I, my colleagues, am announcing the move to the Project Rename Order of the Kirovograd Region of Kirovograd (No. 4906). Anyone who supports its consideration under a reduced procedure, please vote. [[4:11:49]] For-46 Let us consider the full procedure. The decision is not taken. And I invite the head of the Committee on State Building, Regional Policy and Local Self-Government of Fedorok Mikol Trochymovich to report.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-20-m1.u2	Dear Head, distinguished national MPs! I want to remind you that we were looking at the question of renaming the locations almost a year ago. And for the time being, we've renamed almost a thousand locations, districts, cities, but we're left with unresolved, purely organizational issues, one name of the area is the Kirovograd district. We renamed the city of Kirovograd to Kropivnicki, and today it is the town of Kropivnitsky, and the area remains Kirovogradski. So there is an urgent need to consider, more specifically, Supreme Council regulation number 4906. And let me tell you. To carry out the tasks of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to reconcile issues concerning the renaming of individual population sites and districts, the Committee on State Building, Regional Policy and Local Self-Government, at its meeting on 6 July 2016, reviewed the recommendations of the Ukrainian Institute of National Memory on the renaming of the Kirovograd district of Kirovograd in relation to the need to bring its name into line with the requirements of the Ukrainian Law on the Prohibition of Communist and National Socialist (Nazi), Totalitarian Regimes in Ukraine and to prohibit the promotion of their symbolism. In the course of the discussion, Ukrainian National Deputies, members of the Committee, noted that according to part of article 5 of the Ukrainian Law on Geographical Names, the names of the administrative and territorial units should generally be derived from the appointment of those administrative units, which are their administrative centres or geographical or historical designation of that part of the territory where these administrative and territorial units are located. In doing so, it was noted that the committee, at its meeting on 31 March 2016, recommended that the Supreme Council of Ukraine rename the city of Kirovograd of Kirovograd as the town of Kropivnicki, by adopting as a basis and as a whole the draft decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the introduction of the name of the city of Kirovograd of Kirovograd in accordance with the requirements of the Ukrainian Law on the Prohibition of Communist and National Socialist (Nazi) Totalitarian Regimes in Ukraine and the Prohibition of the Propagation of Their Symbolism (registration No. 4222 of 15 March 2016), submitted by the National Deputates of Ukraine Gorbunov, Brezkinim, Link, Chervakov, Krulk and Skrum. Following a comprehensive discussion, the Committee agreed to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine, in accordance with part three of article 138 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Rules, a draft decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the renaming of the Kirovograd region of Kirovograd (registration number 4906) to be adopted as a whole.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-20-m1.u3	Thank you. Question to the reporter. Anyone who intends to ask a question, please hold the record. Please, Sporish.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-20-m1.u4	Ivan Sporish. Please pass the word to Mikoli Shinkovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-20-m1.u5	Dear colleagues, of course, the question of renaming these two very important areas is in time. And there is a proposal to unlock these issues and make decisions. The more we see, in the hall enough voices, enough conscious national MPs to keep anyone from saying, we work and we adopt laws. But as I prepared to this day, I had a working meeting in the Kirovograd region, and in Dnipropetrovsk, I wanted the name to be accepted. And that's why there's the idea that maybe we should go back to the very name, look at and look at the Central Ukrainian region, not the name that we're proposing in the draft law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-20-m1.u6	Mr. People's Deputy, the point is that we're not there yet, you're probably a little late at the beginning of the session, we haven't gotten to the point where we're dealing with the area name issues yet. We're looking at the renaming of the Kirovograd district to the Kropivnicki district right now. So when you consider these questions, you will make your proposal. I think so.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-20-m1.u7	Thank you. So, Aresonkov.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-20-m1.u8	Please pass the word to Paul Kishkar.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-20-m1.u9	Thank you, Mr. Volodymyr. Mr. Mikolo, a question. Clearly, we will support this decision, and here, of course, there is logic in the actions of both Parliament and you as a committee. In addition, there are several rulings on your committee's consideration, including for my authorship. For example, regarding the renaming of the village of Novgorodské primordial in the Donetsk region, 2 kilometers to the front. The historical name of this village in New York. Please consider, please support, and please take this to Parliament. This is very important in terms of the information war with the Russian Federation. I very much ask you to pay attention to this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-20-m1.u10	Thank you for your offer. What I'm saying is that our committee is always scrupulous about these issues and considers them extremely important -- renaming. Not only related issues with decommunization but also with the will of the community. Because these questions are very often asked. I'll tell you about it. Because people often have problems forming an inheritance, forming documents that are available (birth certificates, passports, etc.). And that's why we're looking at all of these questions on the committee very scrupulously. But here's the thing, almost three dozen times already, I think, these naming issues have been included in the agenda of the Supreme Council's day meeting, but we're practically not coming to them. And I already have here in this folder so many draft regulations to vote on. These are, literally, almost technical questions that no one has. That's why I support you. I think the committee's been through everything.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-20-m1.u11	Thank you. Only I will remind you, Mr. Michael, and you, Paul, are not coming. I voted several times for the transition, and I did not support the hall. So that we do not deceive one another, but speak honestly. It's just that in the hall, for some strange reason, they don't vote for the committee's old position. And I'm going to put it again, colleagues, and we need to have factions of conversation so that we can make positive decisions, because there really are a lot of them. And the final question from Sergey Eutushka.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-20-m1.u12	Sergey Eutuszek, Fatherland. In principle, I want to make it clear to people that we will now vote on a decision that we should then refer to the Constitutional Court, and it has to be concluded that we are about to change the areas. And once we've passed this procedure, and the Constitutional Court will give us conclusions, of course we'll consult the community and understand what they want and how they want us to do it. I mean, we've always supported decommunization as a faction of Fatherland. And now I want to ask you. You've just shown the list, the whole folder, as you said, of the cities and areas that you want to bring to the attention. Is there a city in this papacy of the city of Lviv? People are also asking why we do not decommunize this city. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-20-m1.u13	Mr. Sergey, Your Honor, we are discussing once again the question of the renaming of the Kirovograd region, and this does not require the Constitutional Court's conclusion. It only takes our decision with you and that's all. As far as Red Town is concerned, it's not in this folder that I have, this question has not been considered. Ms. Oksana, she's from Sosnovka, Red Gornado, and she'll probably tell you that this has nothing to do with the communication, the name of the city.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-20-m1.u14	Thank you. Thank you, Mr. Mikola. And now we're recording from factions. But my request is to speak more concisely. And please hold a record of those who intend to participate in the discussion, please. From the "Fatherland" faction, Ivan Krulko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-20-m1.u15	Ivan Krulko, "The Fatherland" faction. This Parliament certainly has many shortcomings in its work and the fair claims of Ukrainian citizens that the social initiatives that should have been voted in this Parliament, including those that have proposed and proposed the "Paternity" faction, are not voted on, unfortunately. But at the same time we have to say honestly that the work that was done after decommunization will definitely go to the Supreme Council of the Eighth Call, and the process of decommunization needs to be completed. We have to make those decisions that will eventually remove our cities and areas of the name of the kats that destroyed the Ukrainians, who were in the Soviet regime, those who invented the famines and implemented them in practice, by which there is a court decision, including the Ukrainian court, as to what they are co-organizers of the Holocaust, the genocide of the Ukrainian people. And I think that today's decision to refer two Supreme Council rulings to the Constitutional Court, according to which we plan to amend the Constitution with regard to the renaming of two areas, is absolutely logical. I believe that there is a need for further clarification and consultation with people living in these areas in order for them to accept the decisions of Parliament. But we must do our duty and debt to Ukraine, to the Ukrainian people, and to complete the process of decommunization. This process of decommunization must end with the finalization of the names and symbols of the Ukrainian cities, areas and villages of those communists who were actually working on destroying any national memory of the people and working to ensure that Ukraine never regains its national independence. But at the same time, I would like to say that we also have a duty to millions now living in Ukraine to adopt laws that must make their lives easier. And that this Parliament refuses to review the Supreme Council’s decree, registered by five parliamentary factions, week after week. And the thing about lowering tariffs on gas for the population is what we owe to millions of people today. Because decommunization is important and necessary, but today people need to live and pay for those not real tariffs. That's why we, as the Fatherland, are now forced to vote, and we demand that Parliament and the Head of Parliament be put to the vote, and that the Order on the Reduction of Tariffs be voted on, and that the end of this genocide, which is being carried out by millions of people now living, when people are finally forced to pay for gas. We vote decommunization and vote down tariffs for the population.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-20-m1.u16	Thank you. From Peter Prashenko's Block, Vitaly's Kurilo.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-20-m1.u17	Dear National Deputies! Dear Lord Chairman! The "Block of Peter Prashenko" will vote in favour of renaming the Kirovograd region to the Kropivnitsky region. And I think we should have taken this decision a long time ago and made that change. Our faction will also vote in favour of the subsequent decrees to rename the settlements that stand in the order of the day. At the same time, Andrew Volodymyrovich, I would like to address you with such a request. We have today in the daytime order, right down to the end, there are still a number of orders from our committee, the Committee on State Building and Local Self-Government, about changing the boundaries of a number of areas, where territorial communities are formed, these are the Lugansk and Donetsk regions that have been in the daytime order for tens of times now, but they are not being reached in Parliament. And people are waiting because it's a question that prevents the full functioning of the newly created territorial communities. The same is true of the question of changing the status of the city’s village like Bilukurakine. I would very much ask you to raise these questions a little bit today, and so there's literally 2-3 minutes for us to vote on these issues and accept them, and so that we can complete these questions by changing the boundaries and changing the names. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-20-m1.u18	Colleagues, if we can get through the question of substituting areas, there's a name immediately behind them. And I'm going to ask them and I'm going to propose, and maybe we can go through a few of these today, too. To do that, we need to be more concise in the performances and work more in harmony and efficiency. From the People's Front, Igor Lapin.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-20-m1.u19	Glory to Ukraine! Dear colleagues, you know, many of you know the historical facts about what totalitarian regime is, what communist ideology is, and how it's been planted for years. As I go up to this rostrum, I'm probably not going to repeat what all the previous speakers have said about this. But I'm going to tell you about the 14th year and the fact that I have a personal claim to the leaders of communist ideology, especially the representatives of the Communist Party who were sitting in this room in the 14th year. And I'm going to tell you about this moment in the 14th year of the story of my battalion and my boys. We went to Stukalov's Balka, it's under Lugansk, near the metallicist populace. There was a repairman who adjusted the artillery fire from Luhansk, and this artillery was very good at our altitudes where we were taking up defense. And there was this one in this Knocking Ball, living with the Communist Kilincarov, perhaps you remember your colleague, some of whom have remembered him since then. And in the property of this communist, we found an arsenal of weapons. And I was personally one of those people who got this arsenal and got grenades from the Russian Federation, grenades. If anyone didn't see this video, it was once in Youtube, and there were a lot of interrogations about it, like the Idar punitive battalion is doing something there. But the battalion did nothing wrong except find this arsenal of weapons. So these are the people, these Communists, and they've done all the wrong, and they've been promoting their ideology, and they've been covering up for us in Ukraine with Russian weapons. And thank God that one of these moments in the final version has placed a dot on the existence of the Communist Party in Ukraine. I think that this point should also be asked about the renaming of areas and cities and the completion of this process of ideological work, this process of decommunization in Ukraine. I will thank all of you if we all unanimously support this and make it clear to everyone and to the world that the return of this ideology to us in Ukraine will no longer be. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-20-m1.u20	Heroim Slava! From the Radical Party to the word, Oleg Valeriyovich Ljashko is invited. And, colleagues, I want to remind you, we're going to have a vote in 10 minutes, look who's not around, call me back, find an opportunity to bring everyone into the hall, so they're all in the decommunization room. Please, Oleg Valeriovich Lazko, 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-20-m1.u21	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. I'm talking to Ukrainian citizens. You see, our team is in position. We are trying to make a decision, a decision that obliges the government to cancel the decision to increase gas prices and to ensure that Ukrainian gas targets the needs of housing and utilities. This will make it possible to lower the cost of gas, to set a fair price, to prevent people from robbing Naftogaz from paying their space wages and bonuses, and the inhabitants of Pavlovgrad, the Horn of Curve, Herson or Severerodonetsky as a result of greedy and corrupt politics were sitting without heat and their children were frozen. This is a fundamental question for us that Ukrainian children should not freeze to be warm not only in the Presidential or Prime Minister’s office but to be warm in Ukrainian schools, in Ukrainian hospitals, in Ukrainian citizens’ homes. Regrettably, the authorities are now pursuing policies that take away both the Ukrainians and the heat and the ability to earn money and the opportunity to realize themselves in their own country. We're going to change this policy, we have an absolutely clear plan that will allow tariffs to be reduced, we're going to extract more of our own gas, we're going to mine our own coal, we're going to buy less of our own peat, we're going to buy it abroad, and as a result, we're going to make sure that the authorities don't rob people. But as we promised, the issues that make up national security, the issue of defence, the issue of Ukraine's future, we will support. The question of decommunization is the national security of the country, it's a question of historical memory. Today, the whole country ahead of the 85th anniversary of the Great Hunger, the Gladmore, which was artificially organized by the Communist Party and its actors. Kirov and Petrovsky, two areas whose name is still known, are among those who organized the famine. As a result of this famine, millions of Ukrainians have died — children, men, women, and unborn children — as long as they have not been born because of these cataclysms of the Ukrainian people. So we think it's historically important and it's a matter of national security in order to restore historical memory, so that the executioners of the Ukrainian people will be known, so that they will never again be allowed to commit similar crimes in the future, when, as a result of the actions of the leading and directing Communist party, millions of Ukrainians have paid with their own lives, and their children have only been malnourished because they were hens, they were Ukrainians, they were the hosts Stalin and his petro-kyrovska clique wanted to destroy. Because as a Ukrainian, as a Ukrainian team, we cannot be indifferent to these issues, and we will be sure to support the changes to the Constitution in order to remove the names of the Ukrainian people from the map of Ukraine and to keep them in national memory as the largest catumas and enemies, and never again in history to allow the loss of people because of the politics of handmade power. That's why we support the changes to the Constitution after decommunization.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-20-m1.u22	Thank you. The factions are finished. Ever since Self-Help, Oleg Barresuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-20-m1.u23	Ladies and gentlemen! The issue of decommunation simply needs to be concluded quietly, without any fiery speeches, and by simply voting for changes in things that are in fact symbols of the destruction of millions of Ukrainian people and of Ukrainian statehood. That's why we vote yes.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-20-m1.u24	Dear colleagues, the factions' statements have been completed, and I want to thank all the factions for the position that was expressed when the national interest, the public interest was placed above the political disputes that are in this room. Colleagues, it's now six minutes from the National Deputies, and we're moving on to the vote. So I'm asking everyone to come to the hall and I'm asking you to record a statement from the National MPs. Please. Teteruk Andriy Anatolyovich. Turn on the microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-20-m1.u25	Andrew Teteruk, People's Front. I call upon all the national MPs, despite such frivolous behavior and now finding themselves outside the session room, to return to the workplace, to vote, and to complete the important process of decommunizing our society. As much grief as we have suffered from Communist power, it will be impossible to understand for several generations. So the sooner we complete this process, the cleaner our society, our thoughts and our actions will be. So I urge everyone to join the vote now and make their choice in favor. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-20-m1.u26	Thank you. Marchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-20-m1.u27	Please pass the word Illenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-20-m1.u28	Andrew Illenko, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union, the city of Kiev. Parliament is obliged to vote in favour of this decision, as is the case with the subsequent decisions of noncommunization. Because it's really embarrassing when there are names on a map of an independent Ukrainian state that stain the memory of Ukrainians. Because the names for the Bolshevik and Communist and Moscow executioners who did the genocide of the Ukrainian nation, who did the famines, who did the mass extermination of all the Ukrainians who occupied the Ukrainian state, are not their place in Ukraine. It's nonsense, it's garbage disposal from our own house, which we would have done long ago in the 91st year after the restoration of independence. We need to do this and rename the Kirovograd region to the Kropivnicki district, as well as the Kirovograd region to the Kropivni district and the Dnipropetrovsk region to Sicheslavsk. Because we realize that it is a restoration of historical justice, it is finally a memory of our ancestors. Because this week, I want to remind everyone, we're going to have a tragic anniversary, the 85th anniversary of the dreaded genocide of 32-33. And it is necessary, at least now, to do what long ago the Supreme Council of Ukraine would have done and washed away this filth that is still staining our holy daughter Ukraine. And now we're going to see who is who after this vote. And I urge every national MP today to come into the hall and vote for our historical memory, for our honor and finally for our future. Because there can't be a future in a situation where our cities, our administrative and territorial units are called the names of our people's catas. So let's vote yes, and this is the only way we can go.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-20-m1.u29	Thank you. Ivan Ivanovich. Turn on the microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-20-m1.u30	Dear colleagues, today we must make this decision that is necessary for our nation, for the future of our country. So I urge all MPs to make this decision once and for all, which is necessary to ensure that our map never shows up, that it has corrupted our Ukrainian people. On the eve of the 85th anniversary of the day of the famine, we must do this for our future generation. That's why I'm calling on all the national MPs, my fellow dignitaries, we need to know one thing that the future is up to us, and we need to make this historic decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-20-m1.u31	Thank you. Please, Barney Oleg Stepanovich. From the microphone, Mr. Oleg.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-20-m1.u32	Praise be to Jesus Christ. The laws must be adopted for the service of our people, our nation, our nation. And by no means can we be loyal to all the crimes committed by the Soviet, Stalinic, other regimes on our earth. Therefore, we must remember the past so that it will never be repeated in the future. And in the memory of our children, we should never forget these bloodthirsty people of our nation, and by their names they should still show their significance in the names of our cities and villages. So the Peter Prashenko faction supports this bill and urges everyone to vote for it.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-20-m1.u33	Colleagues, we're going to have a closing statement in two minutes, so we're going to go to the vote. I'm asking everyone to come into the hall and take their jobs. I'm stressing decommunization. Colleagues, don't come out of the hall, I'll be publishing in the Voice of Ukraine, who voted. Please, everyone, please come into the hall and prepare for the vote. Now, the closing statement is Head Michael and we're moving on to the decision-making process. Please, Mikhail.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-20-m1.u34	A respected society, respected national MPs, the question of decommunization and the elimination of Communist symbols and names for us is the restoration of national justice. Because we all remember that the 20th century is a century of terror, a Bolshevik terror on Ukrainian holy land, where millions of Ukrainians were destroyed. We remember the famines, we remember the collectiveization, we remember the migration and migration to Siberia of the best of the best Ukrainians. And today such things should not be forgotten. We must correct all mistakes, all the consequences of the totalitarian regime, which have been here for 70 years, on sacred Ukrainian soil, have destroyed the Ukrainian nation. And today they will be ashamed of those national MPs who will not press a button to change the name and get rid of the symbols of Soviet Bolshevik totalitarianism, and eventually restore national and historical memory. So I urge everyone not to be indifferent, for this is our sacred duty. We must send in the past, and we must wipe out the remnants of Bolshevikism and the Soviets that we should remember were indeed difficult years for us. And the mistakes that in their time led, unfortunately, liberals during the 100 years before the reign of Vinicken, Gruszewski. Because they didn't have a strong national position, because they didn't want to see a strong Ukrainian army, they formed Ukrainian fighting forces, eventually led to a Bolshevik horde entering Ukrainian land. After that, we remember what happened. To this day, in order not to repeat these mistakes, we must root out this liberalism, root out this rotten position so that our leaders and government officials and men do not repeat these mistakes. Still, to defend national symbols, to protect national interests, to remember our history, to remember, sadly, all those mistakes that never happen again. And today, the sacred duty of all of us, all of the people elected by the Ukrainian people, is to correct those mistakes, to get rid of Bolshevik totalitarianism, and eventually to rename our regions, to rename our cities and areas as Ukrainian names, which have historical meanings that have historical fulfillment, and to get rid of those catas, their monuments, there, and all major crimes. So I urge all the national MPs to go into the session room right now and vote, support the renaming of the districts and the Kropivnicki district, and the Dniprovsky region. Please support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-20-m1.u35	So, colleagues, the discussion is over, and we're moving on to making a decision. Everyone, please take a job right now, stop the political debate, we're going to vote, we're going to make a decision. This, colleagues, is the way history is made, and this is how the future is created, which is up to each one of us. Therefore, I ask everyone to take part in the vote in a responsible manner. And I'm voting on a motion for a decree to rename the Kirovograd district of Kirovograd for the proposal of a committee as a basis and as a whole. Please vote and please support. Colleagues, we vote! We're backing up! To Ukraine! For our historical memory! Let's vote, colleagues. Who's a patriot, everybody's a voter. We vote yes. Vote. [[16:46:13]] For 231 Decision taken, colleagues. The factions, please. "Peter Poshenko's Block" – 89, "The People's Front" – 63, "The Opposition Block" – 0, "The Self-Help" – 15, "The Radical Party – 17, "The Fatherland" – 8, "The Will of the People" – 11, "The Rebirth Party" – 2, "The Non-Factory 26. My colleagues, congratulations. Now I'm going to give you a word for a break from two factions, and we're going into a change to the Constitution, and there are voices in the room. Colleagues, we have 1 hour 20 to go through two questions of proposing changes to the Constitution. Now came a statement from two factions for a break. They're ready to take a break from the rostrum. Please turn on the microphone and turn on the video.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-20-m1.u36	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. The government tells us that we have to raise gas prices because there's no money in the budget, and we can't survive without the loans of the International Monetary Fund. Now I want to give you examples of how Ukrainians are being robbed under cover of power, and what we can actually survive without any budget when there's fair power in Ukraine. Today, according to my commission, my fellow national MPs, Andrew Lozowy, Igor Mosiyczuk, Eugene Dayday, are in the Odessa region in the port of Reni. We found two barges with a smuggled round forest. Please show me a video of this smuggling of forest that is being exported from Odessa. They called the police, the police. The police have removed the documents. It's a company called Agro-Rennie LTD. There was a forest round the port, thousands of tons of roundwood. Here's one overlay. And here's the other one. To the port of Galatz, Romania, from the same port, the same product comes out already under the name "Fuelwood." The same company took 20 roundwoods to the port, and it takes fuelwood to the Galatz, Romania. That's two markets with a forest round, and in fact with fuelwood, and actually with a forest round, we've just gotten to René. By the way, the toys at this Odessa port in Reno don't get paid for months. Every day, the forest is smuggled through the port of Reni, through other Ukrainian ports. Yesterday, Durzkomstat (this is the forest that is currently being smuggled) released data yesterday, and 3 million tons of fuelwood were taken out of Ukraine this year. I extend my greetings to President Prashenko, who, a few months ago, has made a commitment to our law that has proposed banning the export of wood from Ukraine, because everyone in Ukraine knows that wood is actually driven by a forest round by a precious tree. The barbarians cut the forest from Carpathians to the Sumstina, exported to Romania, exported to Turkey, exported to Poland, created jobs for our competitors, and Ukraine became an orphan colony. President Prashenko made a commitment to a law that would allow the smuggling to cease. Why did they commit this law? Because they make their own money on smuggling. International experts estimate that at least $5 billion a year is being smuggled out of Ukraine. Requesting a billion-dollar loan from the International Monetary Fund, the billion-dollar smuggling itself comes from Ukraine. I'm asking the authorities, the Attorney General's Office, to investigate why there's wood, wood, wood, and wood that's not processed. Draw to the responsibility of the customs and all those who cover up this smuggling.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-20-m1.u37	So, colleagues, let's move on to the next cluster of decommunization issues. Next draft of the Law on Amendments to Article 133 of the Constitution of Ukraine (Renamement of the Kirovograd Region) (No. 8380). To remind you, consideration of these changes involves a special procedure. The bill was submitted to the Supreme Council of Ukraine under the signatures of 153 Ukrainian national deputies. And according to the requirements of part one of article 146 of the Rules, the matter is being considered in full discussion. But this, colleagues, means we don't have to use it all the time to get through both areas. And so I'm going to have to ask the reporters not to spend 10 minutes, but less time to look at the changes to two areas. And I invite one of the initiators of the bill 8380 – Ukrainian national deputy Alexander Vladimirovich Gorbunov. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-20-m1.u38	Dear Andriy Volodymyrovich, distinguished national MPs, distinguished people of Ukraine, respected colleagues! First of all, I want to thank you for your previous vote, for your support of the bill and for renaming the Kirovograd region to the Kropivnitsky region. Thank you very much for that. Now you have a bill to amend article 133 of the Constitution of Ukraine regarding the renaming of the region of Kirovograd (registration number 8380). The Ukrainian Act on the Condemnation of the Communist and National Socialist Totalitarian Regimes in Ukraine and the Prohibition of the Propagation of Their Symbolism stipulates that the symbolism of the Communist regime includes the names of areas where names or aliases of persons who have taken over the Communist Party, the higher authorities and the administration of the Soviet Union have been used. The region of Kirovograd was named after the district center of Kirovograd. The city was named after Sergey Kirova, the real name Kostrikov, one of the leaders of the USSR Company of those years, which is considered to be one of the organizers of mass repression against Ukrainians, and also an ideal inspiration to the Order of August 7, 1932, which was later called the Five Bones Act. For these five stakes, anyone who could gather them after the harvest could plant them, kill them. But should the name of the person who caused the deaths of some 9 million Ukrainians continue to be in the area? And so, aside from the legal component of renaming, morality becomes equally important. The issue of renaming the area has been actively discussed in various communities. He was considered at a public council meeting in the county councils, district councils, and miscvoics. And on November 18, 2015, there was a public council meeting with the district government, which made a decision of all the councils in the area and decided to rename the area after renaming the district cent and give it a name according to the new name of the district cent. The corresponding letter was sent from the district administration to the Supreme Council of Ukraine, suggesting that the name of the area be renamed according to the derived name of the district center, the new name of the district center. By decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine in July 2016, the district center of Kirovograd was renamed Kropivnicki. Today in Ukraine there are names of areas that come from the names of prominent personalities, such as Ivano-Frankivska, Hmelnicka, who have forever celebrated the names of prominent Ukrainians. That's why the name "Poultry Area" will sound eloquent and will be another reminder of the multicultural and historical heritage of the land. The very name "Dropivnicki" has become synonymous and has been able to reconcile the different toponyms for the district center, and more than two years since the changeover, it has been active in social communication for both residents of the city and citizens of the whole of Ukraine. Today, it forms a positive image of the city as a city of art and promotes its tourist attraction. And I want to personally thank you for your position, and I want to remind everyone in this room of the position of President Peter Alexiyovich Prashenko, who, in his statement, said that the cat names of the map of Ukraine and I really support it. Therefore, it is most appropriate to rename the area according to the name of the district center of Kropivnitsky. I ask the Ukrainian Parliament, you, honourable colleagues, to take a state decision and vote in favour of the Ukrainian name for the area. This decision is long overdue and awaits the whole of Ukraine. Let's finally put the final dot on the question of decommunization and choose a new name for the area to release consciousness, ideology and geography once and for all from the Soviet dictatorship. Please support this bill by voting in favour. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-20-m1.u39	Thank you. Is there a question for the reporter? I won't. Then let us go to the report. Welcome to the report by Ruslan Petrovich Knazević. Please, Mr. Ruslan.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-20-m1.u40	Good day, dear fellows, the honourable presiding officer! I, on behalf of the committee, want to say that the question of amending the Constitution, which is provided for in Bill 8380, was considered by our committee at the end of last session and in July, on July 11, we made the appropriate decision at our meeting in the form of a decision on the bill. And it's very important to say that this is a decision that the committee has taken, accordingly, within the limits of the powers that are attached to the subject matter of our committee's knowledge, because the committee is still sensitive to changes in the Constitution, not to questions such as local self-government or any other matter. So in fact, this question, as it were, is the conclusion that we have, according to our authority, the ability to give. At the same time, we are obliged to give legal assessment to those procedural matters that are provided for both in the Constitution of Ukraine and in the Act on the Rules of the Supreme Council, and in the Law on the Constitutional Court and the procedure for amending the Constitution of Ukraine. Thus, in its conclusion, the committee noted that the proposed bill was intended to amend part two of the 133 articles of the Constitution of Ukraine, namely the word "Kirovogradski" being replaced by "Kropivnick". According to article 154 of the Basic Law of Ukraine, a bill has been submitted to the Supreme Council by an appropriate body of legislative initiative, including 153 national deputies, that is, more than one third of the constitutional composition of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The adoption of the bill does not, according to the Committee, require a system-wide uniformity of the Constitution to amend chapters I, III and III of the Constitution at the same time, which would have resulted in the approval of the said decision in the country-wide referendum. Similarly, the committee concluded that the bill met the requirements of the 158th Constitution of Ukraine. In particular, during the consideration of the bill in Ukraine, no military or extraordinary situation was introduced in the order provided for in the Constitution of Ukraine. At the same time, the Committee points out that the Supreme Council is currently under review by the President of Ukraine as an immediate draft of the Act amending the Constitution of Ukraine on the decentralization of power under registration number 2217a of 15 July 2015, which, inter alia, provides for amendments to the same article of the Constitution of Ukraine. More specifically, the bill does not provide for the replacement of the names of Kirovogradska to Kropivnicka or any other area, but provides for the deletion of names from the text of the Constitution and the introduction of a blank, i.e. a reference standard, into a special law defining the names of areas and other regions of Ukraine. The draft law submitted by the People’s Deputies of Ukraine by the Supreme Council of the Eighth Council was not considered. The Supreme Council of the Eighth Congregation did not change the position of this article of the Basic Law during the year of its credentials. A preliminary analysis of the bill allows the committee to consider that it does not have the position previously expressed in its conclusions or in the decisions taken by the Constitutional Court, which have been recognized as nullifying or restricting human and civil rights and freedoms aimed at eliminating independence or violating Ukraine's territorial integrity. And so there is reason to believe that these positions meet the requirements of the 157th and 158th Constitution of Ukraine. In view of this, the committee finds it inappropriate to refer the draft law to scientific and legal or other expertise for adoption by the Supreme Council of the Decree on refers to the Constitutional Court of Ukraine. In view of the above, the Committee on Legal Policy and Justice, at its meeting by a majority of votes, decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine the draft Law on Amendments to Article 133 of the Constitution of Ukraine on the Rename of the Kirovograd Region (with registration number 8380) from 18th. From May 18th, to include in the agenda of the Supreme Council's day session the eighth call and to refer to the Constitutional Court to obtain a conclusion on its compliance with the requirements of articles 157th, 158th of the Constitution of Ukraine. This is the ninth session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Please have a draft decision to support the Committee in the session room. Thank you for your attention. Ready to answer your questions if they arise.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-20-m1.u41	Do you have a question for a coconspirator? Let's move on to the factions. Thank you, Mr. Ruslan, for the thorough report. Please record the factions and groups who intend to speak. From the Self-Help faction of Berezuk Oleg. Berezuk Oleg, right? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-20-m1.u42	This should be immediately voted on and not spoken. Self-help is for it.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-20-m1.u43	From the People's Front. From the People's Front, the River Andriy Aleksandrovich. Fedoruk, please, Mikola Fedoruk.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-20-m1.u44	Dear colleagues, we should be ashamed that we haven't been able to consider this issue for two years and the question of the area of Kirovograd, the region of Kropivnitsky, the region of Kirovograd, the region of Kropivnitski and the region of Dnipropetrovsk. Our People's Front faction supports this bill so quickly that we don't have much discussion and come up with different ideas, because someone doesn't support it. I've been to Kirovgrad, people backing up. The main thing they did in schools was to study the biography, the merit of the Kropivnicka, the children live in this land, and we should definitely rename the area to Kropivnicka. Our Committee on State Building, Regional Policy, and Local Self - Rule has already adopted this decree for two years, more faithfully, recommended this decree, and we will vote in favour of the renaming.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-20-m1.u45	Thank you. From Peter Poshenko's Block, Rudik Sergey Jaroslavovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-20-m1.u46	Dear Ukrainian people, dear colleagues, in fact, we should be ashamed not of the fact that we have been grinding this issue for two years, but of the fact that we are discussing this issue in 2018. Because, in large numbers, the post of the Ukrainian people had to be abolished immediately in the early years of independence, the streets that had arisen massively after the victory of the so - called Soviet authorities in Ukraine had to be renamed immediately after independence. And to make these renamings of the areas that we still have, we had to do it right then, but it happened the way it happened. I remember 2007-2010, when the entire country honored the memory of the victims of the Holocaust when the Memorial of the victims of the Holocaust appeared here in Pechersk, right next to us. And there stood the monument of Kosiore, the first secretary of the CPK KPU, near Petrovsky, right next to Dinamo, and Chubar was standing there, a little bit further away. And nobody's that, excuse me, don't scratch. That is, we went to worship at the same time, honored the memory of the victims of the Holocaust, collected such volumes of the dead, witnessed by the eyewitnesses, and stood beside the monuments of those who were not meant to be. We took them off with big fights. Every decommissioning of each monument was done, well, almost blood. So, in large numbers, I'm more concerned about, I think we're going to vote for it, I'm very sincere about it. We are most concerned about this indifference. At the same time, we cannot honor the heroes of Ukraine who gave their lives, but we cannot overlook the fact that the remains of the Ukrainian people are on the streets, many of which have never even been in Ukraine before, such as Vladimir Ilchi Lenin. You know, there was a time when Lenin was installed. 2,000 streets have been renamed Lenin. He's never been to Ukraine. That's why the block of Peter Dustenk is going to vote in favour, and I'm going to vote in favour myself, and I'm going to ask everyone not to leave the hall, vote in favour, support the initiative of the sincere patriot Alexander Gorbunov, who, in extremely difficult circumstances, managed to make this change. Let's finish the work he started. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-20-m1.u47	So, colleagues, now come forward from the national MPs, six minutes. And in six minutes, we're moving on to making a decision, colleagues. I ask you to record who intends to take part in the discussion and to inform all the national MPs that in six minutes we are moving on to the decision-making process. Capplin Sergey Mikolayovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-20-m1.u48	Of course, you can change the names of those or other locations each year, but I would like to give you an example of the Mountain Plains, former Komsomolsk. Well, we renamed Komsomolski a year ago in Mountain Plain. During that time, the dollar grew, the wages fell, the pensions fell, the subsidies went down, the attitude towards the people of half-Scotland became Scottish. Therefore, I believe that the task of today's Parliament, especially the next call to Parliament, may not be to transform the state, change its historical or any other facade, but to radically change the attitude of Parliament, the President, the government towards ordinary Ukrainians. And it should be about changing wages, creating new jobs, protecting our pensioners, the children of war I've just met. A few million children of war. In the last few years, the state has simply wiped its legs, not to mention. And I would like to emphasize that while decisions are being made here to rename some of the population sites and others, and so on, our team is dealing with social issues. Today, we have made sure that the necessary funds for Crucifixion are allocated to provide pensions to ordinary pensioners on time. Over the past few months, it has been possible for an additional 3 million of our fellow countrymen to receive a grant. We will see an increase in wages, an increase in pensions, and order in Ukraine. That's what true parliamentarians are supposed to do, who have full responsibility for this country's future, for the common man's fate, for the student's fate, for the worker's fate, for the peasant. Here are our priorities. I believe that the next Ukrainian Parliament, which will be neither rhetoric nor priorities nor strategic tasks nor membership of today's Parliament, should act as pragmatically as possible. Today we need to understand that we are actually on the threshold of survival, and the country can just end. You can just lose the state, lose the ability to live safely in this state, have a peaceful sky over your head, have a job, have a salary, have a decent pension. Today, we discussed these issues in particular at a meeting, at a working meeting of the head of the Committee on Social Affairs, with children of war, Afghans, Chernobyl, and military pensioners. They are concerned today not with the names of the cities where they will receive the lowest wage in the world, the least chance of getting a job, the lowest. Today, they are interested in a real solution to the challenges discussed for twenty - five years. And I sincerely believe that the new composition of Parliament, the new government next year, the new leadership of the country will deal with these challenges. And you can call it whatever you want, but for people to be good, ordinary Ukrainian people.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-20-m1.u49	Colleagues, I want to remind you that 100 years ago, Bolsheviks came here to convince us that our memory, that our history doesn't matter. Above all, let us divide the earth and give the factories to the workers. And they brought us famine into our country. Not a discussion of tariffs and gas, but a famine that killed millions of Ukrainians. We should keep that in mind. Decommunization is also a mental depopulation, a mental depopulation of the country. And this is a key issue of our country's national security. And I, colleagues, now give the word to Illenck Andrew.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-20-m1.u50	Andrew Illenko, The All-Ukrainian Freedom Union, the city of Kiev. You know, I'm surprised that in the Ukrainian Parliament -- in the Supreme Council of Ukraine of an independent state, which is now in the fifth year of Russian aggression -- there are MPs in general who start the discussion on this issue. Do we need to rename the names of the areas that have been named after the executioners of our people who have killed our ancestors? Doesn't it matter? This is of paramount importance because this "sauce" in the heads of those who run Ukraine and still run it is the reason that we have low wages, the worst economy in Europe, corruption and so on. This all begins with a lack of self-respect, a lack of national honor and dignity. Because when we're talking about the Kirovograd region that we're now going to be, I hope to rename to Kropivnitski region, or the Dnipropetrovsk region that we, hopefully, I'm confident of that, we're going to rename to Sicheslavsk, it's one of the areas that suffered the most from the famine, where a huge number of Ukrainians, our ancestors, died. I realize that some may feel that it is none of his business, some do not think that he is Ukrainian, and that the fate of this country in general is costing him. Perhaps someone is the descendant of an invader who took the place of the destroyed Ukrainians and, on the contrary, thinks that this was so good and good that it happened. Maybe they are. But we have to understand that this is not how we're going to build a state, so we're not going to build an independent country. We must honor our ancestors, we must honor ourselves above all else. And then we'll have order in all aspects of life. And then we'll have an economy, all the questions. And for today, it's just basic things that have to be done long ago, since the 91st year. We were told, not in time, not allowed, not needed. As a result, what do we have today? What do we have today, why do we still have to go back to these obvious things? Petrovsky is the bastard who organized the Gladomore. There is a decision by the Ukrainian court: Petrovsky is a criminal, the organizer of the genocide of the Ukrainian people. Kirov is a Bolshevik abomination that had nothing to do with Ukraine at all. Why should one of the best, most picturesque Ukrainian regions bear the name of this cat? How long do we have to put up with this? Why do we still allow discussion on this subject? It's not a question of discussion, it's a question of what we have to do, you've been chosen here to do it -- you've pressed this green button.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-20-m1.u51	And, colleagues, we're about to make a closing statement, two minutes from now we're moving on to making a decision, colleague. I'm asking everyone to be in their workplace in two minutes. I ask the heads of factions of all deputies to call to the hall. Kishkar Paul gives the speech to Krivenkov. This is a closing statement after the vote. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-20-m1.u52	Thank you, Mr. Head. Victor Krivenko, National Movement of Ukraine. The National Movement of Ukraine knows the answers to how to restore the economy, how to win the war, and how to save Ukraine. Is that what Ukraine is to you? The socialist was just speaking, telling us that it doesn't matter what you think about bread. Because for you, Ukraine is primarily a barn, where maybe it doesn't blow where flies don't fly, where shit is cleaned up in time. For you, it's not a story, it's not a culture, it's not an irrational one, it's a personal one, it's just an area for you. And you're going to live just as quietly in Canada, in Spain, and in Poland, wherever you want, because homeless and homeless. And anyone who does not remember his history needs to understand clearly that it is absolutely pragmatically important. In 2008, my brothers and I financed, and we dug up the fortress of Old Samar. When the occupation came, and Catherine tried to establish her city in the place of present - day Dniepra, they said that the Ukrainians on the trees were climbing, that they had no sewerage, no assensation, no electricity. That they brought us civilization. And we have shown, scientifically, that at least 200 years old Dnipro is older! Stefan Batori’s letter mentions that there were four huge settlements that the empire had completely wiped out. And they always did what they did by recoding the names, recoding them, changing the streets. Because they knew that their imperial administration would follow. And when my great-grandmother was dragged by a Communist, in the yard by a bag of peas, and her kids asked, well, my grandmother asked her, "Please fry the pea." And she says, "The winter will taste better." "Cat the pea." "The winter will taste better." And there came this Communist bull, and it stretched it all over the courtyard; and it did not depart from the sack. And my grandmother remembers that. Therefore, neither Petrovsky nor Cyrus can be in our names. I urge everyone to vote. It'll be a personal marker for me in the first place. Whoever doesn't vote on these two decisions is really going to be my brand on this person that she's not Ukrainian. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-20-m1.u53	So, colleagues, I'm asking everyone to come into the hall. We finished the discussion. Let's move on to making a decision. Let me remind you, we had a previous vote of 231, which is a very small reserve. And I stress to everyone that it would be a shame and a disgrace to the Ukrainian Parliament to fail this vote. I ask everyone to come into the hall and prepare for the vote, to take up jobs. It's a question of mental depopulation and national security. And so everyone has to take part in the vote and support it. [[B in m in s a l in]] We've finished the discussion. Well, they've already been from the deputies. I should have done it when the factions came out. So, colleagues, I see not everyone in the workplace is. Please, colleagues in bed, I'll call your names, take your jobs. Please take your seats. Oksana! So let's move on to making a decision. In accordance with article 146 of the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, I am voting for the whole of the draft Decree No. 8380/P on the inclusion in the agenda of the Supreme Council of Ukraine of the eighth draft amendment bill to article 133 of the Constitution of Ukraine (for the renaming of the Kirovograd region) and its referral to the Constitutional Court. Please vote and please support. Every voice! We vote for Ukraine, for its historical memory. Vote. Please support, we vote. [[17:18:03]] For 222 I'll be back. All I'm asking is to be in places. Colleagues, I'm betting on a return and I'm asking you not to play. The factions. Peter Poshenko's Block – 73, People's Front – 65, Opposition Block – 0, Self-help – 17, Radical Party – 19, Father's Party – 10, Will of the People – 10, Rebirth Party – 2, non-fractional 26. So, colleagues, please be careful, we've finished the discussion, don't collapse the vote on decommunization. So, Mrs. Ola, I very kindly ask you to return to your post and vote. So I'm proposing to go back to voting for changes to the Constitution. Please vote and please support. Olya! Ola the Mantis! Ola the Mantis, return to the hall! I'm asking Ola the Mantis to return to the hall. I'm asking you in public. I'm now announcing. I'm asking you to return to the hall. So I ask you to stop voting. Now I'm going to put the vote again. Take up every job. So please support the return to draft Law 8380. Please vote and please support. I'm asking you to support everyone. Please vote, please support. Colleagues, don't play games. We'll vote. [[17:19:50]] For 228 We're back, colleagues. I'm asking everyone to take up jobs. And, colleagues, I emphasize, I'm going to be publishing in the Voice of Ukraine, so everyone knows who voted. Let's vote, colleagues, for the decision I've made. Please support the referral to the Constitutional Court of Ukraine, please vote and please support. Vote. Please be supportive. Vote. Please be supportive. Every voice. Colleagues, every voice. [[17:20:27]] For 218. Colleagues, factions. The factions. The factions. "Peter Prashenko" – 74, "The People's Front" – 63, "The Self-Help" – 16, "The Radical Party – 18, "The Fatherhood" – 10, "The Will of the People" – 9, "The Rebirth Party" – 2. We didn't make it. I'll be back in a minute. Colleagues, I'd like everyone to come in and take their jobs. I'm addressing the people's deputies. I appeal to all the national MPs, my colleagues, to take part in the vote. Please don't leave the hall. Everyone, please return to your seats. Everyone, please vote in person and please return to the hall. I'm asking you, colleagues, all to take up jobs. Don't mess with that question, colleagues. You can see who doesn't vote, who doesn't vote. So I ask everyone to prepare for the vote. By your vote, you leave the name cat in the name of the region of Kirovograd! All right. In front of the anniversary of Holodomor, it is not just a conscience, it is essential to have an elementary national dignity. I ask you to vote. I'm asking you, colleagues, to mobilize everyone. I propose to return to the vote in favour of Bill 8380 and ask everyone to vote, colleagues. Please support everyone. Vote. Please vote, please support. Vote. Please be supportive. [[17:22:19]] For 235 We're back. And I submit, in accordance with article 146, to the adoption of the draft Order 8380/P as a whole, on the inclusion in the agenda of the daily session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine of the eighth draft amendment to article 133 of the Constitution of Ukraine and on the referral of it to the Constitutional Court of Ukraine. Please vote. Please support, colleagues, everyone. Please vote, please support. Vote, please. Vote. [[17:23:01]] For 239. Decision taken. Please show by factions. Peter Poshenko Block 81, People's Front 71, Opposition Block 0, Self-help 17, Radical Party 19, Father's Party 10, Will of the People 12, Rebirth Party 2. And we move on to the next draft of the Law on Amendments to Article 133 of the Constitution of Ukraine (rename the Dnipropetrov region) (No 8329). And I invite you to the report of the Ukrainian national deputy, Denisenko Andrija Sergiyovich. But, Mr. Andrew, we have limited time, don't run out of 10 minutes. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-20-m1.u54	Dear friends, ladies and gentlemen! Today, on the eve of the year of the Holocaust, we are actually discussing epochial historical issues. We're not just removing the name of the Ukrainian people from the map of Ukraine, we're doing a clean-up in the back of our active military army from the names of Giwii and Motorola last century. I'll remind you that there are decisions under Petrovsky by the Ukrainian court that found him guilty of the genocide of the Ukrainian people in the organization of Holodomor. And for every Ukrainian, every parliamentarian present in this room today, it's a question of honour, dignity and conscience. The ashes of the starving Ukrainians are beating in my heart. The ashes of those boys who gave their lives 100 years ago during the first liberating contests for the Ukrainian Assembly State, the Ukrainian People’s Republic, are beating at our hearts. And it's very important to me today that every vote in Parliament is very important. For all the inhabitants of Siecheslav, each of your voices is extremely important. I want to remind you, my friends, that five of the eight nets, these administrative and military centers of Ukrainian Cossacks, were in the area of the area still called Dnipropetrovska. I would like to remind you, my friends, that in 1918, the Ukrainian Central Council decided that the region from which I came to be the mayor was not the Katherinoslav governorate, but the land of Sich. I would like to remind you, my friends, that the Yavornick academic, whose name is the central prospectus of the city of Dnipra, brought this term into circulation, Sicheslav. And that's what the modern Dnipro was called informally and formally during 1917-1921. And the historical memory of this name of the Sicheslav Region moves us, the conscious Ukrainians of our country, to carry out a public campaign to support the renaming. More than 100 public organizations have asked you, distinguished representatives of the Ukrainian people, to support the historic name Sicheslavska oblast. More than 26 districts and cities had been discussed, and all around that name, the very idea gained the support of the conscious Ukrainians. Public councils at the city’s head, the city council of Dnipra, the public council at the district government have supported this very name. I want to tell you, my friends, some people here today are saying, come on, say, not Kropivnicki, but Central Ukrainian, let's change, beat the cards, let's not Sicheslavski, let's get Dniprovski. There is only one possibility in our Parliament right now that we should vote in favour of changing the name of the area is today. There is a direct norm of the Constitution, which states that if we don't vote now, we can't go back to this issue for a year. And so any mood, let's not name it, let's give it this, let's break the cards, let's change it, it's all the work of the Russian Moscow agency. And if some Moscow agents tell us today from the billboards that they will begin with peace, no, they will, like Peter’s, the leathers, the pines and the bikes of the last century, begin with the setting up of monuments to their idols, the return of the names of the Communist streets and the areas, they will brand our land with their symbols and meanings, and we Ukrainians should give our symbols and meanings. My ancestors are two-line Cossacks -- both mother and father -- right in the days of Cossacks, right in the time of Sichi, the territory of our country was rebuilt in a steppe on the borders of civilization. In the 14th year, one of the volunteer battalions was called Sicheslav. The most beautiful coastline of our district center, Dniper. And I want to tell you, by the way, as the author of the bill to rename the district center from Dnipropetrovsk to Dnipro, we cut off Petrovsky's legs, yes, and the monument fell, and here we renamed the city. It was a historic compromise, a historic compromise, because it was not just Dnipro's idea, but Siceslav's. And as the author, I had to hear a lot of criticism at the address of this bill. So now it's time to give tribute not only to the new tradition of what we call the district center, because natural decommunization has come, the natural rejection of that Petrovsky since the 1980s. The townspeople called the city Dniprom, and it was time to return and fight for our centuries - old Ukrainian tradition. Just as it is in the titles of Volinsk district with the Lutsk district center. Just as it is in the name of the Zakarpatsky district with the center of Uzhgrad, so we must have another beautiful, beautiful name for the Sicheslav region with the center of Dniper. That's what he's telling us. That is what the spirit, the spirit of our history, the spirit of our ancestors, tells us. And those generations of Ukrainians looking at me, Sicheslavska is the only name for which Ukrainian blood has been shed. Sicheslavska is the only name that has so far been for which the Ukrainians starved in 1932-1933. Dear friends, please support us all, for a hundred years our country has been waiting for this moment. To support the Sicheslav region, to support the Sicheslav region by voting. Glory to Ukraine! The glory of the nation!
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-20-m1.u55	Thank you. Please remain in the rostrum. Please. Mr. Andrey, stay in the rostrum, please. I'm asking you to sign up for a question to the reporter. We made a deal, no questions asked. I have to follow procedure. Mr. Andrew, you have no questions. Thank you for your report. And I invite you to take the floor to report to the head of the profile committee of the distinguished Mr. Knazević. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-20-m1.u56	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Dear colleagues! I just want to say very briefly that, just like the previous bill of 11 July 2018 in the previous session, our committee has considered a bill that was introduced on 27 April more than one third of the constitutional composition of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, and was accordingly registered under registration number 8329. The Committee on Legal Policy and Justice, within the limits of the powers that are vested in us according to the subject matter of knowledge, has considered the proposed bill on its conformity with the procedure for amending the Constitution of Ukraine and has established such a bill. The bill has been introduced by the appropriate subject for amending the Constitution, not less than a third of the constitutional composition of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The bill amends part two of article 133 of the Constitution of Ukraine, the word "Dnipropetrovska" being replaced by the word "Siceslavska". I would like to point out that, like the previous bill, this bill does not require any amendments to Chapters I, III and XII of the Constitution, which could have been approved in an all-U.S. referendum, but, at the same time, I remind you that the Supreme Council has previously approved a bill amending the Constitution under registration number 2217a (since 15 July 2015), which foresees similar changes, but they have not yet become part of the Constitution, since the bill as a whole has not been adopted. At the same time, the bill also introduces changes to article 133, the truth, in another respect: this bill makes general mention of the names of the areas of the Constitution of Ukraine, and the level of regulation of the names mentioned is proposed to be reduced to the relevant law of profile. A preliminary analysis of the bill under registration number 8329 allowed the committee to claim that it in general met the requirements of the 157th and 158th Constitution of Ukraine, and therefore the committee found it inappropriate to refer it to a scientific and legal or other expert opinion to adopt an appropriate decision of the Supreme Council to refer it to the Constitutional Court of Ukraine. The Committee decided by majority at its meeting to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine, submitted by more than one third of the constitutional composition of the Supreme Council and the National Deputies of Ukraine, a draft Act amending article 133 of the Constitution of Ukraine (renameing the Dnipropetrov region) The Supreme Council of the Eighth Council to include in the agenda of the ninth session and to refer to the Constitutional Court of Ukraine for a conclusion on its compliance with the requirements of the 157th and 158th Constitution of Ukraine. Please support the agreed draft decision of the Committee on Legal Policy and Justice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-20-m1.u57	We thank the head of the Committee on Legal Policy and Justice. Colleagues, please sign up for statements from MPs and factions, please. Please, National Deputy Sažko. Passes the word to Vilukulu. Please, Mr. Wilkul.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-20-m1.u58	Dear people of Ukraine! The government has already renamed tens of thousands of streets, districts, and settlements. Is it better to live? No, it's not. Ladies and gentlemen, can your renaming of cities and districts bring home millions of our citizens who work abroad, or will another name improve life in the country? No, it's not. Will it make it warmer in the homes? He won't either. Are you continuing to distract people from the real problems? Yes. Tell me why our bill on peace, industrial support, job creation, tariff cuts, support for science, entrepreneurship, peasants is not put to the vote. But at least a hundred times you can rename the streets and call them European, but where they remain, if you don’t repair the roads, these holes will remain. Now you want to rename two more areas. Is that the most important question in the country? Ask people, and do not decide what to do. By the way, the Dnipropetrov Regional Council didn't vote for it. I am opposed to the fact that a bunch of high-powered deputies decide how to live for tens of millions of people. I'm in favour of referendums, including local referendums. It is a modern world practice for people to make their own decisions at every locality, in every area, as they will be called. And for that, three more years ago, I passed an appropriate bill, which you don't even want to go to the hall. The Opposition Block will not vote in favour of this repeated disregard for people when they are renamed without taking their opinion into account. The following year the authorities will certainly change, and we will give people the opportunity to feel at home. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-20-m1.u59	Thank you. Please, People's Deputy Toothache.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-20-m1.u60	Self-help has always supported all decisions related to decommunization. We think it's fundamentally important for Ukraine to get rid of all the signs of the "red plague" that has brought many evils to our people, not only evil, but the deaths of millions of Ukrainians. And this evil continues to sow today the heirs of this "red" regime -- the Russian-occupational forces that continue to kill Ukrainians and sow evil. This decision actually ends the process of decommunization, but only decommunization of forms, names, forms, monuments, but we still take the matter seriously. We have a lot of work to do with the consciousness of many people, an enlightening job to do, and an enlightening job to do. And perhaps then there will be no national deputies in the Supreme Council who go to the rostrum and say that this is not really an important issue. It's not their trouble, it's not really their fault, it's their misery, it's only their pity. But hopefully there are enough critical people in the Supreme Council to understand how important this is. And today we're going to make the symbolic and right decision to rename the Dnipropetrov region into Sichslavsk. It's not possible that a strong area, which was a forpost in the fight against the Russian-occupational forces, should bear the name of the criminal Petrovsky, so Self-help calls for all unanimous support of this decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-20-m1.u61	Thank you. And please, let Oleg Lazko be invited to the floor. Please, Mr. Oleg. He represents the position of the Radical Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-20-m1.u62	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. The Ukrainian language, the Ukrainian Church, Ukrainian culture, Ukrainian history and our heroes are the solid foundation of the future Ukrainian state. He who does not remember his history does not have a future for those who do not appreciate his heroes. That's why me and our team were the authors of the Decommunization Act. As Ukrainian by birth, by blood, by spirit I cannot allow the so - called heroes who destroyed millions of Ukrainians to read in Ukraine today. And I'm surprised at all that in the third millennium, when we know our history well, when we know the role of Communists in destroying Ukrainian peasants, Ukrainian workers, Ukrainian intelligence, Ukrainian people, there are people in this room who praise these executioners and cover up their crimes. A tribe-free mancurrence for which Ukraine is an area for killing people and for looting to load its offshore pockets. You want a decent life in the country? Do you want people to live here with dignity? First of all, you have to appreciate your history, your heroes, and then you will have a life worth living. Our team is fighting for salary increases, pensions, decent work, and wages for Ukrainian people. Today’s authorities have transformed our country into an image of the whole world that we are capable of getting married, of asking, of being humiliated. It's not the right submission of Ukraine, it's the humiliation of Ukrainians, which is being exercised today by the current power, because Ukrainians are a heroic nation, they're very educated people, they're talented, they're industrious, they're obsessive. We don't need a stranger, but we won't give up ours. And today's heroes at Donbassa, protecting the country, are showing an example to everyone, as our grandparents did in the 41st to 45th, of their eternal glory when they beat Hitler and the fascists. This is how the new fascists who kill our people on Donbassa are being beaten. So let's appreciate those heroes of the previous war, and we appreciate them, and we have to pay our respects and fully support them. And don’t tell, don’t fool people into thinking that the future of the country is possible without historical memory. No, it's impossible, it's a nation that has no historical memory -- it's not a nation, it's a job. Like the work that was brought to us, Sofia, she's even talking to the Prime Minister. It's just a robot, it's not human. And if we are people, if we are Ukrainians, we must read our great-grandparents, our heroes, our own land, protect and do everything to ensure that the Ukrainians live in their own country, which is unfortunately not done by today's authorities. My team and I are proposing a plan to rebuild the country, restore respect for Ukraine and for the working man in Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-20-m1.u63	From the "will of the people" group, Eugene Ribczynski is invited to the floor. Please, Mr. Eugene.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-20-m1.u64	Despite the fact that "The will of the people" boycotted several meetings because of the non-receiving of the moratorium, i.e. the 8108 decree on the moratorium on gas-disengagement to the population, today "The will of the people" is an active vote because today the issue of decommunization is on the agenda. What is decommunization if not the naming of cities such as Dnipropetrovsk and the Dnipropetrovsk region? If you don't rename it, you can actually think that there wasn't such a decommunation, because just to put up with Lenin's monuments is nothing. Lenin was never in Ukraine at all, never in Kiev. We used to store monuments for him. And Petrovsky destroyed 370,000 Ukrainians in Holodomor. That's what we need to understand. And there's more. The city was renamed Dnipropetrovsk in 1926, and no one asked the people whether they could be renamed or not. No one told the Supreme Council of the Ukrainian RSR whether they could or would accept deputies in their homeland if they renamed the area. We simply renamed it a single decree and a good - bye. Today, we are having a discussion as if someone needs to be renamed when these gas prices are today. How can you put that on the same scale? These are completely different things. We have to rename it clearly. Sicheslavska is a beautiful name. It combines many concepts. The Cossack City in this historic territory has existed for centuries and has protected Russia and not just Russia and Europe. I would like to say that today those who do not appear in the hall and vote are completely unconscious and have no right to be called members of the Supreme Council if they have no valid reason not to be in the Hall at this time. A green button must be used to vote for the Sicheslav region. Let our opponents put it on their noses. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-20-m1.u65	From Peter Prashenko's Block to Shinkovic, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-20-m1.u66	Glory to Ukraine! Dear colleagues, surely, for the Block of Peter Dustenka, the question of decommunization is one of the priorities and we have always supported and supported all the decisions that are followed by the eradication, the elimination of names, the removal from human consciousness of mental stereotypes, the shameful phenomena that have derailed Ukraine's development for centuries. And we certainly have to work on it daily today. We have the Housing Codex, which has hundreds of times been mentioned in the U.S.R. Unfortunately, we didn't clean up the basics. That's what we're going to do, let's say, is do the homework and do it in this convocation. But friends, the question of names, it is extremely touching and subtle for those who live in those cities, areas, and areas. Yes, of course, there are villages, cities that everyone asked for, name us, we are ashamed. At the same time, I have in the district of Ulyanivka, which has nothing to do with Lenin! There was an old man named Ulyan, one of the locals. We used one hammuse to clean and rename them. God be with him! Many have come to the BPT faction, not a joke, many appeals from public organizations! And today the question of the name of the Dnipropetrov region, it's really not quite, let's say, calmly accepted. Today, to eliminate the names of those who tortured the Ukrainians, yes. But what did the great Dnipro, the great river, do for each of us, my friends? And the historical compromise that the reporter was talking about here is that we don't brand people's deputies who have a different opinion who communicate with people and hear that thought, we hear, we don't always hear what people say, friends! Historical compromise is to hear different thoughts and find compromise. And that's why today there's a different idea – the idea of the Dniprov region. And this is not my personal opinion, but the opinion of those social organizations that have spoken, my friends, respect other thoughts! Don't just listen to yourself. You can hear yourself. You hear yourself and think that your opinion is completely unique and uncompromising. And it turns out there are other thoughts. So we ask you to think about it during the vote. Decommunization, yes! The eradication of communist names is yes! But to hear people's thoughts is yes! Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-20-m1.u67	From the Fatherland faction, Lucenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-20-m1.u68	Dear colleagues, the opinion of people is clear: the Siceslav region is necessary. There are no compromises and no options. Dear friends, the Fatherland faction will support this initiative 100 percent. We are very grateful to those enthusiasts, not only to our colleagues, but also to the numerous community of the former Dnipropetrov region, which came here, to Kiev, regularly to carry out the campaign here, in order to carry out the work here, so that the necessary solution could be made here, in this room. There are two big reasons why we need to press the pros button. First reason. We have to stop the glorification of the terrible crime that Holodomor was, and in fact the name of his chief, one of the chief organizers, Petrovsky, is being magnified. As we walk these streets, calling these names, we exalt these criminals. It has to stop now, it has to stop long ago, but it's a good thing that we're starting to do it now. The second and perhaps more important reason why we should vote in favour. Dear friends, in the 14th year, Russia went to war on us. And I witnessed how the Dniprovsky, the Sicheslav region became the angry, the new Sietch, the cores of the new military resistance, which, unfortunately, we didn't see so much here in Kiev, I'll be honest with you, even though I'm patriot Kiev. But all then traveled to Dnipro to unite there, to gather together, as it had always been for centuries, to gather in the lowlands of Dniper and go to defend their land. So this country has once again shown its high brand to the defender of our Ukrainian state and our Ukrainian identity. That if not the name, in fact, we must return the protector to him now. Press the pro button, press the pro button. Siceslavska – yes. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-20-m1.u69	From the People's Front, who will be speaking? Yuri Timoshenko. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-20-m1.u70	Glory to Ukraine! The Cossacks in Ukraine have not moved yet, and I am addressing those in this room who consider themselves to be the offspring of our glorious ancestors, rather than the crowns that stand here and shed their treachery. Let me remind you that this name is not invented by us, it is the name that was invented 100 years ago by our famous ancestors, who, in their lives, paid with their blood for its existence. Hence, this name was not written in a cabinet, on a computer, under someone’s dictatorship, it was written in the holy, pure, Cossack blood of our ancestors! And I call on everyone who thinks himself worthy of the glory of his ancestors not to betray his ancestors, not to despise them, not to show them that we are wiser or better. They were wiser, they were better than us. Anyone who thinks he's a descendant of our ancestors is voting for it! Glory to Ukraine! Shame on the crows!
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-20-m1.u71	Colleagues, we've got six minutes to make speeches from the national deputies, and we're moving on to the vote. I want to warn everyone that in six minutes we're going to move on to making a decision. I ask all the heads of factions to invite deputies to the hall. And now I'm asking the People's Deputies to record an interview with the People's Deputies. Please. Massorina Olena Sergiyevna passes it on to Andrew Teteruk. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-20-m1.u72	The word of Teteruku.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-20-m1.u73	Andrew Teteruk, People's Front. Of course, there have been so many conflicting thoughts today, we need to be renamed, we don't need to be, we've mentioned different positions of Communist or Russian ideology that we should have done so before. But let us first mention the historical realities of our Ukrainian people. What did the Communist authorities do to our Ukrainian people? Starting with the fact that the only reason they were shot was because the diploma was with excellent grades to destroy the intelligence to exterminate the writers, all those hardworking Ukrainians who loved, lived and created on their native Ukrainian land. And all of this communist ideology has remained a bloody black spot in the history of our nation. Therefore, there should be no doubt about getting rid of all this Communist invasion that existed on our earth. So I call on everyone and the People's Front will vote to get rid of the communist ideological names in the cities and areas of our state. So you have to vote green in favour, get rid of all the communist names and ideologies as soon as possible, and not even be able to believe that such a position could be embodied in life -- Communist or pro-Russian. Because this is all a threat to our identity, a threat to our peaceful existence. And all of this creates dangerous precedents in a historical context. So we have to vote for the renaming and move on, and we have a lot of questions to consider in this session room. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-20-m1.u74	Thank you. Illenko Andriy Yuriovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-20-m1.u75	Andrew Illenko, The All-Ukrainian Freedom Union, the city of Kiev. You know, I'm not surprised that representatives of the anti-Ukrainian forces in parliament are now calling for no vote in favour of renaming an area named after the person who organized the Holocaust. Petrovsky is the organizer of the Holodomor. The ruling of the Ukrainian court has been recognized as a criminal who has destroyed millions of Ukrainians. I'm not surprised, I understand who they're working for. But I'm very surprised by the presentation of the BPT faction. "It's a speech. Faith. Army, isn't it? "It's a speech. Faith. Army." Just to rename an area called cata – there is a discussion there. What kind of discussion could there be?Oh, my God! Could there be a discussion in Israel about national socialism? Could there be a discussion in Ukraine about communism that destroyed millions of our ancestors, who still hold us in these blades of "sauce"? Let's throw away this deception today, let's throw away these, you know, fear of someone who thinks they're voters. You're talking about Ukrainians murdered, destroyed millions, think about it at this point. And explain, if any voters do not understand, explain to them what they are talking about! If there are people who are not to blame for their propaganda for many years, they do not know the historical truth. So tell them the truth, tell them, explain the basics. The Sicheslav region is our historical name. This is where Sich started, where the Ukrainian Cossacks began, this is our roots, this is our honor, this is our story. I call on every Ukrainian today who respects himself to see the name of the vote that is about to take place. Every last name and every faction. Please, please, look at this. And then remember this in the election, when you get there and they'll tell you what patriots they are, how they love Ukraine, just remember one vote that's about to happen. Well, it's not just that, of course, but a lot more. That's why we vote yes.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-20-m1.u76	Colleagues, I'd like to inform you that we're about to make a closing statement. In three minutes, we're going to vote. I want to say right now that if there's a delay, I'm going to continue the session until the question is resolved. And, colleagues, in three minutes we're moving on to making a decision. Look who's not around, invite me to the hall so no one can say that he didn't know when or how the vote was going to be. That's why I'm asking all the factions to invite MPs into the hall. Now Matkowski is giving the speech to Krivenkov, and this is the closing statement. Then we move on to making a decision. Please, Krivenko, three minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-20-m1.u77	Victor Krivenko, National Movement of Ukraine. Dear colleagues, now is really going to be the moment of truth. I agree with the previous speaker that when you write on billboards, "Language. Faith. The army" is indeed good and something has been done. And we supported Tomos, and even the National Movement of Ukraine led 200 people to the Supreme Council when they voted on April 18. But now that I've seen some single majors from BP go to pull out cards and write statements that they seem to have lost some kind of card, I'm asking you, come on. It's the bottom not to vote for the decommunization of my native area. When we decommunized Dniprodijnski, I remember John Krulko speaking as we did at the time. I remember being called to my family and being told that you would be cursed. It does not support 60 percent, at least the name Kamyansk, to return the real name. They've been renamed. The city lives beautifully, and there is no discussion on this subject. Now I understand that elections are coming, and someone wants to save and manipulative all things to use, that he's kind of in the Dniprov region, the Sicheslav region is really our story, these are our legendary ancestors who fought for Ukraine. Yes, they've lost to the communists, precisely because of the disunity that is now in Parliament in our own. And now I urge the President, the faction leader, to deal with his faction. If there are no votes, it will be a judgment for the future of this political power, as I think, because in such things it is checked who is Ukrainian and who is not. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-20-m1.u78	Dear colleagues, we have concluded our discussion. Let's move on to making a decision. I'm asking everyone to come into the hall, colleagues. I ask you to see who is not in the hall, the heads of the factions please conduct the monitoring, and please invite everyone to see who is in the towers. Colleagues, I know what the discussion is, and I know what the positions are. And this discussion has been going on for two months. But believe me, we can do no such thing if we do not unite around Siecheslavsky. This discussion may have a very stale, bad way, I know about it, and it's been said that there are a lot of Dniprovists. I don't see a fundamental difference in that, colleagues. I see the key is to replace the Dnipropetrovsk region. Let's support Siceslavski. It'll be wise, it'll be a state decision, it'll be a good sign for all the people in the area today. And don't worry about what someone won't understand. You mentioned Komsomolski, the Mountain Bluvni. Who Is Remembering Today? The beautiful Ukrainian city is the Mountain Plains. And there's no problem. You don't have to appeal that people don't get new names. As the Kropivnicki put it correctly, people are studying biography, people are enjoying it, and a new generation is growing. Let us unite, fellow workers. I ask you all to support the name proposed by the authors, the Siecheslav region, and this will be a wise state decision. So let's move on to making a decision. I ask everyone to vote responsibly. And I look forward to our wisdom, colleagues. In accordance with article 146 of the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, I am voting for the whole of the draft Decree No. 8329/P on the inclusion in the agenda of the eighth session of the draft amendment bill in article 133 of the Constitution of Ukraine (for the renaming of the Dnipropetrov region) and on its referral to the Constitutional Court. Please vote and please support, colleagues. We vote, each voice has a weight. Please support, please vote, vote. [[18:01:51]] For 202 I'll be back. I'll be back. So, colleagues, I'll put you on the way back, come into the hall, come into the hall. Colleagues, this will be a wise, state decision, let's go back, colleagues. So I'm proposing to go back to the draft Law 8329. Please vote and please support, we vote in favour. Yes, I've continued, pending the conclusion of the discussion. Please vote. Support me, colleagues, support me! [[18:02:45]] For 209 Dynamics positive, colleagues. We didn't make it? I'll do it again. According to factions: Peter Poshenko's Block – 65, People's Front – 60, Opposition Block – 0, Self-help – 17, Radical Party – 19, Father's Party – 10, Will of the People – 7, Rebirth Party – 2, non-fractional – 29. Colleagues, I'm voting on the proposal to return to the draft Act amending article 133 of the Constitution of Ukraine (rename the Dnipropetrov region) 8329. And I'm asking you, colleagues, for your support. I'm asking for every support. We're missing so many votes. I'm asking you to vote and I'm asking you to support me. Vote, fellows! Please be supportive. Vote. [[B in m in s a l in]] [[18:03:55]] For 206 Less votes. My colleagues, I'll put it to the vote again. [[B in m in s a l in]] Colleagues, I'm betting once again, I'm putting a final vote on the return to draft Law 8329. Please vote and please support. Return, return. Final call. [[18:04:24]] For 207 So, colleagues, the decision to amend the Constitution is not made. [[B in m in s a l in]] It's me, colleagues. [[B in m in s a l in]] This issue, I stress, should be a new decision and a vote. I call for a new decision and a vote because it will not honor the Ukrainian Parliament. We need to immediately address the question of renaming the Dnipropetrov region. And I hope in the near future to make a new decision and to rename the Dnipropetrov region. We're going to find a way to make it move faster so we can rename it. This is a question of the dignity of the Ukrainian Parliament. [[B in m in s a l in]] And, colleagues, I declare the evening meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine closed.
