ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-19-m1.u1	Dear colleagues, the time for recess is over. I ask you to come into the hall and prepare for the registration in the evening session. Ready? So I'm going to ask you to take up jobs. I'd like you to sign up, please. [[16:04:32]] 354 national deputies registered. I declare the evening plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine open. I remind you that we are discussing the bill of Law 5448-d. We're discussing it in full procedure. Before the break, we had talk from factions. And now I invite you to speak from the Self-Help faction of John Miroshnichenko, and then we'll have 15 minutes from the National Deputies. Anyone who wants to participate in the discussion after John Miroshnichenko spoke will be able to sign up for the presentation by the national deputies. Please, Mr. Ivan, three minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-19-m1.u2	Good afternoon, Mr. Speaker, fellows of honor! The Self-Help faction, of course, will support the bill on the development of organic production in Ukraine, and our deputies are among the authors of the bill, so we will support it. But in order not to speak with slogans, I want to share with you the real state of things that is organic agriculture, that now is what it is in the world, what our fate is in Ukraine within this big and growing market. First of all, I want to say that this bill, we're just laying the foundations for development, this is a foundation that we can't develop this segment of production without. But it's a very complex business, and we all understand that in order to do organic production, you have to have appropriate equipment, appropriate technology, change technology, have the right drugs to register, and have the right to import and implement them in Ukraine, have another technology to store and logistic. Because organic production requires attention both to the production culture and to the product as a child. We have to control every step in the way of producing one or the other, so this path is going to be hard and long. But he is grateful to those who do so and who do so professionally. We all know that prices for organic produce are 2, 3 times higher in the world than for the same ordinary agricultural production. As an example, the price of food wheat from Ukraine today will be about $220 for base shipping on ships, and the same wheat organic production in Germany will cost $500-550, up to $600 per tonne. So those manufacturers who are going to do it professionally will have, of course, the opportunity to make money, to make money on the production. But let's be objective. Where are we today in the world of organic production? What is Ukraine’s fate? The world market is 100 billion dollars in organic production, and by 2025 it will be $325 billion in turnover, an increase of 15-20 percent. We have 33.4 million acres [33.4 million ha] of land in Ukraine, just 360,000 hectares, or 1 percent of our grill, under organic production. One per cent. Exports amount to about 200,000 tons from Ukraine, accounting for about 20 million tons.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-19-m1.u3	30 seconds to complete, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-19-m1.u4	So we have a long way to go. But what I'm saying is that Ukraine will take a decent place in the organic production market, because the market will do that, our manufacturer will do that, demand will do that. And I want to make one wish: so that our Ukrainians can buy organic products and have the opportunity to use them, not just for Ukraine to produce them for export. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-19-m1.u5	Thank you. Colleagues, please prepare for the recording of the speeches by the National Deputies. Please hold the recording. Anyone who wishes to participate in the discussion, please sign up. The speech is given by Kugel Alexander Volodymyrna. Please. Ms. Alexander Vadim Ichchenk's word for speech. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-19-m1.u6	Vadim Yvchenko, "The Fatherland" faction. Dear colleagues, once again, I want to ask every faction, every leader. In a few minutes, we will vote directly for the law. What does this law say? First, we harmonize our legislation with the directive we have already signed with the European Union Organic Production Directive. For the first time, we're entering a register of organic producers. Now we'll know clearly who's working, who's working on which land, who's bringing what kind of fertilizer, how it's growing, processing and so on. The other one. We clearly want to support those who certify their production directly, and this support will be provided during certification from the State Budget. Four. We think and care for consumers, they should not be deceived. There's not supposed to be a bio label and there's an organic label and so on if it's not really organic products and products that can actually be considered organic. Next. We introduce clear markings and responsibilities for those manufacturers who break the rules. And finally I'll tell you that it's important enough for this type of agriculture and production to develop in Ukraine, because we are still the backbone of Europe, and we have to understand that every next decade, let's say we're going to approach that there's still going to be enterprises that have the right capacities and can attract investments, that we're going to move to organic agriculture and production. I've already set an example. The Shishitsk district, Poland, where 8,000 acres [8.5,000 ha] is being processed by the Ukrainian Hero, who began in the Soviet Union. So Gorbachev made his first catch for failing to carry out his plan, and he had quite a few centrifuges at that time. But for 30 years he has been processing his land with organic farming. This land does not know what a plow is, this land is producing perennial grass, and this land today shows almost 95 percent of what it shows is its own cylinder holding, which uses the latest technologies and latest innovations. And actually today, many entrepreneurs from other countries come and offer thousands, hundreds, per hectare. Not even hundreds, but tens of thousands of euros per hectare. That's why we have to work like this, this is our future. Let's support this law on the basis of further work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-19-m1.u7	Thank you. I'd like to invite you to the floor from. Please, National Deputy Kuprienko.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-19-m1.u8	Oleg Kuprienko, faction of the Radical Party of Oleg Lazko. Indeed, Ukraine is an agricultural country. In fact, it's a herd and probably not just Europe, but it's supposed to become the living part of the world. Do we give sufficient attention to agricultural production and protection not only for our lands but also for our citizens? It has already become an illustration in the languages of the Radical Party for banning the use of palm oil. Instead of fighting to protect our country's producer, our Ukrainian peasants and farmers, we are effectively contributing to our inaction because hundreds of tons of palm oil is being imported into Ukraine, which is used in various productions, especially in air conditioning. And they eat these candy and other products, and no one knows what's inside. And it only comes out when you have cardiovascular disease, cancer. Go to the hospital, to the clinics, and see how many people are in line for doctors who collect money for cancer operations. And we don't think about why. All because we thus safeguard the health of our people, we do not take care of it more faithfully. Oleg Lazko’s radical party acted and acted primarily for banning those products and, in particular, the cursed palm oil that is primarily harmful to health and then further hinders our peasants from giving milk. Well, the government did, thank God, and, by our insistence, lifted its bans, but they wanted to ban the use of milk from households, and they wanted to ban the sale of meat from households. Remember, on the last day of the government, Groisman said, yes, we've already lifted all the bans. Yeah, we got it. But we asked questions on Friday, and they took off on Thursday. So tell me that the government came around yesterday and came back face to face with the peasants. Because if there are no people in the village, no one will need the village. And if it's necessary right now. We mention this only when someone has to cover the road or, God forbid, someone has to die. So let us think about our people not only when we need someone. vote for someone and for a position, and every day. And by adopting such laws, we must first protect our Ukrainian people, not promote foreign economies.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-19-m1.u9	Welcome to the speech of the People's Deputy of Semimenho.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-19-m1.u10	Please pass the word to Borislav Berezi.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-19-m1.u11	Dear Ukrainians, I'd like to ask you to hear what's going on. First of all, I want to thank the Self-Help faction that gave me the opportunity to speak now. See, when it comes to voting for a local church, there's almost 250-300 deputies in the Chamber. When it comes to voting for laws that improve your life, there are no laws. Probably because church MPs are more afraid than voters. Maybe that's why now you can see that there are no deputies in the room right now to adopt any law, and there are no 150. Maybe that's why you can see how a bill that allowed the atoniks to get land where they didn't have it, actually provided it, and killed the corruption component when they took land through the atoir and then gave it coins and built homes there, this law destroyed this scheme, this law was now broken in this hall by the BPT company. Why? Because they didn't give away the money. Well, of course, they have voices on the church, and there are no voices on the atowers. And as I can see, Mr. Trelyakow agrees with me. [[B in m in s a l in]] Well, because you're waving your head. I want to say something else, whatever you say right now, but it's a shame when there are no deputies in the room. It's a shame when faction leaders can't get deputies to vote. It's a shame when you imitate a job, but there really won't be a result. And whatever it is now, you can see when the elections begin, these deputies will say, "Atosniki, we are for you! Selenia, me for you! Retired, we're for you! Turn us over, and we'll vote." But really what you're going to see is that these people here are only there when their questions are resolved, personal questions. That is why today you will not see that the CLTC is being placed today, and that is why you will see how the Law on the Earth will be adopted, and that is why you will see everything but not the answer to your questions. So the next time you go to the polls, look who you vote for. And realize that if you sell your votes, you get a parliament that works solely for yourself, not for you, honourable voters. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-19-m1.u12	Thank you. Members of parliament are requested to speak on the subject of the bill. And I'd like to invite you to the speech of the People's Commissioner of Sporish.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-19-m1.u13	Honorable Predestination! Dear National Deputies! Of course, this bill, which was prepared by the committee and the author, who's already been here, probably times five or more, is needed -- 5448-d. We must all accept it, especially to be national deputies. It's only fair that there should be a register of organic producers in this bill, as has already been said. It has to be, because for there to be control here, it's question number one. We know very well that there is now organic production, but there is no control. And it's in this bill that there's this control. We appreciate European values. We're going to Europe. We know that Europe has long been an organic product, and we should have it that way. It's going to be 10 years, we're going to forget what's inorganic, it's going to be 10 years, we're going to move on. And so this is question number one, because we already have quite a lot today, and who is sowing organic produce. First of all, once again, there must be control here, as for organic production, who produces it, and also, as has already been said, by our colleagues, it's control over the certification body. Because it could also just be glued to a product and said it was organic. So this is also question number one, which should be. But first of all, I asked questions, and again, I want to go back to sanctions. I think that in the first reading we will receive, God will give, and secondly it is absolutely necessary that fines be large enough. Because if there's a bar, it's not organic, it's different. There's got to be a lot of fines here. There's a lot of fines here. Even before really leaving the product that produces organic products, question No. 1 should be so. We have, indeed, a return to this question, that in our Ukraine there are many sown organic products. It is much more expensive, and perhaps in Ukraine everyone will be, well, much more able to buy the product. But unfortunately, it has to be quality, it has to be quality as production, it has to be correct and it has to be certification and so on. So I want to invite all the national MPs, come to the hall, and we'll support this bill. Because this bill allows you to actually produce organic products, have control over them, for certification. And it is desirable for all of us to go into the hall and vote in favour of the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-19-m1.u14	Thank you. Colleagues, there'll be a closing statement from the deputies, then a closing statement. Accordingly, in five minutes we will proceed to the vote. I ask all the heads of factions to invite as many deputies as possible into the hall. This law is also important as a European integration law. And that's why I'm asking for maximum mobilization. Now the word is given to Rybczyn Aleksei Mihajlovich. Please, Mr. Alexei.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-19-m1.u15	Alexy Rybchin, "Fatherland" faction, Donetsk. The Fatherland faction will support this bill. Last time he was represented on the Supreme Council, he was a little bit inconvenient. We took him down. We met with all the organic producers, found understanding, and now we can vote for the second reading. What's the big deal? What's this bill doing? First of all, it protects the consumer from inefficient manufacturers who, for marketing or advertising purposes, label it as an organic, and it doesn't show up. They're just picking people up by 5, 10 bucks more, and people don't get the quality they need. On the other hand, this bill protects manufacturers who make, in fact, quality products, do not use fertilizers, grow cucumbers, tomatoes, fruits, and it will help them to certify products as organically easier. I can tell you that my colleagues at the Green Energy Change Interfractional Association have analyzed the order of the political party program around the world to have an organic production methodology in place. Here we see, for example, the promises of German politicians, and in every program of the political party there is how they will support organic farming and organic production in their country. For example, the Merkel Party writes in its programme: "The plan of the national programme is aimed at more efficient use of agricultural conditions, the inclusion of satellite images for better analysis of agricultural efficiency and the further economy of artificial fertilizers." Each political power has a position in its program to support organic production. And when everyone goes to the polls, every year everyone in Ukraine will be written as they are in the village, as they are in organic production. However, people will be following this particular vote, whether your words differ in action or not. Is it just something beautiful written in the program, or did you really vote in favour of this bill? I just don't want it to be the way it was last time the atoir bill, the land allocation and the order of the procedure were broken. Although all promised, all for the atolls, all for the land, the bill failed by a coalition colleague. So let's vote. B.P.C., unfortunately, failed. What can I say, unfortunately, is that my colleagues at the BP have given over 100 votes for the churches, and the aid to the atolls, the land allocations have given 50-60 votes. It's a disgrace. I don't want this to happen again with this important bill, so let's really support our peasants and really support our consumers, really support the green agenda in our country. "Paternality" will vote in favour.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-19-m1.u16	So, colleagues, right now, Kulinic Oleg Ivanovich is invited to the closing statement. And I'm asking everyone to come into the hall, take jobs, and in three minutes we'll move on to making a decision. Please, Oleg Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-19-m1.u17	Dear colleagues, an extremely important bill that we must be voting on in the first reading today. It's very unfortunate that this number of national deputies in the session room now, because organic production is also a product where we can compete in both European and world markets. We have to do everything we can to make sure that those enterprises that are long-standingly engaged in organic production are able to do so and that their products are actually sold in our stores as organic, so that those enterprises that use them simply do not have access to organic products under the organic brand and sell absolutely no quality materials or quality products. I want to confirm what Vadim Yvchenko said, this is the Agroecology Company, the Poltavsk district, the Shisatsk district, this is my constituency. Semen Antonec, a Ukrainian hero who has probably been engaged in organic production for 30 years. It's coming to experience not only the agrarian sector of our country, it's coming to Europe, the whole world, because there's really something to learn. And that's what we need to support, and we need to do everything we can to really make their products completely normal and easily fit into our stores, not just ours, but Europeans, like really organic products. As far as fines are concerned. There was a great deal of talk here. We wrote them out before we first read them under administrative legislation, which is five minimum wages for the manufacturer. There's nothing we can do about it. If we really need to do this, we're willing to work on the second reading so that really the manufacturer who does other things, not organic products, will be severely punished. So, dear colleagues, I'm addressing all of you right now: to the people's deputies, to the leaders of all factions, I'm asking you to support this bill in the first reading, because it's really necessary for our nation, for all the agro-producers who do organic production. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-19-m1.u18	Thank you. So we finished the discussion. I'm asking everyone to come into the hall. I'd like to ask if there's a need for a final word from the committee, Mud, Sir, Gregory? We're voting, aren't we? There's no need. I'm asking you to get ready right now. Everyone please take up their jobs. Please invite the deputies to the hall. I'm asking both the factions and the Supreme Council Secretariat to invite deputies. I'd like you to come back from bed. You're ready, aren't you? And I'm voting on the draft Law on Basic Principles and Requirements for Organic Production, around and Marking Organic Production (No.5448-d) on the basis of the Committee's proposal. So, on the basis of this vote, please support. We vote, colleagues, we support European law. Please vote, vote. [[16:30:20.]] For 214 We're not there yet. I'll put it back. Please, when I vote, be at work instead of wandering around the hall. I see. Please ask a colleague to come into the hall. Please come in, take up jobs. So, colleagues, now I'm going to put you back on the table, and I'm going to ask everyone to be very careful about voting. You're ready, aren't you? Everybody in place? I am voting on the proposal to return to the draft Law on Basic Principles and Requirements for Organic Production, around and Marking Organic Products (5448-d). I ask everyone to take part in the vote and I ask you to vote in favour of the return carefully, colleagues, each vote. Vote, please. We vote, colleagues, we vote carefully. [[16:31:34]] For 221 Five votes. Please invite the deputies to the Chamber. I see you'd like to invite from the towers to the hall. Colleagues, I would like to point out that this law is not only a request to an agar committee hall, it is also one of the laws of our road map in the implementation of the Agreement on the European Association, so I am very much asking for responsible voting and voting. Please enter the hall, do not leave the hall, prepare for the vote. Show the factions, please, so we can see where the potential is. Peter Poshenko's Block – 83, People's Front – 53, Opposition Block – 0, Self-help – 19, Radical Party – 14, Father's Party – 7, Will of the People – 5, Rebirth Party – 16. So once again, we have the potential. Please come in and I, colleagues, will now put to the vote again and ask everyone to take a very careful part in the vote. So I am voting on the proposal to go back to the draft Law on Basic Principles and Requirements for Organic Production, Traffic and Labelling (5448). And I ask everyone to vote carefully, to vote. And I'm asking you to back me up. Careful! Every voice. Vote. Please be supportive. Vote. Please be supportive. [[16:33:23]] For the 250. We're back, colleagues. And now I'm putting the bill of Law 5448-d to the vote as a basis. Careful, we'll vote. Please vote. Please be supportive. Based on the base. Vote. Please be supportive. Please vote. [[16:33:49]] For 251 Decision taken. Colleagues, before noon, we included in the agenda a draft law amending the Ukrainian Law on the Status and Social Protection of Citizens affected by the Chernobyl Disaster on pension insurance (4442 and 4442-1). According to the Rules of Procedure, we include, after lunch without being included in the agenda, we can consider it. So I'm putting it on the table. Anyone who supports the consideration of the reduced procedure, please vote. [[16:34:39]] For the 110. Let's move on to the full procedure. And I invite you to the report of the National Deputy of Ukraine, Láško Oleg Valeriyovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-19-m1.u19	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. At last, almost two years after the draft on the restoration of social security for the Chernobyl population was registered in Parliament, we came to see it in this room. It took three days for the Radical Party faction to block the parliamentary rostrum. And I thank all the people's deputies who have supported our initiative to restore social rights for the Chernobylites. This is particularly important before the 32nd anniversary of the Chernobyl disaster. The bill suggests recalculating pensions for black people, restoring the right to health care, social security, restoring food at the expense of the state, children in schools in the area affected by radiation pollution. The decision of the government of Azarov in 2011 transferred the Chernobyl payments to manual payment. On this point, two decisions of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine, which are prohibited and stipulated that the State budget should set out the funds for the implementation of the Chernobyl law. But the authorities were constantly making excuses not to comply with the law, motivated by the lack of money. We know where to take the money: to stop the trade in raw materials; to stop the smuggling of customs; to stop corruption in the gas energy sector; to create jobs for Ukrainians; to give cheap loans to the national business; and then there will be money in the Ukrainian economy for the execution of both Chernobyl and all other social programs. The government went on the easiest path to repealing the Chernobyl law. Thirty - two years ago, when millions of people, Ukrainians rescued both Ukraine and the world from the Chernobyl plague, then no one counted the money or the cost. Today, when these people are older, when they need medical help, when they need huge medical expenses, for basic needs, they don't have that kind of money. The same today. They create all kinds of benefits for those in the war zone in the east. The important thing is not the number of benefits, but the extent to which they are implemented, because when the state promises, it has to do what it promises: both the benefits to the black people, and the benefits to the veterans, and the benefits to the parents for the care of the child, and all the other social programs. Otherwise, when they vote before the election to cheat people. Remember, Afghans. Remember, children of war, Chernobyl, and other categories of citizens. And then when it comes to execution, they say there's no money. So the only possibility is to be true and fair. Therefore, the consideration of this bill in the Supreme Council on the restoration of social guarantees for Chernobyl is to restore justice to these people who, at the cost of their lives, at the cost of their health, protected our country, protected the whole world. Today the time has come to restore justice, to return to them what is lawful to them, to ask for nothing greater, not even to ask for additional benefits, even though they deserve them. I call on Parliament to vote in favour of the law and to reinstate the state guarantees for Chernobyl. Since this is actually the last plenary week before the tragic anniversary of the 32nd Chernobyl disaster, once again on behalf of the Radical Party faction, I want to thank the brave men and women, the hero rescuers, the firemen, the military, the drivers, the builders, the huge masses of people saved Ukraine and the world from the Chernobyl plague. Unfortunately, many of them are gone, many have died, and those who remain deserve to be respected, supported by the Ukrainian Parliament, the Ukrainian Government, and the Ukrainian State. Honor and thanks to you, heroes of honor! Great thanks, great honor, we remember you, we sincerely thank you, and we will do our utmost to protect your rights to decent security, to a decent pension, to a worthy social assistance. There's money! All we have to do is give it to those who need it, not steal it and take it out into offshore accounts. Restoring justice is a vote in favour of this law. And I ask the head of Parliament to publish in the parliamentary newspaper "The Voice of Ukraine" a list of all those national MPs who voted in favour of reinstatement of the Chernobyl law and a list of those (no return word to say "national") deputies (they will be "antinational" deputies who will not vote in favour of this law) to publish, we will publish on each pillar. On each pillar, we get to every village, and this list of "anti-national" MPs who don't vote and return the benefits to the niggers, we're going to bring every family in Ukraine to know who's robbing the Ukrainians, who's serving the authorities, not the people and justice. I call on Parliament to restore justice, to restore truth, to support the Chernobylites, to thank our heroes.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-19-m1.u20	Please stay in the rostrum. Please remain in the rostrum, Your Honor. Now you're going to have questions from MPs, including about money, where is this information about money being in government? And I'm asking the MPs to sign up for a question to the reporter. Please, Mrs. Romanova, your question.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-19-m1.u21	I give the word to Roman Semensi.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-19-m1.u22	Please, Mr. Semenha, your question.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-19-m1.u23	Dear colleagues! Oleg Valeriyovich, are there any financial accounts? And to what extent are the pensions of the Chernobylites projected to be modernized? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-19-m1.u24	Thank you for the very profound and correct question. There are financial accounts. The additional need to implement the Status Act and State Guarantees for Chernobyl is estimated to be up to 6 billion dollars. It's expensive. We offer the following sources that will enable the state budget to be filled. Covering mass smuggling on customs is an additional revenue to the government budget of at least 5 billion dollars. Energy-modernization, large-scale housing-communal renewal programs will allow 30 billion dollars to reduce housing-communal subsidies and channel these costs to meet the social standards of Chernobyl, to raise wages, to increase pensions. We propose lower taxes on national businesses, which will enable economic activity to increase, at least 8 percent of GDP growth next year, provided the Radical Party program is implemented. Support me, dear colleagues from Self-Help.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-19-m1.u25	Please, Ostap Ednak, your question.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-19-m1.u26	Dear Oleg Valeriyovich, I have a question. The figure of 6 billion has already been released this year from the state budget. I understand that over the past 25 years, the Ukrainian State has financed various benefits for the Chernobyl population, we've spent perhaps tens of billions of dollars, billions of dollars. If these costs, as you think, how would these costs in their time be invested in the economy, in the infrastructure, in the creation of jobs, in the creation of conditions so that black people don't depend on the benefits, but have the ability to create their own small businesses and so forth, in their financial independence, and not their dependence on the state, isn't this course wrong in recent years and now that we're constantly planting black people and other categories of citizens on a social needle? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-19-m1.u27	I, my dear colleague Ednak, strongly support you that you need to radically raise the income of Ukrainians and wages so that people don't need 300 dollars before the election, so people don't need utility subsidies, because their wages don't allow them to pay utilities. But for the Chernobylites, it is not a benefit, it is our duty to commit the heroic feat they have committed in protecting the country. This is the least we can do for these people to repay them and help them today when they are having a hard time. Many of these people are of serious age. You know, old age is not joy. And the pharmacy is mostly made up of people of important age, many of whom are black people with low incomes and copier pensions. And that's why we're fighting, our team, for increasing radical wages so that people don't beg for pensions and not go abroad in search of a better destiny, but to be able to work in their own country. And I'm glad you and I are allies in this important struggle for the Ukrainians.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-19-m1.u28	Last one. No, no more questions. The position is clear. Please return to your workplace. I invite you to report to the People's Deputy Natalia Kraljevsky, who will present the alternative bill 4442-1. Mrs. Natalia, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-19-m1.u29	Dear colleagues, we feel it is necessary to unite the hall now and to support Bill 4442 in the first reading. And if we can support it as a whole, it will be a truly proper very important step for all the Ukrainian national deputies. We'll be celebrating the 32nd anniversary of the Chernobyl accident in a few days. And each of you will go to honor the Chernobylites, to communicate, to say thanks, but unfortunately, first of all, we must repent with you now and say that the current authorities have reduced all the guarantees, compensations, benefits that these people have paid for their health. This morning, I was in Chernobyl, and every year, with the Chernobylites, we go there to pay tribute and thanks to those who saved the world at the cost of their lives. And what they're seeing right now is those units that are still alive. The amount of funding for the integrated budget programme, if $327 million in 2013, is reduced by 4.5 times and now amounts to $72 million. Four and a half times they've collectively reduced all the Chernobyl programs, and the average size of the Chernobyl pension in 2013 was 386, well, almost $400, medium. Today, the average size of a Chernobyl pension is $140, reduced by 2.7 times. Dearly beloved, today's minimum pension for a crippled helicopter is a person who survives only by the will of God, because all the money they have in their family that he gets today he spends exclusively on medicine. That's how he gets 150 dollars from the state today. Well, if that's fair, I'm sorry. And in the last year, the short-term program is not just a pension, it's not just a recovery program, it's a short-term support program for the Chernobyl children. And most of the benefits, compensation for the affected children of the Chernobyl family, were taken from them. Since 2016, children with disabilities have even been deprived of the right to an extracurricular entrance to institutions. So, honourable colleagues, the first step that we can take with you today is to review the size of pensions. And give that first list of pensions to people with disabilities, those referred to in the first category, to set the amount of monthly pension in case of loss of a breadwinner, to review pensions for those affected by the Chernobyl accident. The next step that we need to take with you is to establish a responsible level of budgetary funding for medical programs so that people can undergo treatment for lost health at the expense of the state. Because when they saved the world, they didn't ask what I would do for it. Because they were confident that they would not be abandoned, left alone with their illness, or left alone with their families. And so now, I hope that we have with you all the strength to unite all our efforts in order to support, indeed, these courageous people. And so that when we go to honor our memory, we can look into people’s eyes, apologize, and do our work. Raising pensions for the Chernobylites is today the only way to provide them with the help they need, especially for the purchase of medicines, the healing and maintenance of the health they lost in Chernobyl, the health they put in saving the world. I ask you to remember these people and to support this bill today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-19-m1.u30	Dear colleagues, please sign up for a question to the reporter. Please, Eutusek, your question. Sergei Evtušek, please, your question.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-19-m1.u31	Sergey Eutuszek, "The Fatherland" faction. Ladies and gentlemen, we've been talking about what we've done with the black people for a few days here in Parliament. And in fact, you know, politicians are so different that they have to be consistent in their actions, in their steps. Please tell me, when you were a minister of social policy in the government of Azarov, why did your ministry cancel all the benefits that were applied to black people? Why did your ministry cancel the trip to those children's health? Why did your ministry cancel the feeding of children? Please tell me that you have a change of position and vision as you are in opposition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-19-m1.u32	That's a question! Oh, that's right. You do. It's a shame, you know, we don't even get red when we're being lied to by deputies. This is a pity, Mr. Eutuszek, that you have lied to the degree that you see now, looking me in the eye, you are carrying this lie. Do you understand? And you're not ashamed. You are not ashamed when you voted in favour of the 2014 budget laws, when you broke those laws. And personally to you, Mr. Eutuszek, I want to remind you that when I worked in Mr. Azarov's government, we paid the average pension to the black people for $400. The government is now paying an average pension of 140 dollars to the black people. And this is your responsibility. Because you started, along with the overall coalition, reducing all pension and social benefits. And now you have it. Don't smile, you'll see these people and you'll see.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-19-m1.u33	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to remind myself of the session hall that in Ukraine wages and pensions are paid in bracelets, the national currency of Ukraine is the bracelet, not the dollars. So when you answer the questions, I ask you very questions. [[B in m in s a l in]] I'm asking you not to interrupt the chairman. Okay? And now for the next question from Mr. Wolf. Thank you. Mr. Wolf, your question. Kuprienko says, I'm sorry, Mr. Kuprienko, he's taking the floor.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-19-m1.u34	Oleg Kuprienko, faction of the Radical Party of Oleg Lašek. Mrs. Natal, please tell me, you, the Opposition Block, are now proposing a bill to increase actually the social benefits from the Chernobyl budget. At the same time, your law is an alternative to Oleg Laschka's bill. We are also an opposition political force. And in addition to what we're saying about the rise, about the restoration of social justice, we're also pointing to the sources where we take the money. Moreover, we are proposing bills that will fill the budget from these sources. Your political power generally does not support the initiative of the Radical Party of Oleg Láska to restore Ukraine's economy. Explain how that might be, why you, on the one hand, say that let's spend the budget, and on the other hand, you don't help fill that budget.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-19-m1.u35	Please answer, Mrs. Natala.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-19-m1.u36	Thank you so much for asking. And you know, it's probably that particular case where we support both the Radical Party initiative and any party, because we think today, if we have the opportunity to support the people who have protected the world, we have to unite, regardless of the author's name. And so we're going to vote in 4442, and in 4442-1 today to make decisions, to support, to protect people, to raise their pensions, and to restore some of the compensation, because these people have protected us with you. And we don't want to find out what we're dealing with here right now. The best answer is when we press the button and take this whole decision today. And then we're really going to be the winners.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-19-m1.u37	Thank you, Your Honor, for your position. Fatherland insists on replication. I can hear you. Please, I just want to ask the honourable Mr. Sergei to make your reply a model of parliamentary diplomacy. Please, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-19-m1.u38	Sergey Eutuszek, "The Fatherland" faction. Thank you, Madam Chairman, yes. Now I want to contact the reporter. Mrs. Natala, well, the whole country remembers your pink dream, which you dream about there, you dream about, and you can't live. But I'd like to report on your allegations about lying. What is more, in 2011, when Prime Minister Azarov, Prime Minister of Royal Natalia, who is now standing on the rostrum, repealed Decree 1210. I was then the city’s head of the city of Sarna, in the fourth zone of the category affected by the Chernobyl disaster, and I had to look for expenses. For these expenses, money in the city's income. I'm sorry. Because you just took and canceled these retirement benefits and everything. So let us tell the truth about who is lying here. If you've canceled and now you're talking about fighting like this again, tell me about your dreams. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-19-m1.u39	Dear colleagues, it was, it was a lineup. It was a replica. Mrs. Natalie, yes. Dear colleagues, please. Look, it was a replica of a faction. Mrs. Natala, you'll have two minutes of closing at the end. [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear colleagues, there are no replicas. What? Yes, of course not now. It's a closing statement. Thank you. Mrs. Natala, a closing statement after discussing the matter. I'm asking you to come to your workplace. I'm asking you to sign up for a discussion right now. And I'm sorry, we have a co-reporter now, People's Deputy Djublik. It will report on the position of the Committee on Environmental Policy. Please, Mr. Dziblik, let me give you a report.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-19-m1.u40	Good afternoon, dear Ukrainians! Paul Jublik, 66 constituency, Žitomirščina. Regrettably, once again, I have to point out that Chernobyl is only mentioned when the next anniversary of the terrible disaster comes, and the huge number of issues that have remained unresolved for many years are again delayed until the next year. If you take those benefits and those state programs, I would like to support this Mrs. Natalia, last year, in the past year, and in the 2018 budget, there are not a few or many billion dollars available for all the Chernobyl programmes. At the minimum, once again, considering only the programs that there are now, and the benefits, and all those that are provided by legislation, the minimum requirement is 4.1 billion dollars, all of which is 1.9 billion dollars. This is a very nice legislative initiative, introduced by both the Radical Party and the opposition bloc. You. I'd still ask you to identify yourself and we'd move on to one single law that would. A bill that would unite the entire room. Here. As far as the committee's decision is concerned. Well, as always, as far as such matters are concerned, the Ministry of Finance is against, the Cabinet of Ministers is against. There's a note before. And to one, and to another, there's a reference to the Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration. In addition, the committee at its meeting decided to contact the drafters of the legislative initiative to return the two bills to them in order to unite their efforts and draft a bill in general. This is about the committee's decision. Personally, I will support both the bill and the bill, and I propose to all my colleagues to support it as well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-19-m1.u41	Dear colleague, stay in the rostrum, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-19-m1.u42	Dear Mr. Yuri, we now have a question under the Rules, and then a reply. I heard you, dear fellows. Now it's a question, then it's a replica. Dear Mr. Yuri, we have questions and then a lineup, yes, according to the Rules. I'm asking you to sign up for a question. What's more, in a negative context in this case, your faction has not been mentioned, but I'll give you a line, let you calm down and not get offended. First question from the national deputy Eutushka, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-19-m1.u43	Sergey Eutuszek, "The Fatherland" faction. Mr. Reporter, there is no doubt that social justice needs to be restored, so we will be supportive of such initiatives. But I want to say and ask you. Have you analyzed the committee's meeting on which mechanism, which categories of costs are foreseen for these victims? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-19-m1.u44	Mr. Sergei, we analyzed at the committee meeting. Again, I would like to stress that the general committee has decided to return both bills to the authors of the legislative initiative. Besides, once again, I think that even if at this point in the anniversary of the Chernobyl disaster, I hope that these two bills have to unite the hall in order for us to vote for them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-19-m1.u45	Thank you. Now, colleagues, you're being answered, you don't even want to listen, don't interrupt the interview. And the next question, the People's Deputy of Semimenach, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-19-m1.u46	Are there, again, questions, calculations to the committee representative? Since today, more faithfully, the budget of the Ukrainian Pension Fund is about 139 billion dollars for the current year, are there bills? Have these calculations been analyzed by the profile committee? But most importantly, is the position of the government, the conclusion of the Cabinet of Ministers and what it is. And if he's not here, why doesn't the committee require, as a profile committee on the current issue, a two-pronged bill of decision from the Cabinet of Ministers? Thank you. Conclusion, more faithful.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-19-m1.u47	Please respond.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-19-m1.u48	Thank you for asking. I've just told you that the Ministry of Finance is against both adoption and other legislative initiatives. The calculation is an additional 6 billion dollars per year for the costs associated with the adoption of the bill. The Cabinet of Ministers is against it too. There are conclusions, look, I can give you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-19-m1.u49	Thank you. Please have a question from Mr. Dove. And I think it would be right for the profile committee to publish the conclusions of the Cabinet of Ministers so that you can read them later. Please, Mr. Dove's question. Mr. Dove's questions, and then you can read the conclusions of the profile committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-19-m1.u50	Thank you, Madam Chairman. My dear colleague, well, I think everyone here in the session room will agree, and I'm actually addressing my young colleagues, those who are plus-minus born at the time of this terrible disaster, that we need to restore social justice to people who have put their lives in perspective, but we're talking about people who have put their health in order for us, for example, young generations, to somehow survive in those conditions, the terrible ecological disaster. But, Your Honor, I'm addressing you. Dear reporter, we are now listening to the basic bill and the alternative to it. Well, besides, of course, I'd like to hear about the calculations that were made, whether they were made at all. I'd like you to focus on the differences between these two bills, which is the difference between them, and yet, which is exactly why the bill you recommend voting for us, your colleagues. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-19-m1.u51	Once again, it's about the calculations. See, once again, the committee decided to return both bills to the authors in order for them to be finalized and, if possible, to unite their efforts. As far as conclusions and calculations are concerned. Again, it is about six billion dollars a year. The only positive conclusion is the Ministry of Social Policy, which supports this legislative initiative. All of it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-19-m1.u52	Thank you. Dear colleagues, there was a question about the conclusions of the government. What has been handed over to the Ukrainian National Deputies, I would like to point out that the Ministry of Finance does not support this bill and there are no relevant conclusions under the Budget Code. I am now asking for a replica on which the Opposition Block insisted, Mr. Pavlenko, Yuri Pavlenko. And then we'll talk about it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-19-m1.u53	Dear Irina Volodymyrna! Dear colleagues! Thank you for the opportunity. I don't know. I don't know. I don't I would like to pay attention to both the reporter and the entire room that the Opposition Block has consistently been insisting in recent years on the consideration of those bills relating to the restoration of social guarantees and the protection of both liquidators and those who have suffered and continue to live in areas affected by the Chernobyl disaster. The Opposition Block did not vote in favour of those decisions in 2014 and 2015 that abolished those benefits and social protection. We're surprised, in particular, by the position of the individual majority national deputies representing both Žitomirščina and other areas affected by this disaster, that they voted in favour of these benefits in 2014 and 2015, and today they have an inconsistent, vague position. And Natala Královska became Minister – I'll tell my colleague – in 2012.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-19-m1.u54	Thank you. We all remember a biography of the Royal Natalia. Thank you very much. Please sign up for this bill. Please. Please, Oleg Lazko. I invite you to speak from your faction. Oleg Lazko! Colleagues, Oleg Lazko signed up for a faction performance and disappeared. So it goes on. Oh, my computer's jamming, I'm sorry. Please, National Deputy Galchenko. He's handing over Yuri Pavlovka. Thank you. I'm sorry, the computer has issued a different list. Excuse me. Please, National Deputy Galchenko, present the position of the Opposition Block. Oh, Pauline. Pauline.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-19-m1.u55	Dear National Deputies! Respectable citizens! In fact, once again, I stress that the Opposition Block insisted that these bills be considered today in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Unfortunately, so far there are not enough national deputies. So I call on everyone who cares about the proportion of tens of thousands of people, the liquidators, the people who were protecting the country in the 86th year, and they're left with 2-3 thousand, and unfortunately every day they're getting smaller and smaller. These are dozens of people who have lived or continue to live in areas affected by the Chernobyl accident, in respect of which the State has acted dishonestly by deceiving them. This was particularly true in the 14th and 15th years when the so-called coalition that led the country into Europe deprived these people of minimal protection, deceiving them and effectively reducing their lives. Unfortunately, today we see some manipulation of this bill. And today we see, not clearly, but at all, the lack of a position of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, which proposes not to adopt these bills without even giving clear arguments. At the same time, people continue to demand. I represent the Gitomir region, one of the most affected territories since the Chernobyl disaster. There's no such meeting, I'm sure it'll be confirmed by the deputies who are chosen or represent those areas that are affected by the Chernobyl disaster. The first question at each meeting is when you become honest with us. When will you stop talking and adopt laws that will help us to live today simply to feel human? When will you stop deceiving us by saying beautiful words at rallying and laying flowers, but with another hand taking away the minimum possibilities for life, the minimum opportunities for the development of children who continue to live in these areas? So the Opposition Block will support both its introduced alternative bill and those bills that have been tabled by other factions. And I'm sure we'll find the funds to ensure that these laws are fully implemented. At the same time, we demand that the government implement, with regard to the liquidator and the blacksmith, an existing legislation that, unfortunately, is not being implemented by the Ukrainian authorities today. Thank you for your attention. And I urge everyone to support the bill on the basis and today to vote in general.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-19-m1.u56	Thank you. Please, from the Petra Prashenko Block, People's Deputy Rosenblatt. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-19-m1.u57	Good afternoon, dear colleagues. Good afternoon, distinguished Ukrainian people. And good afternoon, black people. First of all, I want to thank the leadership of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and my fellow deputies who have succeeded in putting this bill into the agenda today. It's very important. First of all, I want to point out that these two bills 4442 and 4442-1 (alternative) are virtually no different. So today I urge the drafters of the bill to unite and pass one bill to vote on it. The second question is most important. It's all about money, calculations, revaluations and everything. You know, once again, I want to remind you that on April 26, 1986, no one mentioned the revaluations, no one mentioned any money, everyone thought about how to save the country. And today, 32 years from now, we have no right to delay this issue today, because those who suffer from rays today. Diseases, from the consequences of the disaster, will not be able to make the money everyone dreams of today. Therefore, our duty today is simply to accept these bills and to allow people to regain their health, which is most important to us. And finally. I want everyone to understand, there's a lot of time between the first reading and the second reading. These people can't wait much longer, they don't have time. So I encourage you to go to second reading after a reduced system in two weeks and give people the opportunity to get their money. And I think that these 4.5 billion that today say, for the sake of calculation, they're going to go into those people's pockets today, and I repeat, they can't make them anywhere else. So I ask everyone to support this bill and give people the opportunity to hope. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-19-m1.u58	Please, National Deputy Kuprienko will take the floor.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-19-m1.u59	Oleg Kuprienko, faction of the Radical Party of Oleg Lašek. 1986 April 26 I think that many of those present in the hall remember that day well. More true, not just April 26, but May Day. I was then a student of the 5th grade of the Faculty of Physics, clearly understanding what a radioactive atom was, running under the roofs, collecting samples, wearing a Geiger counter, and wondering how it could be, in the middle of the country, a reactor exploded in the center of Europe. How many people went out to save the world, they didn't know it yet. They put out the fire, and I'll fire at the atomic station. Then we learned what radiation is and what a peaceful atom is. Then they died for many years. They died of all the pains that stuck to them as a result of that damn radiation. Do we have the right to forget this? No, it's not. Do we have the right not to help those who have survived 30 years later? Do we have the right to forget about the families of the Chernobylites? The word "black bill" is karma, like heavenly karma over Ukraine. Over Ukraine, which was left alone with this disaster after the collapse of the Soviet Union. No one has taken the responsibility of preserving the lives of those who have protected us, including the cursed Russia that is now at war with us. We're all alone. Yeah, we're getting some help. And now we're talking about that these poor 6 billion from the state budget can't be found for people who have been suffering from disease and pain for 30 years, for families who have lost their husbands who have lost their sons to give them their dues, and that's about half a percent of the government budget. And if we're talking about gross domestic product, it's in the numbers of 0.00, something like a hundred percent. What are we talking about? We're talking about not letting these people finish their lives? Oh, no. Dear colleagues, let's vote on this bill, let's pay off the debt both for you and for those of us who sat next to us in this room for 30 years for each election using the Chernobyls for their own pyar. And now there's no election. So let's do it one time, give it back to them, and we won't be talking about it long and boring. We vote for the law.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-19-m1.u60	The position of the Radical Party faction was expressed. And now, please, the People's Deputy of Semimenach is invited to the floor, which will express the position of the Self-Help faction. Please, my dear colleague.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-19-m1.u61	Semenha Roman, "The Self-Help Union" faction. Dear colleagues! Dear Madam Chairman! Dear Ukrainians! April 26 is the 32nd anniversary of this terrible tragedy. And it's very true that the Supreme Council today before this year's anniversary is considering a bill that is one of the few that really concerns people and the restoration of justice. But cynicism is impressive when discussing this bill. That's why I think it's a bit dry to remind all the Ukrainians of this issue. And history is very simple. The government of Azarova in 2011 by order of Kabmin 1210 had in fact partially suspended the traditional recalculation of pensions for the disabled. Moreover, the recent amendments to the ruling were made by the Yatsenuk government on March 25, 2014, and did not significantly address the situation. Next. The so - called pension reform at the end of last year is so loud that it has not really solved this problem. And the right thing to say here is that there's no meeting you're meeting with people, and people are demanding that justice be restored, that pensions be recalculated for the disabled. Clearly, then, today we must vote in favour of this bill. The Self-Help Unit will support him, but in the first reading. I'm paying attention to colleagues, I'm paying attention to Ukrainians that the government today has a negative conclusion. Listen again, the government has made a negative conclusion on this bill, a government against counting pensions for the disabled today. Moreover, the government does not actually fulfil its obligation to report to Parliament in a year of its activities. Today, even during the consideration of this bill, the government is afraid to publicly express its position. So I think the bill should be adopted in the first reading. According to the authors, this is, by the way, not 6 billion, 5 billion 196 million a year. I think we need to understand clearly what sources of filling. Since the deficit in operation of the Pension Fund has not been reversed, it amounts to 132 billion dollars and, unfortunately, it may be even greater. So I think we need to consult with the government, a balanced position, so that we can pay off people's debt. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-19-m1.u62	They ended up, they ended up, more loyally, speaking than the MP factions. And I'm asking you to enroll the Ukrainian National MPs to discuss two alternative drafts. We're going to have nine minutes for that, so I'm going to ask you to sign up. Please, Mrs. Yuzkova, you are welcome to speak. Please, Andrew Lozov.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-19-m1.u63	Andrey Lozovy, Radical Party of Lazka. You know, as much as you don't say shame to today's authorities, it won't be embarrassing. I'd like to go to my colleagues from different factions. Consider what your children, grandchildren, and future generations will say about you. We are with the entire team today: Oleg Lazko, Igor Mosiyczuk, Valeria Zarzko, Viktor Vuk, Alon Koseljev, Oleg Kuprienko, Tetjana Yuzkov, Alexy Lensky, Denis Silantiev, Yuri Chizmar, Alexy Kirichenko, Vasil Omelchenko – while many of you, dear colleagues, apologize, hide on the underground crossings, we went to the people. People thanked us for the fact that the Radical Party, blocking the rostrum for three days, had reached a consideration of this historically important bill. And those who do not vote will be cursed, and I give you my word. And this is the position of our iron team. To everyone in the county, the high-ranking majors, the Radical Party will come and tell you when you say that you're black people, and you don't vote for them. Everyone on the list will be informed by all voters. God’s word in the Bible says “judge according to works. ” None of you, excuse me, can escape political responsibility unless you support the officials today. And when you, some say here, we won't vote, because Minfin says there's no money, there's no money, there's no respectable, there's less stealing, there's less lying, there's an economic program of the Radical Party, and there's money for black people, there's no money for people with disabilities, there's for ATO veterans, there's Afghans, there's people who need more government care. I would love to, and this is the goal of our team, so that we know not about Ukraine as a country in which the Chernobyl disaster took place, but that Ukraine should be known as a country of dreams where every citizen feels protected, where every citizen has a normal job, a decent salary, a decent pension, a decent scholarship, a decent help. Those who risked their lives and health to save the world from an environmental disaster have no longer lived to this day. Think of the living and honor the dead, and vote on your conscience, not on the dungeons that the Bank sent. I'm addressing every deputy in the Peter Dust Block, vote on your conscience, because people will curse you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-19-m1.u64	I'm asking you so much, let's do without the curse here, okay? You voted today for the only local church, Your Honor, Mr. Andrew. Please, Dunaev's national MP is handing over the word to his colleague Yuri Pavlunka, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-19-m1.u65	Dear Chairman, dear colleagues! Yesterday, members of the Opposition Block faction met with representatives of public organizations, especially those who represented and were the first liquidators, those who were liquidators in 1986 -- firefighters, those were law enforcement officers, they were Donbas miners, they were water workers, they were doctors, they were people of other professions who were then first to defend the country. Regrettably, there are only one of these people left, no more than 2,000 of them now living in the territory of the country. These are those who, at the cost of their lives, at the cost of their health, at the cost of their subsequent generations, protected Ukraine and protected the world. One such person was my father, Alexeiyyovich, who built dams on the Pripet River. Eighty dams built by his hands, which did not allow the water of Pripeti in Dnipro, were adequately saved by Kyiv and many other inhabited areas. He is not among us today, as are most of his brothers, friends who have been in our home many times. Today, some of them remain. So I'm going to the Supreme Council, to all the factions: let's pay tribute, respect to these people, let's acknowledge our mistake in 2014-2015, when we humiliated them with our decisions, we humiliated the memory of many of those who haven't lived to this time, in fact, by denying them the guarantees they were given when they went to protect the country, even though they didn't think about it, and they didn't. I call on the Supreme Council today not to hide from this decision. I see many national MPs, especially most of whom have already hidden themselves from this decision, ignoring voting for this law. Let's not just turn this into a pyar action, but let's turn this into a real, active decision of the Supreme Council to protect specific people. By the way, there are not so many people left in our country. And the Opposition Block insists on voting today as a basis and as a whole, and forcing the government to implement this law with regard to Ukrainian citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-19-m1.u66	Thank you. People’s MP Melniczuk is invited to attend.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-19-m1.u67	Good afternoon, Ukrainian people, colleagues! This bill is important, but cynicism in all of this is that when the panzers blocked the rostrum and passed these bills, they introduced this bill today, they needed to keep standing so that the hungry black people could see that it was all voted. So far, we see that when we get out of here, the business is unfinished, it's just a mess. And who. Who let these people go hungry? Who played it, Prime Minister, by playing a trick, that this bill would collapse? Because there will be no people in the room to vote. And cynicism is what God remembers, remembers people, remembers people with disabilities, and so was the election campaign, and people continue to lie, lie, and lie. Enough of this lie! Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-19-m1.u68	Thank you. Welcome to the speech of the People's Deputies. Yes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-19-m1.u69	Valeria Zarztko, Oleg Lachka Radical Party. Dear colleagues, honourable citizens of Ukraine, I want to address you today on this very important subject, the topic of the protection of the Chernobylites. This is a terrible tragedy that happened when I was a child and that I remember very well. I also remember it very well because my own uncle was one of the survivors of the tragedy at the Chernobyl nuclear station. He's only 14 years older than me, but he's treated his whole life. And thousands of Ukrainians are being treated, who have given up their health and sometimes their lives in order to eliminate this terrible catastrophe on a global scale. And today I want to urge you beyond your factional affiliations to add your share to this very important. to this very important matter, to restore social justice, to provide people with social security, to protect them from the state, because they deserve it, because they really deserve it, because they are the real heroes for whom we today have to do what we can, restore these benefits and give them the opportunity to heal and have a decent life. I'm proud of my faction and I'm proud of those MPs who have worked together with our faction to see that in three days of blocking the rostrum we finally see this issue in order of the day. I will be proud of all of you if we do this big thing today and vote on this very important law for the country and for all people. Please vote, join us, let's do this together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-19-m1.u70	Thank you. And the closing statement was delivered by the author of the Glaucoma, the speech. But I'm asking for a brief, one minute, because time is running out. Mikhail Golovko, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-19-m1.u71	Mikhail Golovko, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. Dear colleagues, I want to thank the authors for the right law, because, in fact, our task is strategically to restore the justice of the people who gave their lives, to save our country from the Chernobyl tragedy, to restore justice, to restore their benefits to the disabled. And for those who blame and tell you that there are no funds, those 6 billion, I want to tell you, there are costs, and we're going to show you where to take them. Put into Parliament our package of anti-oligaric laws: return of funds from offshores, liquidation of private monopolies, return control of the state over lotterys, that's over 20 billion -- and you'll find not 20 billion, but a hundred billion if you really want to achieve justice and protect the interests of ordinary Ukrainians, the black people who saved our country from that tragedy and disaster. And that's why we're calling for the support of this law. Our political power "Freedom" will vote for it. And most importantly, we call on the head of Parliament to put an anti-oligarchi package of laws to be considered in parliament, and we will find money for the country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-19-m1.u72	First Deputy Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Irina Heratchenko, three minutes, is invited to attend.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-19-m1.u73	Thank you, Your Honor. I also want to be Ukraine's national deputy to join in this important discussion. You know, "the ghost roams Europe, the ghost of populism." And to this room it's not easy, this ghost has crawled, and it's taken a lot of space. There's actually no man in this room who doesn't consider the Chernobyl disaster's quantifier heroes to be heroes. There is no one in this room who does not express genuine compassion for the victims of the greatest technological catastrophe and who does not consider them to be victims. But it is not really possible to engage in such populism that, as someone rightly put it here, will not be the victims of this catastrophe, nor will it be easier to live. I was still a journalist 20 years ago, and I remember very well how from this other newspaper stand we watched here the approach of love for children of war when, before the March 1998 election, we adopted the Law on Victims of War, Children. And today, in all our meetings, we hear the same things from the elderly who have been deceived by so many populists: and why not pay this money, these pensions are paid to the victims of war. But because, dear veterans, dear children of war, dear cannibals, in this room, unfortunately, many populists and completely irresponsible people: radically populist, radically irresponsible, who can vote anything but then do not. I'm impressed by the profile committee here, and they're standing there and they're saying from the highest stage, the government is backing it up. Colleagues, let's learn to read the laws, where it's very clearly written: "The Ministry of Finance does not support this law." And there's a populist position written by Minsoc and the Pension Fund: "We'll support it if that's the only way to support Minfin." I have an appeal to the government. The government should speak in one voice rather than try to please someone or not. And I'm going to ask Mr. Groysman, Prime Minister. What is it that one ministry is for Chernobyl and the other ministry is against it? You identify yourself, please, and give the agreed answer in this room so that we can determine. Dear colleagues, here, indeed, stood the minister. We remember her biography well, and we do not need to be reminded. Not only was it canceled, but it was never done. I don't know who you're paying for your dollars, Ukrainian pensioners in bracelets get their salary. And your law that you're trying to pin down now is 13 billion. 6, 13 billion dollars for the Ukrainian budget, it will bring poverty (your favorite word) to these pensioners. So there's Victor Mikhailovich Pinzenik (I remember his last name to give him the word), he's probably the best economist in this room, and he'll confirm that no government is any government! – did not comply with this law. It exists as a ghost, as an excuse for populism too. People, I'm ashamed.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-19-m1.u74	Please finish 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-19-m1.u75	I'm ashamed of the 242 votes you've cast on the Chernobyls, trying to fool them on the eve of the Chernobyl tragedy, to say we're beautiful, we voted for it, knowing that there's never any money for it now. Let's work on the budget, get the money back and raise pensions for all Ukrainian pensioners, including black people. It'll be fair, it'll be right.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-19-m1.u76	Thank you. So, colleagues, the discussion is over. The closing word is given to two authors. But, colleagues, could it be a minute? Three minutes. Okay. Then let's start with Lazko Oleg Valeriyovich. Then the Royal Natalia Yuriovna. And then we go to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-19-m1.u77	Colleagues, let's all go to the rostrum, show them how to work with an iron team. For three days the Radical Party faction blocked the parliamentary rostrum. And we've reached our goal. The issue of Chernobyl is discussed in this room, a question that concerns hundreds of thousands of people in Ukraine. I don't agree with my colleague, Vice Speaker of Parliament, who says it's a matter of populism. It's not a question of populism, it's a question of justice and it's a question of responsibility to the Chernobyls. Come, not here in the rostrum, but go to the people and tell them in their eyes that what you promised them was populism, that you lied to them when you promised and that you didn't have the money for it. And I'll tell you, Your Honor, I'm not sure you're coming back from there because people are going to ask you very simple questions. Why there are 300,000 dollars a month for judges and prosecutors. Why a billion-dollar smuggling on customs is carried, and no one is covering it, and the whole country knows about these billions of smuggling flows. Why there are for some, including for those who do not deserve it, and for those who give their lives, there is no money. You mentioned the children of war and you said it was populism. No, it was also the right decision. Another thing that politicians use before choosing war children, the Chernobyls, to deceive them. And we're offering not to cheat, and we're proposing that we return what's rightfully ours. A radical party. We are told that we promote radical populism. You're lying! Look at the parliamentary vote and see the list of bills initiated by the Radical Party. All as one, all the bills, or the issue of defence, security, or the question of the restoration of the Ukrainian economy. Irresponsibility and crime, when today's authorities sign commodity trade agreements instead of banning trade in raw materials and trade in products, because selling raw materials is a doomed poverty, and then there will be no money. The Radical Party knows what global problems our country faces. One is migration. The second is the lack of cheap loans. The third is the question of ecology. And the fourth very important question is the absence of power, which is now in Comprador. Ukraine must have Ukrainian power to restore the Ukrainian economy in order to have money to implement social programs. And you're telling us today that you won't give anyone anything because you don't have any money. With that kind of politics. As you conduct, there will never be any money for anything but your offshore accounts. We're proposing another policy: restoring the economy, making the money be on both social issues and defence and on.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-19-m1.u78	And the final speech by Natalia Královska.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-19-m1.u79	Dear colleagues, we can find out for a long time who was the best, who was worse, who was better than anyone when they had a better life – four years ago or now. And I'm sure that every negro will prove to you that even a little bit, but he could survive. And today, you and I have a chance to unite our efforts, not insult each other, not say who's better, and who's worse, not really fall into populism, because populism is when there's not enough money just for veterans, for black people, for orphans, for immigrants, it's populism. Well, it's also a big, big mistake, because today our job with you is to support the very people who need it the most. And to say that, yes, we can now cancel the crazy wages of government officials, heads of corporations, where millions of dollars will be paid today. We can today refrain from repairing the Marian Palace and other palace repairs, we can today properly redistribute the budget in such a way as to protect those who protected us in their own time and to thank these people who are alive and to allow them to survive for a few more days, weeks, or years. Therefore, we propose to vote today in the first reading and in general, to vote in favour of both bills. We support both the first and the second bills. And any of them received today will protect the people and show our adequacy with you. And let those who do not vote be on your conscience. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-19-m1.u80	So, colleagues, we're done talking, we're moving on to making a decision. I would like to remind you that the committee concluded that the drafts of Laws 4442 and 4442-1 would give subjects the right of legislative initiative back to work. I would like to point out that the Chief Scientific and Expert Office recommends that bills be returned to the subject-matter of the right of legislative initiative for further development. And I'll put it in the next sequence. First, a proposal based on 4442 presented by Laszko, then on the basis of 4442-1, represented by the Royal Natalia, and then on the proposal by the committee. Therefore, I would like to ask everyone to participate carefully in the vote. The committee's proposal to give the subject the right to a legislative initiative for further development. We vote first and on the basis. The first vote is on the ground. And I'm putting Law 4442 on the ground. Whoever supports this proposal, please vote. [[17:42:21]] For 190 The decision is not taken. Next, 4442-1, represented by Natalia Kraljevska. The one who supports this as a basis, please vote. 4442-1. The one who supports this as a basis, please vote. The Royal Bill. [[17:42:49]] For a hundred and And now, as I warned you, I'm proposing to the 4442 and 4442-1 committees to give the subjects the right of legislative initiative back to work. Anyone who supports the position of the committee, please vote. For the committee's proposal. Please be supportive. [[17:43:22]] For 203 All right, I'll set it up again, colleagues. I'll do it again. Please be careful! Take up jobs. Once again, I propose to draft Laws 4442 and 4442-1 to give the subjects the right of legislative initiative back to work. This is the position of the committee and this is actually the proposal made by the committee for the decision of the Supreme Council. Anyone who supports the position of the committee, please vote. Please be supportive. And please vote. Please be supportive. Vote. [[17:44:13]] For 218. And the last suggestion I have under the Rules is to send it to the Committee for further work. Whoever supports this proposal to send the drafts of Laws 4442 and 4442-1 to the committee, please vote. And I'd like you to support the committee. [[17:44:44]] For 230 Decision taken. And I'm going back to the government, who is the representative, to give a coherent position to the government as a whole under this bill. My colleagues, now I have an address for you. Attention, please. It's 17:45, and we have one of the documents that is our international commitment. I ask everyone to listen carefully. Last week we held a block of intellectual property and adopted one of the laws in the first reading. The committee at a very long, actually round-the-clock work worked on it for a second reading. There's a lot of rights, we can't go through them all today. But if we had started today to consider this bill, it would have been an important signal for our partners that on April 26, when Daedline passed, we would have shown Parliament's will before it was resolved. And once again, we don't have a chance today to fully consider it, but we can get into it and give a good, good signal to our partners. And so I'm asking Parliament to support this proposal, and I can submit it for a second reading. And now I propose to go over this bill so that I can report to the chairman of the committee. I thought we were going to get another bill, but 14 minutes, we're not going to be able to go through another bill, and we're going to look at it for the next week. So now I'm announcing the move to a project on the effective management of property rights of right-holders in copyright (No.7466). And I invite you to report to the head of the Education Committee of Singer Alexander. Mr. Alexander, please have a word with me.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-19-m1.u81	Thank you. Dear Andriy Volodymyrovich, honourable colleagues, understanding the situation that has now taken place, understanding that we are now actually finishing our plenary week, I want to pay attention, because this is what we are all going to do for three weeks at our constituencies to our constituencies. Dear colleagues, we are not simply considering Bill 7466 on the effective administration of copyright. We are actually solving the problem of whether we are restoring trust and whether we are going to protect intellectual property and protect the rights of those who create intellectual property in Ukraine. I don't think we need to have the name of European Nigeria, where the attitude towards intellectual property is not actually secured by legislation. Dear colleagues, the Committee on Science and Education has done a very difficult job. We understand very clearly that there are steakcholders who in one way or another represent different views of this bill. First of all, those who create intellectual property are those who consume it, those who use it, those who receive money, those who distribute it and so on. I think the situation in the intellectual property market shows that in fact only 2.5 million dollars are now being raised. In fact, the market is estimated at about $100 million. So, honourable colleagues, we need to understand that by not solving this problem at the legislative level, we are actually allowing us to steal intellectual property. The law is very complicated. And so when we accepted it for the first time, we all went to the right step with you, which is a very raw bill that was passed by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, we accepted it as a basis, and after that we actually created an appropriate course on the basis of the Committee on Science and Education, where we gathered completely all the interested parties to discuss and create the right text. Dear colleagues, this has been very difficult, but we have allowed 72 experts to work together on this bill. No person, no expert, no group, no media has been denied participation. For two weeks the committee worked from 10 a.m. to 10 p.m. to create this text. It was a very difficult job, about 400 amendments that this working group had considered. The situation was difficult, but it came out in the final text. After that, we held an appropriate meeting between the National Deputies, who also represented the interests and introduced the relevant amendments, and then we went to give our colleagues from the European Union and the United States of America the opportunity to look at this document and conduct an appropriate expertise. So we've made it very clear, very clear. preparing the corresponding text. After our partners, the American and European partners, conducted the appropriate expertise, we had a meeting three days ago at the United States Embassy where we placed the right dots, and in fact we have a document today that should be available to all interested parties. Dear colleagues, I'm paying attention to the following. There are four controversial issues that we have put forward on April 17th for the committee meeting, where in the presence of our colleagues from the United States, colleagues from the European Union, national deputies who also participated in the work on this document and.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-19-m1.u82	Please, two minutes. Two minutes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-19-m1.u83	We have clearly, clearly ended up voting, and five of the 5 deputies voted in favour, these are the Self-Help representatives, the Fatherland representatives, the UKROP representatives, the People's Front representatives, the Peter Poroshenko Block. Dear colleagues, this means that there is appropriate political support. It's a very difficult thing to do, but I just want to say that even on four controversial questions, it's either to set or not to set limits on the number of CCs that do voluntary collective management. The second is the distribution of unsolicited funds. The third is the introduction of an electronic automated system for the calculation and registration of OCCs and the de-registration of DO WAASPs. Dear colleagues, each party on the committee had the opportunity to express their views, after which the committee members voted accordingly. We have the text. But what I want to say is that in the last days we have held appropriate consultations so that we don't do a show under the Supreme Council's dome, and I'm ready after we've considered the amendments, to read a text that is consistent with all the interested parties under the transcript so that we can make decisions with you and tell the entire civilized world: Ukrainians can agree, Ukrainians can find a common solution to emphasize once again the whole world: intellectual property in Ukraine is the appropriate value that we have to trust, regardless of whether this value comes to us from abroad or this value is copyrighted in our Ukraine. Dear colleagues, it's actually we're starting this discussion. I very much hope that in three weeks we will be able to read the corresponding text with you very quickly.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-19-m1.u84	Thank you. Mr. Alexander, stay here. We're on our way. So, colleagues. Because there are many amendments and we are better off going through them to make a decision by the time we make a decision. [[B in m in s a l in]] So, colleagues, I want you to know that the table was given out. Look at the authors. Please explain, Mr. Alexander. Turn it on for two more minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-19-m1.u85	Dear colleagues, dear colleagues! Once again, I started with that. We understand that we actually did the text because yesterday it was a meeting. We clearly understand that there must be time. So this text has to be published, and it's going to be on the job for three weeks. We want to take this decision, not on our knees, but as a document that will be accepted by the Ukrainian nation. That's why intellectual property today determines top-country. If we're only materially a resource that we're discussing and we always have consensus, here we have to discuss whether Ukraine is going to create an intellectual product or whether it's going to protect it. We have to go in to make the intellectual product the main product in Ukraine, then there will be no migration, then young people will come back here, they will create startups, because they will know that Ukrainian legislation protects intellectual property, who will not do it. Dear colleagues, this document is very important. I invite everyone during three weeks of plenary meetings to work closely with him, to see. Then we're on Tuesday, if we make the right decision, we're going to go into a discussion of the rights (there's not much left of them actually), and then I'm going to read the agreed positions under the stenogram. And I very much hope that for the first time in Ukraine, there will be legislation to protect intellectual property. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-19-m1.u86	Thank you, colleagues. I only have one question in general to everyone that I'm careful that there are 700 pages here, that then we can spend too much time. Let's take a minute, faction heads, exchange thoughts on how we should act. I want to know how many right-wing authors are going to insist on editing to make me understand. [[B in m in s a l in]] Give me a minute. One minute from factions who want factions. Please, Condratuk. Turn on the microphone, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-19-m1.u87	Dear colleagues, you know, we're really getting into a very important one right now, and I'd say, a two-pronged law that should eventually end the unjust remuneration of the authors that is now in Ukraine. And we've actually been through a lot and working groups, we've got a lot of work to do. As a result, he came out as very balanced as we are. Clearly, it takes time for consideration. We will be happy to share in this. There's a lot of lines, they're very consolidating. There are those who need further discussion. I absolutely agree with the answer that, as a reporter today, we are absolutely going to get to some kind of consolidation. I also propose, on behalf of the Motherland faction, that we go and discuss the rights during the next plenary week. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-19-m1.u88	Thank you. Who else? Please, Storm of the Opposition Block, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-19-m1.u89	Dear Andriy Volodymyrovich, look, we're always saying that we're following the Ukrainian Rules Act. They brought the paper, I'll tell you right now, it's warm. Who read 716 pages, people good? We're saying that this is the ultimate law for Ukraine? We're talking about intellectual property and we're deceiving ourselves. Well, let's stop doing that. Let's take this consideration back to the next time, but let's do it professionally. This is the first one. I have one more thing that concerns our parliamentary justice. You're trying to keep this Parliament consolidated. Because you're a hostage of this whole disgrace as they go to work. But I ask you very much to be consistent. When we all vote in a consolidated manner, you never get a vote on the opposition block that makes decisions. But when we don't vote, you always say zero. Let's also sound those numbers when we support them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-19-m1.u90	Thank you. I'll react. I say the number of voters in different situations, there's no special approach, there's no special approach. And the next. That's the idea that we're starting a discussion. You'll be able to learn all the changes. I think this is a heroic act of the apparatus that was able to prepare. You'll be able to learn all the corrections. Now we've started the discussion. I'm asking Taras Kremen, one minute from the People's Front. I'll-I'll do it, guys.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-19-m1.u91	Taras Kremen, People's Front. I would like to thank all our committee colleagues who have participated in the development of this very important document, which brings Ukraine closer to the European Union directives, to raise the issue of intellectual property protection and finally to allow Ukraine to move out of the list of countries that, unfortunately, live in the distant past. I would also like to thank the Ministry of Education and Science of Ukraine, which, together with the Ministry of Economic Development and other ministries, holds the issue of control in the area of intellectual property reform. And thirdly, the importance of involving representatives of the working group from all backgrounds in this discussion is that we have been able to take the most into account the proposals and wishes of all who are willing to make Ukraine a modern anti-piracy country. At the same time, the controversial issues that have occurred, including at the meeting of the working groups and, in fact, our committee, I think we should discuss them carefully.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-19-m1.u92	Thank you. And I continue for five minutes until all the factions speak. I hope, fellows, I'll give it to everyone. Now from, Nemirowski from BPP, one minute. Then there's Opanasenko of Self-Help, then there's Rybchin of the will of the people. In this order, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-19-m1.u93	The law is really necessary, must be adopted and considered. What's happening to intellectual property right now is. It's very unimaginable around the world. That we have monopolies, and that's impossible to keep working like that. All the artists, they complain that we don't have law in the country. A law like that is not available, they're just being ripped off like glue. They go abroad and work there. Therefore, this law must be passed, and it must be considered.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-19-m1.u94	Thank you. Opanasenko, one minute. And, Mr. Eugene Ribczynski, if you'll excuse me, then you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-19-m1.u95	Thank you, Chairman. Good evening, colleagues! I'd like to thank the committee directly from Self-Help, because there's been a real powerful job over the last three weeks. I don't know how many tens of hours have been spent negotiating, talking to all the interested parties, because I want to say that in this process in general, the issue of settling and seizing intellectual property protection is quite a lot, starting with artists, authors, performers, creators, external factors, media, and so on. And you know, in this process it was quite difficult, but thanks to the design and desire of all sides to find a solution to this question, it was found. I understand that a lot of people, without seeing the final result, I think that in three weeks we'll all be ready to go through all the corrections and remove all the questions that we have.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-19-m1.u96	Thank you. In fact, I would like to point out that, when we begin our consideration of the bill, we show the political will of the Ukrainian Parliament that we will not actually find any other issue until we have considered it. And this is very important, including the symbolic action of the Ukrainian Parliament. Please, Eugene Ribczynski, 1 minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-19-m1.u97	Eugene Ribczynski, Glossievsky district, the city of Kyiv I mean, it's not a new issue, and it's been resolved for 25 years, and there's no way it can be solved. At some point, it's been decided to benefit, as they say, by Dmitri the Smoker, and his O.C.U. is still working. We've spent the last three years trying to break this situation, change it. Four bills were passed, directly to my 7014 and to Elena Kondratuk, this is 7029, and there were two other bills, including Mr. Opanasenko. And a very good attempt to unify all these bills was made by Kabmin, very timely. We have worked for three years, and now in one month we try to unite, sometimes quite something that cannot be united altogether. But today we have reached consensus on a very, very important issue. Please give me a little more time, at least 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-19-m1.u98	30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-19-m1.u99	In particular, after the disengagement of the UAASP. In particular, by what the performers' Royalties are calculated. Especially after how many O.K.s there should be. I would say that the discussion of this question, and we have 400 right-handers, it's going to take at least a day. So I would very much like to put this on the table on May 15. And I think we're going to go to law school. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-19-m1.u100	Thank you. I just want to let you know once again that we're going to get into it, we can't go into any other bill until we've finished our consideration of this bill. The only reason we don't want it to be all day is because we have very important laws of information policy that are planned. Let's do more quality work during these weeks so that consideration can take less time than all day. That would be worth it, and that would be the right thing to do. So, colleagues, we have been through a hard but very fruitful day today. I would like to welcome once again the adoption of the Order supporting the President of Ukraine's appeal to Tomos for the Orthodox Church's auto-cafalia in Ukraine. I want to inform you that I signed the decree, and it is already a valid law of Ukraine. And we pray to God that it will result and that we await the ancient Ukrainian dream of the only Ukrainian Orthodox Church. At this, colleagues, I declare the evening meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine closed. I'd like to invite you to the conference room tomorrow at 10 a.m. to continue our work. And thank you all for the discussion, and for the decisions that have been made today. Good-bye.
