ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-22-m0.u1	Good morning! Please enter the hall, prepare for registration. So please prepare for registration. Please register. [[10:04:12]] 327 national deputies registered. The morning plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Dear colleagues! The decision of the UN General Assembly on June 23 was proclaimed State Service Day. Today, at a meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine is present. And I would like to take this opportunity to welcome everyone with a coming professional holiday, all the civil servants! This year's festival is especially important to us, because we are celebrating the 100th anniversary of the creation of Ukrainian statehood. I want to express my respect and gratitude to all who have chosen the professional way of serving the State and the people. With the festival, dear colleagues! Greetings to the civil servants! [[Applause]] I remind you that today we have an hour of questions to the government. At a meeting of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, led by Prime Minister Volodymyr Borisovich Groissman of Ukraine. Welcome to our government. [[Applause]] And today, Deputy Minister of Health Kovtonjuk Pavel Anatoliyovich is invited from the government to the presentation. Please, Mr. Paul. Then there will be questions from both factions and deputies. Please, Paul Anatolyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-22-m0.u2	Thank you. Good morning, distinguished national deputies. At the end of last year, here in this room, you supported the beginning of medical reform in Ukraine. We are working hard to make this reform work as quickly as possible. And I'd like to tell you today about the first results of this work. Please use the next slide. So, in April of this year, the "Doctor for Every Family" campaign was launched, and each of us can freely choose a family doctor regardless of where you and I are prescribed. The popularity of this campaign has proved unexpected, even for us. We thought that some 2 million Ukrainians would choose their doctors during the first six months. In fact, in 2.5 months, 9.2 million people chose their doctors throughout the country. Each day about 200,000 Ukrainians choose a doctor. It's like a medium-sized city, like the Kamyanec Podilski or the White Church, they picked doctors in one day. About 20 doctors throughout the country already have as many patients on their list as possible. We have seen that the campaign does not depend on whether it is a city or a village. The campaign has been successful even in the remotest villages. And our team is trying to drive around the countryside and see for themselves. For example, we have recently visited the northern and southern borders of Ukraine, the village of Dniprovské Chernigiv district, 58 kilometers from the nearest Rhine Centre, and the village of Galžbiyevka in the Vinnitsky region, this is practically the border with Moldova. There and there are computer equipment, declarations with doctors are made, and the process is proceeding with great enthusiasm. The next thing we're seeing is that there's a tendency to better serve people. We thought these processes would start later, but we already see the first signs of them. For example, in rural areas, people have opportunities not to go to a health center once in a while. For example, in the Velikobogachan region of Poltava, instead of buying expensive equipment for laboratory research, rural outpatients organized laboratory logistics through refrigeration bags and cars that regularly collect this material in the villages, they bring it to the center and in the evening through the computer comes to the doctor electronically. So the person in the village can do the analysis and get it during the day and not go to the center. These are just the first changes that have begun and will take place throughout the country during the coming years. Please use the next slide. But the campaign is certainly uneven: there are leaders, there are outsiders. The leaders of the number of people who have selected their doctors are Winnicka, Kharkivska, Poltavska, Cherniewecka, Žitomirska oblast, almost half of the population have chosen their doctors in the Vinnitsk region. Among the outsiders are Sumska, Cerkaska, Zakarpatska, Odessa, Zaporzika region. In the Sumskie region, unfortunately, the worst situation so far, the campaign is going very slowly, and it's causing some concern, because it's actually taking away better working conditions, better income, and patients from better service. Please use the next slide. Now it's very important for the regions to mobilize over the next six months. Our goal is that by the end of the year all primary aid institutions should start reform and have contracts with the National Health Service. The first thing that needs to be done to the local authorities is by the end of 2018 to autonomousize their medical facilities under the 2002 Act, which was adopted again in Parliament in April last year. I want to emphasize that all the facilities will receive funding this year. Those who undergo reform will receive them under new tariffs contracts; those who do not pass will receive medical subsidies. But this situation of two types of funding will be in place by the end of this year, and since 2019, we expect all institutions to move on to the "money goes to the patient" principle. Next slide, please. So in April, people started to pick their doctors, and in July, the first institutions in our country would start to fund money for a patient, and they would make contracts with the National Health Service. In fact, the first wave of such agreements has already been concluded. And when we were preparing for this first wave, we thought that only a small number of institutions, maybe 15, 20, 40, would be the bold ones that would make these contracts. In fact, more than 200 applications were made and 149 contracts were made with primary health care centres in 20 areas of Ukraine and Kiev. These facilities bring together more than 1,000 medical clinics and even more FAPs. There are 8 million people in the territory where these facilities work. Whole cities have moved their facilities into contracts with the National Health Service. These are the cities of Kyiv, Poltava, Hmelnicki, Vinnica, Cherkasi, Curvy Rig, Kremenchuk; but not only the cities but also the small villages have joined in reform. Yes, only 2,000 700 patients are serving at the primary aid center of the Shiroki District Council in the Dnipropetrov region. All contracts, such as doctor’s appointment declarations, are made by electronic means. Next slide, please. Money in general: For the first time in the country’s history, the State in the National Health Service makes contracts with private institutions. What does that mean? The patient can choose his doctor in a private institution, come to him and receive primary care free of charge, specifically for this patient, the National Health Service pays the costs to this facility, as provided by our law. We were surprised that we had received more than 20 applications from the private sector right away. And we hope that by the end of this month, 12 of these declarations will be contracts with the National Health Service. Among them are large networks, and individual physicians are entrepreneurs and not only in Kiev, but also in small towns and even one statement came from the village. Next slide, please. Since July, entirely new working rules have been established for those who have made contracts with the National Health Service. The National Health Service will pay the fees. The tariff is for treatment, and the service of one particular patient who serves the establishment is a basic tariff of 370 dollars per person per year. And there are also age coefficients: for young children it will be four, because children need more attention, just like for older people, because they use more medical services. This will allow institutions that have made contracts with the National Health Service to receive much better funding in the third quarter of this year than they had in the old medical subsidy system. Next slide. At this rate, however, each primary facility is obliged to provide a clear list of services (that is, on the screen), which are available to the patient for 100% free of charge. The list of these services is clearly set out in a contract with the facility, known both in a medical facility and known by the patient. What will this system give us? First and foremost, the competition for a person, for a patient, the bets will turn face to face and start to make sure that people come to them. For a doctor, it's a fair and higher reward for his work, less paper work. For a patient, it's a clear set of services that he's entitled to and knows, and a better service. Next slide, please. What's next? By the middle of July, those institutions that went to the first minute that made the contracts get the first cost of the "costs follow the patient" model -- that'll be better money than they're used to in the old system. By the end of July, a new wave of contracts will be launched, new establishments will be able to pass their curtains, and by August 15, we will have a list of second-watt establishments whose contracts will be effective as of October 1, 2018. We expect this wave to be larger and already a large mass of medical institutions will enter into reform. By the end of 2018, all primary care facilities will have to have contracts with the National Health Service and start reform. Of course, the start of this reform does not go without the difficulties that I am not talking about here, but they are. Yet, we can clearly see that this reform is long - awaited, the patients have believed in it, and have gone to their doctors to choose it, have believed in it, and have actively entered into contracts with the National Health Service. So we will continue to work hard so that none of them will be disappointed. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-22-m0.u3	Thank you very much. So let's move on to the questions. I remind you, the first block is a question from groups and factions. And I'm asking the representatives of groups and factions to record a question. Please prepare and record, please be from the deputies. Wojciecki Victoria Mikhailna of the Self-Help faction is handing over to Roman Semensi, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-22-m0.u4	Semenha Roman, "The Self-Help Union" faction. Dear colleagues, I have a question for Prime Minister Vladimir Borisovich. Vladimir Borisovich, the National Bank has, at times, acknowledged the risks of the national budget in part of the income from privatisation. When we discussed the 2018 budget, we repeatedly stressed what we could not be, to privatize strategic objects, as well as critical infrastructure objects. There was a Kabminu decree where the unique Kharkiv State Enterprise Turboat is included in the list of privatization objects. In the previous "hours of government questions," Victoria Voytzicka asked you how it happened that the unique Turboat company was listed. You assured us that only about 25 percent would be displayed for sale. Instead, after the "hour of questions to the government" came the order of the State Property Fund, where the entire government stock package was placed for sale. Can you please explain what's going on? And who's really talking.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-22-m0.u5	Thank you. Good afternoon, fellow countrymen! Thank you for your question, and I would like to point out that it is the head of the State Property Fund who, after your question at the meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, gave a completely official answer, where he noted that this enterprise is listed, but the terms of its sale or sale will be determined by a separate decision of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. I'm telling you, my position is next to keep the stock control package owned by the state. For the rest of it, maybe put it on the market to involve famous producers of similar products in the world, and thus make Turbot even stronger. And privatization is not about selling something, it's about involving investments, new technologies and creating new jobs in the national economy. So I would ask you to be very careful about all procedures and not to mislead people, including Turboatom workers, but to make sure that the decisions are made. The government has made decisions about objects that may be privatized, and it has pointed out how much we own, but it has not pointed out that this portion is to be sold. So there are no such decisions now, and I would ask you to take very seriously the information you provide to society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-22-m0.u6	Thank you. From the Opposition Block, Gusak. Please turn on the microphone. Goose, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-22-m0.u7	I have a question for the Prime Minister of Ukraine. Dear Vladimir Borisovich, the issue concerns the work of the Crucial Railways, which may once again be a problem for the economic development of Ukraine. Almost a year ago, a Polish man named Wojciech Balchun, who appeared at work three times a week, gave us the hope of a change for the better. And, really, in the fall and winter, the situation with the movement on the Crucifixions has stabilized somewhat. But summer has come, and we have the situation again last year. Yesterday, the metallurgy in Mariupola reduced production, because there is no raw material, in April-June, there are not 1 million tons of Ukrainian iron ore sold in Europe, and road construction programs are being broken down throughout the country. I have a question, what happens all the time at the Crucifixion? And a request to help the Crucibles not have any problems with the economy of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-22-m0.u8	Thank you for your question. This question is constantly in the field of my attention and vision, including support for the steel industry and the support of export positions. Clearly, this is an economic development, and it's very important to us. As far as I can remember, today's gaping capacity is at 18-21 couples a day at Mariupol. I've been talking to the Railroad Authority about and road construction about providing ours literally a week ago. the transport of Ukrainian products. The situation was controlled. I'm gonna listen to him again today. What is the problem? The problem is that the moving warehouse was or was and remained -- part of it -- in the temporarily occupied territories, or it's just morally obsolete, no modernization has taken place. The weight, which is a huge problem, is today in the Crucifixion Center, it's deficient. And that's why we're doing everything we can to build, including even the construction possibilities for all the car manufacturers, it was their wish, and we went to meet. Now is the time, including deregulation of the use of the drive itself, but the first. The first push will be under General Electric's contract in the fall this year, and that will mean that the situation will be more rhythmic. But the construction season, the agrarian season, export positions need more attention. I'm going to be tasked with directing Crossroads to meet with all the associations to find out the problems and to work with you to solve them together. Thank you for asking.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-22-m0.u9	Thank you. From Peter Prashenko's Block, Oxana Prodan. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-22-m0.u10	Dear Vladimir Borisovich, I am addressing you with a question that is not really a direct matter of government, but which has a profound effect on the state of the economy that the government is responsible for. At this point in time, the gas distribution network code, which is approved by the NCRECR, the whole business, the small business, which is primarily manufacturing, has to install the natural gas nodes by means of remote data transmission, that's plus 20,000 bracelets, plus a few days for individual entrepreneurs, and that's something that can't be implemented. I ask you, we have a lot of questions about the NCREKP, unfortunately, the new head is already refusing to meet to discuss them. I'm asking you two things. First. After all, find the mechanism, Volodymyr Borisovich, in order to suspend the operation of paragraph 5 and paragraph 6 of the Code of Gas Distribution Networks to find out how it should work. And the second. Create a working group or assign a task to a professional vice-premier to hold a meeting.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-22-m0.u11	30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-22-m0.u12	Thank you very much. . In order to find out a number of questions that we have today because of the decisions of the NCRECR. Now there's electronic reporting, and it's the responsibility of every enterprise entity to come, report for gas, report for electricity, and, well, it can't work. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-22-m0.u13	Thank you, Oksana Petrovna. The same question was raised by Alexander Volodymyr Kugel, who also violated it. I know you have a common position. The question arose, not today, but in 2015, and now is the time for this decision to be implemented. You rightly said that it is not the government’s authority, there is no, we cannot, we cannot stop the decision, we cannot postpone it, because we are not the subject of the decision. I've already assigned a professional vice-premier, we're in contact with the NCREKP, if we need to look at another structure as the Antimonopoly Committee -- we can do that in order to find the right algorithm for solving this issue. But I stress that the NCRECR is not an independent structure and we cannot give them direct instructions. We're going to work with them and we're going to prove the position of the deputy corps, and we're going to ask you to reconsider that decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-22-m0.u14	Thank you. From the People's Front, Paul Unguryan.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-22-m0.u15	Praise Jesus Christ! Dear Vladimir Borisovich, I'd like to ask you. Volodymyr Borisovich, look here. Do you see this number? This is the number 577. Even with the results of the 17th year, 577 Ukrainians are getting smaller every day, i.e. fewer Ukrainian people, the Ukrainian nation. As a result of the 17th year, this has become the case in the case of the University of Minnesota, with the number of Ukrainians reduced by 200,000 last year. And now thousands of people are gathered under Parliament to protest against imposing antifamily ideologies. I call on these people today to be asked by all factions, from most, from opposition and from the coalition, to stop providing non-family, absolutely, ideologies from the state budget. Because people come out.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-22-m0.u16	30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-22-m0.u17	Those who went out on Sunday to the so-called gay parade were crying, "Sod to every house," "We don't support war," and so on and so forth. We demand that we cancel the so-called gender expertise that threw the word "father" out of the textbook and threw out the word "God," threw out the word "Christianity" instead of introducing the "Family Values" course at school. And the main thing is finally to create a central executive body for family policy. Volodymyr Borisovich, thousands of people are under.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-22-m0.u18	My applause is designed to support traditional family values. And it's not just words, it's my deep conviction. And literally on Wednesday during the government's 2017 report on the profile committee, I was talking about the priorities for the future as a government, and the issue of family, children, is one of the most important priorities. Today we are thinking about improving the mechanisms of government in this process. But the presence of another central executive body does not guarantee a qualitative approach to supporting the processes that we have discussed with you. So I want to tell you that in government we fully share the fact that family, family values, children are the highest value in our life. So thank you for your question. I don't see any differences in our positions here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-22-m0.u19	Thank you. From the Radical Party of Oleg Lazko.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-22-m0.u20	Mr. Prime Minister, I have questions from millions of Ukrainians who are fearfully awaiting reports of an increase in the cost of gas and as a result of tariffs. There is no hot water in Kiev. The cold water was on its way. In the Severerodonec service, the cost of utilities was 80 dollars, now 500 dollars. And people don't know where these numbers came from and how they pay. Please tell me, what are you doing to reduce the cost of tariffs? What are you doing to reduce the cost of gas? What are you and when you do it to raise Ukrainian wages and income? Because when you meet the requirements of the International Monetary Fund for increasing gas prices, for selling land, for other "dragon" measures, but refuse to raise wages and pensions, tell me, Mr. Prime Minister as a human, show me a person besides your bed, who can pay 11,000 dollars for a thousand cubic metres of gas?Oh, my God! Who can survive for two and a half thousand dollars of retirement? Who can pay for gas with three, four.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-22-m0.u21	30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-22-m0.u22	Who can pay for gas with three and four thousand wages? We argue that the rise in gas prices does not have any economic basis, that gas prices can be reduced, and that costs can be invested in energy-generating and lowering tariffs rather than increasing them. Answer the Ukrainians.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-22-m0.u23	Thank you, Your Honor, Oleg Valeriovich. For justice's sake, you might say not only in this bed, but I think in your faction there's a way to pay for gas at any cost. What is the question? See, in industry, prices are not regulated by gas, and they are today, as everyone says, there are 10,000 dollars. For Ukrainian citizens, I have been holding the price of 7,000 dollars for over a year. And actually I'm doing this to keep the price of gas from rising for Ukrainian citizens. I understand it's politically important to say that the government there will raise gas prices or something. Now we're working on finding a fair formula, and for Ukrainian citizens, paying for gas was possible through price mechanisms, through address support mechanisms. And that's a very difficult question. You know, I think anyone who wasn't sitting in my seat today would be facing this problem. Why? Because from 2005 to 13, Ukraine's governments borrowed $50 billion. For this 50 billion dollars this year, we only have to pay for $5 billion. Over the next five years, we have to pay $33 billion out of these 50s. This means that we have to go beyond the Ukrainian financial system to borrow resources, recredit, reduce the cost of their services. So my goal is to have all of our debts accounted for in the first place. But when can we build gas prices in the middle of the country on our own, without any influence? I'll tell you what, when we're a country-importer buying gas into Ukraine, we're a country-exporter. And it might be systemic here, and I'm stressing who's not going to be Prime Minister or President in two, three, five years from now, this problem will be solved for them, because we're now going very clearly to become an exporting country. And that means systematically lowering by 20, by 30 percent of the price.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-22-m0.u24	Please, 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-22-m0.u25	I want to tell you that in my work, I am not guided by the interests of international financial organizations, but by the interests of Ukraine and the Ukrainians. And I will never let anyone, not my initiative to sell Ukrainian land. I can only allow this land to be bought and sold by a Ukrainian farmer in a limited amount. And it has to be a Ukrainian, not a foreigner. And I'm not going to serve any latifundists and barabbas. And this is a principled position for me and I would ask you to include it in your speeches as Prime Minister of Ukraine. The question of gas.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-22-m0.u26	30 seconds to complete.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-22-m0.u27	The gas issue is complex, very difficult, and I would ask, let's unite to make Ukraine stronger. Continuation of cooperation with international organizations will give course stability, price stability, new conditions to raise the social standards that I have been working with you for two years. We're raising wages not as much as we'd like, but I'm just dreaming that there might be at least an extra 100 dollars, a thousand dollars, 5,000 dollars a Ukrainian worker gets. That's what I'm working on, and I'm calling for you to work together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-22-m0.u28	Thank you. From "The will of the people" to "The will of the people" is invited to the floor by Shahov Sergey Volodymyrovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-22-m0.u29	Sergey Shahov, the political power of Our End. Dear Vladimir Borisovich, please tell me, we've been talking about gas all week, we're talking about gas withdrawals, and what has been done to the bastard Kobolev, who counted his gang and sent a half billion dollars to America already to the banks? That's the first one. Second, the question to Nasalik. Tell me, please, 400 million dollars in debt to miners, the miners came to you for another and a half year and I was in the group too, you promised to settle for their money. We're paying America, we're paying Russia for coal, we're paying Africa for coal, our miners today, and they're begging you for money, and they're begging you for it. Please. And the third. Lugansk awaits you very much, Vladimir Borisovich, and all the ministers in Luhansk, you promised to do so, you promised to come. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-22-m0.u30	30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-22-m0.u31	Please take half of the trains that go there, half of the car ride the roads that are going to Lugansk today, and please talk to the rural areas that have practically connected with the Russian Federation. What is the price for milk? 3.50-4. 20 and 24 bracelets in stores. Let's explain why the dairy mob is robbing the country today. That's a question from Michael Gorgek, too.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-22-m0.u32	Ladies and gentlemen, Deputy Minister Korsun. As far as salary is concerned before. Debt owed to miners is not the critical one it was in the past. But today, last Wednesday there was this question, there was a commission of the appropriate Prime Minister together. ‘ Minfina, along with our ministry, to work on additional sources of increased state support. It's for those enterprises that lack their own product to solve the question of paying 100 percent of their wages. In the case of the support and the budget committee, and we hope that your support in the hall will be fully resolved on the next week's work week. And by the end of the year, we hope that no more miners will have.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-22-m0.u33	Let me say a few words. Well, I'll give you another answer. I answered you last time on Naftegas. I'll answer that one more time. I asked the independent Supervisory Board to review the decision. My official address is on their desk, and they're doing it. They'll keep us informed. You know, the government didn't make any decisions about that. They'll keep them informed. I'll think about what to do with it next. I don't support this decision. This decision was not discussed with the government, nor did it hold any consultations. And I think it's a fundamental flaw. As far as miners are concerned. Where does the debt on wages come from? It's not like the miners made the products and didn't pay them. The shafts produced products, sold them, but they are produced at a much higher price than their products. Provided that when coal costs 2.5 thousand dollars, mining on government mines, unfortunately, costs too much coal, only to get it, 15 thousand. And that's the difference. And this difference occurs, and then Ukrainian miners begin to suffer. I stressed that it is important that miners do not suffer from it. I've commissioned Minfin and Mineneergetics to find solutions, but it's billions and billions of dollars. And we all have to understand that if we give it to someone, we have to take it away. And here's a huge question. As far as agriculture is concerned, I want to tell you that our task is not to regulate prices here, and you know that, and our task is to support the increase of the population in the country, the saturation of milk and meat products. And that's what we're doing today. Every peasant family that today holds a calf for up to 13 months receives state support for a target of two and a half thousand dollars, and for a dairy herd (legal persons) for another one and a half thousand. This will allow us this year to take a course for increased headship and, accordingly, I think that competition will lead to both higher quality and prices. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-22-m0.u34	Thank you. From the Fatherland faction, Sobolev Sergei. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-22-m0.u35	Dear Vladimir Borisovich! Seven months of Zaporozhyeblanergo, a company where the government package, the control package, doesn't pay. A billion dollars they owe to the energy plant. At the same time, another company, where the control package in the state, the Zaporozhi Titano-Magnium combine, is responsible for Zaporozhyeblanergo's billion dollars, and it's just one gash company. Unfortunately, the issues are now being dealt with in NABU, twelve criminal cases, the management that was allegedly managed on behalf of the State was not governed by the State, and 600 million were removed from the OBU by previous management. Request: Found a month-by-month exit, changed the calculation schedule, I was at this meeting of the NCRE, but this is a temporary arrangement. Then the situation cannot go on like this, if it is a national package, the State must manage these objects.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-22-m0.u36	Thank you, Sergey Vladislavovich! You're right, there's this problem, and this is not about government, but about those accounting algorithms that were set up by an independent regulator. As far as I know, a meeting was held yesterday at the NCREKP, where mechanisms were found. We support this in every way, and I am prepared to adopt within the laws of any government decision to resolve this issue. But all the ways we've studied, the possibility of acceptance, is actually beyond our powers as a government. And that's why we're going to the NCRECR, to find a permanent solution in order to settle the debt and it didn't arise in the future, and that's the principle that's important to us. As far as criminal matters are concerned. In fact, there are criminal investigations, we are contributing in many ways, and I would very much like us to have a perfectly fair investigation and punishment for those who have allowed themselves to have such violations as you have mentioned. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-22-m0.u37	Thank you. And the final question from factions and groups: from Rebirth is Yatzenko, and then there will be a record from the MPs.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-22-m0.u38	Mr. Prime Minister, the question is the same as Mr. Sobolev was now asking. I'm going to add that more than 2,000 employees have been released on Zaporozhyeblanergo, which means we're losing personnel. So the question is, too. We joined as deputies, and we passed Bill 7390. It fully reflects what needs to be done, it's been through the profiling committee already. It's about money going first to pay off the debt on wages and then energy and stuff. So it's a very big request to you, too, that the government maximize its acceptance so that we can solve this problem, the same problem, by the way, on Chercasioblenergo. Well, there's no debt now, but it's always the result of another oblaner, so it really needs a legislative settlement. Please give your position under this law so that we know how to rely on government support in this matter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-22-m0.u39	Thank you. I just want to say that this is a similar question and this is the question of setting up accounting algorithms so that there is no such debt, but this is the mandate of the NCREKP. Our position, you know, we support this so that we can think of solutions that won't create debt and work in a rhythmic way on energy. And I want to stress that energy is still monopolies and monopolies are regulated by regulators that are created according to legislation and are not government structures. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-22-m0.u40	Thank you. So, colleagues, let's move on to questions from the national MPs. All members of the national parliament who wish to ask questions to the members of the government, please prepare for questioning. Please record a question from the Ukrainian national deputies. Martovitchki gives the question to Igor Shurma. Please, Mr. Igor.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-22-m0.u41	Igor Šurma. Vladimir Borisovich, good afternoon! I look at you're cold, I wish you good health, but that's, you know, the effect: don't sit on the floor like the so-called minister says, 'cause to get cold. What's important is that you don't have to sit on a cold rock, because there's going to be another cold. So I wish you health. And now, essentially, the question. Vladimir Borisovich, in the government of the Cabinet of Ministers, sit among you the so-called Minister, the man who has the citizenship of another state. Please tell me, how can it be that a person with another state's passport has access to a public secret? Moreover, money is paid for this state secret. Which country could that be, I don't understand? I'm just asking you for one thing, don't talk about health reform, don't talk about the gains, better your people who took you to the OHMADIT opening will take you to those rooms that aren't today.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-22-m0.u42	Thank you for your question.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-22-m0.u43	Vladimir Borisovich, I'll be able to finish. Please finish 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-22-m0.u44	I'm just asking that those people who take you to the OHMATDIT opening to take you to the 8th to 9th floor, who are completely unrestrained, they just set you up. Absolutely no claim to you is just the horror that we saw in our eyes. But answer your questions about the secret and pay the money for the state secret of the so - called minister.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-22-m0.u45	Thank you. Please, Vladimir Borisovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-22-m0.u46	Reverend Igor Mikhailovich, and I wish you well, you forgot to say that you still have to hold back and not drink cold water -- which I wish you wouldn't sit there under the air conditioner, please don't let it go either. We need you to be healthy. Who, then, will criticize us? I want to tell you that Uljana Suprun has Ukrainian citizenship and Ukrainian passport, and it's in the documents of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. As for OHMATTIT, unfortunately, the party of power in 2011 (forgot its name, "Regions," I think, "The Party of Regions") decided to build. She decided to build OHMATDIT. Instead of building it, reconstructing it, they just actually ripped it apart on bricks, including stealing the equipment. We took care of this problem and we found all the equipment, we bought a new one and we reconstructed the first part, the first part has 23,000 square meters, and the whole OHMATDIT complex is 60. And I know exactly what "OHMATDIT" looked like two years ago when I first got there, and what the room looks like now. And as far as they're concerned, more than what technology is standing there today. The hospital is starting to work under new conditions, so I would like to ask for more support for them. I understand that there are questions about the organization of the internal process. And I think there's going to be a new management, a new head doctor will do it qualitatively with the team, and we'll see an appropriate result with you. So thank you for your questions. We would love to, but we have much more problems in health care that need our concentration, joint effort, and hard work to make medicine quality and accessible to Ukrainian citizens, which is what we do. Thank you for your support, if you will.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-22-m0.u47	Thank you. Melniczuk Sergey Petrovich, please. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-22-m0.u48	Good afternoon! I have a question for the Prime Minister, two questions. One question is that there's this company called Ukrishimtransamak and recently smugglers have been spotted stealing from an amiac conduit. Well, first of all, it's dangerous. And secondly, we're losing our image in the international market as a transit country. That's the first question, how are you going to order a man who's just been reappointed, so he's back on the creeks. And the second. What I'm doing is going back to OHMATDIT. During the test, documents were found where drugs were purchased. The expiration date was very short and the so-called minister was buying, giving consent and, let's say, these drugs that someone was supposed to dispose of, we now have in stock and.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-22-m0.u49	Please respond to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-22-m0.u50	I would very much like to speak more specifically. We'll take care of yours. We'll consider your request your request. Please give me in writing what medicine, on which warehouses, which ammonia, where and by what data, who gave them to you. I'll send it to the National Anti-Corruption Bureau, have it investigated and answered. Because when I hear that there's something there that's going on, it's going somewhere, and it's going on. I have this, well, great surprise, because I have to say it specifically. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-22-m0.u51	Next question, please turn on the microphone. Thank you, Mikhail Golovko. Questions.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-22-m0.u52	Mikhail Golovko, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. Dear Volodymyr Borisovich, the Ukrainian society is waiting when, after two years, the government is coming forward, and we will see a real report. But we understand that the best report for the government is worth living, the quality of life for the Ukrainian people, which is hard to say today, especially for the peasants, who unfortunately are. You cancelled the Order on the Regulation of Prices and Products of the First Need, and now there's a sharp increase in products in stores: 40 percent, 80 percent the price has gone up. Instead, the same milk that peasants survive for is purchased for 4 or 5 bracelets or less. I'm asking you to stand up for peasants and give subsidies to farmers, give milk subsidies to peasants, which is the main thing -- give back this Regulation on the regulation of prices for products, goods of primary necessity and protect peasants, because today they survive as they can, and this is the only source of income. So I'm still asking you to support the peasants and return this decision eventually, and give the peasants the money to support the production of milk. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-22-m0.u53	Thank you, Mr. Mikhail. As for the government report. He's in Parliament. It was directed by the government on February 15, 2018. He's free. I introduced him to the government, to the committee, to the public. If you want, we'll present it to you separately. They were on the committee on Wednesday. So it's both in fact, and in the 17th year, and it's all written, what prices went up, what were going up, what were the reasons why, what priorities, what failed, what failed. That's the first one. Secondly, price regulation. I'm asking Ukrainian citizens now. Prices have been regulated since the '90s there. What, they stopped, these prices? No, they've always grown. What does that say? That regulation was never effective. The only thing that's effective is the growing of the head, the saturation of the market with Ukrainian products -- that's what we do. It's not temporary to restrict it to disappear from the trailers at all, but to create conditions for economic growth, to satisfy the market with Ukrainian products. You represent, if the rural district, I want to tell you that in every village where the calf will be held, we'll give 2.5 thousand dollars per head to make it, well, more acceptable to people to feed and support it. This time. If a new farm is built in your district, a new dairy complex will be built, so we'll offset 25-30 percent of the cost of building with equipment. Here's the key to solving these problems that you're talking about today. And one more thing. The regulation of the final sale of milk prices has never, I would say, been positive for the sale of milk by peasants. Because they sell at a fixed purchase price that was never regulated in life. And the final price of sales, it was regulated, but it was always surrounded by all the manufacturers and networks in different ways, including always speculating about the control structures that would tax the network and the networks would sell it all equally.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-22-m0.u54	Do you want to finish? Thank you. Please, Foreign Deputy, give me your word.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-22-m0.u55	Dear Vladimir Borisovich, I have two short questions. First question. Please state your attitude with regard to the Tax Act on the outstretched capital. And the second question, which is very important and has been raised on several occasions both in Parliament's walls and in direct meetings, is the fate of former members of the Council of the Ternopils on the disintegration and resolution of this problem. There were two of your assignments. Sadly, though, the problem is not resolved for nine months. You know, in nine months, at large, babies are born. And we can't give birth to a decision that solves the problem of 500 families that have been waiting for 25 years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-22-m0.u56	Please respond to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-22-m0.u57	Thank you. As far as the tax is concerned, it's on the capital. I actually think I said this at one of the expert meetings, and I think that we should have a more comprehensive review of the Ukrainian tax system. Not from the point of view of taxes, but from the point of view of tax administration. And maybe consider the issue of tax on capital output. But what is the question? The question is that its introduction, this tax on capital output, could lead to significant budget losses in the following year or year. And here we have to work on the compensators. Because we have obligations to fulfill. This is both the army, education, and health care, and many other things. So the tax on the capital outlay is a good idea. But it is very important that it be counted so that we do not get some financial crisis. As far as the councilman is concerned, today we will inform you of the state of affairs at this time. Thank you. Indeed, there were my assignments during work trips, and I will see how they are handled. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-22-m0.u58	Please, the next question. People's deputy Belkova. Please, Mrs. Ola.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-22-m0.u59	Thank you very much, Madam Chairman. Mr. Prime Minister, you're absolutely right about the gas issue being too complicated. The only way to provide Ukraine and Ukrainians with cheaper gas today is to significantly increase gas production. I am so grateful for your personal leadership in the process of all the issues related to the change in fiscal regime and land issues, and so forth. At the same time, you realize that there is an interest in investors today, but unfortunately there are no auctions. When can we expect the government to announce auctions, both on the shelf and elsewhere in Ukraine? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-22-m0.u60	Thank you so much for asking, Mrs. Olga. And thank you for your leadership in this process, because we always feel that you have a very proactive position and a very professional position to rely on in making decisions. I want to emphasize what we've done with you. It's actually published to you in 17 years (just listen to the figure) published by 5,700, I think, 31 areas to get. Do you know how many of them have been auctioned for life? 91st and none fit. So in fact, the entire gas field has always been decomposed. And today, a lot of these licenses, they just hold back and hold back our ability to gain. In fact, the Ukrainian Parliament, for which we are very grateful, voted a bill that has deregulation of many things, including reducing fiscal burden. Today, the gas has become much more profitable than ever, and we are competitive enough even compared to the countries of the gas-recovery region. The next position you need right now. Oh, we made one deregulation decree to the government, we recently released it, 615. And now there's a third question that we're working on together, and I thank you and thank you for taking part in this issue, is the discovery of geodesy so that everyone can see the real situation. And the second position is the systematic introduction of auctions for investment in acquisition. I think we have every reason to believe that in July, at most in August, we will be able to settle this at the level of determination of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. Last night, on this very subject, I was holding a meeting. Specific tasks with specific performers and deadlines have been assigned. And to implement this protocol, decisions will be prepared by the government, which should be considered and approved by the government. I think it's going to be the final step, the third step, to realize our energy dependency policy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-22-m0.u61	Thank you. Ungurani Pavel Jakimovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-22-m0.u62	Thank you. I have two questions -- requirements for the Ministry of Education and Science and for the Ministry of Internal Affairs. First. How did it happen that on Sundays, while Christians took a peaceful step to resist the imposition of homosexual propaganda, they were given stakes? And a few dozen young Christians from different religions, from different churches. Is this subject under investigation? What are some of the reasons why Christians should not suffer in their Christian country? A requirement. Today, there will be representatives of thousands of people who are standing on the street under the parliament and will resolve these issues, if necessary, apologize. To the Ministry of Education and Science, and the requirement to cancel the disgraceful expertise of so-called gender-based anti-discrimination, which removes the word "father" which removes the reference to Russian Federation military aggression as if it discriminates against someone who deletes the mention of elements of Ukrainian culture, Christianity.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-22-m0.u63	30 seconds. Okay. Please answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-22-m0.u64	Thank you for asking. During the March of Equality, which was held on Sunday, the police did a great job of ensuring public order and security. Thank you for asking.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-22-m0.u65	As far as education is concerned. So-called anti-discrimination expertise is the position of individual researchers, it's not the position of the Ministry. The formation of family values is an important component of the new Ukrainian school, an important component of public education over the strategy that we are working on, and the concept is now being approved. Therefore, the matter will be resolved in an appropriate manner. And what they call anti-discrimination expertise, I repeat, has no legal force. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-22-m0.u66	Thank you. Bondar Mikhailo Leontijovich. Please, Mr. Mikhailo.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-22-m0.u67	Thank you. Bondar Mikhailo, 119 constituency. I have a question for the Min-Natures and Mine-Nergetics, for representatives. Dear colleagues, the issue of coal mining and coal mining has just been raised. It can be impossible if it does not change to 615 and 594 Regulations. 333 The decree that entered into force on June 11, adopted on April 25, makes it impossible for the special permits to be extended. There's debt. But, guys, until we upgrade the mine, until we put it in them, they can't pay for it now, and they'll stop these mines because they're not building to have special permits and the more that problem is going to be No. 1. Because there is little that they will not yet receive and will not receive a corresponding salary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-22-m0.u68	Minerals, Deputy Minister, Vakarash Viktor Mihajlovich. So, with respect to the amendments made by Decree 333. It was made on the basis of well - founded and cooperative proposals. Please, we are ready to consider proposals concerning mining enterprises. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-22-m0.u69	Dear people's deputies, Korsun, It's a coal mine. Mikhaylo Leontijovich, we've been talking to you about this. I've already talked about the decisions that have been made with regard to increasing state support, and I would like to add that for the first time since the 12th year of the year, 460 million will come to the technical restocking of our enterprises, and in the event of their getting fast and modernizing enterprises, increasing production volumes, I think for most enterprises, we're going to solve this issue even in the state that we are in. And as for those enterprises that have a very unsatisfactory financial situation, I think we're also working with the Ministry of Nature together and we're doing some temporary, maybe a little bit of weakening about their achievement, more faithfully, of joblessness. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-22-m0.u70	Thank you. Colleagues, we can have two more questions, and I'm announcing it in advance, so there won't be any misunderstandings. Debenkov and then Kirsch and these will be the final questions. So, Dudenkov, turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-22-m0.u71	Thank you. Honorable citizens of Ukraine, honourable members of the government, Mr. Prime Minister! Now you're talking about the size of the government debt of 50 billion. I have to disappoint you, the size of a government debt of 76 billion. We don't need to talk about the fact that the predecessors are responsible, because in 2017 the government debt was increased by 10 percent, by 7 billion, in 2018 the same similar picture will take place. Since 2019, 1 percent of GDP will be paid by government derivatives. In the Ukrainian Law on Derbudget for 2018, the amount of government debt and guaranteed government debt is 100 billion. I'm talking about working with the IMF. Dear Mr. Prime Minister, in 1959, 30 countries that collaborated with the IMF suffered 34 defolts. Maybe we need to review our cooperation strategy with the international financial institution, because it sets out requirements that are insurmountable for citizens, particularly with regard to the increase in natural gas tariffs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-22-m0.u72	Thank you for asking. I didn't say the total debt is 73 billion, but I said the accumulated debt over a specific period, and this is the period. I'm not saying forerunners -- not forerunners, I'm saying the fact that in those governments, from 2005 to 2013, almost $50 billion was borrowed, that's all. Now 50 billion dollars they've given to all of us and the whole of Ukraine, the entire nation of Ukraine is pulling these debts. And I'm stressing that in order to restructure them, in order to overrun them, we take new loans and we have to take them cheaper, and there's no other way out. If you know any other way out, I think you're going to need a Nobel Prize. Please, please, suggest this and I'll give you a round of applause, so I'm stressing it. Now for the tariffs. I want to say to the whole country that the Ukrainian government does not set any tariffs in the country. We set one, we don't even set it, we limit it, if we didn't limit it, it would've been 10,000 dollars worth of gas. We're limiting it to 7,000 and limiting it to 7,000. And now all the water tariffs, heat, hot water, electricity, in the adjuvant territory are set by either the local authorities, or the NCREKP, which is in no way part part of the government’s administration. This is because of the laws of Ukraine adopted by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. And so I stress that the responsibility for tariffing in the country is shared by the local and central authorities in the form of the National Commission for Regulatory of the Electricity and Utilities Market, which is not subordinated to the government. And so to say that the government is constantly increasing tariffs, it's false, it's unfair. Because in cities for tariff formation, self-sustainment, at the expense of these tariffs, if, for example, in a city in some city, I don't call any, in some city.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-22-m0.u73	Please, 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-22-m0.u74	I'm giving an example, if there's a boiler in the city on old equipment, non-repaired pipes that belong to the city council, and they consume two, three times as much gas as they would consume, if they did modernize it, people would have two, three times less bills, but they don't. And it's not about gas prices, it's about modernizing heat production, transporting reliable, it's not about warming up the ground today, it's about the responsibility of the local government. And so is the question.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-22-m0.u75	Give me 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-22-m0.u76	Including the system of regulation, the individual heat points, the warming of houses -- this is all the competence of the local authorities, to which we are willing to help them, including through the new mechanism of the State Energy Efficiency Fund and a number of energy efficiency programs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-22-m0.u77	Thank you. And the final question of Kirsz Alexander Viktorovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-22-m0.u78	My question to Mr. Nasalik, Minister of Energy. Mr. Secretary, a very difficult situation has arisen at the Kharkiv firm of the Southendicht, where there is a debt of wages and a single social contribution totalling 9 million dollars. There's something to sell on this company, there's something to rent, but none of this is done, it's not even sold to the fifth floor of the building, and the salary is not paid. I got the answer to my question, but not on the basis of a question, they say, in general, that it was written not by you, but by the company itself, by the same official who does nothing. What you can say is essentially this question of whether a salary will be paid, especially if it's a very common question.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-22-m0.u79	Dear National Deputy! Yes, indeed, there is a problem with this business. I don't know what the answer is about an official who doesn't understand anything? But there's a question about what you're saying about renting and realizing property. There are some problems that are already within the jurisdiction of the law enforcement agencies, so they're dealing with them. And as for the importance and ministry of solving this issue, we are dealing with it. There are appropriate jobs and the manager of this company is now in Kiev, today and tomorrow on the program. We will decide together how to get out of this position. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-22-m0.u80	Thank you. And the word for the question is given to the First Deputy Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Irina Heratchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-22-m0.u81	Thank you, dear fellows. This is not about questions. I want to address the Prime Minister of Ukraine and the government with the next one. On Tuesday, at the direction of the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, I met with the mints who were near Parliament. There were a number of categories: Chernobyl, Afghans, ATO veterans, pensioners, miners who came up with some social issues. And during our meeting we agreed that I would pass on their key signals to the government, so I have to do it. First. The rallyers complained of the absence of a government dialogue with trade unions and public organizations. We ask you, dear colleagues, to strengthen this dialogue. The other one. Similarly, complaints were made about the absence of a solution to the issue of debt payments on government mines. We've sent you an appropriate request. Third. We spoke frankly to them about the many social issues raised during this meeting being populist and, unfortunately, unrealistic in the possibilities of our budget. But then the government should also take on this important function of explaining where we should carry out these obligations, and where we might review them, both legislation and other issues, and inform people about them. And one more question, colleagues, I want to say, is that you pay your pension to the movers. You know, I've been approached by, for example, by people who have told a shameful story that the Hero of Ukraine, Igor Kozlowski, a professor who was released from captivity last December for two months doesn't get a pension because it turns out that there's some sort of Kabmin ruling that excludes VPO pensioners from retirement if you haven't crossed the border of Ukraine. And he really crossed the border of Ukraine, going to London and Brussels to talk about the tortures he had experienced over the past two years. Maybe it's worth looking at this procedure for verification of the VPO into something more humane. Our dear colleagues from the government, in fact, wanted very much to have social issues first and foremost have a dialogue with society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-22-m0.u82	And now there are two statements from two factions asking the government to do the same. Yes, yes, now your answer, Mr. Prime Minister. And there's a statement from two factions asking the government to listen to these statements, because there was no way to sign up for the question. Thank you. Your word, please, Volodymyr Borisovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-22-m0.u83	Thank you. Dear Irina Volodymyrna, honourable colleagues of the national MPs, I would like to emphasize that the government of Ukraine and as Prime Minister is always open to dialogue. We're in a constant dialogue with trade unions, public organizations, an expert environment, and we're open enough. We have a tripartite agreement between trade unions, employers and the government, which clearly defines our tripartite dialogue, and the sequence of consideration and decision-making. And we're deep. We highly appreciate that we have a normal professional dialogue with trade unions. If further questions arise in the process, I would suggest that everyone initiate their consideration or discussion in a civilized way, not in a forceful manner. And that's why I'm stressing that we're always open to dialogue. That's the first one. The other one. As far as social policy is concerned. When you talk about being there, including the military pensioners who needed a review of pensions, the soldiers our Afghans and so on. So I want to tell you that only in April-months did we recalculate the pensions of the military, our soldiers got there, and Afghans, including, on average, 500,000 people got a raise of 1.5 thousand -- that's what we could have done. And the question of the next economic or social initiatives depends on the availability of funds in the budget. My will -- I'd give it all to everyone, and I'd do it as quickly as possible. But I realize that our limits are only in budget capacity, so we're working on filling it. And I'm stressing that we're always open to dialogue. And there's no reason to say today that we're closed, that we can't hear people, or that we can't conduct such a dialogue, we're open. And I thank you all. Pensions have an appropriate procedure, which is special, unfortunately, because the territories are temporarily occupied. We're going to look at this particular case and figure out what needs to be improved, that's all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-22-m0.u84	Thank you. Thank you. And I'm also asking the government to wait another 6 minutes. There's a statement from two factions, they're ready to replace it. First. This is the People's Front and the Radical Party. Please, a word. Ah, Self-Help and the Radical Party, I'm sorry. Please, Oleg Lachka's word.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-22-m0.u85	Mr. Prime Minister, three weeks ago a faction of the Radical Party came to a government meeting where you were allowed to contact you about the resignation of the minister. Deputy Minister of Health of Lynchovsky, the one who said that oncophagus would die anyway, without options, so there is no need to treat them. We demanded that the government decide on his resignation. You've given the assignment to the service. The State Service conducts expert studies, investigations and so on and so forth. Although what may be the investigation? Unless the heart indicates that a civil servant who disrespects people should simply resign. What kind of investigation is needed? What should be investigated? The Assistant President of the United States at the Senate hearing told me about McCain, you don't listen to him, he's going to die anyway, and she retired. Your Deputy Minister of Health tells you that onco patients will die anyway, and you're covering for him, and you haven't retired yet. We demand that if this deputy minister of health does not have a heart and a mind, we demand that you make a decision and that the government resign him. That's the first one. The other one. What does the government do to reduce the cost of drugs? The Deputy Minister of Health here today reported on medical reform. For millions of people today, drugs are not available because of their excess value. In 5, 10 times more expensive drugs in Ukraine than in neighboring countries. The lack of government regulation of drug prices results in the same drugs in two adjacent pharmacies costing about 100, 200 dollars. Profitability for the sale of drugs is cosmic. You still haven't introduced a reference price to lower the cost of drugs. We're initiating a criminal responsibility -- until life imprisonment -- for selling fake drugs. Here's a plan of action that needs to be done to make the drugs cheaper. We're asking you to expand the list of medicines under the "Affordable Drugs" program, especially oncology antibiotics, free of charge, because, God forbid, a person gets cancer, the last thing you have to do is get out of the house, the debt is huge, and it's still not enough. Because the state finances no more than 6 percent of oncology medicines. As a result, millions of people cannot buy drugs, do not have a good quality of life, do not get sick and die permanently. What does the government do to reduce the cost of drugs? When will the government hear and support our proposals to lower the cost of drugs in order to make them available to millions of people, to make quality life for Ukrainians? Units can go to treatment abroad. Most Ukrainians can't go anywhere. Let us give them the opportunity to heal in their home country and to have available medicines.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-22-m0.u86	And the next performance. The two factions also applied to the Presidium. Let's do two shows, then. I've already announced, then the closing word. Thank you, Mr. Oleg, for the design. Please, Mrs. Chervakova. Mr. Karpuntsov. It's going to be a statement from two factions: the People's Front and the BP. And they're willing to replace the break with the application. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-22-m0.u87	Dear colleagues! Dear government! Dear journalists, citizens of Ukraine! Dear Vladimir Borisovich, you are a talented young Prime Minister. You know my personal respect, the respect of most of the people's deputies in this room. You were appointed by the coalition and so was a formed government. We live in the Parliamentary-President Republic. Today, several questions have been raised from this Hall regarding the Ministry of Health, from various factions: both coalitions and oppositions, and coalition opposition, well, almost all factions. To this day we have a person who has no right to hold the position of minister of health. Similarly, we have illegal, and more than that, society thinks that MPs think they're non-professional substitutes. I now have copies of the signatures, more than 200 signatures that have been formed and sent to you, members of the coalition, coalitions. My colleague, Chervakov, also performed the briefing on this subject. It's about a citizen of Lynchevski. This person, well, every one of his presence in any West, he's non-faithful, and he provokes opposition, opposition to parliament, opposition to coalition, opposition to citizens. What my colleague Oleg Lazko mentioned has shaken the whole country, Ukraine. But let's go back again, you don't take on other people's sins and other people's negatives. In the 16th year, the oncology program ended, you commissioned the Ministry of Health in the 1st quarter of the 17th to submit it to Parliament. It's still not delivered! How will cancer be treated? The first year, it's too important. There's no money now. And wherever you don't look, in any part, oncology, we have unfortunately this is the grief of Ukraine. But there are other things. There's a rehabilitation that they don't recognize either. They don't support us in any way and they say, "We don't need anything to help us, we don't need anything to help us, we don't need anything to help us, we don't need anything to help us. We don't need them." This is not the position of the Ukrainian government. Such people have neither the moral nor the professional right to hold positions! Vladimir Borisovich, we respect you. Don't take another person's negative on you. We've officially sent you copies, I'll give you copies. Thank you. I hope you will respond to the calls of the entire Parliament and society! Thank you very much, Vladimir Borisovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-22-m0.u88	Thank you. Please, these were statements from factions, in fact – also questions.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-22-m0.u89	Can I have three minutes, too?
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-22-m0.u90	Please, three minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-22-m0.u91	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I'm not going to take on another person's responsibility, but I'm just pretending to call things our names. I listened to the video of this deputy minister. If he had made such a clear statement, I would not have asked for advice from anyone but would have released him at the same time. And that would be my decision. When they started looking closely, there. What was ripped out of context was ripped out of context. I'm willing to fire anyone, but fair enough. And this is fundamentally important to me. It doesn't matter to me the name of the deputy minister. It's important to me what I do. If I act objectively, justly, I know that I am right. I always fight for when I'm right. And just to find a formal reason why he didn't actually do it, take him out, well, it's wrong. And I don't want to cover for him, I don't want to give him grades, he's better, he's worse. That's my opinion, I'm entitled to it. Now for the decision. He's a doctor, a TOR surgeon. I invited him and said the following thing: you said words that might be interpreted differently, but it's very important not what you said or how you interpret it, but how you do it in your life. And that's why I asked him to prove to him that he's taking care of oncological people, that he has a sensitive heart and a perfectly normal good soul. If he does, I think he'll prove to everyone that he's a person who can be compassionate and can be concerned. If he doesn't, he'll go to work for another job. That's for me. That may be the case. Now, as far as medicine is concerned, what Reverend Oleg Valeriyovich said, or oncology medicine. Come on, let's be honest. Before our government introduced drug programs that we had free medicine in the country? Oh, well, give me a call. They weren't there. Did we have oncosa in hospitals? And so it was, and here came some new people, and they destroyed everything. No, it wasn't. And that's why now we're starting to form a completely new drug supply system. And I apologize to Ukrainian citizens that it takes longer than we could have imagined, because everything that we've been robbing people by buying three-way drugs and not giving people, we've ruined this system. Now we're buying from authoritative international organizations and getting corruption out of there. That's the first one. Second position. We've started the "Affordable Drugs" program with you. And I want to report to you today, dear friends, in 10,000 pharmacies in Ukraine, this program is already running, 21 million prescriptions have been written to people with free drugs. The introduction of this reimbursation, or available medicines, free of charge, has enabled these categories of medicines to lower prices within the country. But what is important is what Oleg Valeriyovich says. We need to expand this list, and we need to introduce criminal responsibility, and I support it, for the drugs that are faked, there are a lot of them, and people are suffering from it. Because when it comes to medicine, there's medicine in hospitals. Imagine, guys, just imagine, there's no registers of public medicine in hospitals, there's no unified methodology in the country for the identification of needs, and just now we've started, there, half a year now, taking care of this issue when we got into this whole problem, taking care of it in order to create an electronic register for every hospital to get people to see it. You've already seen that there's a new plugin for mobile devices in which you can determine what you can provide. In the 18th year, we're going to go to 100 percent purchases, we're going to do a unified system of needs, we're going to define the needs of hospitals, and we're going to be able to provide adequate supplies, and that's going to enable us to stabilize the situation, to provide people with free drugs from such important diseases and people, so that they don't cheat in hospitals, including because sometimes there's medicine in a hospital warehouse, and they're told: "Go, buy." It's also like, well, it's kind of a scheme that people just blow up and take money from them. So we're going to stop all of this. I'm asking for your support. I know that today, you know, even around this topic of problem is those who sincerely, there are those who demand, and there are those who want to use this situation to ruin our efforts to prevent corruption from being restored to drugs, equipment and so on. And we're gonna do it, so I'm ready to fight for it. And I understand what I'm talking about. So I have the right to speak freely to you, and I also have great respect for you, colleagues. I know a lot of you personally. We haven't been working with you for the first year, and you know that if I believe in something and I'm talking about it, it's not something that's made up, it's not something that's meant to be, and that's what I really have in my heart. So I feel sorry for those who are sick. I would very much like people to receive qualified assistance in Ukraine, and I will do everything with you to do so. Ukrainians must be healthy. When a person is sick, he suffers. And this is a huge problem. And our duty is to help. And believe me, I never get past the man who needs help, and all I can do is try to help. Whether I know this person or not, it doesn't matter if it's in my capabilities. Thank you for the hour of questions, thank you for your questions and comments, and we will continue to work and solve a number of important problems. Thank you for your attention, colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-22-m0.u92	Likewise, we thank the government for participating in the "hour of questions to the government." Thank you, colleagues, for the dialogue. And we encourage you to be very active in the work of profile committees. Dear Volodymyr Borisovich. Mrs. Ola, Mrs. Ola the Mantis, let me thank you. And, Mr. Volodymyr Borisovich, let me ask you to let the ministers go to the committees, and this will help us very much in our dialogue and in our constructive work. Thank you. Thank you. Colleagues, we're moving on to the next section of the agenda. As you know, at this time, we have a section on "deputy questions." At this time, 254 questions came and I'm going to announce them. We don't have any questions for the President of Ukraine, so we don't have a vote right now. And we move on to the announcements of other parliamentary requests to other authorities.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-22-m0.u93	Viktor Razwadowski to Prime Minister of Ukraine regarding the provision of Sopoon Olena, a disabled person from the age of 1 group A, residents of the village of Vakulenczuk Sudnovsky district, the Zitomir region with a special wheelchair for moving up stairs or a vehicle for transporting a wheelchair to the second floor. Viktor Razwadowski to the Prime Minister for taking the territorial community to the municipal property of land for the creation of public pastures at the expense of the reserves located on the territory of the Pednikow Rural Council of the Žitomir Region. Sergija Mishchenka to the Prime Minister for the provision of disabled child Petrovich Lilia with a hearing aid at the expense of the budget. Alexander Marchenka to the Prime Minister to resolve the issue of changing the boundaries of the park's garden-park art site, the Dendropark "Student" natural-commanding facility within a total of 1.26 hectares. Alexander Gerega and Andrija Shinkovič to the Minister of Infrastructure of Ukraine, acting as Head of the Government of the Public Association of the Ukrainian Railways for the restoration of the railway passenger connection with the Victoria Station. Mikoli Lušnjak and Andrija Kota to the first deputy head of the General Directorate of the Ministry of State in the Žitomir region on the inaction in breaking the lease agreement of land between the General Administration of the State in the Žitomir Region and the Farms of Graz Avenue. Svetlana Zalishtuk to the Head of the Ukrainian Security Service on response to the situation involving the Carpathian football team Karpatalja in a tournament involving teams of so-called LNRs and DNRs. Sergio Melnika to the Head of the Supreme Court of Ukraine on speeding up the handling of the case. Melnik's Sergei to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the cessation of a violation of the rights of a foreign citizen Michael Bondar, Acting Head of the Government of the Public Shareholders Association of the Ukrainian Railways, for an additional timetable for passenger trains on the Lviv Krasne-Brody-Zdolbonov-Luck-Kovel district. Michael Bondar to Prime Minister of Ukraine, head of the Lviv District State Administration for the repair of the crash section of the road of the state value T-14-10 Brody-Red Town, which passes through the city of Radehov in the Lviv region. Vladislav Buharjev to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, First Deputy Head of the Supreme Council Committee on Fuel and Energy Complex, Nuclear Policy and Nuclear Security, on the appeal of deputies to the newly created Chernecchino Rural Union of the Ohtyr district on the critical situation surrounding the production of hydrocarbons in the Sumskie region and Ukraine as a whole. Sergia Kiwalova to the Prime Minister on the need to increase the size of State social assistance for low-income families and children from such families in 2018. Valeria Pisarenko to the Prime Minister for the right to general secondary education for students who need long-term treatment and rehabilitation and are in health care. Dmitri Dobrodomov to the Minister of Social Affairs, the Lviv City Head, for the provision of funding for the Lviv Criminal Experimental Enterprise of means of moving and prosthetics, the repayment of employees' wages and the restoration of the process of stopped production. Dmitri Dobrodomov to the Minister of Ecology and Natural Resources, the head of the Plain State, the Equal City Head on the environmental situation surrounding the Equinox, its potential for further exploitation and the need to launch an existing garbage treatment plant in the Plains region. Sergija Mishchenka to the Prime Minister on increasing the social standard of housing to 75 sq. For the purpose of granting subsidies to disabled persons and pensioners living alone. Vladimir Litvina to the Prime Minister, head of the Provincial District Administration for the allocation of funds for the construction of a water network in Jasna Polyan district of Zitomir district. Igor Shurma to the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Prime Minister on non-execution and non-compliance with Ukrainian legislation. Minister of Health Uljana Suprun Igor Shurma to the Minister of Justice about the illegal use of an uncertified eHealth electronic health system and the irregularity of making declarations about the choice of a doctor who provides primary medical care. Valentina Nichiporenka to the Prime Minister, Minister of Ecology, Head of the Cerkas Oblast, Head of the Cerkas Regional Government of the Forest, Hunting Farm, to facilitate the alteration of the German Museum with a view to the realization of citizens' housing rights. Jacob Besbach to the Cabinet of Ministers, the State Service for Food Safety, the State Architecture and Construction Inspectorate, the Ministry of Regional Development, the Ministry of Health, regarding the need for a comprehensive review of citizens' views on the proper provision of housing and utilities. Vitalia Gudzenka to the State Agency for Motorways for the Capital Repair of Road Areas of State Value R-18. Vitalia Gudzenka to the head of the Kyiv government for the allocation of funds in 2018 for the construction and capital repair of sociocultural objects and the roads of municipal importance of the Voddarsky and Stavishten regions of the Kyiv region. Gennady of Krivoshei to the head of the Kyiv District State Administration to prevent the appointment of the first elections to the Boguslav OTH. Groups of National Deputies (Paulova, Galchenka, Kolesnikova) to the Prime Minister, acting as Minister of Finance to protect the interests of local self-government and to prevent the adoption of the bill of 15/03. 2018 (8124), number of this bill. "To amend some of Ukraine's legislative acts to stimulate investment in Ukraine." Alexia Bilago and Igor Shurma to the Head of the State Migration Service for the violation of the so - called Minister of Health, Ukrainian Citizenship Legislation. Sergey Ljvockin to the Prime Minister on the risks of the implementation of the State budget and the low efficiency of the use of budgetary resources. Andrya Lopushanski and Oksana Biloz to the Minister of Culture, the Head of the Lviv Cloud, the Head of the Lviv Observatory for Support of the IHO "World Congress of the Boyks" initiative from the construction of a cultural centre near the village of Yavor of the Turkov region of Lviv. Andrew Lopushansky to the head of the Lviv District Council, head of the Lviv Observatories for the allocation of funds for the setting-up of the I-III City of Žukotin. The Turkic region of Lviv. Sergey Labazuk to First Deputy Head of the Supreme Council, Minister of Internal Affairs, Security Service for Human Rights. Vasil Gulyev is under the responsibility of the Minister of Finance, Minister of Energy and Coal Industry to provide the necessary information regarding the financing (or co-financing) of the new construction of power lines for the implementation of the technical conditions issued by Pat "Odesaoblennergo" by the Rural Council from the local budget and/or the funds involved from the district or state budgets. Vladimir Ariev to the Head of the National Police of Ukraine, Attorney General for the Inaction of the Follower's Department of the Police Department of the Basilkow Department of the Chief Police Department of the Kyiv Region in the conduct of criminal investigation No. 12015110310000902 according to the fact that the accident took place on 23 May 2015 on the road to Fastov-Mitnica. Olesia Long to a temporary duty of the Minister of Health to ensure prompt treatment of cardiovascular diseases in the Kirovograd region. Maxima Burbak to the Prime Minister for funding in full terms from the State budget of Ukraine for medical and educational services in Novodnystrowsk region. Maxim Burbak to the Head of the Security Service to verify the non-signatories to the Secretary of State of the Montenegrin City Council, Vasil Sold. Anatolia Denisenka to the Prime Minister for granting additional subsidies to the city of Kharkiv for the provision of free insulin to patients with diabetes. Anatoly Denisenka to the Minister of Social Policy for the allocation of additional money to pay the benefits to the corresponding category of citizens. Irina Konstanovic to the head of the Volin County Administration for the provision of children in the Volin region on their way to health camps during the summer period. Irina Konstankevich to the Prime Minister on increasing the responsibility of road users. Igor Goose to the Minister of Internal Affairs on the need to monitor the investigation into the brutal beating (and as a result of death) of a second-grad student, Sergio Osuhovsky. Igor Goose to the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the need to amend pension legislation in accordance with the decision of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine of 22 May 2018 No. 5-r/2018. Andrea Shipka is under the temporary responsibility of Ukraine’s Minister of Health, Minister of Social Policy, head of the Dnipropetrov Regional State Administration for the support of children with disabilities. Anna Romanov to the Minister of Ecology and Natural Resources, head of the Montenegrin State Administration for the non-destruction of the popular Blue Lake tourist site in Chernigiv. Anna Romanova to the Prime Minister for undermining Ukraine's national information security in connection with the exclusion of public speaking. Mustafa-Masi Nyem to the Minister of Justice on the conditions for the use of remotely prepared aircraft. Igor Alekseieva to the Prime Minister for the capital repairs covered house No. 2A on the street of Vasilkovsky Volosiew district of Kiev. Igor Alekseieva to the Prime Minister for increasing the capacity of Julian's leadership in Kiev. Alexander Opanasenka to the Head of the National Council of Ukraine on TV and radio talk about the organization’s compliance with legislative requirements regarding the composition of founders. Alexander Opanasenka to the Head of the U.S.S.A. to check information on the sale of television channels. Romana Macola to Prime Minister, Deputy Prime Minister, Minister of Regional Development, Minister of Education for the Financing of the Education Subvention of the Slavus Region of the Hmelnicka Region, because of the inaccurate data involved in the distribution formula of the educational subsidy in respect of the area. Romana Macola to the Prime Minister, temporarily acting as Minister of Health of Ukraine, head of the Hmelna District State Administration for the additional financing of the medical subsidy for the third half of the year to the primary care facility of the Shepetov district of Hmeljna Region. John Sporish to the head of the Wynnick district government regarding the construction of a public road through the village of the High Thomaspell district of Winnitsk. Sergey Rybalka until the temporary duty of Ukrainian Minister of Health to rehabilitate Yakimenko Valeria. Sergey Eutuska to the Prime Minister, temporarily acting as Health Minister for the use of urgent measures to ensure the proper working conditions of the Rhineland Emergency Medical Station. Alexander Abdullin to the Prime Minister for the destruction by ending the financing of the Ukrainian National Institute of Radiation Protection, which threatens the treatment of children affected by radiation pollution in parts of the country. Alexia Honcharenka to the Prime Minister on the status of implementation of the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Economic Development and the Ministry of Infrastructure of Parliamentary Hearing Recommendations on the topic: "Strategic of reintegration into Ukraine of the temporarily occupied territory of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea and the city of Sevastopol: issues, ways, methods and methods." Mr. Dmitra Kolesnikov to the Prime Minister on the ineffective use of public budget funds allocated to the Ministry of Health of Ukraine. Dmitri Kolesnikov to the Prime Minister on the crisis in the school education system. Jury Boyka to the Attorney General for the conduct of an objective, impartial and full investigation into the crimes committed by radically targeted persons on April 13, 18, during the attack on members of the campaign to honor the memory of Army General Nicholas Vatutina. Michael Dovbenko to the temporary duty of Minister of Health, Minister of Social Affairs, to solve the issue of the certification of health laboratories in the Ivano-Frankov area of the right to conduct sanitary research to test workplaces under working conditions. Igor Kotwiecki to the Prime Minister for the local road repairs and the restoration of passenger transport in rural areas. Alexander Kodola to the Prime Minister, the Minister of Culture, the head of the State Archive Service of Ukraine, for the transfer of the archival institution from the church of John the God in the city of Ninja to another place. Alexander Kodola to the Prime Minister, Minister of Ecology for the Construction of the Artesian well in the City of the Lower Chernigow Region. Alexander Nechayeva is under the executive responsibility of the minister of finance to increase the amount of education subsidies to the Sumskie Region for timely and full pay of salaries to educational workers. Irina Souslow, Minister of Internal Affairs for Information on the Number of Offences and Offences Revealed in the Field of Sexual Exploitation of Juveniles and Juveniles. Alexia Lensky to the Prime Minister for the use of emergency response measures aimed at the immediate release of an apartment with disabilities, the liquidator of the Chernobyl accident and the Zekov Valeria category, which has been in the apartment line for more than 20 years and in accordance with Cabinet Order No. 1589 since 31 December 1996, has been referred to the list of persons suffering from chronic diseases for whom it is impossible to live in a communal apartment or in a single room with family members. Mr. Vasil Janicki to the Prime Minister, Deputy Prime Minister for Regional Development, Minister of Energy, Head of the National Commission for State Energy Regulation on the regulation of the mechanism for the use of electricity and electrical equipment, as well as adequate electricity in the territory of the Volodimirec Village Council of the Provincial Region. Mr. Vasil Janicki to the Prime Minister, Head of the National Commission for State Regulations in the field of communication and information, Head of the State Committee on Television and Radio Broadcasting, Acting Director-General of the Public Shareholders Association for the functioning of printed media in the region. Paul Rizanenka to the National Police Directorate General in Kiev, performing the duties of the Kyiv Interregional Administration of the State Security Service of Ukraine on the use of measures to eliminate violations of the rules of carriage by carriers of large vehicles in the area of the Brovary region of Kiev. Ljubomir Zubak to Deputy Prime Minister for Regional Development, head of the Volin Observatories for violating the principle of voluntary establishment of the Marianov OTH. Ljubomir Zubak to the head of the Volin Arch for a change in the administrative subordination of the village of Selce. Yuri Boyka and Yuri Pavlenko to the Prime Minister on the increase of the educational subsidy to pay teachers in the city of Novograd-Volinski Žitomirsk Region. Groups of Nardeps (Larina, Boyka, Pavlunka) to the Prime Minister for the reconstruction and modernization of the water supply networks of Novograd-Wolinski. Sergia Dunayeva to the Lower Town Head for delaying the local authorities to restore street lighting on the street of Preeslaslovska in the town of Nizhin Chernigiv district. Sergey Dunaev to the Head of the Supreme Council, Prime Minister, Secretary of the Security Council, Head of the National Security and Defence Council, Head of the Security Service, Head of the Luhansk Regional Military and Civil Administration on initiating changes to the National Security and Defence Council decision in order to liberate the Private Stock Exchange Company of the Lysican Oil Investment Company from measures to block the funds that come into the company's accounts as a reverse financial aid. Natalia Wesselova to the Prime Minister for the reorganization of the Donba State Technical University and the suspension of the Order of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine No. 301 from 10 May 2018. Savchenko's hopes for the Prime Minister for the financing situation of the State Target Defense Program for the construction of ships of the Corvette class under the 58250 project. Oleg Kulinić to the Deputy Prime Minister for Regional Development for the recalculation of the State Budget subsidy to the budget of the Zynkow City Council of the Poltavian Region. Oleg Kulinić to the Prime Minister for the review of the indicators on the basis of which the cash premium is calculated for free travel in all modes of transport of general use on urban, suburban and inter-urban routes. Irina Herashchenko to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on urgent consideration and resolution of a number of relevant issues in the area of socio-economic rights of war veterans in Afghanistan, ATO/OOS veterans, airlifters at the Chernobyl AES and miners. Irina Herashchenko to the Prime Minister for the provision of information on the number of U.S.S. military personnel killed, representatives of other government authorities in Ukraine authorized to take measures to ensure national security and defence of Ukraine, to deter the armed aggression of the Russian Federation in the Donetsk and Lugansk areas, and information on civilian casualties since February 2014. Sergija Leshchenka and Svetlana Zlatchuk to the Head of the Security Service for the Use of State Lands Defense at 9 Potechina Street in Kiev. Sergija Lešchenka to Deputy Head of Administration of Ukraine Dmitra Šimkova on sources of compensation for the costs of the National Reform Board for the services of the American company BGR Group. Andrija Illenka to the Deputy Prime Minister for Regional Development, Construction and HKG, the head of the Suma District Government to respond to the inaction of most of the members of the Connotap City Council. Andrea Illenka to the Minister of Infrastructure, head of the Kiev City State Administration on the status, the capital repair of bridges and tours in Kiev. Michael Doubenko, Andrija Lopushanski, to the Minister of Energy and Coal Industry, the Head of the National Commission for State Regulations in the Field of Energy and Municipal Services, acting as Minister of Finance in the field of consent, approval and implementation of the 18th year's investment programmes. Vladimir Aresonkova to the Prime Minister on the arrangements for the formation of housing and utility tariffs. Vladimir Aresonkov to Minister of Infrastructure, Head of the Žitomir Observatories concerning the capital repair of the part of the road of the international importance of M-21 Istupovič-Zitomir in the city of Korosten. Sergey Kaplina to the Minister of Infrastructure, Attorney General, on the use of urgent measures to respond to the facts of illegal passenger transport in Poltawa. Yuri Berezi to the Prime Minister, Head of the State Labour Service, temporarily acting as Director-General of the State-owned Selidowogil Company to pay off the arrears paid to the employees of the "Separated Unit" of the State-owned Selidowogil Company. Alexandra Welcome. Excuse me, Alexander Dombrowski to the Prime Minister on measures to optimize the supply in multiple apartment buildings. Natalia Wessellova to Prime Minister, Deputy Prime Minister Pavel Rosenk, Minister of Social Affairs, Head of the Pension Fund for the cessation of pension payments to internally displaced persons, and violation by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine of citizens' rights to social protection. Paul Kishkar to the head of the Administration, the Attorney General, the Minister of Culture, the heads of the Dnipropetroval observatories, the head of the Petrikowa Village Council of the Dnipropetrov region of the Dnipropetrov region on the attempt to embody the Council of the Holy Virgins and the Temple of Peter and Paul in the village of Mala Petrikowka, the district of Dnipropetrov. Paul Kishkar to the Attorney General, the Minister of Defense, the head of the State Border Service for the infliction of bodily harm on members of the foreign service in Mariupol. Victor Krivenk to the head of the Chernigov Observatories on the need to finance construction, reconstruction, and repair of the streets of Chernigów. Victor Krivenk to the Cabinet of Ministers, Head of the Board of Directors, Henprocuror, Ministry of Energy and Coal Industry, Head of the National Stock Exchange Company Naftogaz Ukraine, temporarily acting as President of the Pat "Ukratransgaz" on the task of the multimillion-dollar damage to the state from the artificial increase in natural gas losses, particularly largely by unestablished PAT Zaporizgaz. Jury Bublika to the Prime Minister, Minister of Interior, Prosecutor General for the abuse of office by the management of the Onur Construction International, the illegal mining of useful mines in the construction of roads in the Poltava region, the damage to the environment and the damage to the state and the territorial communities. Jury Bublika to the Prime Minister for ignoring the Poltav district council of authority of the local self-government body and the rights of the inhabitants of the Veliorublovsk territorial community in the decision to grant permission for the development of documentation for construction within its administrative boundaries of the solid household waste range. Yurya Levchenka to Henprokuror for illegal work on the destruction of the land of the natural-instrumental fund in the area of the garden-parking art site of the state-wide value of Niveka (east part) in Kiev. Jury Levchenka to the Head of State Architectural and Construction Inspection, temporarily acting Head of the State Service for Geodesy, Cartography and Cadastre, Zaporezian City Head, Head of the Security Guard, Head of the National Police Department in Zaporozhye Region, Head of the Zaporez Oblast Authority for the violation of the requirements of law enforcement in construction work in the Jalansky Park area in Zaporozhye. Oksana Korczynski to the Prime Minister for the loss of validity of the Cabinet of Ministers No. 899 from 24.10.2012 and some questions about the implementation of the National Assistance Project. Sergey Rudika to the head of the Cerkas Observatories, Smilian City Head of the Cherkas region on the urgent solution to the problem of water supply in Smila Cherkas region, as well as the provision of certified copies of acts of work carried out by the object: “Watershed wells for economic needs and sanitary drilling of wells in the Smilian Groundwater Field, Smila Renovation”, which was implemented at the expense of the Regional Development Fund in 15. Roman Semenha to the minister of social policy on the issue of the assignment of housing subsidies for actual residents of the home (house) household. Mikhail Golka to the Prime Minister, Minister of Education, head of the Ternopil Authority for the implementation of capital repairs at the Kremenac School of Art of Verikovsky Ternopil Region. Mikhail Golka to the Prime Minister, First Deputy Prime Minister for Economic Development, acting as Head of the State Fiscal Service on the illegal activities of State Fiscal Service employees in the Zaporozhye area concerning the Society with limited responsibility for "Energy Systems and Equipment of Zaporozhye". Jury Pavlenko to the Prime Minister on the construction of a modern physical and health complex in Novogradi Volinski Žitomirsk. Jury Pavlenko to Henprocuror for the responsibility of officials of the Berdichov city authorities for the tragic events of March 5, 2018, which resulted in the death of 8 people. Paul Dzublik to the Prime Minister about the allocation of funds from the State budget of Ukraine for the treatment of Silent Arina, a neuroid with type 2 lipophoscinosis. Vladimir Parasuka, head of the Police Department of Kiev City Police, deputy head of the National Police of Ukraine, head of the National Police Department in Kiev for the ban on parking of vehicles in the Aleia Heroov of the Sky 100 in Kiev and for the strengthening of response measures, namely the increase of police patrols in the area to remove obstacles in accordance with the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine Ordinance on Road Traffic Rules. Borislav Bereza to Deputy Head of the National Police of Ukraine, Chief of Investigations for the lifting of the Sky Way transport system in Kiev. Borislava Bereza to the Minister of Internal Affairs concerning the illegal activity of gambling establishments in the Righteous District of Kyiv. Julia Yooffe to the Head of the Supreme Council on the need for an urgent legislative settlement of social protection issues and State support for civilians affected by hostilities. Paul Rizanenka, under the temporary responsibilities of the Head of State Service of Ukraine on matters of geodesy, cartography, and cadastre regarding the use of measures to protect the rights and legitimate interests of residents of the village of Sezenkov in the region of Kiev to obtain land ownership. Jury Timoshenko to the head of the National Construction and Architecture Inspectorate of Ukraine for the verification of the legality of construction. Jury Timoshenko to the Prime Minister for the payment of the payroll. John Melniczuk to the City Council of the Latin Region of Winnitsk to ensure the exercise of the right of a citizen of Yaszczuk to receive land free of charge. John Melniczuk to the Minister of Education and Science, acting as Minister of Finance, Head of the Vinicko Oblast administration, Head of the Žmerinsky District Government for the Inadmissibility of the Closure of the Municipal Institute "Bilikowec Educational and Educational Complex "General Education School and Graduation - Preschool Institute". Igora Lucenka to the Minister of Justice of Ukraine regarding the state registration of the Ministry of Justice and the introduction into the Single State Register of Legal and Regulatory Acts of the Provisional Order for the Use of Airspace of Ukraine, adopted on 31 June 2018 by the State Aviation Service of Ukraine. Oleg Osuhovsky to Prime Minister, First Deputy Prime Minister, Minister of Economic Development, Acting Head of the State Fiscal Service, Acting Minister of Finance, Deputy Director of the Specialised Anti-Corruption Prosecutor's Office, Prosecutor-General for Unlawful Action of Public Fiscal Workers. Oleg Osuhovsky to Deputy Prime Minister for Regional Development, Minister of Infrastructure, Acting Head of the Public Association of the Ukrainian Railways, Head of the Volin Arch, Head of the Ternopil Authority, Head of the Ternopil Arch, Head of the Raven Arch, Head of the Riveen Observance, Head of the Volin Observance for the restoration of the railway link in the region. Yurya Derevyanka to the Cabinet of Ministers for the timely payment of salaries to officials of the budgetary institutions of the Ivano-Frankow region. Jurya Derevjanka to the Cabinet of Ministers on the need to increase the financing of repairs and maintenance of the road and bridges of the Ivano-Frankow region in 2018. Andrija Shinkovič and Romana Macola to the Head of the National Police on the non-legislativeity of employees of the Ukrainian National Police. Groups of Nardepas (Shinkovica, Gerega, Macola) to the Gitomir City Head on the protection of the right of the Open International University of Human Development "Ukraine" to predominate the right to make contracts for the rental of teaching units and to prevent the closure of the university unit in the city of Žitomir. Alexander Brigintz to the Minister of Internal Affairs, acting as Head of the Holding Foundation, head of the Kyiv City Office for Illegal Procrastination, and is not justified by the delayed transfer of premises to the adjacent land area according to the ruling of the KMU of State Property to the creative association of Ukrainian designers, addressed to Petropavlovska Street, 34-A, the city of Kiev. Robert Gorvato to the Prime Minister on the implementation of Ukrainian Law No. 2363-VIII and the extension of the deadline for the implementation of construction objects. Jaroslava Markevich to the Prime Minister for the protection of the consumer rights of natural persons entrepreneurs and legal persons. Jaroslava Markevich to the prosecutor of the Poltava district on the activation of criminal investigation No. 4201717000000155. Sergei Vlasenka, under the temporary responsibility of the Ukrainian Minister of Health, to hide information about the existence of a United States citizen’s passport in the performance of Ulya Suprun’s Minister of Health. Alexander Vilkula to the Prime Minister for urgent consideration and compliance with the requirements of the meeting held on 19 June 2018 on the issue of fair social protection for Afghan war veterans and participants in the elimination of the Chernobyl AES accident. Dmitry Schencev to the minister of infrastructure regarding the non-substantial termination of grain loading stations, such as the Dvorna Kharkiv district station. Constantine Jarinic to the head of the Kirovograd District Administration, the head of the Kirovograd Arch for the use of measures aimed at ensuring the permanent functioning and development of the Kyrovograd Music College. Ruslan Solvar to the head of the Kyiv Observatories to ensure adequate access to education for the children of Faststowski, Skirski and Makarov region of the Kyiv region and to address the issue of the acquisition of school buses. Ruslan Solvar to the head of the Kyiv Observatories for co-financing to carry out a capital repair of the water supply systems of the village of Plachtjanka Makarovsky district and the provision of quality drinking water for residents. Nardepi Groups ( Dinsenka, Misika; only five) to Henprocuror for an impartial and complete investigation of events that took place on June 20, this year in the premises of the Kharkiv City Council. Oksana Bilozer to the Minister of Internal Affairs, the Head of the Board for the Protection of the Rights of Mothers of the Armed Forces, who died in an anti-terrorist operation and the return of their dues, which were cheated on by mothers in a fraudulent way. Ruslana Demczak is responsible for Ukraine’s financial minister’s ability to place local budgets in all banking institutions in connection with the stabilisation of the banking sector. Ruslan Demczak is under the responsibility of the finance minister to increase the length of leave for managers, Methodists, preschool teachers. Yuri Solova to the Prime Minister, Head of the State Audit Service, to conduct an audit of the activities of the Antimonopoly Committee of Ukraine. Edward Matviychuk to the private Kiyevstar stockholders’ association, the Authorized Human Rights Council on the need for an objective review of Melnik Natalia, inhabitants of the village of Usatov of the Odessa region, on the need to provide assistance in the protection of violated constitutional rights and to prevent such a violation in the future and to carry out appropriate explanatory work. Edward Matviychuk to the Cabinet of Ministers, the Court of Auditors, the National Public Service Agency of Ukraine regarding the need for an objective review of the request of the Odessa Regional Institute of State Administration team of the National Academy of State to the President of Ukraine regarding the professional training of civil servants and officials of local self - government. Alexander Marchenka to the Prime Minister for the underfunding of work on the reconstruction of the Kiev-Odes road in section 17-pp.87. Oxana Korczynski to the Head of the National Police, Director of the National Anti-Corruption Bureau, Attorney General for the Investigation of the Corruption of Officials of the National Children's Specialized Hospital OHMATDIT in the head of the Children's Oncohematology Centre and the Transplantation of the Bone marrow of the National Children's Specialised Hospital of OHMATDIT, Done's S.B. and the head of the bone marrow transplantation department of the Children's Oncohematology Center and bone marrow transplantation of the National Children's Hospital OHMATDIT by Rijak O.A. Dear colleagues! I have announced all the requests registered for this time 254. I'll call it a 30-minute break. And in 30 minutes, there will be a record of MPs under the heading "Variance."
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-22-m0.u94	So colleagues are ready for a lively discussion. I ask you to join the National Deputies Hall, who would like to take part in the presentations and requests from the National Deputies, to prepare for the recording. I'd like you to record a statement from the National MPs. It's always a lottery. So, colleagues, according to the Rules, we're taking the hour to the show and we're closing the session in an hour. So, Sverke Grigory Aronovich. Please, Sporish.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-22-m0.u95	John Sporish, 15th Wynnickin County. Dear chairman, distinguished national deputies, of course, we have heard questions today. Asking everywhere and asking questions about "The Stork" and last Friday, last sessional Friday, I spoke from this rostrum, asking about "The Stork" about roads -- not about roads that are bad, but about roads that are not there. Of course, I got the answer and I'll say, the answer is, stay there, it's okay, we forgot to put this road in. This road on Winnitzkin is the Tomaspil region, which is the limestone, the High, the Crusader. You go in there, you go through these roads in the fields, you go through whatever you want, and if you don't, maybe you go to the Winnick district administration, maybe it'll help you -- that's the attitude of "The Stork." I'm going back to the Kravtodor. I'm not saying bad roads again today, let's remember the Odessa-Rani road. Yes, it was a bad road, it was repaired, and, thank God, but it was a bad road that could possibly be taken. But what I'm saying today is that because of the village of High on the Tomaspil district, it's impossible to drive, it's a route where roads and buses travel to Chisinau, it's a route that. Somewhere they're going to Odessa. And I think it's a shame that buses are coming back or stopping, that they're getting into some kind of traffic accident, that I think already the Kravutodore might be paying attention and not translating his work into someone else's shoulders. I'm going to say that co-financing and assistance to "Stolen" is the road of state importance, it is, it is, it is, it is, it will be. Once again, I remind you, the kids at school are getting as many as they can -- 10, 20, 30, 100 bucks, 100 bucks, they're getting out of retirement, they're even leaving their monthly pensions, they're giving up to help stealtodore. I'll say, the village council in co-financing is ready to help make this piece of road, just about two kilometers. A business located in the village of Highly Ready to Help, all ready to join. But unfortunately, "stolen" refers to it in a kind of skeptical way, and I'd really like them to send someone to this road eventually, so they can see that there's no one there, that there's one pit, that buses are coming back. I hope that after my speech, and my speech I'd like you to record how, again, the request to "Stolen" we did everything we could to make them pay attention and the road was given. Capital repairs are done, which is no longer done there.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-22-m0.u96	Ten seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-22-m0.u97	So they can pay attention to the road where the capital repairs haven't been done for more than 50 years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-22-m0.u98	Thank you very much. Jismar Yury is handing it over to Halasyuk Victor. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-22-m0.u99	Victor Halasyuk, Oleg Lachka Radical Party. The main task of economic policy must be a regular, steady, substantial increase in the income of Ukrainians in order to increase Ukrainian wages and pensions faster than the prices in stores, faster than inflation. Sadly, today’s authorities fail to deal with this challenge. The Radical Party team has an entirely new economic policy that we propose to introduce into the country in order to do so in order to overcome mass unemployment, mass emigration, poverty in the country, and dependence on IMF loans. Loaning an international currency fund is a drug for the economy, it's not able to provide economic development, modernise the country and raise citizens' incomes. What is more, the IMF is up against raising minimum wages and pensions, which is why the Radical Party team led by Oleg Lošek is fighting. [[Applause]] Raising social standards, developing national industry, developing and modernizing infrastructure in Ukraine to make every citizen feel confident and know that tomorrow he will live better than yesterday, that children will live better in his own country than parents. Unfortunately, there is no such thing today. Because the government has a completely wrong approach – the authorities think about the categories of the road: they took a loan from the IMF -- they ate; they took a loan from the IMF -- they threw it into the gold reserves, they burned it. So never build a strong economy. Another approach is needed, much more complex: investment, infrastructure, new productions, new jobs, more industrial production, more exports abroad, not raw materials, more finished goods, more dollars, more euros, more budget, more wages and more pensions in case. And so we're going to stop emigration, so we're going to overcome corruption, poverty and hopelessness. Moreover, the real alternative to IMF loans is industrial laws led by the Radical Party team. Their economic weight is greater than that of the IMF. Industrial Parks Laws are several billion U.S. dollars a year. The Export Credit Agency Act, which the government has not yet created. That's a few billion dollars of extra non-offer exports. Buy Ukrainian is a billion imports. And this is an additional increase in GDP, an increase in wages and the pensions of Ukrainians. Maintain a new economic course.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-22-m0.u100	Thank you. Monsieur Igor, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-22-m0.u101	Igor Mosiyczuk, Oleg Lachka Radical Party Now there's a picture on the stand that symbolizes the foundation of the Ukrainian nation, symbolizes the Ukrainian village, symbolizes Ukrainian traditions. This photo work by my assistant Anna Senik is called the Poltava Madonna. The very village of Ukrainian, Polish, Ternopil, French is the foundation of the Ukrainian nation. What the current government of timekeepers is doing with the Ukrainian village is a total genocide and a return to the shameful practice of destroying Ukrainian agriculture that they had under the Bolshevik regime. The faction of the Radical Party, Oleg Ljaska, has a plan to save the Ukrainian village, restore animal production, return the cow to every Ukrainian peasant family, and provide Ukrainian peasants with work. To that end, we propose to accept changes to the Constitution, in which it is always written that Ukrainians own Ukrainian land, are Ukrainian farmers, not from abroad. We are calling on the Ukrainian government to stop the uncontrolled import into Ukraine of silchoschemy that is being poisoned by Ukrainian bees, Ukrainian animals and eventually Ukrainians themselves. We all eat it, we all breathe it. Stop! Be human! And finally, the Ukrainian village is impossible without Ukrainian traditions. Because traditions, as our great Cobzar wrote, from the dead alive and unborn, along with the mother’s milk must be preserved, as the Ukrainian family, the Ukrainian laborer, should be preserved. Not to have gay parades, but to think about how to give Ukrainians a job and a decent salary, not to have a show for the whole world, but to save, lift, lift, lift from the knees a Ukrainian village, because a Ukrainian village is the future greatness of the Ukrainian nation and the Ukrainian state. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-22-m0.u102	Thank you. Benjuzhenko gives the floor to Michael Bondar. Please, Mr. Mikhailo.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-22-m0.u103	Thank you, Mr. Andrey. Dear colleagues, my address is to the head of the High Council of Justice. As the national deputy of the 119th constituency, Radehivščina, Brodovščina, Bučina, Kamyaneckina, was approached by Radehovsky district residents about the problems of organizing the work of the Radehov court in the Lviv region. In connection with the release and termination of the term of office of judges, the work of the Radehiv District Court in the Lviv region has been effectively blocked. This violates the constitutional rights of the courts of those individuals and citizens who, according to the rules of jurisdiction, can apply exclusively to the Radehiv District Court of the Lviv Region. The right to a fair trial is also severely violated during reasonable terms guaranteed by article 6 of the Convention on the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms. This, in turn, may serve as a basis for appeals to the European Court of Human Rights and for expenses incurred from the State budget in the form of damages to those whose rights are violated by the blocked work of the Court of Justice of the Lviv region. In view of this, I ask the Head of the High Council of Justice to immediately take steps to ensure the work of the Radekhiv District Court of the Lviv Region by appointing and deploying judges authorized to exercise justice in the territory served by the court. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-22-m0.u104	Thank you. Next, I'll pass on the word to Hanni Hopko. Anna Gopko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-22-m0.u105	Good afternoon, fellow Ukrainians, dear Ukrainians! This week was extremely busy and the Ukrainian Parliament was able to pass important laws, including the National Security Act, and this is an extremely important step forward for the NATO summit in Brussels. Obviously, this law would want to see important ones, such as the beginning of the reform of Ukraine’s Security Service, taking away non-proper functions, such as the fight against organized crime and the fight against corruption. Even though we clearly understand that there are many officers in the Ukrainian Security Service who are really protecting our territorial integrity and sovereignty, fighting terrorists, resisting the subversive activities that Russia's aggressor State is trying to do, but nevertheless, using its own drugs for its own wealth. So it was also very important in this Law on Security that we offered, in particular, representatives of the People's Front, Tetjana Crnovol, that we by one amendment finally establish a single database of gas users' subscribers and stop the dissipation of the state funds that are going on gas supplies on subsidies, because there is no transparency and there are no subscribers to this system. So we will continue to fight energy corruption. Also, colleagues, I would like to say that this is an extremely important topic -- Russia is building up military forces in the Azov Sea, which through the 2003 agreement is the internal sea of Ukraine and Russia, and the Russians can provoke us to shore. Secretary of the NNBO Turkeys and Minister Klimkin emphasises that security in the Azov Sea should be strengthened, and security in southern Hersonland must be strengthened, where the enemy is doing subversive work, and there is now a local police officer working on the entire Arab Arrow. In fact, I would like to urge the National Guard units to strengthen the police in the vicinity of Crimea, to place the border patrol boats in Genicea, and in particular from the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine to see the deployment of the National Guard unit of Ukraine in Genicea, to create the envisaged structure of the Crimean Operational and Territorial Union, with its temporary deployment in the Hersonian area, to place in the port of Genicesk, the maritime security unit of the State Border Guard, and to deploy additional units or to significantly increase the number of members of the National Police in the Hersonian region, which are interfering with Crimea, with the aim of properly protecting the rule of law in the first place on the Arabian archery on the Chongar Peninsula. So I really hope that these multibillion-dollar expenses that we have going to the IMF are exactly going to be spent to increase security around the Azov Sea. And so that we can finally see the answer, rather than simply ask the question, when the border boats, the additional forces of Nacguardia and the police will be deployed. Here. So that's one of those important questions. And of course, in the end, we can't fail to call on the President after the disappointment of the appointment of Lithuania to the Ambassador of Armenia, to appoint those who are worthy where our ambassadors are not. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-22-m0.u106	Thank you. Storm Igor Mikhailovich, please. From the rostrum, please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-22-m0.u107	Honorable citizens of Ukraine may today need to focus on the fact that the Supreme Council is the highest representative body. And to ask yourself why authority, which shows the survey, the Supreme Council is constantly falling and falling. I don't know what to do with this bathroom under the dome, maybe it needs to be sanctified, or whatever, but it does things systematically and consistently year after year, regardless of who comes here to work. Recall the period of the last revolution when people who joined the coalition with European values came into the hall. They were very irritated by things, especially that MPs were not like people all, they were untouchable, those people here are buttoning, they're faking voting results, they're living on double wages, they're nervous that MPs have huge wages compared to people. What do we have today? People came who were trusted, who were trusted. What do we have today? To this day nothing has changed, no one has withdrawn the inviolability, regardless of what the decision is for today’s Constitutional Court. Let's all unite today and show that this House is capable of breaking those stereotypes, let's all give up, let's all give up this inviolability, the Constitutional Court has already opened the door. Let's look at what's going on with the laws of Ukraine. Someone might say that let's allow legislation that deals with safety, or let's allow any funds to be involved doesn't need a solution in this room. Needs and needs to be considered, and we look at them for hours, but if there are no votes, there are no votes. Does this add to the authority of Parliament when we are constantly in the field of buttoning? There are fixed facts under the Monetary Act, the National Police Act, 6327 on the med reform that reformers are so excited about -- the buttoning, the counterfeiting. Why do these laws not work? Because they have been falsely voted. I'm not a supporter of the Supreme Council of Paris, I'm its political opponent, but I can't force and humiliate a person in the performance of his duties. He really wants to do some things, I may not share it, and he has to call you, come from the dining room, come vote, and you continue to knock on double standards. And when there's a question about salary, the budget sphere of miners, none of you, all of you who've been yelling about wage pay, won't come out and honestly say, people, I'm a member of the Supreme Council, I'm getting a salary of 30,000 and a parliamentary mandate of another 30,000, come and say, then this parliament will have respect for people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-22-m0.u108	Thank you. Before I give the next word, I will not be critical, but I will be critical of Parliament's criticism in the information plan. It was not so long ago, Mr. Igor, when here, at this rostrum, the members of the Party of Regions were maimed by caste and the beats of the national deputies for expressing their position, it was not so long ago. It wasn't long ago, when here, in the hall, they voted in favour of the laws that then led to the killing of the boys at Maidan. But it wasn't that long ago, and it was the people of the Party of Regions that, I say, you're also my opponent, but today you're with the same faction, it wasn't that long ago. And those hand-to-hand ballots in the room led to the killing of people. Obviously not perfect, but in this room everyone has equal access to the microphone, everyone has equal access to decision-making, in this room today there's justice, and so we're adopting the most important laws that are in order of the day. We must work together to develop parliamentaryism, but we must do it all together, not demeaning the highest legislative body of the state every day. And thank you for the comments you made in your speech.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-22-m0.u109	Tree tree, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-22-m0.u110	Yuri Derevyanko, "The Movement of New Forces". Dear Andrew Volodymyrovich, distinguished colleagues! Yesterday, the Supreme Council passed a very important National Security Act, and we can talk today about our security and defenses having a legislative basis now to become stronger and to provide security for Ukrainian citizens better. But at the same time, we now have a law that is voted by the Supreme Council two and a half years ago to amend the Criminal and Criminal Procedure Codes of Ukraine to establish appropriateness for violations of legislation in the field of manufacturing, manufacturing, confirmation of conformity, implementation of production, work and military services. The Supreme Council approved him two and a half years ago, but the President has not signed him yet. Why? Because one of the MPs has made a decree to call off the vote, and so far in two and a half years, we can't have that law signed. This tells us that today, for two and a half years, when we go to war, we have goods, jobs and services that can be unquality and for which no one is responsible. I have a question for you, my respectable colleagues, and is it by chance that the President is not interested in this? When we got more than 12 points, on the basis of which we made a written submission to investigate all of these facts. Where it's about the Goddan cars that were supplied to the Ukrainian army, where it owns it. The Lenin cousin, where he is a beneficiary owner, was supplied at three or four times the cost of military equipment, which also did not match the quality of the equipment. And the ambulance, we know, had this problem. Is he not himself interested in not having such legislation in our state for two and a half years when war is coming? So, I very much ask you, Your Honor Andrew Volodymyrovich, to put this decision of Vinick to a vote to cancel it, to fail it. Because I'm surprised that the person who wasn't in the room at this time when this law was voted on wrote this decree to actually block this bill? And I also appeal to you, Your Honor, to support the initiative on the possibility of investigating everyone, not just these, but others, possible crimes, Mr. President, regarding the written submission. In order for the Supreme Council to begin its investigation procedure in the order of impeachment. More than 65 signatures have already been signed by national deputies for this initiative. So that we don't let go of this, so that we can actually initiate this procedure and enable the Ukrainian people to understand if crimes have been committed? If they did, there must be punishment. If not done, then no claims will be made, of course, to anyone. But only Parliament, by creating a temporary special commission, only after you all sign this application and there are 226 signatures, will we be able to implement it. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-22-m0.u111	Thank you. Let me ask you something. Is Yuri Suhevich in the hall? Mr. Yuri Suhevich. And please, Mr. Yuri, turn on from the rostrum, please, the microphone from the rostrum for Yuri Shuhevich.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-22-m0.u112	Your honor, your head, Your Honor. I want to address you and not just you, because I want this speech to be presented as an address to the Prime Minister. This question has already been raised repeatedly here in the walls of the Supreme Council and beyond. These are the lands that belong to the Agrarian Academy of Ukraine. Lvivščina, Radehovsky district, 3,000 hectares is the research farm of the Academy of Agricultural Sciences. They use just a few tens of hectares on their own. It's a business.""and all the others are leased to whom and we don't know. People are asking the director of this company who is renting this land these thousands of hectares can't answer, they say, we don't know. They ask the head of the district administration, he says, I don't know. These hectares are sown, sown in the spring at night, that they gather crops at night and take them out. Where to? How much? The crops are 100 tons [100 tons] of wheat, 120 tons [120 tons] of maize, 35 tons [35 tons] of rape, and all of this goes nowhere. And local. The local budget doesn't get a penny. People say, but at least let these holes fly on the roads they're going to beat up with their technique. And no one can answer. And I want to ask the government and the Prime Minister. When, in the end, these lands will be gutted, because this is the land of Ukrainian peasants, its blood and then our grandfathers and great-grandparents worked for hundreds of years. The Soviet authorities came, they took it, they threw it all into a farm, then they turned it into a council, and then they gave it to the Academy of Agar Science. And now these people in these villages of the former don't have access to the land, and it's worse than our village is destroyed, but somehow it lives, and there's really beggars -- they don't have any land, they don't have jobs, and you can imagine what the situation is. When will this end? When will these people get the land they own? When will these lands be scattered? I want to, I'm calling again to the Prime Minister and to the government, let them answer us all and to the Ukrainian people.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-22-m0.u113	Please, 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-22-m0.u114	How long will such lawlessness continue? And the people who didn't rob the Soviet authorities, they're being pillaged now. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-22-m0.u115	Thank you. Please, Parasuk Vladimir Zinovyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-22-m0.u116	Thank you. I'd like to raise a ten-problem. For about ten years in our country, it's a question of cars on Euronomists. Now I want to go to all of these skeptics, politicians, the government basically because they're criticizing that people are using these cars. People use these cars, not from a good life, but from the fact that they can buy a good - quality car at reasonable cost. Using legal standards, they brought these cars to Ukraine and used them for their daily lives. Of course, this problem needs to be addressed because these cars are said to be 500,000, others say a million. But this needs to be regulated at the legislative level. And what has happened recently? The Tax and Customs Committee, headed by Nina Yuzanin, proposed two bills: 8487, 8488. I just want to say that these bills don't settle anything. Again, they are strengthening the monopoly of those who have been selling Russian junk all their lives in Ukraine. So I turn first to the organizations that have united around this issue: Do not believe them! I want to thank those MPs who didn't vote in favour of this bill yesterday, the inclusion in the agenda, because you have to understand that when these rules are adopted, people will have their legitimate cars taken away, and in return they won't give anything. If you want the numbers, I'll tell you that the new car in 18th year they're proposing that the excise be $174, and that 15-year-old car used by an ordinary citizen will cost $3000,138, plus VAT, customs, pension fund, first registration, and so on. Now I'm against it, because by breaking the law, they didn't allow it to register an alternative bill. And now there are national MPs in the Supreme Council who have reunited around this problem, although a huge number of bills have already been called upon to solve these problems and allow people to use the normal European car market. So a new bill that's going to be drafted in the Supreme Council is going to lower all these rates, and people at normal prices are going to be able to get a car from Europe. And the main thing is, I wanted to say that this bill will have a registration mechanism, not like the profile committee said, that there are rules and that implementing them in the current circumstances is not going to be real. So I call on all politicians to unite and not to make cheap popular statements by those monopolies who are unable to do so.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-22-m0.u117	Thank you. Ruslan Sidorovich gives the floor to Irina Sisoyenko. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-22-m0.u118	Irina Sisoyenko, Self-Help Unit. Dear Ukrainians! Important laws were voted in the walls of this Parliament, which finally have to build a health system in our country. But will the Ukrainians really feel that the laws passed in Parliament will be good for both the medics and the Ukrainians, depending on how the government and the local authorities implement these laws. What's going on now. Since July 1st, we all know that the reform of the primary health care chain is about to begin. The government declares that nearly 10 million people have made declarations with their family doctors, pediatricians, and therapists. And from July 1st to July 1st, these doctors are to receive funding for a new model. But will that be the case? Sadly, no. Today, the government is reporting on a total of 149 medical institutions that have set up contractual relations with the National Health Service. So basically, for an average of only 2 million people, pediatricians, therapists, family doctors will receive funding for the new funding model. After all, as many as 8 million people will be preserved the old funding model. Why did this happen? First of all, the government would need to bring together governors, mayors of cities, city deputies, and very clearly explain to them the powers they would have to make in the territories, reorganize their medical facilities in municipal non-profit enterprises, make sure that medical facilities throughout Ukraine are ready for a new funding system, and only then launch an information campaign to make declarations with patients. In this situation, it is important not to make extreme doctors who will essentially work in health establishments that have established declarations, but will not receive funding for a new model. It is very important to continue the government’s decision that the National Health Service continue to contract with and receive funding from medical institutions. What is particularly important is that the local authorities now have to comply with the law clearly, and the government has to control it. We do not have the right to allow medical reform to be the same as the disappointment of the Ukrainians. Therefore, the government must intervene immediately and, along with the local authorities, do everything possible for the Ukrainians to receive the 8 billion dollars provided by the Ukrainian State budget for medical care for new legislation. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-22-m0.u119	Thank you. Head Mikhailo Josephovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-22-m0.u120	Mikhailo Golovko, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union, Ternopolishte. Of course, we all look forward to hearing the report of the government during its reign. But once again I wanted to point out that the best indicator for each government is the quality of the lives of its citizens, the lives of the Ukrainian people. Today we see completely different numbers. And already, the Court of Auditors has given a shocking indication that only in the first quarter, there was a budget of 66 billion dollars, which is 22 percent of the projected arrivals, and inflation is already more than 14 percent. It's growing into the next poverty and debt of government to its people, because it's not about increasing pension payments, wage payments, or scholarships, now even the government can't handle the timely payment of salaries and pensions. And it's really a disheartening situation, so the strategy of today's government is just to get loans, lead to the impoverishment of the Ukrainian people. To reign and flee -- that's their logic -- and sell everything that's left in the Ukrainian people today to Ukrainian people. "Freedom" strongly condemns such actions. We're indignant that today's authorities don't see her handing out billions left-to-right for her approaching oligarchs, such as Kosuk, who during the reign of this government received more than a billion dollars. Today, NAC Naftogazu's leadership has awarded itself an order of 1.5 billion dollars, that's $45 million. Excuse me, the dollar hasn't been returned according to Stockholm courts' decisions, the courts are still going forward, and they've already signed out their bonuses. And what do you call those bastards? Of course, it's during the war, when every Ukrainian today pulls out the last penny to finance our military, our soldiers and protect our state. Such troublemakers literally rob the Ukrainian state, write out space bonuses. And the authorities can't see it, and there's no reaction from the government, there's no response from the law enforcement, there's no internal affairs, there's no reaction from the Attorney General. Where's the naboo? Why hasn't NAC Naftogazu been arrested to this day? Kobolev, Vitrenko and the other bastards who signed off on such bonuses. They don't have the money today, our government, to grant peasants a raise in milk, there's no subsidies, and for farmers, there's no aid to small and medium-sized businesses. Where are the cheap loans to create jobs to start the Ukrainian economy? They don't see how to get our money out of the shadow of an economy that is now completely in the shadows. And so Freedom calls for an immediate vote on an anti-oligaric package of laws that could bring the economy out of the shadows that would provide funds for small and medium-sized businesses and actually build a Ukrainian, wealthy, great state.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-22-m0.u121	Thank you. Please, Armor from the rostrum. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-22-m0.u122	Valeria Zarzko, faction of the Radical Party of Oleg Lašek. Good afternoon, citizens of Ukraine! Today, where I want to return to a very painful and unfortunately still unresolved issue of debt repayment in front of the miners of the Selidivwugil State Enterprise. Here's what I'm holding back from the profile minister of Nasalik, which is 16 pages of text that we and my colleagues at the Radical Party were studying yesterday, and in which unfortunately we didn't find the answers to the questions that we were asking. First question. That's when you finally get paid off on your salary in front of the miners of the state-owned firm Selidivugil. And the second question. When will this end, and what will be done so that this situation will never happen again? The answers to these questions, I remind you, have not been answered. You know that this week, miners were forced to come here to Kiev and protest under the Supreme Council and under the Cabinet of Ministers, demanding that they pay their wages, demanding that they and their families stop being abused and that Bill 8362 co-authors be adopted by members of the Radical Party of Oleg Láška, who will finally allow real reform of the coal sector of Ukraine. Under the tremendous pressure that was exerted this week by us here in this sessionary chamber by the faction of the Radical Party, we held numerous consultations with other factions, we convinced individual deputies, at last, 8362 was voted to put this bill in order of the day. Unfortunately, we didn't see him and he wasn't put to the vote for this project, but we hope that this will be done very quickly. Because there is no longer any way to endure this. Under the furious pressure of miners, Minister Nasalik finally found time to meet people and even promised to pay their wages. Unfortunately, we probably understand differently what pay is. Because only 6 percent of the salary was paid for April. I'll remind you that we have the end of June today. People got 50, 100, 200 dollars on their cards. And I have here a speech from Natalia Yatsutko, Tetjana Travnvik, Eliseveta Fomina, Victoria Shaparjeva, which requires the minister to show them a master class, how to feed the family on this money that goes openly against people. I have a very simple question. When will the government be honest, responsible, and consistent in carrying out its duties? When will you stop bullying tax payers, people who pay you a salary? When will the coal strategy be put in place? A new economic course offered by Oleg Láschka, a radical team.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-22-m0.u123	30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-22-m0.u124	I'll tell you how to do that. One of the basic bills for Ukraine's new economic development course is the Ukrainian Buy, Pay for Ukrainians Act, which will enable us to buy Ukrainian coal, pay wages to Ukrainian miners and rebuild and strengthen Ukraine's economies. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-22-m0.u125	Jemetz Leonid Aleksandrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-22-m0.u126	Leonid Jemetz, People's Front faction, interfractional association of Eurooptimists. Dear voters, three questions. Three questions, and I'll start with the first one, that's for the Higher Qualifications Commission, and more specifically for the election of the Supreme Court of Ukraine. I would like to remind you that the elections that were held before the Supreme Court by the Public Council of Virtue were recognized as not meeting the standards that were established in the idea of judicial reform, that we would have an honest and impartial court. In general, it is now proposed that new elections be held without the Public Council of Virtue, that is, without social attention and examination of those candidates who are to become judges of the Supreme Court. The only way I see the outcome of this situation is to transform the Higher Qualifying Commission, or to establish the decisive role of the Public Council for Goodness. The second question is the question of parliamentary integrity. I recall that a bill, which was registered by me and 150 colleagues from the Supreme Council, has already been submitted to the Constitutional Court, which has decided that our bill is fully in conformity with the Constitution and that the integrity of the people's deputies can already be removed. Let me remind you that if we do this in the next two sessions of the week, that is to say, we will make a preliminary decision, according to the Constitution in September, we can live up to the promise made by the political forces and parliamentarians who are representatives of the political forces in this Parliament, the promise to remove from the MPs the integrity, as a class, of bringing the non-gods back to the earth. And make all our citizens equally accountable to the laws, regardless of their position or status. And the third question, the question that was so acute yesterday -- the issue of buttoning, the question of what you thought, the legacy that came to us from the Supreme Council of the past call, the council formed by the Janukovic regime. Sadly, this legacy has already become a standard situation for today’s parliament. I think it's a shame, it's unacceptable, and, from a legal point of view, it makes the laws adopted through buttoning worthless. The Constitutional Court has already declared two laws to be unconstitutional because they have been voted in a manner contrary to the Constitution, namely, buttoning. I am registered with a law that provides for 3 to 7 years in prison for buttoning because of not personally voting. I am convinced that the adoption of this law will push the button in this Parliament to zero, that video fixation by journalists will not allow any MP to escape responsibility. I'm sure no one here would want to get seven years in prison because they pressed a button for their neighbor. Adoption of the law, I insist again.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-22-m0.u127	Ten seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-22-m0.u128	Brings the button down to zero. I think it is the responsibility of every MP who wants to demonstrate that he is not a word, but is dealing with buttoning, supporting and voting for the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-22-m0.u129	Colleagues, I'm only going to add 10 seconds so that more deputies can speak. Now Levchenko Yuri Volodymyrovich and then Linko.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-22-m0.u130	Lewchenko, Freedom, 223 District, Kiev City. Yesterday, there was a total disgrace in the Kyiv City Council, and I can say, even without exaggeration, a tragedy for cultural heritage not only to the capital, but to the city of Kyiv, but to the whole of Ukraine. Yesterday, the Kiev City Council, led by Vitalia Volodymyrovich Klicka, instead of taking a step towards the creation of the ancient Kiev Museum in the Postal Square where they recently found the entire street of ancient Kiev of the second century, so instead of making a museum there, yesterday the Kiev City Council decided to make a TRC, a shopping and entertainment center there. Even though the whole population of Kiev has risen to protect our history. Even though all the Chinese demand this museum, even though it makes sense to preserve our cultural heritage, to increase the tourist flow to Kiev. By the way, even though it's very important in the context of giving Thomas auto-kephalia, what is Mr. Peter Poroshenko very much talking about, isn't it? So instead of keeping our cultural heritage, instead of showing that we have a thousand-year history. The Kyiv City Council, led by Klitska Vitalija Volodymyrovich, replaces all of this into malls. You know, yesterday we had such a terrible, blasphemous draft decision that said there should be public public space with the elements of the museum. What does that mean? And that means there's going to be a mall like they have a project that they have. Somewhere in some places, there'll be a little bit of the rest of our old age lying around somewhere. Like they did, with the Ludsky Gates in Midan, when Midan was dug up, and instead of doing the museum again, now these doors can only be passed through the restaurant under Midan, and only if you're sitting in a restaurant can you look at their foundation. Why is this happening? And because of the construction of this TRC, Janukovič Kravec is the proponent. And Kravec is a friend of Ljovčkin, when Kravec was the champion of Janukovič, Ljovčin led the administration of Janukovič. And Ljovczyn has always been and is the sponsor of the Strike Party and Vitaly Volodymyrovich himself. Remember who forgot Cliché and Dusty were going to Vienna with Firthash and Lewycken to agree on their political future, right? That's why Clicko ruins the history of Ukraine, the history of Kiev, and knows it on the back of the oligarhat to build a line of TRC. Because he's directly interested in this, because it's a question that his sponsor, Mr. Lewochkin, is hiding, right? So I'm addressing you now, please, for 10 seconds, as you've given everyone. I'm talking to everyone right now.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-22-m0.u131	Ten seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-22-m0.u132	I'm talking to all the Chinese right now: don't worry, they're stealing our story. They're replacing our thousand-year history with malls. Come to Cliché.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-22-m0.u133	Dmitry Volodymyrovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-22-m0.u134	Dmitry Linko, Oleg Lachka Radical Party. Honourable Ukrainians in the Constitution of Ukraine are described as the largest wealth of Ukraine is the Ukrainian land. But the pervasive Ukrainian land is the target of attacks both inside and outside the country. In my hometown of Kirovograd, there are numerous violations and raids of land. In the Dobrovelecki district of Markov, where I was last week, and where the community was going to fight against a new raider who, without the permission of the people, signed contracts without any signature, took the same bribe to the register, registered and thus took over 300 human rations. We've written all the references. I turned today to the minister of justice, Peter, to the minister of Habakkuk, and to all law enforcement agencies. Courts are now taking place, but there are no fair courts in Ukraine, and the first instance is winning, the second is an appeal, says, no, people signed, the experts confirm. The whole community came together against and said they didn't sign, the courts said they signed. We, our team of the Radical Party, are making sure that Ukrainian land belongs to Ukrainian peasants and we have made appropriate changes to the Constitution. We demand that they be considered and accepted in this Supreme Council so that we can write in the Constitution, which is the basis of the agricultural system in Ukraine, which is farming. And from this we need to adopt today new changes to anti-trade laws that make it impossible to capture land in a similar way. We demand the support of the peasants. They're taking the land, they're taking it from the peasants today. They demand that they don't sell their milk, that they actually take the livestock out of the village, they destroy the bees, they take away all the credit opportunities. So the village is dying today because this is also a preparation for tomorrow's IMF to come and say, come on, there's no peasants, there's no one there to do, let's sell this land. This is the last thing we're selling, this is going to be our land, and we're not going to let that happen. The Radical Party's team against the sale of Ukrainian land, we're against taking peasants. By the way, this raider in Kirovgrad, who took the land to the peasants, this is the deputy district council that bought people voices before, because they were his breadwinners, then the pies ended up -- he took the land and he's going to go for a run again. This is called Ukrainian politics: first the voices were sold, then robbed, three times taken, and then people suffer. Therefore, there is no way to sell votes, only to vote for those who advocate the interests of the Ukrainians and the Ukrainian people.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-22-m0.u135	Thank you. Amelchenko Basil gives the floor to Andrew Lozov. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-22-m0.u136	Andrey Lozovy, Radical Party of Lazka. "The sun rises and the grass roars, I see a path where you're going. My teacher, the dawn of the world. Where to look, where to find you?" – wrote the great Ukrainian poet Andri Malisko. And where to find a teacher today, when this great profession is one of the most important things in life, not that it has no prestige, not that it has no normal support from the state, but just today's authorities, the current government is bullying teachers. What's going on today? Four and four billion dollars have not been paid to teachers, just as it is a deficit in the education budget for cities and united communities. What does this mean for teachers? I'd like this power to bring you to your senses, those who, you teach your children abroad, and millions of Ukrainian families teach their children here on our sacred Ukrainian land. And what you're doing today is you're delaying teachers' salaries, it's unpaid bonuses, it's a low level of social protection for teachers. Iron Chancellor Otto von Bismarck wrote that the school economist then builds prisons. You want to build prisons? Do you want our teachers to be talented, smart, teach children and make our children grow up in Ukrainian tradition, grow intellectual, develop, raise our country, make it strong, rich, flourish as our Radical Party does when you wipe your feet about teachers? You're saving up our children's future. The task that the Ukrainian people require is to provide teachers with normal jobs. Work to enable Ukrainian children to learn. Correct your mistakes, apologize to your teachers, and listen to us. The program of the Radical Party is clearly black in white: the prestige of the teacher’s work. So if we don't do this, we're just going to lose Ukraine. The nation will deteriorate, the nation will die. And what you do today, nobody wants to be a teacher, nobody wants to invest in the development of our country. What did you say, "honorable" (in paws) is our authority? Teachers go to Italy, Portugal, Spain, they carry pots behind Europeans, they move concrete, they take care of older people there when these people who have learned, who are willing to give their hearts, their minds to children who are willing to develop a Ukrainian child in order to have a real elite developed in the future, these people cannot feed themselves. And that's on your conscience. Teachers pay!
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-22-m0.u137	Colleagues, I'd like to consult with you. We have six minutes to complete. I'm ready to add five or seven minutes. Let's figure out what position we're going to take to make it fair. So, Buglak now, Bacheva, Illenko, Skuratowski. [[B in m in s a l in]] Okay. Let's stop at that. [[B in m in s a l in]] Colleagues, we've got six minutes. I'll give you 10 more minutes. Who else is present in the hall so that I can understand? [[B in m in s a l in]] Okay. Colleagues, pay attention! Attention! Attention, colleagues. Colleagues, pay attention! Look, so we're going to redefine. Buglak, Bahejeva, Illenko, Skuratovsky, Koseljeva Six. Mustafa. And we won't be able to make it anymore. [[B in m in s a l in]] That's it. And that's where we stop. Okay. I'd like to have a word with you. No, no, it's Buglak Yuri Alexanderovich, and then it's Bachelor. No, it's Bacchayeva, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-22-m0.u138	Dear colleagues! On June 20, the most important exodus meeting of the Eighth Calling Committee on Health Care took place. Despite the flow of dirt and slander on the part of the M.O.P.O. and the efforts of Chief Doctor OHMATDlT Sadovík to tear down the travel session, this meeting took place. We didn't give up the room, but we held a meeting under the open sky, and it lasted more than four hours. The actions of Suprun and Sadovyak hindered the activities of the national MPs, which violate Ukrainian legislation. I ask the Attorney General to give them an objective legal assessment. More than 100 parents of children, doctors, media, charities, and public organizations participated in the field of travel. It seems that the MOH has set itself the goal of destroying a branch that can heal and provide a chance to live with cancerous children. Deputy Minister Lynchevski approved the order to reorganize the structure of the facility without prior agreement with the labour force. This is the destruction of the Children's Oncohematology Center and the bone marrow transplantation, and the reference lab, which is the only one in our country. An average of 25 operations are performed annually at the center. Healed indicator is 73 percent. This is in line with the standards of the best European clinics! In the center, we saw 10 children having surgery. They're beautiful, they're talented, they're good. Thank God and the doctors for their recovery! There are no foreign children. In the new OHMATDIT Corps, where more than 1 billion dollars are spent, there are no repairs, and there is no sanitation that even rats will not live there. We've found 1 million dollars worth of drugs we can't give to children! Let those who bought them eat them. The Trusteeship Council, which is not in the Ukrainian legislation, is covered by charitable funds. They are interested in treating Ukrainian children abroad, not in our hospital. Please consider my statement to be a parliamentary request to the head of the government, the Attorney General of Ukraine, the Head of the SBU, the Head of the NBU. The destruction of OHMATTIT is a matter of national security, it cannot be allowed. OHMATDIT needs the protection and assistance of the state. Thank you. Health and peace for all.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-22-m0.u139	Thank you. Illenko Andriy Yuriovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-22-m0.u140	Andrew Illenko, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union, the city of Kiev. Dear Ukrainians! Dear colleagues! Today I would like to dedicate this speech to, you know, a very old disease of Ukrainian parliamentaryism, which has become very relevant again this week, unfortunately too. It's a problem of such a disgraceful phenomenon as buttoning, like non-personal voting. Well, it would seem obvious that this thing after the Dignity Revolution would have gone into oblivion, the more so that those political forces that became power, they promised to do it, they heroically fought against buttoning in the Party of the Regions. But it turns out that they have the same need for buttoning, because we need to extend our lobbying laws, we need to make our own personnel decisions, and so without buttoning. And since there's been a lot of talk on this subject, I just want to remind you that on December 4, 2014, the National MPs of the All-Ukrainian Freedom Association registered in the Supreme Council a bill number 1231 that proposes to introduce criminal responsibility for buttoning in order to finally put an end to this phenomenon. Because, you know, if a person, for example, votes in two ballots in an election, he goes to jail for that. But if the national MP votes for the other deputies in the hall, he does. I'm sorry, I don't think I can distract you. I'm very sorry. If a national MP votes for another, he will accordingly receive no punishment, although he distorts it and his forging in this vote is immeasurably greater than when voting in a simple election when the citizens vote. And I am now addressing the Head of the Supreme Council, Andrew, let's finally address this issue, let's stop this disgrace, because together, in particular, we have fought against this phenomenon, because there will never be any trust in Parliament, there will never be any trust in the state authorities in our country, and if we have this disgraceful phenomenon to continue in our Supreme Council. Because today people watch it on TV, they see it, they see it, they see this empty hall, they see the buttonage, they resent it, and they have no confidence in power, nor in politicians, nor in institutions, in particular. So please let's solve this question, let's put the bill to a vote and introduce criminal responsibility for buttoning. You broke the law, you faked it, you have to answer it. Moreover, the Constitutional Court has already shown that if a buttoned-up decision is taken and the Rules are violated, this is the basis for the annulment of these decisions as was the case with the law of Kiwalov-Kelešnick. Therefore, we need to draw conclusions and finally keep our promises.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-22-m0.u141	But I think the answer to that question is not in that plane, because the law can be passed. And I'm more or less predicting what the vote will be for him. And that's why I've put in place a system and now there's an IT strategy of the Supreme Council of Ukraine for the introduction of electronic cards, as it is in the European Parliament. It'll be a real answer to the question, Andrew, it'll be real when there's a single card on the board, and a vote on the committee, and a vote on the Supreme Council, sorry when this card will be both a salary card and no one will want to hand it over to anyone else, because otherwise it won't go into the hall and the answer will be systemic to this problem that I've fought with, Andrew, no less than you stress. But the answer has to be systemic, go into the hall and crash the bill, it's going to be the answer to the question, it has to be systemic. And I believe and I hope that next year we will be able to run this system that we are taking completely out of the Europarliament system and when it does work then it will really stay in the past, and otherwise it will just be political debates and nothing else, and mutual accusations. And I want to point out that this is something that we all have to do together, because when we talk about breaking the Rules, unfortunately, it's happening in a very strange way. When the law is good, everyone closes their eyes to breaking the Rules, it is good for them. When bad, everyone begins to pay attention to the rules that are in force. Before that, there must be a justice approach, not a justice approach. One-sided approach. And, colleagues, once again, I'd like to say about the hall. I've been in a lot of parliaments lately, and I want to say when there's debates from MPs when questions go to the government, of course there's always those who take an active position. Once again, however, the Supreme Council each time and, if you will excuse me, destroying one another here every Friday with the hands of the deputies themselves will not add honor and honor to anyone. And when someone thinks that the Supreme Council is something distracted, and it's good, it's not true, it's on everyone's list in the next election. The more we destroy Ukrainian parliamentaryism ourselves from this rostrum, the more we will harm both the Ukrainian state and each of us, because in the most difficult times for the country, the Ukrainian Parliament has taken responsibility: and in the 1990s, the declaration of independence, and the adoption of the Constitution, whose anniversary will be celebrated shortly, and after the Orange Revolution, the Dignity Revolution, it does not destroy Parliament, because it is the basis of Ukrainian statehood today, it is the centre of decision-making. Let us treat one another with respect, and then believe me, and society will treat us with respect. Thank you. Skuratovsky gives the word Silantiev. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-22-m0.u142	Dennis Silantiev, faction of the Radical Party of Oleg Lášk. Dear friends, respected Ukrainians, respected colleagues, today we are on the eve of the Youth Day. Young ones to whom we are proud, young ones to whom we honor. But what is the state of politics, youth policy in our country today? I'll keep you posted. First, on November 15, 2017, parliamentary hearings were held on "Formation and implementation of state youth policy in Ukraine in conditions of decentralization." That is, experts from all over Ukraine, youth leaders, leaders of public opinion, have noted problems, namely, the main way to solve these problems. What do you think? So far, these parliamentary hearing recommendations have not been voted on, they have been put to the agenda on Wednesday, June 20, but they have not been voted on. The same is true of the next parliamentary hearings that need to be held, but today they have not even been included in the agenda. I want to tell you in a responsible way that unlike an active government, unlike the active policies of a youth-driven government, the radical party's policy will stand firm for the interests of young people and we will report, not what is not there, not what needs to be done, but what is already happening to our achievements. I'm on my way. What's missing today? And there's no youth construction today, because in 2014 the Youth Building Loan Program was completely closed. People, young people, today can't take credit even for buildings that already exist, because today, 15 percent and in 5 years, they can buy two apartments if they pay these interest rates. There's absolutely no credit, no mortgage lending so that young people can open up their first business so that they don't go abroad, so that they can stay here so that they can make themselves available here. Next. There is absolutely no program for youth employment, job security. Now there's some bad percentage or 3 or 4 percent for young people, and soon there won't even be anyone to work with, because young people are all going abroad and they're going to realize themselves. Today, there are absolutely no incentives for young people who want to give birth together to young people who want to have children because there is no way to provide for their families today. I want to say that if we just talk about what we care about our young people, nothing will change. The Radical Party insists that young people’s problems be solved so that the Youth Law can be enforced so that we can finally get on with our lives the way today needs.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-22-m0.u143	Ten seconds. Okay. Thank you. Colleagues, I remind you, two closing remarks, now Koscheva Olena Volodymyrna, and then Gopko handed Mustafa Najem over, and she came to me and said, "It's two closing speeches." Please, Olena Volodymyrna.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-22-m0.u144	Alona Kocheljev, faction of the Radical Party of Oleg Lášk. Dear Lord, the presiding, revered Ukrainian people! The problem that concerns every Ukrainian is the rapid increase in municipal payments. Statistics show that 1 out of 5 apartments in a multistory apartment is in debt for residential services. Such phenomena become systemic because of the constant increase in housing and utility services, which leads to an uncontrollable increase in population debt. As of today, the population debt for utilities in Ukraine totals nearly 43 billion dollars, for example, in Kharkiv on April 1, this year, the debt of the population has been 210 million dollars and continues to rise steadily, causing excessive tariffs and not transparent and outdated principles. Yes, according to Government Decree 869 of 2011, more than 20 services may be included in the cost of maintenance services. For example, according to fees for maintenance services in the city of Kharkiv, the average payment is now about 260 dollars. It should be noted that, with the support of the Radical Party faction led by the leader, Oleg Ljashk, the introduction of the new Ukrainian Housing and Utilities Act had been suspended, otherwise the maintenance tariffs would have increased three or four times today, in Kharkiv the mandatory payment would have amounted to about a thousand dollars. At the same time, we, the people's deputies, the Radical Party faction, with the aim of lowering the cost of housing services, are urgently demanding that the government make changes to the stated decision and set up a list of services for the management of multiple apartment buildings, and also approve the border rates on housing services. And yet another great problem is the wearout of Ukraine's housing fund. In Kharkiv, for example, the figure is over 65 percent. So it is very important to provide funding for the current and capital repairs of housing. At cloudy rates on residential services, their quality is at a minimum. And this is where the subsidy system doesn't work, the problem needs to be solved by other means, by radically raising citizens' incomes. Oleg Láska's Radical faction team is proposing an energy-generating policy to ensure that housing services are quality and meet the real, financial potential of citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-22-m0.u145	Thank you. And Hopko Hanna's closing remarks are given to Mustafa Najem. This will be a final performance, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-22-m0.u146	Dear colleagues! I would now like to refer to the police commissions that have been introduced into our country since 2016. The point is that these committees were set up to appoint police officers to work for the first time. And last week, the Center for Law Reform Policy, along with the Association of Ukrainian Human Rights Watchers, conducted a study of how these commissions work. At this point, we can say that these commissions have really introduced a new quality in public control for the appointment of police officers. And there are clear schemes that can be followed, who, where he goes and what he claims. But there are problems. The problem is, the first is that there are only 84 police commissions working around the country today, even though there were supposed to be dozens more. This means that very many communities have no control over the appointment of police officers in places. The second problem is that the public is not enough on the same boards. So we have police commissions, some of which work as national deputies, for example. There are commissions with local deputies or representatives of pocket - size social organizations that influence the appointment of police officers on their first assignment. The second problem is that unfortunately, now police commissions don't affect the promotion of police officers within the system. That is, when appointed for the first time, the commission affects some personnel decisions, and they have no influence. The third problem is that the members of the commission are not trained, there is no training, there is no whole, complete absence of this story. The only thing to be noted is that in the Odessa region, the police commission is the only one in the country that really provides such courses and methodological guidance on how different or interviews should be conducted, or on the monitoring of candidates who come for appointment. What is happening to the assignments themselves? We'd like to go to the Ministry of Internal Affairs, namely Mr. Habakkuk's minister, and the heads of the National Police's headquarters, to change human resources policy by assigning people to the police commission. Well, first of all, we have some district police commissions that have national MPs working on -- Dnipropetrovska, Lvivska, Hmelnicka, Cherniewecka. There are areas where they work, not national ones, but MPs at local levels. We call on those who assign them, and this is actually the local authorities, but it's not the local councils that appoint people who don't work for the police, it's people who, for example, are from pocket organizations or from local council members in general. And we also ask local councils to replace them, because in some commissions there are police officers at all. We'll be officially addressing both the heads of the IMF and the heads of the National Police, and the heads of the district councils to replace this story. And once again, I want to emphasize that this is a good tradition. But in front of us are disciplinary commissions that have to be made of numbers.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-22-m0.u147	Ten seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-22-m0.u148	And if we can't control these commissions now in disciplinary commissions that are going to have an impact on human resources, we're not going to be able to influence personnel at all, it's going to have a very negative impact. Thank you again, Alexander Banchuk, Boris Malishev.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-22-m0.u149	Thank you. So the speeches by the national deputies are completed and our plenary week is completed. I'd like to thank everyone for this week's work. It was a tough, uncomplicated law, but we passed it. And I also want to inform everyone that the following week of Monday, I'm going on a visit to the United States, and it's very important that both the speaker of Lithuania, and the speaker of Georgia, and the speaker of Moldova, and the vice-speaker of Poland, and our joint position will be when we meet with Speaker Ryan with the highest authorities of the United States. This is primarily the introduction of sanctions against the construction of the North Stream 2 as well as inter-parliamentary cooperation in the area of the creation of a single centre against the hybrid threats of Russia. When I was on an official visit to Britain last week, I saw a very interesting experience. They set up in the British Parliament a working group of MPs to counter Russia’s hybrid threats. I think we need to take this experience so that at the parliamentary level we can develop common strategies, and even better, when this is an interparliamentary level from Estonia, Lithuania, Poland, Ukraine to Georgia and together with our allies from the United States of America, from the European Union, from Britain. And we will also work to unite our efforts to counter all the threats that the Russian Federation today poses not only for Ukraine but for the rest of the free world. I'm sure this will be a big step in setting up an inter-parliamentary dialogue between us and our key strategic partners. And I'm sure this will raise the Ukrainian Parliament to a new level of interaction. Thank you all again for this plenary week. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is closed. And you've done well in committees and districts. Happy birthday.
