ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-03-m1.u1	Colleagues, lunch break is over. I'm asking you to come into the hall, get ready to register in the evening session. I would like to remind you that we have stopped by the draft Law on the Moratorium of Tariffs for the delivery of Ukrainian-language printed editions in Ukraine and periodic regional and local editions in the area of Donetsk and Lugansk. So we're talking about not raising tariffs for Ukrainian editions. And I'm sure during the discussion we'll be able to compromise on the basis of adopting this bill. Now, after the registration, I remind you, Alexy Rybchin will have the word from Fatherland. But before that, I'm asking everyone to register. And please register to attend the evening session. [[16:05:09]] 351 deputies registered. I declare the evening session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine open. And I invite you to speak on Bill 7291 Alexia Rybkin of the Fatherland faction, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-03-m1.u2	Alexy Rybchin, "Fatherland" faction, Donetsk. The Fatherland faction will support this bill. Yet I agree with my colleagues that we need to have calculations on how the Crucifixion and the government will compensate for the possible damage that there is so that respectable postmen will not suffer. However, the issue in this law is not that these services should be wasted, but that people should be able to buy newspapers and pay for the cost of our printed publications. How can this be done if the government simply fails to pay pensions to forced displaced persons, those who have moved from occupied areas of Crimea and Donbas? Everyone heard about the case of our scientist Kozlowski, who was in captivity, who went to the European Union to talk about the crimes committed by pro-Russian terrorists and who was blocked from paying his pension. In manual mode after the intervention of the deputies, after the intervention of the ministers, he was reinstated. However, we have a very large number of such cases. For example, yesterday Paul Dobbush, a criminal who fought in the ATO, who was a volunteer who supported the resistance movement in Crimea, wrote that he had received a call from a social worker and said that the commission would be tomorrow to deprive him of all his payments and to block his cards because he was not at home and he was in the European Union, and where he was treating his child now. So the person is in the hostages of the system. And I could say that it's just absurd. For example, writes pensioner Załozny Mikola Ivanovich, who says that he, a Ukrainian citizen, lived in Donetsk until April 14th. Since August 1, 2017, his pension has been suspended because he has been re-registered and has a residence in an unoccupied territory, he has decided to give up the status of the internally displaced person and has thus been blocked from his pension and is required to return to the VPO status in order for him to receive his pension. You realize it's nonsense at all!
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-03-m1.u3	Give me a minute, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-03-m1.u4	I could say there are 4 systemic pension problems for displaced persons. The first is that there are debts on the pensions of displaced persons. The second is that there's no payment, they just cancel people's payments while there's some kind of half-legal check. The third problem is that people who were VPOs and now lose this status on purpose because they don't want to be a liability to the state, they can't take their pension payments. And those people who are now retired will either get a minimum pension or not get one, because there's no paper business, and they can't prove they're retired. For failure in pension reform, Minister Reva must retire. We have now registered the corresponding Order 8451. And I ask the honourable duty of chairman of Mr. Kaplan's committee to consider this at the next committee meeting, because it is precisely through resignation that we should show that these things will not be.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-03-m1.u5	Thank you. From "the will of the people," please, Fishy Eugene. From the People's Front to Sümar. Please, Mr. Eugene.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-03-m1.u6	This is the question that we discussed on the Conciliation Council yesterday. The problem is no longer that simple. The problem is strategic. This is a nation's information security issue, first and foremost. Because the villages, I mentioned it yesterday, the villages, for example, in the Chernigiv region are shut off from television. They watch exclusively Russian television. They don't have a wire radio. They're not getting a ride on the periodicals of Ukrainian editions. What does this talk about? So they're completely cut off from the information sphere by someone behind something. Who cut off one area after another, and why during the war? It's perfectly clear that it's some sort of minimum case, and as much as possible it's a crime of state order. I don't think we should just accept this, but to date, we need to deal with someone who's supposed to be in charge of the State Company. To restore supplies, especially in rural areas, newspapers, and magazines, and to pay all magazines and publications in an orderly manner for subscription. Because people pay for Crucifixion, and Crucifixion doesn't pay for subscription to publishing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-03-m1.u7	Thank you very much. Colleagues, we don't have much to discuss. So I ask everyone to come into the hall, and the heads of the factions, I ask you to invite the deputies into the hall. Now from the People's Front, Victoria Sumar, then Yuri Pavelenko, as agreed, of course. Please, Victoria Sumar.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-03-m1.u8	Dear colleagues, you know, I've been criticized a lot for non-liberal methods, such as radio quotas. I want to tell you that these quotas are working, and Ukrainians are listening even more than they've been listening to, and Ukrainian songs have become much more and more. I was then criticized for my TV quotas. They started shooting Ukrainian products, satirical and Ukrainian shows, and the end of Ukrainian television didn't happen, and since October, God forbid, the language will be more. We have a printed press, and we decided not to go through quotas, not bans, but incentives. Because we're talking about that we're pro-promissing the press into Ukrainian if its delivery is cheaper. Everyone called: do tax benefits for the Ukrainian-speaking, do it. We've tried that now, and I believe we'll find a way to do that. Let's take it from the first reading. Let's look and count, but let's go this way to stimulate the Ukrainian product. And what's relevant, of course, to Donbas. We will certainly support this, either in the case of my bill or in the case of the Kuril MP's Bill, Gerasimov. This is what needs to be done today, they need to help them see the Ukrainian position, and very often everything is bombarded there, and they can only read those newspapers. So today, it is vital that this step be taken with the Ukrainian - language press and the entire Ukrainian - printed press and, of course, the printed press of Donbass, to give the Ukrainians a reading of the Ukrainian word. I very much ask that, even if we vote on a basis, we will find a common language. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-03-m1.u9	Thank you. Now from the Opposition Block, Yuri Pavlenko, then from Self-Help, Shepherd.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-03-m1.u10	Dear Andrey Volodymyrovich! Dear colleagues! Ukrainian people! Undoubtedly, it would be very good if a similar bill had been introduced by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, because the regulation of tariff policy is precisely within the competence of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. Unfortunately, the issue of information security for an active government, despite good public statements, has become secondary. They're actually, apart from beautiful statements, no real action to make real information security, they didn't do it. That's why the people's deputies were forced, I understand, to introduce this bill, although it goes to some extent beyond Parliament. I hope that, after this discussion, the bill will be approved because there are, in fact, very many population points that today can only receive a printed word, others, regardless of the 21st century, there are no means of communication for these population centres and specific Ukrainian citizens. At the same time, Andrew Volodymyrovich, taking advantage of the opportunity, wanted to contact you. On more than one occasion, and in particular because of a parliamentary request, I asked you why there is no Rules of Procedure for Parliamentary hearings on freedom of speech and the safety of journalists. Unfortunately, at my request, I received an answer from the head of the committee, which I know so well, because all the members of the Committee on Freedom of Speech have been the authors of this decree. So I would ask you, Andry Volodymyrovich, to find an opportunity and to hold parliamentary hearings in the Supreme Council on the safety of journalists and in general the freedom of speech in Ukraine. Unfortunately, we also have a rather dangerous situation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-03-m1.u11	Thank you, colleagues, and thank you for your position, for your support. This is indeed an information protection for Ukraine against enemy information attacks, and I am confident that all the political factions in the bill support it. Taras Shepherd, Self-Help, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-03-m1.u12	Dear colleagues, I want to explain my personal position, why I do not support this bill. Because right now we're trying to translate from a sick person's head into a healthy person. To date, the lack of information policy in Ukraine in terms of occupied territories, in relation to those areas that are now under the control of the Ukrainian State, we want to resolve the moratorium. Excuse me, my friends, but if the person in Lysicánsk, in Severerodonetsk, did not subscribe to the Ukrainian edition today, we will not prepaid it tomorrow by setting up a moratorium on the distribution of this Ukrainian edition. Today, by imposing a moratorium on one business subject, we cannot solve problems that cannot be solved by the State today. If that's how we go, let's go further. Let's put a moratorium on the cost of printing, let's put a moratorium on the wages of the printers who print these newspapers, and we're not going to raise the price for them, let them be cost-effective, and they're going to close at all. Today, if we really want to support Ukrainian publications in that area that today is dangerous to Russia's aggression, let's make a state policy, we have a profile ministry, why isn't it here today? Why does it not come and say what kind of publications should be supported? What publications bring this Ukrainian policy to the occupied territory and to Ukraine’s controlled territory? Let's talk for these publications about targeted support at the expense of the state budget, then, really, we'll look like a state. And today we want to settle some dividends for ourselves, bankrupting essentially the state-owned enterprise of Crucifixion. This is certainly not a national approach, and it certainly will not lead to the Ukrainianization of our controlled and uncontrollable territory.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-03-m1.u13	Thank you. I just want to emphasize, first of all, it's suggested that we adopt the law as a basis, we can adjust to the second reading. Next. I remind you, these are benefits for Ukrainian editions, which will encourage other publishers to switch to Ukrainian. You cannot advocate for the protection of the Ukrainian language and not support such a direction of reform and change. Just on the basis of that, we can make the necessary adjustments to the second reading. Colleagues, I'm asking everyone to come into the hall, we have literally one statement left from the non-fractional, then from the committee. And I ask everyone to take up jobs and prepare for the vote. Please, from the non-fractional, Ostap Ednak.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-03-m1.u14	Dear colleagues, I fully support the very idea of stimulating the distribution of available periodicals, especially in eastern Ukraine. The only thing that gives me a warning is that the political body is actually interfering with the economic activity of the Krašta enterprise, which we are trying to translate into the best practices of corporate governance. The tariff policy must be determined by both investment policy and development policy, by independent supervisory board and professional management. So, I think, if we want to have a successful business with reliable delivery, with modern technology, with good service -- that's what's missing from our citizens -- we shouldn't get involved in political activities like this. On the other hand, if we want the Ukrainian Parliament to have Ukrainian editions available in the east of Ukraine, we need to produce a state policy, a special budget programme to compensate for the delivery of such publications, because I can still understand that there are costs that are greater, there are larger areas, there are threats, perhaps to the life and health of mailers, they need to pay extra for it and so on. There's more spending, and the state in the budget has to fund this kind of activity, and it's got to be a separate budget programme, if necessary, for further changes to legislation. So I would like to divide these two concepts and not interfere artificially with the activities of a state-owned enterprise that is going through a very difficult transformation phase, but to work out a quality bill that will compensate for tariffs through the budget, perhaps through administrations, and thus make delivery of Ukrainian publications available in the occupied territory in the territory of eastern Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-03-m1.u15	Thank you. The discussion is over. I now invite you to the closing statement of the committee head Victoria Sumar, and then we will proceed to the vote. I ask all the heads of factions to invite all the deputies to the Hall as much as possible and ask the secretariat of the Supreme Council to invite all the deputies to the Hall, and in two minutes we will move on to the decision-making process. Please, Victoria Sumar, turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-03-m1.u16	Dear colleagues, when I hear it, let me work, I want to remind you that we have a fruitful job with you, well, there's still, God forbid, a few months left. I have a question: why haven't they worked so far? I'm asking you now, let's work out, but let's take concrete steps, and now we can take this step. On the basis of what we're taking, we're going to take concrete steps very quickly, and we're going to agree on all the positions. The moratorium doesn't work -- let's say, for Ukrainian editions, 20 percent is zero tariff, and let's think about how to compensate. But if we don't take this step now, then, you know, don't be surprised that we have just a printed press dying and that it's only going to be left with a Russian language that's directly supported by Moscow, and it's going to be done with the hands of the patriots in the embroidery that's sitting in this room. So instead of working in theory, let us do it in practice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-03-m1.u17	Thank you. So, colleagues, let's move on to making a decision. And I would like to point out that this law also provides for aids for the supply, delivery of publications to Ukraine's controlled territory of the Donetsk and Lugansk regions. At the same time, this law is the law, as George Pavlenko rightly said, and information protection, and information protection of our citizens living in the Donetsk and Luhansk regions today, and I am convinced that we will be able to unite, accept as a basis, and we will be able to take all the amendments and suggestions into account in the second reading of this law. Colleagues, please take your seats and prepare to vote on the basis only. Please support everyone just on the basis. And I'd like everyone to take their jobs and come into the hall. So I'm voting on the draft Moratorium Act for the delivery of Ukrainian-language printed editions in Ukraine and periodic regional and local editions in the controlled Ukraine of Donetsk and Lugansk regions (No. 7291). Colleagues, just on the ground. Please vote and please support. Vote. Please be supportive. Vote. [[16:23:25]] For 204 We didn't make it. I'll be back. Colleagues, and please invite all the deputies to the hall. Please take your jobs. Not everyone was in the hall. I'm asking for maximum mobilization. Come on in, colleagues. There's a vote coming. So, colleagues, now I'm going to put the law back in place that provides support for Ukrainian-language printed editions, a law that provides benefits for the provision of informational publications in the Donetsk and Lugansk regions. I don't think it's acceptable for us not to be able to support this idea. We can work on it between the first and the second readings. And I'm sure the committee will be open to discussion, and all proposals will be accepted and confirmed. But on the basis of that, I'm sure we have to put it together. So, colleagues, I'm asking everyone to take up jobs. For 25 minutes now, I'm reminding you of the working hours of the plenary meeting of the Supreme Council. Please prepare for the vote. I'm going to put the first vote back, and I'm going to ask everyone to vote. So I'd like you to prepare. I am voting on the proposal to return to the draft Moratorium Act for the delivery of Ukrainian-language printed editions in Ukraine and periodic regional and local editions in the controlled Ukraine of Donetsk and Lugansk regions. Please vote. Colleagues, please support. Careful! Every voice. Please be supportive. Vote. Careful, colleagues, every vote, we vote. [[16:25:39]] For 215 Colleagues, we're not going in to discuss this. I'll do it again. I'm asking for the factions: "Peter Poshenko's Block" – 85, "The People's Front" – 64, "The Opposition Block" – 1, "The Self-Help" – 6, "The Radical Party – 16, "The Fatherland" – 10, "The Will of the People" – 5, "The Rebirth" – 7. We're short 11 votes, colleagues. I ask you to come into the hall and vote. Invite someone who's not in the hall. I'm asking you to see who's not here right now and invite the deputies into the hall. So, colleagues, please prepare for the vote. I repeat my motion to return to the draft Law and ask everyone to participate in the vote. Don't come out, Vadim, there'll be a vote. And ask Odarchenka, yes. Please, colleagues. I am voting on the proposal to return to the draft Moratorium Act for the delivery of Ukrainian-language printed editions. Please vote, please support. Each voice has a weight, and please support. We're voting carefully. Everyone, please take part in the vote. Vote, please support, vote. [[16:27:37]] For 218. Six votes. If anyone wants to uphold the law, call someone who's not in the hall. I'm asking everyone to come in. I put it twice, I'll put it three times. We're not gonna talk right now, I'm telling you, we won't. We'll vote and make decisions. I'm asking you, colleagues, to be in the workplace during the vote. Just in the course of the vote, several deputies were absent from the workplace and did not take part in the vote. I ask you to invite everyone into the hall and prepare for the vote. I would stress that's the basis. We can work on the second reading. We can make all the adjustments. But not to vote is going to be a very bad sign for all of our work, which we did in defense of the Ukrainian language, for all of our work, which we did to support our Ukrainian citizens, who are on the line of delimitation. So please support. I'll put you to the vote now. And I ask you to support the return to this law. I'm asking everyone to go back to work. Please take up jobs. Now, during the vote, I hope that everyone will be in their place of employment. Please be prepared. And I'm voting on the proposal to go back to the draft Moratorium Act for the delivery of Ukrainian-language printed editions in Ukraine and periodicals in the controlled Ukraine of Donetsk and Lugansk regions (7,291). Please vote and please support. Each vote is relevant during this vote. Please be prepared. Don't leave the hall, Mrs. Oksana. Please vote and please support. Vote. Careful, we're voting, colleagues, Vadim, Vadim. [[16:29:58]] For 226 We're back. Now, colleagues, let's move on to making a decision. Colleagues, all in place, we have a voice. And once again, that's just the basis. Colleagues, I ask everyone to support Bill 7291 as a basis only. We'll be able to work on it. I'm asking everyone to vote and I'm asking you to support me. Everyone carefully participates in the vote. Please vote. Please be supportive. Let's vote, colleagues. Every voice. I'd like your support, colleagues. Please vote. Vote. Mrs. Ola, we have a vote. [[16:30:46.]] For 228 Decision taken. I'll take that as a base. I would like the committee to take into account all the suggestions made during the second reading discussion. Next draft of the Act amending the Ukrainian Law on State Support for Media and Social Protection of Journalists. A law that is actually a continuation of the same idea. And I'm asking you to support his consideration of the reduced procedure. Please vote and please support. Vote. Keep it up, fellows. [[16:31:35]] For a hundred and Decision taken. And I invite you to the report of the Ukrainian National Deputy Kuril Vitali Semenović. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-03-m1.u18	The honourable national MPs, the law introduced by the group of authors and it is somewhat different from the previous law adopted in the first reading, it is a little narrower and covers only an area controlled by the Ukrainian authorities in the Lugansk and Donetsk regions. But at the same time, it's a little bit more flexible, because this law is in agreement with Crucifixion, this law is in agreement with the Journalists' Association, and it allows for Crucifixion to set separate tariffs for this area. The point is that tariffs for the acceptance and delivery of domestic periodicals for subscription are set by the Ministry of Infrastructure in agreement with the Ministry of Economic Development. And the current tariffs, they have to be set for the entire territory of the state. So we're making a brief change that in the area of Donetsk and Lugansk, where the authorities of the Ukrainian government are exercising their powers, separate tariffs are being set for the acceptance and delivery of domestic periodicals for subscription to these areas. The bottom line is that since 2014, people in these areas have fallen heavily in terms of low payability. And in order to raise the distribution of printed editions in these territories, and it's suggested that we introduce the premium prices for subscription in these areas by name. Please be supportive. The law is very simple, clearly stated. So I think we can take it as a base.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-03-m1.u19	Thank you. The chairman of the Freedom of the Word Committee, Victoria Sumar, is invited to participate in the report. Please, Mrs. Victoria.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-03-m1.u20	Dear colleagues, the committee has considered this bill. It is completely related to the first one. It's just that the first bill that we just voted on as a basis concerns Ukrainian-speaking publications across Ukraine and all printed editions in Donetsk, Lugansk. The bill provides special tariffs for the delivery of printed publications in the Donetsk and Luhansk regions. This is definitely what we need to do. Clearly, these are complex territories. Special tariffs are something, well, let's say, vague definition, and on the committee we talked about it. Because a special tariff may be lower, or it may be higher, and it will be called a special tariff. The higher we can't let. But in this case, given these circumstances, we believe that this bill should be approved as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-03-m1.u21	Thank you for clarifying the position of the committee. Dear colleagues, please sign up for a discussion on Bill 8114 amending the Ukrainian Law on State Support for the Media and Social Protection of Journalists. Please. From the Radical Party, please, Valeria Zhartko. He gives the word Igor Mosiyczuk. Please, Mr. Igor.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-03-m1.u22	Igor Mosiyczuk, Oleg Lachka Radical Party We will, of course, support this bill as we did the previous one. Because we lost Crimea and part of Donbas because there was no Ukrainian word, and that's fundamental, and that's why we supported and will support these bills. But right now, I would like to take this opportunity to talk about shame, about national disgrace. I've just returned from the U.S. Embassy, where Ukrainian Chernobyl is starving, demanding a hearing in our Parliament with Oleg Lashk of Bill 4442 on the return of benefits to those who have saved the world from the greatest technological catastrophe of mankind. Dear colleagues, those who did not vote in favour of this bill in the hall are the government officials who nod at each other, pushed people to hunger and nowhere, and under the foreign embassy. Let all government officials, national deputies, officials who are going to run to the United States embassy today, go there with a roach and an ostrich, and let them all remember the Chernobylites who are starving under the embassy, come to them and repent. They will repent for their infamous vote, for fleeing this hall so as not to vote on the bill or return what they deserve to the people. And let them not sneeze, the prime minister, the vice-premier, the vice-premier for the committee, the committee for parliament -- and the circle is closed. We stand and vote 4442, and we stop the national disgrace.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-03-m1.u23	Please welcome me to the floor of the People's Deputy Kaplin Sergey Block. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-03-m1.u24	During the last month, the Committee on Social Policy, Employment and Pensions held about six or seven field trips to the Lugansk and Donetsk regions. And I want to share our impressions. People, of course, need the English word. People, of course, need the shoulders of Ukrainian authority. People, of course, need the truth and just propaganda of all Ukrainians. But even more Ukrainian citizens need a pension, they need a salary, and, most of all, you will be surprised that the government needs attention and respect for these people. Teachers who work there receive no allowance, but they continue to work literally at 500, thousands of yards from the border. They continue to work, they continue to teach our children to carry everything Ukrainian, to protect the Ukrainian word, to teach Ukrainian culture, to teach Ukrainian. The doctors, the builders who will rebuild the destroyed buildings, are completely unprotected. And that's why I think this issue should be dealt with in a complex way. I'm waiting for the Groysman government to come into the House of Parliament with a serious midterm program where information policy will only be a fraction of what we have to do for those people who live in the so-called Syrian zone. And finally. We're talking today about protecting our journalists working in Donetsk, Lugansk. But at the same time, there is nothing we can do to protect our journalists working in the Poltavsk, Sumsk district, Lviv, southern areas. This was recently beaten by a Polish journalist named Zurabel. Overwhelmed by Arsen Habakkuk, the minister of the interior. The investigation is ongoing. When this person came to a meeting with a profile committee, he was not even given a word.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-03-m1.u25	15 seconds to complete.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-03-m1.u26	So stop using double standards. And finally, protect every journalist, wherever he works, in western Ukraine, central or Donetsk, Lugansk.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-03-m1.u27	Please give the following address to the national deputy Paulenko. Oh, no. The Pavlovenko People's Deputy speaks from the rostrum and represents the position of "The Opposition Block." Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-03-m1.u28	Dear colleagues, no doubt the consideration of these two bills is a serious disgrace to the Cabinet of Ministers. It's a shame for a government that hasn't managed to form an effective information policy in four years. No doubt it is a disgrace to a parliament that interferes with its laws in the activities of its owners, imposing tariffs, and in some ways exceeding its authority. So, in our view, it's very important to hear from the Cabinet of Ministers first, and how do they see information policy? On the other hand, I would like to point out that three more years ago, and more faithfully three years ago, during the Committee's exit meetings, the word of information policy was sent to the committee by appropriate recommendations, references and requirements for a printed word to the government. Unfortunately, the vast majority of recommendations, appeals and demands by the Cabinet of Ministers are simply ignored and not implemented by the Ministry of Education. And of course, the information policy in Donetsk, Lugansk is not just a newspaper in the Ukrainian language, and here I fully support my colleague. Ukrainian Information Policy in the Donetsk Region, Lugansk Region is primarily a respect for every Ukrainian citizen of the Donetsk and Lugansk region, it is a full compliance by the State with their obligations either to an orphan child or to a child with disabilities or to a pensioner or to a veteran or to any other representative of the social category. This is the basis of information policy. And here too, unfortunately, the government is showing total contempt for its citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-03-m1.u29	Thank you. 15 seconds, let me finish. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-03-m1.u30	That's why the Opposition Block abstains from voting for the bill. And we ask the government to present its plan and its vision of information policy in the Donetsk and Lugansk areas. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-03-m1.u31	Thank you. Dear colleagues, from the Self-Help faction, Alexander Danchenko will speak. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-03-m1.u32	Dear colleagues, information policy is not a benefit, information policy is an information strategy that works step by step, and the content of this strategy, which is one step at a time in the country. We have no information policy at all, no strategy and no propaganda of the Ukrainian not only in the territory of Ukraine, but also in the position, there is no such thing. The benefits are not information policy. Now, look, I'm surprised by a lot of the deputies who went to my committee and asked me to take measures there against the director of Crucifixion, who frees up, who doesn't have the money to pay the salary. A billion dollars has already been owed to the State, a billion dollars. Now we say again, let's take the money from them. Find the compensators. Make a strategy. Of course, this needs to be supported, and we just want to solve something with the benefits. This is not right. Of course, we will support these territories. But I'm sorry, it's again patching holes in its holed pants when instead of information technology, the Internet, digital. digital television, sorry, which has not yet been implemented in Ukraine. We're talking about printed materials right now, because this is going to be more interesting. The strategy is to do it, not patch holes in your pants. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-03-m1.u33	Please, we've got Alexy Rybchin on the show right now to present the position of Fatherland. Please, Mr. Alexia.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-03-m1.u34	Alexy Rybchin, "Fatherland" faction, Donetsk. The Fatherland faction will support this bill, as will all the bills that support people who are in trouble in Donetskina and Lugansk as a result of the war with Russia. And I want to thank all the MPs in the room who produce laws that are designed to make people's lives a little easier in different areas: whether it's help to move higher education institutions, or whether it's things that involve pension payments, or whether it's things that are related to information policy. Thank you, all MPs. However, the question asked by my colleagues here is what the government is doing to us. Where do we have the Ministry of Social Policy, which should be here? Where do we have the Ministry of Information Policy and a minister who should or should not support this bill? Where we have the Ministry of Finance, which should say: and where are the compensators. Because there should be certain compensators if the Council introduces certain ones. A certain amount of activity in their bills. Where do we have the Ministry of Temporaryly Occupied Territories that should shape this policy? The government is failing this policy, and despite the efforts of the MPs, all the MPs, we see that unfortunately we are losing the battle for the hearts and minds of the people on Donbassa. Because it's not just about adopted bills, it's about the state of the roads. We see the government ploughing on roads throughout the country, but not in Donetsk. In Donetskin, Lugansk is now the worst roads in the country. This may not be the electorate they think of in a government that votes for a reason or a reason. Well, there's the same Ukrainians who want to drive on normal roads -- spend money there, make sure it doesn't get messy, pyrate on these roads, do people a good thing. The same question about infrastructure, go to CERs, checkpoints, there people die just because there's no hangover. Pensioners who are waiting to move from one part of Ukraine to the other part of the country, which, unfortunately, is now occupied, are simply dying because they don't have a hangover or banal water they can't drink. I think that's the kind of thing that we lose a battle for the hearts and minds of people.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-03-m1.u35	Finish 15 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-03-m1.u36	And it's, it's very sad, on the one hand, it's sad, on the other hand, we have a great potential for the things that we should do, and we do. Unfortunately, there is a question to the government, there is a question to the authorities that they can and must.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-03-m1.u37	Thank you. From the People's Front, please, Victoria Sumar takes the floor. Please. They'll come out of the place.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-03-m1.u38	Thank you, Madam Chairman. You know, four years of parliamentary office, I really like the call, "Let's do it." I want to say, "Take it and do it." Because everyone would probably have to be responsible for himself for what he did for four years. Although I fully agree with the criticism of the Cabinet of Ministers right now, which is obviously supposed to offer conceptual approaches to supporting Ukrainian books, Ukrainian periodicals, Ukrainian television and film production and Ukrainian music. Unfortunately, the reality is that this policy is being worked out with you in the hall. Come on, we've taken it upon ourselves, history will someday appreciate it, we're doing it for ourselves, for our country, for our children, and let's take this step forward now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-03-m1.u39	Thank you. Dear colleagues, from the non-fractional Ostap Ednak. Please give me your word. And please return to the session room, one minute please, Mr. One, because there will be a vote in a minute. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-03-m1.u40	Dear colleagues, in general, agreeing with the idea that special tariffs should be applied in the territory of Donetsk and Lugansk, they may be higher, by the way, because the costs of the state-owned enterprise may be higher. And I fully agree with the criticism of previous speakers that, indeed, similar complex, well-thought-out, technically well-thought-out decisions should be made by the government. The government has all the tools for this. Special directorates for the analysis of state policy are being created. But this morning Parliament is adopting a bill to restrict the export of wood because the government cannot ensure an effective fight against smuggling. So Parliament actually turned into this kind of manual regulatory tool because of the government's inaction. So I fully agree with the criticism that the government has a "yellow card" for failing to carry out its direct functions of policy analysis and proposing complex solutions, particularly through information policy. So in general, I support the bill in the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-03-m1.u41	Thank you. So, colleagues, the discussion is over. The committee recommends acceptance as a whole, but I'll put the first proposal on the ground. If there's support, then I'll put it all together. Now we're going to the vote. I'm asking everyone to come into the hall and take jobs. We're moving on to making a decision. Please come into the hall. So I'm voting on the draft Law amending the Ukrainian Law on State Support for Media and Social Protection of Journalists (No. 8114) on a basis, colleagues, on a basis. Please vote, please support. Vote, please. Vote. [[16:51:38]] For 215 I'll be right back. I'm asking everyone to come into the hall. Indeed, it is a thing that is supposed to consolidate the hall, and it is invalid when there are disputes between factions on a question that should unite everyone. I ask, colleagues, that we put aside political differences, support the foundation, and then the committee can work on the second reading. So, colleagues, please prepare for the vote, please take your seats. First I'm going to put it back, then I'm going to put it on the ground. You're ready, aren't you? I propose to go back to the draft Law amending the Ukrainian Law on State Support for Media and Social Protection for Journalists (8114). I ask everyone to take part in the vote. Please vote for the return. Let's vote, colleagues. Please be supportive. [[16:53:03]] For 228 We're back. Now, colleagues, every voice. Take up jobs. Every voice. I am voting on the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on State Media Support and Social Protection of Journalists (8114) as a basis. Please vote. And I'm asking you to back me up. We're counting each vote, please. Please support me as a base. [[16:53:43]] For 243 Decision taken. There is a committee decision, in general. Who is in favour of voting in total 8114, please vote. [[16:54:11]] For 203 I told you this question wouldn't go through in such an act as a whole. So, colleagues, the law is adopted as a basis. And I'm asking the committee to process it for second reading, taking into account all the suggestions that were in the hall. Colleagues, the next law is the draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine concerning the placement of social advertising with images of participants in hostilities, volunteers and others who have special merit before their Fatherland (No. 7360). I ask you to support the consideration of the reduced procedure. Please vote and please support. Vote. [[16:55:04]] For a hundred and Decision taken. And I invite you to the report of the National Deputy of Ukraine, Korchinsky Oksana Anatoliyevna. I would like to remind you that this is also a consideration of freedom of speech and media. Please, Mrs. Oksana.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-03-m1.u42	Praise Christ! This bill is called upon to oblige external advertisers, regardless of their form of ownership, to place social advertising in the form of images (photographs and other works of art) of participants in hostilities, volunteers, volunteers, and individuals who have merit before the Father for participating in hostilities that have State rewards. During the period of placement of the marked social advertisement, distributors are exempt from payment for the temporary use of the location of commercials held in municipal or state property. The placement of images of participants in hostilities, volunteers, volunteers, those who were given the name Hero of Ukraine for the fighting, the state rewards, they. In particular, in those locations where they came from or lived at the very least, they can show their respect for state authorities and local self-government bodies, other enterprises, institutions, organizations, regardless of the form of ownership, and Ukrainian citizens. Today, thousands of Ukrainian military personnel, volunteers, are protecting our Fatherland in the East. Many have lost the very value of life. They gave their lives for us with you, for our country, for Ukraine. This is the least we can do in their memory to have social advertising on our streets with their photographs so that our children, grandchildren, will know the real heroes of our Ukraine. Names that should stand pictures in every building and in every mansion: Zinich Igor, Blindak Vasil, Tabala Sergei, Kizilo Andri, Tarasjuk Vasil
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-03-m1.u43	One minute, please let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-03-m1.u44	Petrakivsky Alexander, Gemchugov Vladimir, Branovicki Igor, Gordijchuk Igor, Kulčický Sergey, Inter-Evikin Eugene, Mogilko Constantine, Tkakov Andry, Shapovalov Maxim, Jarovy Maxim is all the heroes of Ukraine. At present, we have 47, 29 of them who gave their lives to our Fatherland. You and I have 1,803 heroes of the award-winning Goddan Hmelnick. We have 6,000 people with you who have the "For Courage" and "For Merit." All these people have to be placed in social advertising. You and I as a nation should see the faces of real heroes, it's our duty to heroes. Glory to Ukraine! And glory to our heroes! I'm asking you to support this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-03-m1.u45	Thank you. Colleagues, the only request is not to scream like that. Everyone hears each other when there's silence in the hall. Thank you, Your Honor. And I would like to invite you to the report of the Information Policy Committee, Mrs. Victoria. Colleagues, I understand that we have a report, we have the support of the committee of this bill. I ask you to sign up for a discussion of the faction of the bill presented by the honourable Mrs. Corchinsky. Dear colleagues, I'm sorry, there's been a technical error. Mrs. Victoria will now present the position of the committee. I could not see her behind the wide backs of my colleagues. So I'm asking Mrs. Victoria to present the position of the committee, and then we'll sign up for the discussion. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-03-m1.u46	Thank you, Mrs. Irina. The committee reviewed and reworked the bill with, say, experts, advertisers. And you know, if you go down the streets of Ukrainian cities, you'll see a lot of social ads. It's just that the truth of social life has very little to do with it. Because usually it's social or commercial, or it's our total trouble, it's political advertising. And you know, I'm very supportive of Oksana Korchinsky's initiative, because in four years of war, we never learned to identify real Ukrainian heroes. How much do we know the names of those who have been rewarded with State rewards for participating in the ATO, those who have become symbols of the State? And of course, external social advertising is the first step towards society knowing its heroes. I think that the small percentage of social advertising that is set up by this bill could very significantly promote our warriors, the people who are really doing the feats, and it would be really social advertising, and we would take an important step towards social advertising here. And of course, the issue of social advertising needs to be settled with you and made very clear so that it doesn't get abused and the question of external advertising. We have a bill down here, but we're working on a new document right now, and I hope that we're going to get these issues in order. Please support the bill on behalf of the committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-03-m1.u47	Thank you. Colleagues, it wasn't from the faction now, it was from the information policy committee that supported this committee. Now, I'm asking you to sign up for factions. Please sign up. Please, Tetjana Ritchkova, I give you my word.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-03-m1.u48	Auntie Ritchkova, 27th District, Dnipro. I ask everyone to support this bill, because for many, unfortunately, people living in our country, war is somewhere far away. But for the city of Dnipra, it is near and for many other cities, because we have fast help flying through the city. And they're all very concerned, they're very concerned, and many of the people who live next door to us, in Dniper City, are our friends and our brothers, our loved ones, who are now protecting us all on the front. And for our children, it is very important for our future to know such people face to face. So I ask everyone to support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-03-m1.u49	Thank you, Mrs. Richkowi, for presenting the position of the Peter Dusty Block in support of this bill. Please, the People's Deputy Squary passes the word to Germany, which represents Leonid Yemen, the position of the People's Front faction. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-03-m1.u50	Dear colleagues, first of all, I will speak first of all as a deputy elected in the majority district of Kiev. And it's about position, and it's about issues that are related to this law. The main question is who's going to decide which faces have to be placed on billboards, who's going to decide who's going to be on these two percent billboards all over the country. As I understand from the text of the bill, these will be local administrations, and their decisions will be determined by who and what information will be available free of charge on two percent of boards throughout the country. I want to hear, maybe from the authors, maybe from the next answering question, because it's crucial to me when I make a decision, is it worth voting for this law today? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-03-m1.u51	Thank you, I understand your question. Next up, a speech by the National MP, Alexandra Kugel, the Fatherland faction. Please, Mrs. Alexander.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-03-m1.u52	I support that it's really embarrassing, the fourth year of war, and we're just looking at the issue of social advertising, and knowing really the possibility of saying thanks again to the parents, the family of those people who gave their lives. I want to be honest with you that the only channel, 1+1, is probably the one that ran this program without a state. He raised and put in place programs for boys who became disabled, how much love and public attention they paid to those programs, and the state took no action. In addition, in each ministry, in Mr. Stecz's ministry, in the Ministry of Occupied Territories, in the Ministry of Defence, in the social policy budget, there are social advertising costs. We support Mrs. Corchinsky's idea of what to do. But on the condition that we agree that in the second reading it will be clearly highlighted that it will be billboards only with the faces of the people standing. stand or stand in defense of Ukraine's independence. Without the "respect and love" signature, there's a president or someone else. For all the other discoveries and greetings with the festivals cost more than those who died in the war. This is the principle of acceptance in general. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-03-m1.u53	Thank you. Honorary colleagues, or all factions, of the groups, spoke about the bill under discussion? As far as I can tell, yes. There were questions from the honourable Mr. Hamz to the drafters of the bill, who exactly, what structure would determine the list of those heroes who had the right to be placed on these. On boards with social ads? I now ask Mrs. Korchinski to answer this question for one minute, because I understand that several factions and deputies will be determined on the basis of this answer. One minute, please. And I ask all the deputies to return to the session room in a minute, and there will be a vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-03-m1.u54	Dear National Deputies! This is about two percent that are used solely for appeals by the organisation of the Russian-Ukrainian war, the volunteer organizations. The point is that we support the locals themselves, we encourage local heroes, those who are rewarded with State rewards, those who are dead, and those who are alive. Once again, these are the ones who were born in those cities, the ones who grew up in the cities. The language doesn't go now that the same heroes will be deployed all over Ukraine. And they're asking our official ATO veteran organizations and volunteer organizations to help. You and I have in every city, in every area, in every city, the councils that help the ATO veterans, the ATOs. These are the organs where there are public activists, volunteers, local authorities. Not local authorities, but representatives.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-03-m1.u55	Please, 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-03-m1.u56	These are advices that help ATO veterans and determine because it is primarily a public body in every city, district, and area. And that's what they do, and that's what they're missing, because once again they're talking about heroes in a country that have national awards. It's the only chance our boys and girls coming back from the front will see.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-03-m1.u57	Thank you. So let's move on to making a decision. I'm asking everyone to come into the hall and take jobs. Please come into the hall. Thank you. So, are the colleagues ready to vote? I am voting on the draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine concerning the placement of social advertising with images of participants in hostilities, volunteers and other persons who have special merit before their Fatherland (No. 7360) on the basis of a committee proposal. So, please vote, please support. Don't leave the hall, colleagues. Please support me as a base. Vote. Please be supportive. Vote. [[17:09:49]] For 178. I'll make a second offer to the committee. Fellows, let's support the committee for further work. Colleagues, I'm asking you to support this proposal: to the committee for further work. I'm putting a motion to vote for Bill 7360 to be sent to the committee for re-reading. Please vote, please support. Vote, colleagues, please. [[17:10:33]] For-188. Colleagues, and the final offer, are the subject of a legislative initiative for further development. Colleagues, I'm asking everyone to come into the hall. Don't leave the hall or go into the hall. Let's support the return of the subject of the legislative initiative, this will be the right position of the hall. So, colleagues, I'm putting to the vote a motion to draft Law 7360 to get the subject of the legislative initiative back to work. Please vote. Colleagues, every voice, please support. Please vote, vote. [[17:11:33]] For 186 It's a very big gap, colleagues, and I'm announcing that draft Law 7360 has been rejected. Let's move on to the next question of order of the day. Let me remind you, colleagues, this is a ratification. [[Noise Nodes]] Now, colleagues, I'll take a closer look. Yeah, we've got the next 3454 "About Advertising," right, it's just me. Yes, next, the bill amending the Ukrainian Advertising Act (3454). This is the final bill of the committee that was proposed in the media and freedom of speech. This is the second reading, and I invite you to a report by Condratiuk Helen Constantine. [[B in m in s a l in]] Sumar, right? The chairman of the Committee on Freedom of Speech and Information Policy, Victoria Sumar, will report. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-03-m1.u58	Dear colleagues, an extremely simple bill that is primarily aimed at providing security, since it is a ban on placing advertising structures on these bases and on transport networks. I think it's obvious. There were seven amendments to the committee, none of which were included, since the bill provided just one sentence to prohibit the placement on such structures.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-03-m1.u59	So, colleagues, just a few amendments. I'm asking everyone to come to the hall. I ask the heads of factions to maximize national MPs. Colleagues, come into the hall, and I'll read the amendments like always those that are rejected. 1st. Don't insist. 2nd. Don't insist. Third. Don't insist. Four. Don't insist. [[B in m in s a l in]] Four o'clock, right? Please, 4th Amendment. Hey, tough guy.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-03-m1.u60	Dear colleagues! Thank you, chairman, for the word. The essence of our proposal, in fact, that came from our faction, is that we support with two hands any prohibitions on the placement of any advertising directly on transport networks, contact resistors there, etc., but the proposal was to leave cities with the possibility of placing on pillars and supports that are direct lighting, lamps there and so on. In order, for example, to have many facilities. There are many situations where cities have festivals there and so on and leave opportunities for those. Do not ban the hanging of flags, or any other commercial small, light structures, and this can be abandoned, and this can be left to the decision at city level rather than banned by the state as a whole. It was the essence of our proposal for this amendment. Please support.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-03-m1.u61	Mrs. Victoria, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-03-m1.u62	Dear colleagues, we actually, even though the committee rejected this amendment, we don't deny it, we can put it to a vote in the bill, in general when the vote is taken. Let the hall determine.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-03-m1.u63	Thank you. Do you insist on voting? Yes. I'm voting amendment number four. The committee rejected it. Whoever supports this amendment, please vote. [[17:15:41]] Z-85 The decision is not taken. 5 revisions. Don't insist. So there were 5 amendments. And we're done discussing the law. Let's move on to making a decision. And I ask everyone to come into the hall and prepare for the vote. Colleagues, we're moving on to making a decision. I'm asking everyone to come to the hall. So, colleagues, please come into the hall. We're moving on to making a decision. I ask from the bed to return to the voting room. And I'm voting on a draft bill amending the Ukrainian Advertising Act (for the use of individual elements in the design and networking of advertising activities) (No. 3454) in the second reading and in general. Colleagues, a technical simple bill. And I hope that the hall will be fully mobilized to support it. Please vote and please support. Let's vote, colleagues. Please vote. Vote, please. [[17:17:28]] For 201 I'll put my colleagues on the way back. I'm asking you to invite everyone into the hall. I'm also asking the Supreme Council Secretariat to invite you to the Hall. So I'm asking you to listen to the factions. "Block of Peter Poshenko" – 88, "National Front" – 49, "Resistance Block" – 13, "self-help" – 13, "Radical Party – 3, "Fathership" – 8, "will of the people" – 3 and "Party of Rebirth" – 7. Colleagues, I will now make an offer to return to the law. I ask everyone to take up their jobs, please prepare for the vote. Heads of factions, look. You're ready, aren't you? So the first proposal is to go back to the draft Law 3454. I ask everyone to take part in the vote and I ask you to vote in favour. Colleagues, we vote. Please support, we vote. [[17:19:16]] For 223 Three votes. I'll do it again. I can see it's not working. Be careful where you are. We need to keep it working for a while. Please take up jobs. Colleagues, three votes is not enough. Please take your seats and prepare for the vote. You're ready, aren't you? So vote carefully to make the card work. And I'm voting on the proposal to go back to draft Law 3454. And I'm asking everyone to support this proposal. Please vote and please support. Vote, colleagues, every voice. Please be supportive. Please be supportive. We're voting for the return. Vote. [[17:20:31]] For 230 We're back. Let's move on to making a decision. Colleagues, pay attention! I'm voting on draft Law 3454 in second reading and in general. Please vote. Andrew Volodymyrovich, well, I'm asking everyone, you should have heard me like nobody else. Please vote and please support. Vote. Please vote. Please be supportive. Vote. Please vote. [[17:21:13]] For 226 The law is passed. Colleagues, let's move on to another vote. I ask the head of the committee, Victoria Sumar, to approach. Colleagues, please take up your jobs. [[B in m in s a l in]] Please take up your jobs, colleagues. Please take up your jobs, colleagues. So, colleagues, pay attention! The Committee on Freedom of Speech supports the amendment on which Self-Help insisted. So now I'm going to go back to voting for the law, and then I'm going to put up with the readjustment that Self-Help insisted on. Colleagues, please support me now. I ask everyone to prepare for the vote, this is an amendment that the committee supports. Colleagues, there was an unpersonal vote. [[B in m in s a l in]] Colleagues, back me up, or I'll just reject the law. There was a non-personal vote, there was a non-personal vote. So, colleagues, pay attention! Please take up your jobs. Please take up your jobs. We've got voices in the hall, everything's fine. Now we're going to go back, we're going to take self-help into account, and we're going to get 240 votes. Don't make a problem where it's not there. So, colleagues, please take your seats, please prepare for the vote. Colleagues, come into the hall, invite the deputies into the hall. So don't go out, Sieowakovsky. Don't leave the hall. Everyone please take up their jobs. Take up jobs. So, everybody in place, colleagues? I'll bet. I'm asking you to take your seats. You're ready, aren't you? I propose to return to draft Law 3454. Please vote and support the return to Law 3454. Please vote. Vote, fellows! Please be supportive. Please be supportive. [[17:28:06]] For 133 Hall refused to go back to the draft law, so I'm announcing a bill amending the Ukrainian Advertising Act (3454). The law is passed. So, colleagues, let's move on to the next question of order of the day. The next law of the day is the draft Law on the Ratification of the Agreement between the Government of Ukraine and the Government of the Republic of Finland on the implementation of the project "Finland Support for the Reform of the Ukrainian School" (No. 0190). And I'm asking you, colleagues, to support the consideration of the reduced procedure. Please be supportive. [[17:29:02]] For 133 Colleagues, it's a ratification, all in place, there's a minister of education present. Last time we literally didn't get to this ratification, please support the reduced procedure. Colleagues, I'm putting to the vote a motion for a draft of Law 0190 to be considered under a reduced procedure. Please vote, please support. Vote. Please be supportive. [[17:29:42]] For 180. Decision taken. I invite you to the report of the Minister of Education and Science, Mr. Greenevich, Lilia Mikhailnovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-03-m1.u64	Dear Mr. Head, honourable national deputies, we are presenting today's ratification of the Agreement between the Government of Ukraine and the Government of the Republic of Finland on the implementation of the project "Finland Support for the New Ukrainian School." As we know, Finnish general secondary education is at the forefront of all international ratings. And now Finland has chosen one and one of the priorities for school reform cooperation, because they think our reform is extremely progressive. We have after the ratification to get 6 million euros in non-returnal aid, and this money will be dedicated, first, to improving the skills of teachers and, in particular, modernizing the training of pedagogical education at universities. The second is the development of electronic learning materials for the National Electronic Platform. And the third direction is to communicate reforms and money in the education system to ensure effective dialogue among all interested ones. Please support this ratification. The government signed this agreement on March 5th, and we need to ratify it as soon as possible. Thank you for your attention. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-03-m1.u65	Thank you. I invite the head of the European Integration Committee's subcommittee, Jurinec Oksana Vasilovna, to the report. Mrs. Oksana Jurinec. Colleagues, committee, who's gonna be the committee? Oksana Bilozer, please, Oksana Bilozer, from the committee. Please. Turn on Oksani Bilozer's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-03-m1.u66	Dear colleagues, the Committee on European Integration at its meeting has considered the bill and has decided to support the bill in order to obtain these grants for our educational reform. Please be supportive. The Peter Dusty Block is going to support this initiative.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-03-m1.u67	Please, colleagues, please record: two in favour, two in favour. From the People's Front, Taras Kremen, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-03-m1.u68	Taras Kremen, People's Front. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that this conversation is not just about ratifying this very important agreement. Its essence is to support educational reforms in general secondary education. We passed the Ukrainian Education Act along with you. That's why we started a new Ukrainian school. We've done our job to raise social standards, and so the prestige of teaching work today is number one for the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Thirdly, we've restored respect for the teaching work, and that's very important. And in fact, what the Finnish Republic is doing today is helping, like a huge number of other countries, to reform Ukrainian society, to help the Ukrainian school restore new European values. So the People's Front as a faction asks all of you colleagues to support this very important document. We vote yes, and we invite you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-03-m1.u69	Thank you. From the Radical Party of Lazko Oleg Valeriyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-03-m1.u70	The Radical Party team will support the ratification of this important agreement with our friendly Finland. At the same time, I would like to say that no one will help us if, first of all, the Ukrainian authorities, the Ukrainian Parliament, the Ukrainian government and the President do not care about the development of education. Units can send their children abroad. Instead, they shut down schools like the epidemic, the plague -- closing schools, taking away Ukrainian children from low-income families, from many children's families to get an education -- both secondary and vocational. Knowledge is the baggage that none of you are carrying, and none of you, I'm talking to the government officials, has the right to deprive orphans and any child of the right to an education. When you transfer the funding of vocational education to local budgets that do not have the money to do so, as a result, professional and technical education is closed down in Ukraine, and children go to the street instead of learning and feeding themselves, giving birth to their children and feeding them. Where is the raise for teachers? Can the most noble profession on earth — a teacher — work for money wages? Where is the promotion of technical workers, the school team? None. Prosecutors, judges are, they're, they're, they're not, there's no teachers, there's no doctors, there's no workers. We lady! We'll put order in the country. And the first thing I'm going to do is raise wages, because it's the only way to stop labor migration, restore the Ukrainian economy, bring people home to see their children not once a year for Christmas, but every day. And to eat chicken not once a year on Easter, but at least on Sundays there is a normal Ukrainian family and a covered table. This is the policy that needs to be pursued — a policy of prosperity, a policy of developing a Ukrainian family, and a strong Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-03-m1.u71	Thank you. From "The Fatherland" Eutuszek Sergei gives the word Kugel, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-03-m1.u72	Sergey Eutuszek, "The Fatherland" faction. I'll tell you what, dear colleagues, that the Fatherland faction will support this ratification. But I want to go to Lilia Mikhailuna, Minister of Education and Science right away. I had the opportunity to work in the district last week, to attend rural schools. And I'll tell you what my greatest wish was, Lilia Mikhailevna, you know what it was? It was my desire to have you stand by me and listen to these technical workers who are being sent on vacation without saving their wages, others, labs, who are also being transferred to finance from local budgets. I'd like you to see where education is now. These are ordinary people who, at the expense of their own resources, are now buying paint, drawing the same classes that will be in the new Ukrainian school since September 1st. And you know, I also wished that not only you were there, but there was government leadership. I wanted the minister of finance with his own ears to hear what they were demanding and what they were begging for and what these technical workers were begging for. I ask you, Ms. Lilia Mikhailovna, note also Regulation No. 6 which was approved by the Government on 14 January 2015, which allows for the use of subsidies for other programmes. For example, energy conservation, warming, and so forth. Our children will go to school on September 1, and we know that winter will come, there will be ice cream, there will be cold. Allow areas where there is a resource to use for warming. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-03-m1.u73	Please, from the Peter Dust Block, Kaplin. I'm only asking for as much as possible.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-03-m1.u74	In recent times, Ukrainians and journalists have become interested in social democracy. And they ask a simple question: what is social democracy? Some bastards say it's the Kremlin, that it's Moscow, that it's the Soviet Union. So I say to you: Social Democracy is Finland, Sweden, Norway, Germany, France, this is a European model of a socially oriented economy. The average salary paid by the teacher in Finland (now attention) is 3,000, 700, 111, 000. That is, a family where a man’s teacher brings 222,000 dollars together at home each month. It's the average wage! And I'm convinced that in our country, we should not look for extremes, but rather find a way for the country to develop. And we have no alternative but social democracy, a socially oriented state. In the Ukrainians, in the teachers, in the doctors, in the miners, in the Afghans, in the Chernobyls, in the next election, there will be an opportunity for the Ukrainian Parliament to choose the Social Democratic Party, the left-wing bloc, the left-wing president, who will promote exclusively European social-democratic values in our economy, in our country. We will give such an opportunity and such an opportunity to ordinary Ukrainians. So today, when we look at the success of the social democracy of Finland, Norway, Sweden, Germany, we have to teach a lesson and in the next election, we have to choose who will really bring Ukraine to Europe without unnecessary slogans, through a clear fundamental system policy. And it's clear that this is the leader of the social-democratic party and the left block of Sergei Kaplin and our Social-Democratic and Socialist Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-03-m1.u75	I remind you, we're looking at a non-political system in the world, and we're looking at a draft Treaty Ratification Act. And please speak on the subject of ratification. Now one minute is Romanova, Self-help. One minute is the Jurassic. And in two minutes. Okay, and one minute, Pauline. In three minutes, we're going to vote. I'm asking everyone to come into the hall. Please, from the romanov stand, self-help.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-03-m1.u76	"Unification Self-Help" will really support all initiatives aimed at supporting our Ukrainian education. But I want to remind you, we are now voting for methodological innovations in the new Ukrainian school system. At the time, the Ministry of Finance adopted and approved the budget, when Self-Help warned that teachers were underpaid and did not vote in favour of this shameful budget, at the time the Ministry of Finance did not fund exactly the education system, the teachers' salaries for 4.4 billion dollars. So the Self-Help Unit calls on the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Education to immediately address the issue of funding teachers' salaries of almost 5 billion dollars. Because if teachers on the ground are deprived of the allowance for class leadership, for working with groups, there is really no motivation to work even in modern methods, either in Finnish or in Norwegian.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-03-m1.u77	Please, 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-03-m1.u78	Teachers are basically getting their hands down, and they don't have motivation, including a material base, to implement these new methods. That is why we turn, indeed, not only to words but also to action.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-03-m1.u79	Thank you. Now, Yuri Pavlenko, and then the closing committee of the Jurinec, and we move on to the vote. Please, Pauline, out of the place.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-03-m1.u80	Dear colleagues, the Opposition Block supports the ratification of this convention. At the same time, we want to highlight a number of problems and errors in the implementation of this reform, and the problem of underfunding the educational sector continues. And for this year, there's, there's not an estimated 4.5 billion in education subsidies, and we can therefore have a problem with even the salaries of teachers starting on September 1. I would also like to draw attention to the introduction of inclusive education. I emphasize that inclusive education should be conducted for the child’s interests, not for the satisfaction of anyone’s ambitions. Therefore, there must be constant contact between children, parents, and schools. I hope that, as part of the implementation of this project and the support of Finnish experts with half of this assistance, Ukrainian officials will teach respect for children's rights in school. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-03-m1.u81	Thank you. So now there's going to be a closing statement, so I'm asking all the national MPs to come to the hall. Please prepare for the vote. Heads of factions and secretariat of the Supreme Council, please invite everyone to the Hall. And now one minute is Oksana Jurinec, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-03-m1.u82	The ratification of the agreement will allow for an effective and legal mechanism to implement an international project in the field of education and will include technical assistance from the Government of the Republic of Finland to support and reform general and secondary education in Ukraine. According to an explanatory note to the draft law on the implementation of the act, there is no need for additional costs from the State budget of Ukraine. The Government of the Republic of Finland is expected to provide technical assistance to Ukraine for a total of up to 6 million euros on a non-returnable basis for the project to be implemented for a period of 4 years until 2021. The main scientific and expert administration of the Supreme Council of Ukraine supports the ratification of the agreement. I ask all my colleagues from our committee to support this important agreement for education reform, this is what our partners are helping us today, this is what the Ministry of Education is working on today, this is very important for Ukraine today. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-03-m1.u83	So, colleagues, the discussion is over. Let's move on to making a decision. I ask everyone to come into the hall, leave the government and diplomatic beds. Please prepare for the vote. I'm sure the whole room will support this ratification, it's about educating our children, and this is a question that has no political division, and this is a question that needs to be brought together. And let's move on to making a decision. Olenka. The deer, both of you, please prepare for the vote. It's a card with you, isn't it? So I'm voting on the draft Law on the Ratification of the Agreement between the Government of Ukraine and the Government of the Republic of Finland on the implementation of the project "Finland Support for the Reform of the Ukrainian School" (0190) as a basis and as a whole. Please vote, please support Ukrainian education, vote, colleagues, total 0190. We'll hold it! Vote! [[17:46:57]] For 247 Decision taken. And, colleagues, the next issue of the agenda is the draft Law 6424 amending the Housing Code of the Ukrainian RSR and other legislative acts of Ukraine. And I'm asking you, colleagues, to consider a reduced procedure. I ask you to support this proposal, please vote in favour of the reduced procedure. Vote. [[17:47:37]] For 177 Decision taken. And I invite you to the report of the Ukrainian National Deputy Gerasimov Arthur Volodimirovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-03-m1.u84	Thank you. Dear Andriy Volodymyrovich, distinguished colleagues, as you know, today in Ukraine there is a fairly common practice of using apartments in large apartment buildings on a surface of 16 floors and above. The regulation provided for by effective legislation does not contribute to the protection of the rights of residents of housing, their safety and compliance with established rules and regulations for the use of premises. In order to address this issue, a bill is proposed for your consideration, which strengthens the responsibility for not using apartments in multi-story buildings. With so many factions, we have repeatedly spoken about this bill. Right away, I want to say that the Final and Transitional Positions have determined that the law extends exclusively to apartment buildings of 16 floors and more, and that the use of non-residential premises in the periphery on the first and second and upper floors of buildings as offices is not prohibited. Honorable colleagues, too, are asked to support the following additions. In the first paragraph, the words "and to the interests of other owners (users) of the premises in the respective residence" should be supplemented by the words "top 16 and more floors". In paragraph 3, paragraph 2, and paragraphs 2 and 3 of paragraph 1, paragraph 3, after the words "housing houses", add the words "floor 16 and more". And complete after paragraph 2 with a new paragraph of this content: "the operation of this law does not extend to non-residential housing in multi-housing residential buildings with a surface of 16 or more." Once again, I'd like to ask you to support this bill as a whole. Because today the problem really exists, it's mass, but at the same time, as you've seen, we've introduced a lot of fuses so that Ukrainian businesses don't get hurt. Thank you for your attention. I'd like you to support me as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-03-m1.u85	Thank you. Šinkovic Andry Vasilovich is invited to the report.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-03-m1.u86	A respected chairman, respected colleagues, today in Ukraine, there is a growing practice of using apartments in apartment buildings, such as offices, hotels, and other temporary homes or directly service facilities. First of all, dear colleagues, it is related to the fact that Ukraine still has the Ukrainian USSR Housing Code since June 30, 83, which has undergone changes in parts that do not address this particular issue. In addition, the problem was not found in other legislation. The Committee on Construction, Urban and Housing at its meeting on 7 June considered a draft Act amending the Housing Code of the Ukrainian Soviet Union and other legislative acts of Ukraine concerning the protection of the rights of owners (users) of housing (registration number 6424). The bill is designed to define at the legislative level restrictions on the use of apartments in multiple apartment buildings, not by destination, including offices, hotels and other temporary residences, and to increase liability (this is very important) for violations of legislation in the field. The Committee decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine the outcome of the first reading to be accepted as a basis, but, honourable colleagues, in the process of discussion and preparation. Dear Andrew Volodymyrovich, if you don't mind, has a number of national MPs to put the proposal to the vote on the basis and in general. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-03-m1.u87	Thank you. Please record: two in, two in. Colleagues, and please as concisely as possible. So that we can consider the next law too. It's very thin. From Peter Prashenko's Block of Urban Alexander. Sentences a word to Victor.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-03-m1.u88	Good afternoon, dear colleagues. I give the word to Andreev Dmitry.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-03-m1.u89	Thank you. Dear colleagues! Dear Chairman! During my personal admissions, I am constantly approached by voters who complain about the accommodations of various types of mini-hotels, hostels, and other businesses that use non-accommodation facilities. So I would like to support this very important law that protects the rights of Ukrainians. On the other hand, in consultation with small, medium-sized businesses, we have taken into account all the proposals to protect and support the Ukrainian business as much as possible, while clearly protecting Ukrainians' rights to use their homes. Thank you for your attention. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-03-m1.u90	Thank you. Kodola Alexander of the People's Front, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-03-m1.u91	Alexander Kodolah, Chernigovishte. As co-author of this bill, I also wish to express my support for it. At present, our country is in a challenging position to use housing for purposes other than its own. Our committee comes up with a lot of references, in Kiev and, in particular, in Ukraine, an illegal hostel business flourishes. And today we have to stand up for the very people who live in their private apartments, because it's a matter of security, it's a matter of fire safety, the question that infrastructure and these buildings are simply not based on the number of people who visit these offices and these hostels and so on. Therefore, a request for support. Our faction votes in favour, asking for support as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-03-m1.u92	Thank you, colleagues. And Danchenk Alexander's closing statement, and then it'll be from the non-factional. In three minutes, we'll move on to the vote. Please, Danchenko - 1 minute and then Lechchenko - 1 minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-03-m1.u93	A unique question that needs to be resolved. And it's very important that not only this bill ends up solving these problems, because they are both imagery for Ukraine, both technical and security, which is overweight. So I think that after this bill, whether it will be accepted or not accepted, the Cabinet of the Ministers of Ukraine should develop a comprehensive programme on this issue throughout our Ukraine. It is also vital that these issues be accepted by various ministries in terms of security. This is overwhelming. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-03-m1.u94	Thank you very much. And a closing statement from the non-fractional, Yuri Lewchenko. And I'm asking everyone to come into the hall and take up jobs. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-03-m1.u95	Lewchenko, Freedom, 223 District, Kiev City. I can say that, in fact, the principal of Kiev, I receive regular appeals from voters about the atrocities that occur as a result of the function of the hostels in their homes. Today, this issue is totally not settled. In residential homes today, hostels are allowed without any control, and no one can do anything about it. I think it's necessary to ban hostels in residential homes without the permission of residents. If residents do not allow the hostel to be opened, it must be prohibited. Unfortunately, this bill does not go far enough. He simply says that it is forbidden to do so in buildings above 16 floors. And the result is that most of the houses will be left without such regulation. But it's at least some step forward, it's at least a little step forward. And I still hope that after this bill is adopted, in the future, the Supreme Council will still ban hostels at all without the permission of residents in housing. That's why we're voting.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-03-m1.u96	Thank you. So let's move on to making a decision. And I am voting on the draft Act amending the Housing Code of the Ukrainian RSR and other Ukrainian legislation on the protection of the rights of owners of housing units (6424). First, the committee's proposal as a basis. Please vote and please support. Please vote. I'd like your support, colleagues. Vote. [[17:56:37]] For 201 I'll be back. Colleagues, that's just the basis. Let's support and give it a chance to work out. Colleagues, I'm asking everyone to come into the hall. Please prepare yourself for making a decision. Call a colleague who is in the towers in the hall. I'll be right back. Colleagues, I'm asking you who asked me not to be in general, it's just a basis. Support this proposal. So I'm voting on the proposal to go back to the draft Law on the Housing Code of the Ukrainian RSR (6424). Please vote. Please support the return. Let's vote, colleagues. Please be supportive. Vote. [[17:57:40]] For 213 I'll do it again. I'll read the factions. "Block of Peter Poshenko" – 77, "National Front" – 54, "Resistance Block" – 22, "self-help" – 13, "Radical Party – 11, "Fathership" – 8, "Will of the People" – 5, "Resurrection Party" – 3. We've got full containment of the hall, we just need to mobilize. Please come into the hall, prepare for the vote. I'll put it back on the vote. So you're ready, right? I propose to return to the draft Law amending the Ukrainian RSR Housing Code (6424). Please vote and please support. Every voice matters. Please vote. We're voting for the return. Please be supportive. [[17:58:58]] For 213 Even less. Colleagues, once again, are on the committee for re-reading. I ask you to support the proposal: to the committee for the re-reading. I'm voting on draft Law 6424, the proposal to return to the committee for re-reading. Please vote, please support. Colleagues, the committee, it's a compromise position, let's support it. Please vote and support, we vote in the committee again, this is a united compromise position. Support her, we'll work together on the committee. [[17:59:38]] For the 220. Let's give the subject a legislative initiative. Colleagues, six votes is not enough. Everyone, please prepare for the vote. The next position under the Rules is to return the subject to the legislative initiative for further work. I ask everyone to vote that we don't lose the law, that we don't reject it, take part in the vote, please. And I'm making a final proposal to draft Law 6424 to get the subject of the legislative initiative back to work. Colleagues, we vote, please support, colleagues, every vote, please vote, vote. Please support, we vote. This is a united position, support. [[18:00:34]] For 222 Three votes. I'll be back. Colleagues, mobilize. What's the matter, four votes? So I'm going to put it back on so we can send it back to the committee, four votes, please. It's on the pre-work committee. This position is completely compromised. Please prepare for the vote. I'm voting on the proposal to go back to the vote for coming back to the committee. Please be supportive. Please be supportive. Please vote. Please vote, each vote, vote. Please be supportive. Let's finish the day well, fellows. [[18:01:25]] For 230 We're back. And now I'm putting it on the committee for work, right? I'm putting draft Law 6424 on the ground, shall we try again? Colleagues? No, it's not. I'm putting 6424 on the committee for processing. Please vote, please support, that's how we agreed, and let's all vote. If you'll excuse me, I'd like to vote. Vote. Please be supportive. Vote! [[18:02:07]] For 228 Decision taken. Colleagues, attention, attention! Please remain seated. I'm ready to go to another bill. We continue for 15 minutes. If there's room will, I'll put the next bill to the vote. Next Bill 7390. I have the right to continue for 15 minutes. So if the rating vote shows that there are prospects for that. I'm betting on the ratings vote of the next Bill 7390. Please vote, please support the rating vote. If there are voices, we'll cross if we don't, we won't cross. The rating vote. Please vote, please identify yourself. [[18:02:59]] For-160. 160. We can only break the law, Mr. Anton, unfortunately. Colleagues, Antin, Antin, yes. We had a busy, emotional, but very productive day. I give the floor to the First Deputy Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Irina Heratchenko. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-03-m1.u97	Thank you, Your Honor. The Presidency was called upon by the national deputy, Igor Lapin, to announce the following report. His card did not work during the vote in favour of Bill 8296, and he asks that his vote be taken into account in voting for a bill amending some Ukrainian legislation on creating economic premeditations to strengthen the protection of the child's right to adequate maintenance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-03-m1.u98	Thank you. Thus, colleagues, the evening plenary meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, I declare closed. Tomorrow I'd like everyone to come to the hall at 10 o'clock. And I want to remind you, because we've sowed doubts in the room that we're starting Thursday with the selection of the new composition of the Central Electoral Commission, as indicated in the agenda. I ask everyone to prepare for this decision, it will be a huge decision, but I am sure we will come to a positive conclusion. So, colleagues, tomorrow at 10 a.m. I'll see you later, until we get back to work. Good-bye.
