ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-04-m1.u1	Dear colleagues! Time spent for a break is over. I ask everyone to come into the hall and prepare for registration at the evening meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. I'll have everyone in the hall, please. So, colleagues, I want to remind you that the agenda was that at 16 o'clock we're moving on to the issue of consenting to the criminal responsibility of Ukrainian national deputy Dunayev Sergey Volodymirovich. Welcomed to the Supreme Council of Ukraine and Lucenko Yuri Vitaliyovich, Attorney-General, and Cold to address the issue. So that's the question that we'll start our work with after lunch, after registration. And now I'm asking everyone to prepare for registration. You're ready, aren't you? People's deputies are invited to sign up for the evening session. Please register. [[16:03:46]] 362 national deputies registered. I declare the evening plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine open. And so, colleagues, we're moving on to the issue of consenting to the criminal responsibility of Ukrainian National Deputy Dunayev Sergey Volodymyrovich. In accordance with part three of article 80 of the Constitution of Ukraine, article 27 of the Act "On the Status of the People's Deputy" of Ukraine, the Supreme Council agrees to bring criminal responsibility to the national deputy of Ukraine. On September 18, 18th, the Supreme Council of Ukraine received the submission of Jury Vitaliyovich Lucenka, Prosecutor-General of Ukraine, to the Supreme Council of Ukraine, to grant consent to the prosecution of the criminal responsibility of Dunayev Sergey Volodymirovich. The National Anti-Corruption Bureau of Ukraine is conducting a pre-trial investigation, and the Special Anti-Corruption Prosecutor's Office of the Attorney-General of Ukraine is a judicial guide in criminal proceedings since 07.12.16 on the basis of the criminal offence provided for in article 366. 1 The Criminal Code of Ukraine That is, the submission by the entities of a declaration of misstatement in the declaration of a person authorized to perform functions as a State or as a local government. The findings of the committee, the explanation of the Ukrainian national MP Dunayev and the submission of the Attorney General of Ukraine were distributed to you on the registration tables in paper copies. Thus, honourable colleagues, the word is given to the Attorney-General of Ukraine, Yuri Vitaliyovich Lucenka, to answer questions from representatives of the MP factions and groups, the national deputies of Ukraine. Mr. Yuri, please. So, five minutes of a speech by the Attorney General, and then ten minutes of a question to the Attorney General. Please, Yuri Vitaliyovich, five minutes' time for the speech.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-04-m1.u2	Ladies and gentlemen, I ask you today to consider the motion to remove the MP's in touch with the national MP of the Danube. Before going briefly to the point of the matter, I would like to point out information that is often used by GPA critics. Eight times I've been on this rostrum with reports of the removal of the MP's in touch with the national MPs. Alexander Oneshchenko is July 16th. The investigation has been completed, the lawyers of Noneshchenka are familiar with the materials of the investigation. Vadim Novinski is December 16th. The latest studies are being completed, and the investigation will be completed. Long is the case closed by the Specialised Anti-Corruption Prosecutor's Office. Maxim Polyakov is July 17th. The investigation is completed, and the National MP and his lawyers are familiar with the materials of the investigation. Boris Rosenblatt is July 17th. The investigation is completed, and the National MP and his protection are familiar with the investigation materials. Mikhailo Dobkin is July 17th. The investigation was completed and all suspects completed their briefing yesterday, which means that the next days of the case will go to the Kharkiv Court for consideration in essence. Savchenko's hope is March 18th. The investigation is complete, the MP and her defense are familiar with the investigation materials, our concern about the limitations of the time limit has been dismissed by the court, and so I cannot predict when this will end. Eugene Bakulin is March 18th. He's hiding in Moscow, we don't. does not cooperate at all with the investigation, which is why we have no choice but to wait six months for the legal procedure to begin. It's all eight cases when I was on this stand and now I've come from the ninth. The National Anti-Corruption Bureau is in charge of the illegal enrichment of the Ukrainian national MP Dunayev. On the basis of the evidence gathered, the testimony and, above all, the decision of the National Agency for the Prevention of Corruption, the national deputy may be duly suspicious of the information in his declaration. As you know, several million civil servants, including national deputies, are obliged to fill out the declaration, and the law provides that the filing of misinformation is criminally punishable. The conclusion of the NAMC, specifically authorized for this body, states quite clearly: “The subject of the declaration in the drafting and filing of a declaration authorized to perform functions of the State or local self-government did not comply with the requirements of paragraphs 2, 5, 7, 10 of the first article of the Prevention of Corruption Act. I quote further. "The subject of the declaration, namely: the People's Deputy of the Danube, completing the declaration in the 15th year, has provided unreliable information in the declaration of the person authorized to perform the functions of the State. The total amount of undeclared assets, according to the National Anti-Corruption Bureau, is about 160 million dollars." A separate episode is also the nondeclaration, a proper wife of a member of the national parliament, a share in one of the societies totaling about 200,000 dollars. On the basis of these two episodes, the investigators of the National Anti-Corruption Bureau need to carry out a number of investigations and operational actions with regard to the National Deputy. I believe that, apart from removing the MP's immunity to conduct investigation and operational actions to establish the truth in this matter, without removing the MP's immunity is impossible. In view of this, I am asking you to remove the MP's intrusiveness from the people's MP of the Danube for the final decision whether he really intended to hide information about it. who need to be filled out in a declaration and whether this will involve criminal responsibility. Thank you. I've got everything.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-04-m1.u3	Thank you. So 10 minutes for questions to the Attorney General. And I'm asking you to record who's going to ask questions. Please. One Ostap Volodymyrovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-04-m1.u4	Dear Mr. Attorney General, you have provided such an impressive list of national MPs who have already submitted the motion to remove the inviolability. But I would like to hear from you, because there will soon be a list of public activists, a list of district attorneys, police officers, the Security Service, along with their leaders in Kiev, who don't act, who don't prevent, who don't cover and who don't investigate attacks on public activists. There was a press conference where the victims, in particular, called on you and, in particular, to speak, and the Minister of Internal Affairs to speak at the Supreme Council and report on the state of the investigation, who ordered Handzük, who ordered Mikhailik and others. Please tell me, when will we finally hear from you the list of accomplices to the attacks on public activists? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-04-m1.u5	Thank you for asking. Actually, I think it would be wrong to answer a question right now that's not on the agenda today. But in view of the great speculation that exists on this issue, I report that it was because of yesterday’s regulatory committee meeting, which considered not three of my submissions, but only one, that I had to cancel the coordination board of the law enforcement agencies in Odessa, which was scheduled to be held this Friday with the minister of the interior affairs of Habakkuk. Stop. All information on the attack on civil society activists in southern Ukraine has been analysed, will be re-examined at this coordination meeting and brought to the public. So far, I want to say that the perpetrators of virtually all attacks on public activists have been detained, most of whom have chosen a precautionary measure of detention. Regarding the need to install customers, we understand, but I want to tell you that one of the attackers, even the organizer, has opened his veins in order not to answer these questions. So if anyone thinks they're human, they're human.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-04-m1.u6	30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-04-m1.u7	People who use firearms simply run to tell about their customers and circumstances, and they are deeply mistaken. It's a difficult thing, it doesn't have a mechanical algorithm, but we're working on uncovering all these crimes.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-04-m1.u8	Thank you. Musei Oleg Stepanovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-04-m1.u9	Oleg Musei, 124 constituency. Dear Mr. Attorney General, please state publicly that those prosecutors who granted their permission to send our non-Ukrainian to the Russian Federation of Tumgoiev will be subject to official investigation and an assessment. Do you have any results from this investigation? And before you sign off on sending out those people who are protecting the interests of Ukraine, volunteers, including, do you intend to continue to communicate with volunteers and volunteer battalions who still remain volunteers and do not join any other structures, but do they really protect Ukrainian territory from a Moscow-based aggressor who is being fought by a regular Ukrainian army? From my point of view, what conclusion did the Attorney General’s Office make? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-04-m1.u10	Thank you. I see that the question of corruption, the likely corruption of the people's deputies, is of least interest to the Hall, but that's less than ready to answer your questions. I talk to volunteers on a regular basis. And dozens, I emphasize, of tens of thousands of closed cases against our heroes, who were somehow mistaken, but from my point of view, did not commit criminal offences, I was personally accepted. I underline, tens of thousands. The Tumgoev case was considered at various stages of the case for two years. During these two years, neither he nor his lawyers nor his brothers declared to the Attorney General’s Office that he might have been involved in military activities. More than a few days before the final decision of the court, I emphasize that the court had spent the whole day with Mr. Jarosh, whom I have a long, friendly relationship with. Then I reject that someone with special knowledge of man’s involvement in the war on the side of Ukraine sent him to the Russian Federation.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-04-m1.u11	30 seconds. Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-04-m1.u12	I declare that Henprocuror and the father of the volunteer that every person who took part in the Ukrainian side of the Ukrainian-Russian war cannot be extradited to the Russian Federation or the Kremlin satellites. And this principle will be followed. There is now a service investigation, even as part of a criminal investigation, whether any of the members of the immigration service of the Ministry of Internal Affairs who denied it twice were security officers who provided the information.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-04-m1.u13	Give you a minute or 30 seconds? One minute, please, that's an important question.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-04-m1.u14	Security Service personnel who carried out, inter alia, pre-extradition checks. Those who accompanied the decisions of the European courts who twice refused Tumgoyev's lawyers the possibility of being invisible. But from a legal point of view, this action was carried out in accordance with applicable legislation. Twice, the Migration Service refused to stay in Ukraine, and twice the European Court refused to see it. But from a moral point of view, we now determine whether any of the employees of any law enforcement agency could have known about his involvement in the war. We also determine whether he actually participated in the war because he left the isolation facility at the end of last year, and this year he was only in the territory of the Donetsk Region for 12 days. If established, people who consciously know that a person has fought will bear the legal responsibility and guardians and, by the way, lawyers who may have known but did not.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-04-m1.u15	Vlasenko Sergei Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-04-m1.u16	Good afternoon, Yuri Vitaliovich. I have a question for you. Question one. In your speech, you said that a national MP was being incriminating illegal wealth. If so, please, because I'm reading the file and I don't see any illegal wealth here, all I see is a statement of unreliable information. So you may have made a mistake and you may have made a mistake, or perhaps I haven't seen in some way the actions you incriminate as illegal enrichment. That's the first part of the question. And the second part of the question. I can see that you're asking to agree to be held accountable, but you're not asking to be detained and arrested. Why?
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-04-m1.u17	Thank you, Mr. Sergei. Thank you twice not only for asking about the subject, but actually, seeing my mistake, I admit. Indeed, the National Anti - Corruption Bureau investigates the case for the violation of the article provided for in the Penal Code, 366-1. Information is not reliable. Apologize both to the national MP accordingly and to the entire hall. Actually, I could say it's a pilot project. In fact, it's a big legal question: is the declarant obliged to show not only the parent firms he showed, but also the daughter business structures. The National Anti-Corruption Agency believes that yes, it would have, the National Anti-Corruption Bureau would have. However, in carrying out the functions of representation in the Supreme Council and including in the matters of the NABU, I appeal to you: form such a practice. If you consider this to be a violation of the law, then give permission; if you consider the material to be incomplete, okay, we will carry out further checks. But at this point, I'm like.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-04-m1.u18	Please, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-04-m1.u19	I have, as in Henprocuror, probably the only one in the world who doesn't have access to the introductions that I report here, there's one way out of this: Is this the matter that we expect from the NABA, make a decision. The only thing I want to say, if I'm doubtful, from the point of view of the treatment of different parties, different legal schools, the need to fill out declarations on child structures, is that it's obvious that the failure of a wife's statutory share of 200,000 dollars is a clear violation. You, I would even say, in your own time, national deputies have decided that there may be three years in prison. That's why I'm doing the law, and from your point of view, I think, after all these years of ineffective operation of this "sleeping."
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-04-m1.u20	30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-04-m1.u21	After the ineffective practice of implementing this article, it is likely necessary to go back to the law and make certain adjustments that would have worked to ensure that corrupters would respond and that errors could have been corrected.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-04-m1.u22	Thank you. And the final question from Matko's Bogdan Mironovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-04-m1.u23	Thank you. Dear Yuri Vitaliyovich, I have actually heard the answer to a question that I wanted to ask. Thank you for your answer. The question would then be of such a character. What else are there for deputies?
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-04-m1.u24	Dear National Deputies! I foresee a few more submissions in the regulatory committee, and I hope that next plenary week we should meet again to resolve three of them. The first question had already been considered by the committee and was returned in connection with the summer vacations to the GPA, and I returned it back to the hall. As for the national deputy of Ponomarrow, who has deprived journalists of their right to legal professional activity in a public place regarding public persons who have coulaires, respectively, and national deputies. The second is the submission of the national deputy Kolesnikov of Dnipro, who. This is related to the illegal, in fact, kidnapping of one of Dnipro’s defence industries. And the latest submission concerning the People's Deputy Vilkul regarding his involvement in the illegal alienation of the land when he headed the district government. These three submissions should be considered, I hope, next plenary week before, if the committee works, Tuesday.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-04-m1.u25	Thank you. Time for questions to the Attorney General. Thank you, Yuri Vitaliovich. And I invite you to the rostrum of the National Deputy of Ukraine, Sergio Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-04-m1.u26	Dear people of Ukraine! Dear National Deputies! Ukraine, as a state of law, can take place only under the constant observance of the laws that we are enacting with you. And above all, strict compliance with laws is required of the authorities of the State, especially those who must guard the rule of law and order. Unfortunately, the growing number of law enforcement and anticorruption agencies does not contribute to the rule of law in our country. And the fight against corruption is manifest only in loud political statements. A clear example of this is the submission by the Attorney-General of an agreement to bring me into criminal liability, which I find to be legally unfounded and politically motivated. I'm being accused of committing a corrupt crime. According to the Attorney General's Office and the NABU, I've given unreliable information in the 2015 Declaration, which is to say, "the leadership of the parent company," but I didn't point out that this company, in turn, has set up another household society. The NABU and the Henprosecutors believe that I have a single influence on the activities of these farms and that I am a beneficial owner, but they don't support it. First of all, I want to point out that both the parent company and its subsidiaries were created in the late 1990s and early 2000s, long before I was elected as Ukrainian national deputy. Corporate rights of parent companies have been duly transferred to my office. All those established by the parent company of the society are registered in the city of Lysichan Lugansk, as opposed to the widespread cases of individuals hiding their business in offshore areas. All these legal persons have been legally active in Ukraine for more than 15 years, pay taxes in Ukraine’s budget, have information about them publicly available, have public access to the register and anyone who wants to know about it is free of charge. These societies are managed by their directors and founders according to the statutes. And the application of the Henprosecutor's Office does not refute these facts, nor does it contain any evidence of my direct direct influence on the activities of these societies. Secondly, I would like to point out that the application of the Henprocuratorate is also based on the analysis of my declaration for 2016, but the declaration for this period has not been verified by NAZK. NAMK simply does not exist. So as I analyzed my 2016 declaration and based on it, I thought that I had committed a corruption crime, the NABU and the Henprocurement went beyond their authority and assumed the functions of NAMK as the only body authorized to verify declarations and to present relevant conclusions. So the NABU and the Henprocurator as anti-corruption bodies themselves are violating anti-corruption legislation. I emphasize that the decision of NAZC to verify my declaration for 2015 appeared only in October 2017 and only after the official position of the authorized authority on the issues I mentioned in the declaration appeared, information about legal persons I do not directly own, and I have a mediocre attitude towards them, only then did I get a reason to reflect the relevant information in my declaration. I would also like to point out that, in the earlier anti-corruption legislation, when the declaration was made in paper form, the declarant had the opportunity to submit a precise declaration and vice versa, the procedure for the submission of electronic declarations does not contain such a possibility. So to provide information about legal persons to whom I think NAMK is a beneficial owner, I was only able to submit an electronic declaration for 2017. Thirdly, in reviewing my 2015 declaration, NAZK concludes that the facts of my illicit wealth are not established, all assets are confirmed. So the media's message to the U.K. Attorney General's Office about my illegal wealth is unfounded, which once again confirms the political element in the application of the Henprocuratorate. All this points to one thing — criminal conduct against me is solely political and is aimed at dealing with me as a representative of the opposition political power, which openly speaks of calculations in the foreign and domestic policies of today's leadership. As for the fight against corruption, we need to move from loud slogans and accusations to the fight against the shameful phenomena that hinder the development of our nation. Corruption is when the country's coal sector is destroyed, and some are making coal imports from the United States, South Africa, Poland and Russia. Corruption is when the Lugansk Region has been separated from Ukraine's only energy system for four years, and the authorities are only pretending to be concerned about the problem. Corruption is one of the highest levels of crime in the world. Corruption is when Ukrainian citizens are not protected in their country and their declared rights and freedoms exist only on paper. So if the authorities want to fight corruption, let them start fighting themselves. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-04-m1.u27	Thank you. I invite you to address the First Vice-President of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the Rules and Organization of Work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Paul Vasilovich Pinzenik, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-04-m1.u28	Dear Head, honourable deputies! We have considered, with the participation of the Attorney General of Ukraine, the submission of an agreement to bring the criminal responsibility of the national MP Dunaev. It states that NABU is conducting a pre-trial investigation, and the SAP is a procedural guide in criminal conduct following the signs of a crime foreseen in 366 with the 1st Criminal Code, the "Declaration of Indiscriminate Information". And, of course, motivation, reasonableness of submission should be ensured by compelling arguments, facts, evidence that would be sufficient to support the involvement of the national MP in any socially dangerous activity and to justify the need for him to be brought to criminal responsibility. That's what we've learned. The submission is based on the identification of certain information, in particular that Dunaev, as a national deputy, has provided notoriously unreliable information in the 2015 declaration, and thus, as of 2015, he and his family were able to exercise decisive influence over the management of the economic activity of a number of legal persons by means of indirect ownership of a portion of their statutory capital. That is, they are beneficial owners, supervisors of ten legal persons. We have noted that, in accordance with article 11 of the Prevention of Corruption Act, the powers of the Anti-Corruption Authority are, inter alia, the issue of the monitoring and verification of the declaration of persons authorized to perform functions of the State, including the national MPs. Paragraph 2 of the first part of article 8 of this Law provides that NAMC shall carry out checks on declarations submitted by national deputies regarding the correctness of the completion; it shall report in writing on the results of such checks on the heads of the relevant State bodies and specially authorized subjects in the area of anticorruption, including the NABU. According to the NAMC tests, these tests may decide to reach a conclusion on the existence of signs of corruption to the relevant authorities, such as the Public Prosecutor’s Office, the National Anti-Corruption Bureau. So we've come to the conclusion that information about the signs of a criminal offence committed by the people's MP Dunaev could only be submitted to the GDR on the basis of the results of the appropriate examination. The only authority responsible for such a verification, as defined by law, is NAMK. On the other hand, this information was submitted to the GDR on December 7, 2016, almost a year before the verification of the NAMC decision of October 13, 2017. The Committee also noted that there was a Supreme Court position in the Supreme Court Order of 11.04. In 2018 (No. 814/886/17), the exercise of control over the verification of the declarations of persons authorized to perform the functions of the State is the exclusive competence of the NLA. That is, no other body, including the NABU, can carry out such verifications, according to the GDR, without a check by the competent authority, which is the National Anti-Corruption and Anti-Corruption Agency. In addition, the committee noted that the initiator of the submission justified the commission by the national deputy of the offence, referring to the clarification of the NLA on the application of certain provisions of the Ukrainian Anti-Corruption Act on financial control measures. Thus, this clarification is not an official document, it is not registered by the Ministry of Justice, as provided for by the relevant provision on the state registration of legal acts approved by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. We also pointed out that a list of evidence contains links to information on telephone connections between legal leaders who have established a permanent relationship with the national MP. In our opinion, this is a gross violation of the requirements of part three of article 482 of the Ukrainian Code of Procedure, the Criminal Procedural Code of Ukraine and part two of article 27 of the Ukrainian Law on the Status of the People's Deputy, which provides that violations of the secret of correspondence, telegraph, other correspondence and other measures which, under the law, restrict the rights and freedoms of the People's Deputy are permitted only when the Supreme Council of Ukraine has given consent to bring him to criminal responsibility. As you can see, it's an object. At the time when the telephone connections of the de facto people's deputies were being monitored, the Supreme Council did not grant such consent. The Committee noted that according to part three of article 258 of the Criminal Code communication is the transfer of information in any form from one person to another directly or through means of communication of any type. And the merger according to the rules of supply, the acquisition of telecommunications services -- they are approved by the Cabinet -- is a link between the end equipment of subscribers for the exchange of information. That is, telephone connections for you, distinguished national MPs.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-04-m1.u29	Please complete one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-04-m1.u30	Your telephone connections, honourable national MPs, are part of telephone communication and are protected by the secret telephone conversations guaranteed in article 31 of the Constitution, article 482 of the CPC and article 27 of the Ukrainian Law on the Status of the People's Deputies of Ukraine. In support of this, the Committee drew attention to the fact that the National Deputies of Ukraine, 59 National Deputies signed, among them members of our Committee on Rules, submitted to the Constitutional Court a submission on the official interpretation of the provisions of part three of article 62, part one, third article 80 of the Constitution of Ukraine, on which constitutional conduct was opened and, since September 5, the Grand Chamber of the Court had been held. The committee concluded that the submission, which was supported and introduced to the Supreme Council of Ukraine by the Attorney General of Ukraine on 18 September, was legal in the part concerning the subject of the initiative, i.e. it was initiated and properly submitted.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-04-m1.u31	How much do you need? Please 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-04-m1.u32	You don't need 30, less. And some comments on the validity of the submission have been made to you just now, and I ask you to consider them when making a decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-04-m1.u33	Thank you, Your Honor. According to the Rules, we are now moving on, colleagues, to discuss our submission for the removal of parliamentary immunity. I'm asking the factions to sign up for the performance. Please, National Deputy Humil of the People's Front. Passes the word to Igor Lapin. Please, Mr. Igor.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-04-m1.u34	Good afternoon, dear colleagues. I'd like to pay attention to one moment during this brief period. All of us have made a commitment to vote on the elimination of inviolability. As a Marjorie MP, I have also made this commitment to my electorate and, of course, I will do it. But I have only one question in the context of this discussion. I can't understand the position of the Attorney-General when one of the broadcasters said that this case might not be very good and perhaps far-fetched in court. I'd only like to hear the answer to one question today: is she going to be in court, is she going to end up in a verdict or is she still unsuspecting and we have to deal with what's going on today? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-04-m1.u35	Thank you very much, Mr. Igor. And please, from Self-Help, if I understand correctly, Egor Sobolev. Dear colleagues, who's speaking from Self-Help? Sobolen. Please, Mr. Sobolev. Mrs. Tetjana, don't distract your colleague.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-04-m1.u36	Self-help, of course, will support the application of the Attorney General, organized by the Anti-Corruption Prosecutor's Office along with the Anti-Corruption Bureau. I'll tell you about myself. I don't have any companies. But as a person who is very considerate and respectful of filling out an electronic declaration, I think it's one of the best things that we've ever started with you, and on me, starting with myself, I've only spent my life doing journalism, public activity, I'm really worried about forgetting when I fill out a declaration, whether I was a member of a public organization or something. It can't be that the National MP forgot to register in a declaration a company that belongs to him directly or indirectly. It's a requirement of law. It's a basic idea, e-declaration of property registers. Hence, there can be no doubt that each one of us is obliged to remember, to be considerate and open. Who wants to do business, who wants to do complicated operations, has to leave politics, and there's another idea of e-declaration. We'll vote yes. We want Yuri Lucenka to prove this and other investigations to victory.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-04-m1.u37	Thank you. Please, Igor Shurma gives the floor, please, Mr. Boyko, leader of the Opposition Block. We invite you to your word, Mr. Igor.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-04-m1.u38	Dear Madam Chairman! Ladies and gentlemen! You know, from the very beginning, when we started theater action after we removed the immunity from the deputies, it was already up to ten, it was a faction's position that all deputies should be left untouched because that's what people want, and the example should be given by the President, the President-in-Office of the country to show by his example that everyone before the law is equal. We are still waiting for the conclusion now of the committee that was referred to and the bill on the removal of immunity from all MPs, and we are still waiting for this bill to be introduced into the hall. As far as I'm concerned. So our faction has taken a position that let's take it out of all the deputies, because that's what our voters want, and we're not going to selectively vote for someone, regardless of our faction, he or someone else, that's how we hold these positions. With regard to the specific case of Deputy Sergey Dunaev, this is just a mistake that has been made. It's because of the most bureaucratic situation with the filing of declarations. In this situation, any deputy in this room might turn out to be, and I'm, frankly, aware of the expression that was said today that this is a pilot project. If this is a pilot project for our faction, it's the fifth, the fourth, it's going to be the fifth, the sixth. Given the number of members of the faction, I think that statistics are very unfavourable for overpowered factions, where today the largest faction of Parliament has been removed from just one and here is a pilot project. I think the MPs are determined. We respect any decision we make, but we think we should take it out of everyone and do what we promised our voters. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-04-m1.u39	Thank you. Colleagues, I want to remind you that only representatives of three factions. Please, Sergey Vlasenko. He's representing Fatherland's position. And are there still groups and factions that do not speak and wish? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-04-m1.u40	Dear colleagues, what is this matter? This is one very obvious thing: business should be separate from politics. In the 14th year, we were told that a businessman and a politician is great, that's the best. A businessman will get this country out of the brink of war. A businessman as a rich man will have no corruption. Businessman, in general, is the light at the end of the tunnel. And we were told that it's perfectly normal when business and politics are combined. When I've been in politics for 20 years, as a deputy, as a minister of two foreign affairs, and as a minister of the economy, and still as a businessman, that's normal. And that's how it's supposed to be. And so it should still be. No, it's not normal. The business must be separate. Politics must be separate. And then you don't have to tell each other that, oh, there my firms just happened to be in the tender. My firms happen to sell candy in the Russian Federation. My firms happen to be in Crimea and so on. It's not normal. Business is separate. Politics is separate. We have in our faction Sergey Vladislavovich Sobolev, who in the Ukrainian Parliament is probably one of the most respected deputies with the greatest experience. How many companies does he own? Zero. Zero. I'm sorry about yourself in the high hall. When I went to Parliament, I came from the legal company number one in Ukraine, before entering the parliament came out of the founding. How many companies do I have in the declaration? Zero. Zero. Julia Volodymyrna Timoshenko so, she came into politics. [[B in m in s a l in]] I understand these "ocles," the "ocles" of the powder. When she came into politics like this, she came from a big business. But I emphasize, before coming to Parliament, she came out of the founding house, came out of the principal's office, came out from all over the place, and she's a pure politician. Her business was sought by Yanukovich, Yushchenko, now looking for Poroshenko, there is no business in Timoshenko. So "Paternity" clearly supports the division of business and politics. And the powder dumplings, keep saying "y", "a" and sell candy, explain why you're selling candy in Crimea so far. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-04-m1.u41	Dear colleagues! I just want to go back to the hall and thank you that today we had a kind of constructive discussion of all the bills. And to ask for compliance with the Rules, to discuss exclusively the subject of the decree that we are considering. Now, as I understand it, all the factions and groups who wanted to speak on a specific decision to consent to the criminal responsibility of the Dunaev People's Deputies had the opportunity to join in the discussion. Now, according to the Rules, the Ukrainian national deputies can take the floor, and I ask that the Ukrainian national deputies sign up for discussion. Please, Yuri Lewchenko. Yuri Lewchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-04-m1.u42	Lewchenko, Freedom, 223rd District, Kiev. Right now, we've seen this very blasphemous manipulation of the question of parliamentary immunity. The point is that Attorney General Yuri Lucenko, first of all, has somehow been shyly avoiding the answers to Mr. Vlasenko's questions. Why, in fact, is there no filing for detention and no filing for the arrest of the relevant MP of today on which the matter is being considered? And the thing is, without these two applications, no intrusiveness is going on, because everything that's going on, it's allowed to investigate the right case, but it can't be held and arrested anymore, and it can at any time get on any plane and run anywhere more convenient. Well, I guess in this case, Moscow, but anywhere where there's wealth. And here's the fundamental problem of this whole change situation. With the MP's touchiness. The point is that as long as the Constitution of Ukraine has this medieval standard, I would say prehistorically, that there is no parliamentary immunity for criminal crimes, no wealthy national deputy who has particular ties with the active authority or with the law enforcement authorities, or who can make an agreement with them, will be held accountable. Because at any moment, you can just sit on a plane or a car or walk across the border and run away from responsibility. Thus, Ukrainian society has been demanding for years that this rule be repealed in the Constitution of Ukraine. But instead of canceling this rule, we see speculations about this issue happening all the time in this room -- not just in this room, but in Gruszewski and in Banks. At the end of this year, Ukrainian national MPs gathered 158 signatures, registered the relevant law in order to undo the inviolability right away, to vote for it and Peter Alexiyovich Poroshenko, and, by the way, the BPT representative and Mr. Lucenko, and other BPT representatives, always said that this should be done. But when they came directly to the case, to the vote that was just a few weeks ago, what did the whole country see? She saw that a normal real law on the elimination of inviolability had already been stopped, that it had not been allowed to continue to work on it, but instead gave green light to the powdery shuler bill, which really did not want to undo the inviolability that actually prescribed the standards in such a way that, in any case, this inviolability would remain intact. And even if it did not seem to remain until the next call, the new one was prescribed in such a way that it could be postponed for another five years, for another ten years, for another 15 years.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-04-m1.u43	Thank you. I'll give you 30 seconds, only one thing, I'm asking you to speak on the subject of the decision under discussion. Dear colleague! Please, 30 seconds on the subject.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-04-m1.u44	Mrs. Irina, I'm talking about the subject, because the decision is about the MP's immunity, I'm talking only about the MP's immunity, and I'm not talking about anything else. So we see reality, we see blasphemy, we see butaphoria. What is said, on the one hand, is that they seem to be fighting criminals by national MPs, and they don't really want to undo the parliamentary immunity. And if we're talking specifically about the Danube, we need to record the intactness of any national MP. So, of course, Freedom will vote in favour of this decree.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-04-m1.u45	I see. Thank you very much for your position. Please, Sergey Shahov, give me your word now.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-04-m1.u46	Sergey Shahov, the political power of Our End. Dear colleagues! When we all went to Parliament, each of us gave his word to his electorate, who would remove the inviolability. Today, Yuri Lewchenko has already collected 158 signatures in the Supreme Council after the removal of the inviolability of all of them. And that's not before the election, it was a year ago. And now it's not too late to take away the integrity of each and every one of us. No one should be privileged, and we came here to work for Ukraine and for our Ukrainian people, who chose us. Secondly, I would like to thank you Yuri Vitaliyovich, for the fact that criminal conduct has been violated. And I believe that Minister Nasalik has no intrusiveness, and he must be responsible for the fact that miners did not receive five months’ wages. Today, in four areas, criminal conduct is violated, I believe that they will not be thrown into the trash but will be brought to a logical end and punished by those who today abuse workers, the miners of today, whose families are poor. Today, the third strike is virtually "Selidivwogil" and today, the closed path of Donetsk-Dnipropetrovsk. Therefore, I feel that it is not necessary to lead people to boiling. I think that today and anti-corruption bodies need to work not only on what is being done in the Supreme Council, but where the IMF's money has been distributed – 2 trillion dollars, where pensioners' money has been distributed – 200 million dollars from the Pension Fund, and to investigate this issue to a complete and logical conclusion. To violate criminal conduct, not to take sides only today in Parliament. Turn your head back to a government that is generally antihuman, and direct those who are breaking the law today, who are not assigning professional ministers who are robbing Ukraine today. Today, we must not rob, but feed the Ukrainians, return the Ukrainians to their homes, the butchers, and bring order to the state. Thank you. Sergey Shahov, the political power of Our End.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-04-m1.u47	Thank you, Your Honor. The only thing I want to do is remind myself, because I'm listening very carefully to both Ukrainian radio and Ukrainian television, the broadcast of the session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, which is now on the profile committee, which is showing and showing even, and listening, and watching, is the submission of our, jointly-voted submission of amendments to the Constitution on the removal of parliamentary immunity in general. And we're all convinced, I see, there's a consensus here that we're going to be able to deal with this issue in today's session. And, please, this is the national MP of Musai. You have a word, because our colleague earlier said that he had already given the word, the right to speak to another colleague. Please, Mr. Musai.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-04-m1.u48	Ladies and gentlemen, I am authorized to give the floor to the position of our National Control Group of the political party on integrity as such. Of course we'll vote for removing the inviolability from anyone ever, but. There's always a "but." For some reason, in our bill, which we put to the vote on the committee, we've forgotten once again that the President's immunity is intact, because we don't have the law on the President's impeachment, we've forgotten that the judges are intact, which is also the medieval norm absolutely, where we see unacceptable standards among the judiciary: drunks driving, shooting during their detention, and so on. Therefore, this inviolability must be a systematic and complex vision of the entire Parliament. And in order not to be against each of the deputies once again by political pressure on any faction on the part of the Attorney General's Office, it would have to be solved once and for all. And it's not like the Presidential Bill, it's like we've handed down four national MPs for the removal of the inviolability that we have. The promise that all of us and probably 90 percent of you people before the elections made this promise after the removal of the MP's immunity. And we have made an appropriate amendment, which is not one of the following, which is unknown, and that the Supreme Council may once again annul this decision, but immediately vote on the removal of the parliamentary immunity in the archaic form in which it exists in the Constitution of Ukraine. But, of course, it is very important to leave the MP intact, of course, for political statements during the legislative process and during speeches in Parliament, so that we do not turn this mantra into inviolability, that tomorrow no national MP will be able to say a false word against power. Thus, a very balanced decision on parliamentary integrity is important. And I call upon the committee that is working on this issue of inviolability as soon as possible, taking into account our ruling from the People's Control, to put it to the presidential and parliamentary elections for a vote in the Hall. And, of course, today, in carrying out this consistent policy of national control, we will definitely support the removal of inviolability from any national MP, including, God forbid, when the turn comes to any of our even closest friends, our vote will always be in favour. I think this archaic norm needs to be eliminated. So I thank the Attorney-General for being consistent with the businessmen who have sat here long ago in the Supreme Council, and in fact they should be doing business, not politics.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-04-m1.u49	Thank you. So the time for the national MPs to speak is over. Now, three final words: First the Attorney General, then the Danube Sergey, then Paul Pinzenik. And I'm going to invite these sequences. So I invite you to the closing statement of Attorney General Yuri Vitaliyovich Lucenka of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-04-m1.u50	Ladies and gentlemen, I have actually heard two direct questions about the substance of today's consideration. The first is from the People's Deputy Lapin, who's asking if I'm guaranteeing that this case is going to be in court. No, I'm not, because he's a prosecutor who follows the law. For the time being, I am asking for parliamentary immunity only to verify that the people’s MP’s intention was to specifically report false information to his declaration. A number of operational investigations are needed to do this. This can be done, to my profound conviction, only after permission from the Supreme Council. All forms of interrogation, surveillance, searches on a national MP or property he uses in his activities are impossible without such a decision. So I don't think that your decision is a guarantee of criminal responsibility, but it is a guarantee of equality before the law and of investigative action to establish the truth. And the fact that it will be objective, I can assure you. The second question was asked by the faction’s head, Mr. Boyko, that the statistics on his deputies were too large. I agree with that, Mr. Boyko. There's only one problem. When you make a list, think about how it will end. It is not my fault that your faction has brought together so many people who have so many issues in law enforcement. You all know that I never reject criminal acts. the submission of parliamentary immunity due to the belongings of a person to a faction or another faction. Either way, I like it or I don't like the political rhetoric of a political power, but it's only about signs of criminal offences. I gave you my word when you assigned me to this position, that I would be objective and adhere to it. And it's not bad that your colleagues are taking off the touch, in principle, they're not, because on all televisions, you're telling me that it's long overdue. Then do it! Just vote today for the National MP to become the same as all millions of Ukrainian citizens who are completing the declaration, and for them to be held accountable, there is no need to come to the Supreme Council. It seems to me that the servant of the people must answer at least as much as the people themselves. In this case, I'm not talking about a TV show, I'm talking about a national deputy from the Opposition Block. And the last. Once again, the Anti-Corruption Act, voted in this room, requires that benefits be shown in all, I emphasize, in all cases: maternal business structures, their children's structures, their subsequent structures -- whatever.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-04-m1.u51	Please, 30. One minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-04-m1.u52	According to the National Anti-Corruption Bureau, the National MP did not do this. And if the investigation finds that he did it deliberately, on purpose, he will bear the responsibility that you, the honourable national deputies, have voted on. If the intention is not set, then the prosecutor will also make an objective decision. Therefore, I ask that investigators and prosecutors, detectives and prosecutors be given the opportunity to work in this case and to maintain the application for the removal of immunity, without detention, without arrest, but to be touched by the law, like all other Ukrainian citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-04-m1.u53	Thank you. For the final word, the national deputy of Ukraine, Sergey Volodymyrovich, is invited.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-04-m1.u54	Ladies and gentlemen, I will be very brief. I will respectfully make any decision you make. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-04-m1.u55	Thank you. Colleagues, I would like to report that there will now be a closing statement, a closing statement from the Regulatory Committee, and then we will move on to the decision-making process. So I ask all the factions to invite deputies to the Hall and the Secretariat of the Supreme Council I ask to invite all the deputies to the Hall. At the same time, I would like to say that we have another debt, and immediately after the vote, we will have to suspend the mandate of the two members of the CLTC that we have chosen. So I'm asking everyone to be in the hall. After the vote, we will immediately consider two decisions to terminate the parliamentary powers. Therefore, I ask everyone to mobilize as much as possible and invite to the conclusion of the First Vice-Chairman of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the Rules and Organization of Work of the Supreme Council of Paul Vasilovich Pinzenik. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-04-m1.u56	Honorable fellow members of the National Deputies, the conclusion of the Rules Committee is quite extensive, it is impossible to get to know the MPs for the five minutes that have been set aside for the presentation and the report. I ask everyone, especially lawyers, to get to know carefully the legal positions that are set out in it. I ask that you finally take note of these legal positions of the leaders of the law enforcement agencies present in this room today. There are virtually no court practices on these matters. I'm not sure that criminal law and criminal proceedings are the areas in which people should be experimented, even if they are Ukrainian national MPs. Once again, please pay close attention to the very legal positions we have drawn and may take them into account for the future. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-04-m1.u57	Thank you, colleagues. So we're going to make a decision and I'm asking everyone to come into the hall and take jobs. Colleagues from the beds, I ask you to return to the hall and I would like to point out that we have only a matter of removing the inviolability. We have no question of arrest and no question of detention. The only question is to allow me to conduct investigative actions against any citizen. So I ask everyone to take part in the vote, to take up jobs. We're moving on to making a decision. In accordance with article 80 of the Constitution of Ukraine, part of article 221 of the Ukrainian Act on the Rules of Procedure of the Supreme Council of Ukraine puts to the vote the issue of consenting to the criminal responsibility of the National Deputy of Ukraine, Sergio Volodimirovic. Please vote. I'd like your support, colleagues. Vote. [[17:04:47]] For-125 The decision is not taken. Let me show you through the factions. Peter Poshenko's Block – 42, People's Front – 22, Opposition Block – 0, Self-help – 16, Radical Party – 7, Fatherland – 7, Will of the People – 0, Rebirth Party – 0, non-fractional – 31. I don't understand, honestly, that position, colleagues. We're not arresting, we're not arresting, we're just putting an end to the inviolability. Too big a breakup, colleagues, to bet again. It's a 100-voice draw, it's too big a draw. And I would like to inform the Attorney General of Ukraine that the decision to bring the criminal responsibility of the people's representative of the Danube has not been taken. And I think, colleagues, it's wrong. We recently voted to abolish parliamentary immunity. And I don't understand why we refuse to allow the court simply to investigate. The decision is not taken. So, colleagues, we're moving on to personnel issues. Before the decision to terminate the parliamentary powers. And, colleagues, these are personnel issues, they were fine in the daytime. I can insert personnel questions at any time. I'm asking everyone to come into the hall, we're moving on to these personnel issues. First. I'm looking at the draft decree on the early termination of the powers of the Ukrainian national deputy of Ephraim, our colleague, who we have elected as a member of the CBC. Please support a reduced procedure of 150 votes. Please vote, colleagues, please support. Colleagues, the summary procedure, please vote to ensure that everything is in accordance with the Rules, so that everything is in accordance with the prescribed law. Please be supportive. It's a technical question, colleagues, please support. Ephraim! Ephraim! [[17:07:25]] For-198 And I invite you to report to the First Vice-Chairman of the Committee of Pinzenic Pavel Vasilovich. Paul, please. Colleagues, and I ask you all to enter the hall, don't split up, it's a very important question, without these questions tomorrow the CIA won't be able to take an oath. Be responsible, colleagues, and ask everyone to come into the hall. Please, Mr. Paul.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-04-m1.u58	Dear Head! Dear colleagues! With your permission, I will report on two draft regulations that have been registered consecutively in 9159 and 9160. 9159 refers to the statement made by the Ukrainian National Deputy, a member of the political party 'National Front' of Efrem Irina Aleksyivna on the formation of parliamentary powers, in accordance with the requirements of article 81, part two, of the Constitution of Ukraine and article 4 of the Law 'On the Status of the People's Deputy' in connection with the appointment of a member of the Central Electoral Commission on September 20, 18th. The committee decided to make the relevant draft decision and asked for its support. The Supreme Council of Ukraine has also received a statement from the National Deputy, a member of the Radical Party’s deputy faction, Oleg Lásk of the South Aunt Leonidina, about her appointment as a member of the Central Election Commission on September 20. We are also asked to support the relevant draft regulation by putting two projects 9159 and 9160 to the vote. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-04-m1.u59	Thank you. Colleagues, I'm going to put in the sequence that the committee pointed out. But I'm asking everyone to take up jobs, colleagues. Yeah, one at a time. First, I will put Order 9159 – Ephraim's Irina Alexiyevna, which we have elected as a member of the Central Election Commission, then I will put Order 9160, where we will vote for the Yusque Tetian Leonidovna, which we also unanimously elected as a member of the Central Election Commission. Colleagues, there's got to be a statement, as I'm told, about a conflict of interest. So I now give the word for Ephraim's speech. No, it's not. Fellows, I'm asking you very much, you're going to gather and take your jobs. The Yuslim Aunt Leonidni. One minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-04-m1.u60	Thank you. Dear colleagues, in accordance with part six of article 37 of the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, I report that there is a conflict of interest when voting on the issue of my permanent suspension as a national deputy. And I'm explaining that I'm not voting on this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-04-m1.u61	Thank you. I give Ephraim Irina Alexiyevna one minute. Please, Mrs. Irina.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-04-m1.u62	Dear colleagues, under the Supreme Council of Ukraine regulations, I would like to state that there is a conflict of interest in the vote about depriving me of the authority of the Ukrainian People's Deputy. And I'm not going to vote for that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-04-m1.u63	Thank you. Mrs. Irina, Mrs. Tetjana, you and I have spent a very turbulent day here in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. I want to thank you for all your efforts, for your energy, for your great professionalism and the experience you have shown during your work at the Supreme Council of Ukraine. You have new tasks ahead of you. Central Election Commission, updated after Maidan, new Central Election Commission. I wish you success. And I'm putting the rulings in line for the vote. And I hope that the entire hall will support these decisions so that tomorrow the members of the CLTC can take an oath and enter into their duties. I am therefore the first to put to the vote the draft Decree on the Cessation of the Powers of the People’s Deputies of the Ukraine of Ephraim (No. 9159). Please vote. Please support this decision. Everyone please take part in the vote. Please vote. Please be supportive. Vote. [[17:11:48]] For 268. Decision taken. Mrs. Irina, thank you! And you've been successful in your new job. [[Applause]] I now put to the vote a draft decree on the permanent suspension of the powers of the Ukrainian national deputy of the South Aunt Leonidina (No. 9160). Dear colleagues, please vote. Please be supportive. Let's vote, colleagues. Please be supportive. [[17:12:29]] For 258. It's been decided. Decision taken. Mrs. Tetjana, you have successful and similar professional work on the Central Election Commission. Welcome, colleagues. But I would also like to point out that we have come up with a draft decree on the permanent suspension of the powers of the National Deputy of Ukraine, Juryzia. And I'm asking you, colleagues, to consider this determination now. I ask you to support her consideration of the reduced procedure. Please vote and please support. Vote. Please be supportive. Vote. [[17:13:10]] For-170. Decision taken. And I invite you to the address of Pinzenick Pavel Vasilovich, the first deputy of the Committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-04-m1.u64	Dear Head, dear colleagues! The report will be a very brief one, a statement by the national deputy, Zjuriya, on his own application, and the committee will consider it and propose to support the relevant draft decision. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-04-m1.u65	Thank you, colleagues. And now I'm putting to the vote a draft decree on the permanent suspension of the powers of the Ukrainian national deputy, George Andriy Valeriovich. Please vote, please support, vote. [[17:14:23]] For 175 The decision is not made. So, colleagues, I'm asking for your attention. We had a row before lunch, and, by the way, now I'm still colleagues, I've promised to re-enter the agenda of the daily session of the bill amending the Ukrainian Law on the Condemnation of the Communist and National Socialist Regime (about the condemnation and prohibition of the Russian world in Ukraine). Just getting into the agenda of the 9139 session. Please support the inclusion in the agenda of the 9139 session. It's just inclusion, we're not going to look at it today, it's just inclusion in the agenda of the day session. Please vote, please support, vote, please support. What we voted for before lunch is 9139. [[17:15:26]] For a hundred and The decision is not made. Now, colleagues, I'd like everyone's attention. We had some very important questions before lunch, but we didn't have time to look at them because we had a long discussion of the project in language. And I want now, colleagues, among them very important, about the surrounding territories, about the adjacent zone of Ukraine. It's a question of BlackMornaphthegasus and ProZorro. With your permission, I'm going to put them on the vote so we can see if we can put them to the vote now. I'm asking you, colleagues, to prepare now and I'll be, I'll stress, those bills that were before lunch and were standing right after the Language Act. The first was the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Public Procurement Act (8265). An extremely important bill, colleagues, we just haven't been able to look at it, but this is the number one prerogative for the Ukrainian government, for Ukrainian citizens. And now I'm going to run a rating vote on who for us to move on to now. I'm asking everyone to come into the hall, colleagues, and I'm asking you to take a job. Once again, this is an important issue for the government. I'm asking everyone not to leave the hall, Leonidas don't leave the hall, come back, this is ProZorro, this is a public purchase. And I'm voting on a draft bill amending the Ukrainian Public Procurement Act and some other Ukrainian legislation (8265). This is a rating vote, please vote, please support. Vote. Please be supportive. [[17:17:17]] For-163 163. I'm sorry, colleagues. I'm betting on what the next law was. Next was a draft Act amending certain legislative acts on the restoration of the activities of the State Shareholders Association "Cornomornaftegas" (8338). It's just a rating vote. I'm asking you, colleagues, to support Bill 8338, the rating vote. Please vote, please support. Vote. [[17:17:57]] For-160. 160. Colleagues, I remind you for all, we vote by voting the questions that were before lunch, but we haven't been able to look at them since the discussion of the Language Act was delayed. I'm betting on ratings so that we don't get into the known failure laws. I will now propose that we move on to the draft Law on the Adhesive Zone of Ukraine (8361). The committee claims that this law unites all factions. It refers to the ATO, and it refers to the actions of the Ukrainian authorities in the occupied territories. So, colleagues, experts on this issue, look at the factions and support it. And I'm asking you not to leave the hall. Are you sure? Can we vote? So I'm betting on the rating vote on the draft law on the adjacent zone of Ukraine (8361). He is unifying, and everyone is interested in him. I ask your support, and I ask you to vote. Vote, fellows! Please be supportive. This is a unified question for all factions and groups. [[17:19:15.]] For 178. Colleagues! Let's invite some people. And where people used to work at the same time, explain it to me. [[B in m in s a l in]] Oh, please! For that there are factions' heads. Tell them to get back to work. There are no other options for a warlord's parliament! I'm asking everyone now, colleagues, to call all the deputies into the hall. The law on the adjacent zone of Ukraine is supported by all factions. Please show by factions. On the factions, please show: "Block of Petra Poshenko" – 73, "National Front" – 53, "Resistance Block" – 0, "self-help" – 13, Radical Party – 12, "Fatherhood" – 6, "will of the people" – 0, "Party of Rebirth" – 0, non-fractional – 21. Come on, colleagues, let's call all our colleagues into the hall. Now I'm going to put it back on the ratings vote. I ask all the heads of factions to invite deputies to the hall. Now I'm going to put this question to the vote again. And I would like to inform you, as long as the MPs arrive, that tomorrow at 11:10 a.m., there will be an oath by the newly elected members of the Central Electoral Commission, and I publicly announce and invite them to our session to make an oath tomorrow. Now I ask everyone to prepare for the vote. All right. Invite people into the hall, colleagues. You've seen factions. Once again, I place a bill on the adjacent zone of Ukraine (8361). It's supported by all the factions. And I ask everyone to support it by voting. Please vote, please support, colleagues, the vote. Please support, we vote, colleagues. [[17:21:33]] For-187 Put it in? [[Noise Nodes]] Colleagues, what would you advise me now? Colleagues, pay attention! And then to me on the Conciliation Council there are dozens of questions: Set that law, set that law. We are now Thursday 17:20, yes, you do not require me on the Conciliation Council, you go to work and there will be more laws. I'm asking everyone to come into the hall. Please come into the hall and prepare for the vote. That's no good. I call again. Show the factions again. That's not gonna happen. We'll make decisions. [[B in m in s a l in]] I'll be right there. "Block of Peter Poshenko" – 80, "National Front" – 56, "Opposition Block" – 0, "self-help" – 15, "Radical Party" – 7, "Fathership" – 8, "will of the people" – 1, "Rebirth" – 0, non-fractional – 20. I'm going to put it again, colleagues, I'm going to ask everyone to come into the hall, get out of the bed and go back to the hall. I see you're just getting out of your jobs when you vote. We've got hours and hours and we'll work. So I'm going to put another law that we had -- this is a bill amending some of the Ukrainian legislation on engineering and maintenance of the state border -- maybe it's going to get more votes, it's 6777, take a look at the factions. So, colleagues, I'm voting on the draft Act amending some of the Ukrainian legislation on engineering and maintenance of the state border (6777). I ask everyone to vote and vote. Please vote, please support, vote. [[17:23:34]] For 181 Colleagues! So we have the Adolescent Zone Act, which is the largest number of votes, is next in order of the day. I'm asking you, I'm going to put it again and ask everyone to come into the hall, colleagues. Please prepare for the vote. Please invite all the deputies to the hall. Colleagues, we've conducted a rating vote, but the next law that we have on a daily basis is Law 8184, the draft Act amending the Criminal Code of Ukraine on the irreparability of punishment for certain crimes against property, traffic security and the exploitation of transport. Law 8184. I want to ask you, is King Viktor Mikolaiovich in the interview room? The king is in the hall. And we're going to look at it, it's the next one in the daytime. During the discussion, I very much ask that everyone be invited to the hall; this law unites all of us so that we can unite in his vote. So we're going to draft Law 8184, and I'm asking you to support the proposal for a reduced procedure. Please vote. Please be supportive. Vote. [[17:25:36]] For 135 My colleagues, once again, we're not going to be able to complete the procedure. I'm asking everyone to maintain a reduced procedure. And, colleagues, I'm once again asking you to support the 8184 procedure. Please vote. Please be supportive. Mr. Ivan, please support. Vote. Please vote. Please be supportive. Vote. Please support everyone, colleagues. [[17:26:10]] For 134 You tell me, what's the point? Colleagues, we can't go into full-time because we're going out on a day of work, we're going out on a day of work. So once again, colleagues, I urge everyone to support, support. [[B in m in s a l in]] So once again, I'm going to put 8,184 into a reduced procedure. Please vote, please support, for short, please vote. [[17:27:19]] For-141 My colleagues, I'm stressing again, I'm looking at the logic of the people's deputies. We can't get in full, we don't have time, we have half an hour. We have the only way, that's for short consideration. I ask everyone to vote and support. Colleagues, I ask everyone to vote now. Now we're going to vote short, and you're going to explain. Vote the abbreviated. So, colleagues, I ask you once again to support the consideration of draft Law 8184, which is next in order of the day, under a reduced procedure. Please vote and support everyone. Please vote, please support, vote. Please be supportive. Every voice, careful. [[17:28:22]] For-152. Decision taken. And I invite you to the report of King Viktor Mikolaiovich of Ukraine. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-04-m1.u66	Your Honourable Chairman, Your Honor, Bill 8184 is proposed for your consideration. The point is that the committee has been very productively associated with the practical personnel of our police force, in particular those involved in criminal investigation and investigation. As a result of this communication, we have found the problem that is now being solved. The purpose of the bill is to establish irreparability and adequate criminal responsibility for illegal possession of means of transport and theft. The current 289, and 185, theft, led to a condition that allows the offender to avoid more severe criminal liability in the absence of real damage, i.e. return to the victim's transport vehicle. Noncences, when a criminal investigation, when the entire police are looking for a stolen car, finds and returns the owner and finds the people who took it, the responsibility goes to the first part -- they didn't do anything. Well, they broke the fort or took off the mirror. So, coming out of that reality -- and on the second day, these criminals are again committing crimes -- we offer you, by adopting the changes to the relevant articles, this is article 289 and 185 of the Criminal Code, to allow our police, to criminalize the use of all the weapons they have in order for us to stop these crimes. For the record, to yours, every day.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-04-m1.u67	One minute, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-04-m1.u68	Stealing is almost done. [[B in m in s a l in]] 30 cars. So I suggest the following. In part two of the 289th "Illicit Incarceration by means of Transport" excludes such a qualification as "the commission of significant material damage" and establishes criminal responsibility for illegal possession by means of a means of transport if the subject of such illegal occupation is a means of transport whose market price at the time of the commission of the crime is significant or large. In addition, when discussing this issue, the authors, including me, concluded that we should consider the comments that we have. And I'm speaking under the transcript. So I would like to support this bill, which is based on the first reading, except for articles 186 and 187 of the Criminal Code, this is "Gravage" and "Razbay."
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-04-m1.u69	Thank you. You can continue. You also have to report from the committee. So I'm giving you two more minutes from the committee, and you can keep going. Please give a 2 minute report from the Committee on Law Enforcement. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-04-m1.u70	Yes. In addition, there is a widespread method of hijacking vehicles, such as the use of an electronic device to interfere with the technical security system for stationary or mobile objects and in the absence of real damage. What does that say? Today, hijackers, car thefts, apartment thefts are used by special, hear (not double), electronic devices that suppress the vehicle’s anticipating system. So by pressing the button on the remote, there's no sign of a violation, there's no sign of a car. And they're calmly grasping it. This is an additional sign of criminal responsibility. So once again, I'm returning to you that the committee has considered these proposals, supported and asked you to accept them on the first reading as amended, for the transcript, except for articles 186 and 187 of the Criminal Code. We agreed with the scientific expert, with other comments, and we deleted these articles from this draft. Please be supportive. This today will be a real help to the operational units of the police to bring order in such a significant segment of criminal offences as illegal possession of property of citizens and state property and other property. Please support this bill in the first reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-04-m1.u71	Thank you. So we're moving on to the discussion. And, dear colleagues, I ask you to record: two in favour, two in favour. Factions please take part in the discussion. [[B in m in s a l in]] I'll give you a closing. [[B in m in s a l in]] Mr. Victor, yes, then I'll give you the closing from the rostrum just before the vote. And now we're going after the factions, and then I'm going to give you a closing. So, from the People's Front, Bondar Mikhailo Leontijovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-04-m1.u72	Give it to Teteruck Andrew, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-04-m1.u73	Please, Mr. Andrew.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-04-m1.u74	Thank your colleague Michael Bondar for his word. Andrew Teteruk, People's Front. The People's Front is going to support this bill because we think it's necessary to reduce the number of offences related to carjackings by means of various devices that have just been picked up. We believe that we must correct this gap in legislation and strengthen our struggle to preserve that property that belongs to motorists. That's why the People's Front will vote in favour of this bill. We call on all the national MPs who are in the towers or in the walls of Parliament to return to the session hall and continue voting to make it work and we end this day on a nice positive note because we started the day at a high pace, we worked well and now we have a good finish. Thank you all for your work.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-04-m1.u75	Thank you. I would like to invite all of you once again, to invite the deputies into the hall. One minute after the discussion in 15-20, we're going to make a decision and I'm asking all factions to maximize the mobilization of the people's deputies. So now from the Petra Prashenka Block of Barn Oleg Stepanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-04-m1.u76	I give the floor to my colleague, Mrs. Sergio Melnik. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-04-m1.u77	Dear friends, I'd like to pay attention. I think we're going somewhere. So, for example, in order to give people who receive subsidies, apartment counters, we've spent several years building buildings. Now we're the way back. It seems to me that if there's been theft and electronics, that's how we get punishment for intelligence. What difference does it make how he committed an offence? I need to be punished for a misdemeanor. I think we're going to go very far with these approaches.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-04-m1.u78	Thank you. From Self-Help Sidorovich Ruslan Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-04-m1.u79	Dear colleagues, I partly want to support the previous speaker. Because, in fact, the introduction of these additional features for electronic devices, it narrows, partially, and can prevent. But the scariest part is different. Dear colleagues, think about what we're doing. 289 articles that are being proposed. Thus, the value of a stolen car is an additional hallmark that will burden the attraction to criminal responsibility. So if a citizen owns a thousand dollars or 2,000 dollars worth of cars, we're going to think it's not so bad that they stole his car. And if they stole it for $100,000, we're going to put it in jail for 10 years. People, we're actually discriminating people by their property. You can't be sure about that. Therefore, Bill 8184 cannot be supported because it actually establishes property discrimination. Let's stop and be. Some common sense. Criminal responsibility is defined by social danger. The problem of material damage is not a matter of social danger, the extent of social danger. Therefore, this bill cannot be supported in this case. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-04-m1.u80	Thank you. From the Radical Party of Linko. Turn on the microphone from the spot.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-04-m1.u81	Dmitri Linko, Radical Party. Our faction supports this bill. Because the facts of theft, both in Kiev and in all cities, are simply a shock to every citizen who owns a car, and most of these crimes are not exposed. As for the previous speaker, I would like to state that last year I was with the activists in a court where the fourth -- I emphasize -- the fourth in one year took these robberies and the judge, for a minimum wager of 100,000 dollars, released people who stole a car worth 2 million dollars. In one evening, they would have enough for all of these thieves to pay both judges and mortgages to continue their crimes. Therefore, it is necessary to increase the criminal responsibility for such crimes so that these people cannot be held captive and continue their crimes. Because in one year, four times in the heat, bribe judges are released and they continue to steal cars and steal apartments.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-04-m1.u82	Thank you, colleagues. Anyone else want to share in the discussion? It's all gone, isn't it? So I invite you to the closing statement of King Viktor Mikolaiovich. To the rostrum, please, three minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-04-m1.u83	Dear colleagues! First of all, I welcome you all to look at the text of the bill, and you've read it. Why did you read it? Because each one of you understands what a criminal situation is today, no one is immune to these thefts that are taking place. And the criminal investigation, the investigation, tells us the way out of this, which is that when the group is preparing, they're going to buy a bet that's worth tens of thousands of dollars to suppress the electronic means of protecting our apartments, our transportation. It was said that today the current norm allows professional criminals to laugh at us and lawyers to make a defense of this. Today, if he stole a car of no value, but it was returned at the right time, the police returned, the responsibility comes in part one, that's not it. The other one. When a car or an apartment was stolen, the police hit all the search engines, but when they caught the criminal, they reclassified the first part and the court canceled all the evidence they obtained. Everyone laughs, you know, everyone works for the result, and it comes to zero, because the law is set like this when there are no possibilities. And that's why I'm asking you very much, this is not discrimination, except for the time I said that the theft of a car in the first part is the sum, you hear, the sum, I'm telling you, a significant amount is from 100 to 250 untaxed minimums, in the money it's between 85,000 dollars and 250 dollars, it's the cars that are cheaper, it's not the car, unless someone steals it, and it's the 250th part of a third. That is to say, there is increased responsibility for specific thieves who have committed a crime and who have already been brought to justice, you realize that they have been brought to justice and released. And you're telling the truth, because the current norm on legal grounds has already created a situation where the criminal search is turning away, it doesn't want to be, it can't be, and it doesn't want to be guilty or, as you say, it's stupid to sew on them, because they're coming out of there, laughing and coming, and they're stealing again, and they're bringing it up. You've seen videos, you've seen everything, in one minute with this device, you can open 10-20 cars, steal, hijack, send them abroad, and you'll go to these thieves and ask for money to find your car because the police.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-04-m1.u84	Please add a minute, continue.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-04-m1.u85	So I'm asking you very much not to collapse this law, we're adopting it in the first reading, you know, in the first, you can take it off, you can add what you want, but you can't break this law. Not only do we get a search warrant, not only for the owners of cars, but for those behind us to steal, rob, commit a crime, and they'll be happy to see you now. Today, if we overthrow this law, this world, the world of thieves, will celebrate its victory in all restaurants. Look, I'm talking to you, not the papers, but the person who knows it, the disappointments in the whole group, all of them, when I caught them, brought them in, and he came out of the courtroom and showed you like this, that kind of nose. Let's not let that happen. I'm asking you not to break the law, it's the first reading. Each of you has your doubts about coming to the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-04-m1.u86	30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-04-m1.u87	It's just that the officers of the search, the investigation committee, the hour came. The drafters are 90 percent of the members of the committee who have listened to your suggestions. So, my dear colleagues, that's not a word for it, I'm telling you, every day 30 or 50 cars are kidnapped. This is all criminal investigation, all of you, get in the middle of a crime scene. They're hunting and.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-04-m1.u88	Thank you. Thank you. So, colleagues, the discussion is concluded and we are moving on to making a decision. I ask you to invite all the deputies into the hall and prepare for the decision. I ask the heads of factions to invite all the deputies to the Hall, and the secretariat of the Supreme Council to invite everyone to the Hall, we're moving on to the decision-making process, we're moving on. Please come in and take your jobs. So, colleagues, I'm asking you to take up jobs. I ask you to prepare for the vote. Do not leave the hall or enter the hall. So, colleagues, please all come into the hall and take part in the vote. And I am voting on the draft Act amending the Criminal Code on the Inevitability of Penalty for Certain Crimes against Property, Traffic Safety and the Exploitation of Transport (No.8184). Just on the basis of the committee's proposals, colleagues. Just on the ground. I'm asking you to vote and I'm asking you to support the 8184 base. Let's vote, colleagues. Please be supportive. Vote! [[17:46:46]] For-195 Colleagues! [[B in m in s a l in]] The card didn't work. I'll put it back again. Colleagues, the card didn't work. I'll read the factions. You'll have to invite the deputies into the hall, please. You all see who's not around you. Invite the deputies to the hall. So, Peter Poshenko Block 88, People's Front 49, Opposition Block 19, Self-help 5, Radical Party 12, Parenthood 6, Will of the Nation 0, Rebirth Party 2, non-fractional 14. Fellows, come in, please. All right, everybody, I'll wait 30 seconds. Please don't come out of the hall. On the contrary, invite those who are not in the hall right now. They asked me for a minute to walk through the towers. And I'm asking the factions to help me. Moreover, I ask the members of the committee, 80 percent of whom are the authors of this bill, to invite members to the Chamber of Deputies, to help me implement and make law. I'm asking everyone to come to the hall. Both the members of the committee and the heads of factions, I ask to invite as many deputies as possible into the hall. And don't come out of the hall, colleagues, don't go out during the vote. We'll wait for the deputies to come. And don't run either! So, colleagues, now I'm going to make an offer to go back to Bill 8184. Please come in, take your seats. I propose to return to the draft Act amending the Criminal Code of Ukraine on the irreparability of punishment for certain crimes against property, traffic security and the operation of transport (No.8184). Please vote for everyone, please support. Colleagues, we vote together. If you'll excuse me, please vote in favour, vote in favour. [[17:49:05]] For 210 Fellows, I'll put it again, but then I'll ask you, if it doesn't work, to support the committee. I want to ask you, will you support the committee? Fellows, if you'd like to invite me now, I'll put it back on. We'll wait one minute, one minute. And please invite everyone, colleagues. I want to ask you whether. So, colleagues, we agreed, I'll put it back. If you don't have the required number of votes, then I'll put you back on the committee for work. And once again, I urge everyone to go into the hall and prepare for the decision. So, colleagues, I forgive everyone for taking jobs. Don't leave the hall. I'll put you on the way back. Don't come out. We're just waiting. Victor came in, yeah, people's deputies came in. Thank you. So I'm going to go back to voting first. And I'd like you all to prepare. I propose to return to the vote on the basis of the draft Law amending the Ukrainian Criminal Code on the Inevitability of Penalty for Certain Crimes against Property, Traffic Safety and the Exploitation of Transport (No. 8184). Please vote and please support, colleagues. Every voice has a weight. Please vote and please support. Vote. We're backing it up. Vote. Please be supportive. [[17:51:30.]] For 223 Three votes! There are voices. [[B in m in s a l in]] Okay. Three votes. So, colleagues, I'm proposing to go back to draft Law 8184, and I ask everyone to vote very carefully when making a decision. We're short three votes. Please vote and please support, colleagues, it's settled. And I ask you to vote very carefully and carefully. We vote in favour of the return of Law 8184. Please vote. Please be supportive. Vote. Please be supportive. Vote. [[17:52:18]] For 230 We're back. And now I'm putting the bill of Law 8184 on the basis of the committee's proposals. Please vote and please support. Based on the committee's proposals. Colleagues, pay attention. Each voice has a weight. Please vote and please support. Vote. Please be supportive. Vote. [[17:52:52]] For 226 Decision taken. And you said there were no votes. There are voices. Parliament is working. Parliament takes responsible decisions. I now invite you to announce Irina Heratchenko. Yes, there is potential.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-04-m1.u89	Dear colleagues, we have a problem with unworked cards again.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-04-m1.u90	Wait a minute! The factions. The factions, please. The factions. "Peter Poshenko's Block" – 93, "The People's Front" – 59, "The Opposition Block" – 18, "The Self-Help" – 3, "The Radical Party" – 16, "The Father's Party" – 10, "The Will of the People" – 0, "The Rebirth Party" – 12, "the non-fractional – 15. The hall is united, thank you all for your support. Mrs. Irina, the announcement.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-04-m1.u91	Thank you, thank you. Alexander Kugel says we need to repair the system, but it's just a system of our passions that can't stand. And two statements came to the fore, from our colleague Vladimir Ariev, who did not work his pro-vote card in favour of Bill 9036 amending the statutes of the U.S.S.A. And the second statement from our esteemed colleague Jaroslav Moskalenko that his "yes" card didn't work when he voted in favour of Bill 5670-d on ensuring the functioning of the Ukrainian language. Dear colleagues, there is a very important and pleasant announcement by our distinguished Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Please, Mr. Andrey. Please, Mr. Andrey.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-10-04-m1.u92	Dear colleagues, I want to make another very important message for you. Today, the United States Senate unanimously adopted a two-party resolution in which Holodomor, 32-33, is recognized as a genocide of the Ukrainian people. It's a big historic decision. [[Applause]] Thank our colleagues, colleagues. I think this is a partnership where the historical memory of a friendly country is respected at such a high level. I'm sure, after the Senate's decision, we'll have support in a lot of other countries waiting for the decision of the highest legislative body in the United States. This, colleagues, is the recognition of our struggle for the independence and great tragedy of the Ukrainian people. And today the Ukrainian Parliament has demonstrated its great will and respect for Ukrainian memory. For hundreds of years the Ukrainian language was destroyed, and today it was our duty to vote in the first reading of the Language Law, to vote in the European debate. And I want to personally thank Peter Dustenk Block for the compromise that Peter Dustenka's Block went to in a very sharp discussion. Thank you for that, colleagues. I mentioned today when I passed the Koleschenka-Kivalova Act, there were killings by the guardians of the Party of Regions -- a force that today often speaks of protecting the Rules. And when we protested it, and I protested, here, in this place, these mortuaries just crippled the Ukrainian national MPs. Their job was to destroy the Ukrainian language. Their task was to destroy the Ukrainian nation as such. We have demonstrated today that such excessive laws can go through the normal European debate and most importantly, compromise, consensus, as we often speak with our European parliamentarians. And today was an example of compromise and consensus and an example of a responsible decision. So I'm also convinced, today's fair decision, today's impeccable decision on the sanctions that we've taken today, and I've been stressing it, we have occupied not only territory, we have occupied information space. And so we must react as our warriors do to the front. I want to thank Sergey Visocki, all the authors of the law. As our warriors on the fore, we must protect Ukrainian information space, because it is war, war for the hearts and minds of people. And in this war, we have to defend Ukrainian interest, Ukrainian independence. We need to prevent the activities of their information DWPs (diversial groups) of the Putin information corps. We have to create our Ukrainian space. And I welcome everyone, colleagues. Let's welcome each other with that decision. [[Applause]] And of course, colleagues, responsible for the difficult decision to continue the law. It's not an easy decision, it's a lot of emotion, but once again, we have the same reaction from our partners that support and approve our decision. We passed it today without grenades, without fighting, without blocking the rostrum. We went through it in a European debate, and we once again demonstrated that the Ukrainian Parliament is both Ukrainian in spirit, and the European Parliament is finding compromises and that there is understanding in the room. So I want to thank all the people's deputies, all those who voted in the debate, separately to the head of the Prince's Committee, who have made a tremendous effort today to adopt the law. Once again, I thank the Peter Dust Block and Igor Greeneva for their ability at the most difficult moments and moments of compromise and understanding, and to welcome all of us with today. It's a victory, my friends. It's a victory. The glory of Ukraine! Unfortunately, the time for our meeting is coming to an end. We will not be able to pass a number of important laws that are in order during the day. But we still have a lot of work ahead of us, a lot of steps, new winning stages for our work. I now declare the evening session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine closed. Tomorrow at 10 a.m., I'm inviting everyone into the conference room to continue our work. Thank you again. See you tomorrow.
