ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-05-m1.u1	Dear colleagues! Time taken for a break is exhausted. And I'm asking everyone to prepare for the registration in the evening session. Please come into the hall, take up jobs. [[B in m in s a l in]] A lot. Parliamentarianism is strong. So, colleagues, take up jobs. Please prepare for registration. Colleagues, are you ready to register? And please register, please. [[16:05:43]] There are 360 national deputies in the hall. [[Applause]] This demonstrates the consistency and unity of the day - to - day affairs room. And, colleagues, I'll remind you, we finished our work -- it was a block of regulatory committee issues. We voted in favour of the Order on the calendar plan for the ninth session. The next issue is the draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine regarding the provision of official publication of Ukrainian laws and other legal acts (6518). Colleagues, a very important law when it comes to publishing Ukrainian laws in the Voice of Ukraine. Without this law, we put the entire legislative process at risk, and it is very important for us to adopt this law today. I am very grateful to Litvina Volodymyr Mikhailovich for this initiative. And I ask, colleagues, to prepare for the consideration of this law, I am convinced that today we must accept it, despite all the discussions. So I'm putting my first offer on the table. Who supports the proposal for a draft Law 6518 to be considered in a simplified procedure? Who's the cutter? Please vote. [[16:07:38]] For-31 In view of the importance and relevance of the matter, the Chamber decided to consider it fully. [[B in m in s a l in]] And I invite you to the speech of the Ukrainian national deputy, Litvin Volodymyr Mihajlovich. Is it the committee first? Let's go to the committee first. Pinzenik Pavel Vasilovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-05-m1.u2	Dear Andrew Volodymyrovich, distinguished colleagues of the national MPs! At its meeting on 8 November 2017, the Committee on Rules of Procedure considered a preliminary draft of the Act amending certain laws of Ukraine on the provision of official publication of Ukrainian laws and other legal and regulatory acts by the Ukrainian National Deputies Lášk Olež Valeriyovich, Litvin Volodymyr Mihajlovich (registration number of this bill 6518) (from 26.05). 2017) The bill proposes to amend article 139 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules, according to which the publication of laws and other acts of the Supreme Council of Ukraine in the newspaper Voice of Ukraine and in the "Reports of the Supreme Council of Ukraine" is an official publication, publication, and the introduction to the public of laws, regulations and other acts of the Supreme Council by placing them on the official site of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. In addition, the draft law proposes to amend the laws of Ukraine: "On the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine", on printed media, "On the order in which public authorities and authorities of local self-government in Ukraine are informed by the media" and "On the reform of public and municipal printed media". The committee noted that there is no objection to the proposed changes to article 139 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules, and we fully support them. Instead, the Committee’s conclusion came to our attention as the Main Committee. The subject of which is freedom of speech, an information policy that suggested in its conclusion that draft Law No. 6518 should be returned to the subject of the right of legislative initiative for further development. However, after making a number of comments to the bill, the committee decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine the results of the first reading of the bill to accept it as a basis. We ask for support for the committee's decision, because it addresses a very important issue, which remains kind of a failure after we adopt legislation that reformes the sphere of public media. Nevertheless, in the Supreme Council of Ukraine there must remain an official printed body for printing acts adopted by the Supreme Council of Ukraine, and this bill is designed to solve this gap, this problem. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-05-m1.u3	Thank you. Mr. Paul, stay in the rostrum. Please sign up, three minutes, for a question to the reporter. Pauline Yuri, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-05-m1.u4	The Honourable Reporter, the Committee on Freedom of Word and Information Policy really considered the draft law and really approved the decision to refer it to work, because in our opinion, the novels proposed by this law are contrary to the legislation and, in fact, to the logic chosen by the State to dissipate the print media. In your opinion, do these novices conflict with legislation and the Constitution or not? Because it's a strange decision, in this case of a regulatory committee, understanding the need for a Voice of Ukraine, but not as a newspaper, but as an official publisher for legislation, and so you can continue to act and live on the Voice of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-05-m1.u5	Thank you for asking. Yuri Alexiyovich, a distinguished colleague, we are somewhat limited in our competence at the Rules Committee. In fact, we are competent in the matter of article 139 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules, to which major changes are being made. With regard to the amendment to the Act on the Order of Disclosure of the Activities of State Authorities and Local Self-Government Authorities in Ukraine, and to the Law on the Reform of Public, Municipal Printed Media, you are certainly far more competent and could offer some logical solution to the situation. But we do know that once the procedures defined by your professional legislation for reforming state media have been completed, we cannot be without the source of the official publication of the acts of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. And it's basically a legislative initiative to solve this problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-05-m1.u6	Thank you. Kugel gives the floor to Sergey Sobolev's question. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-05-m1.u7	Dear reporter, please tell me, in the history of Ukraine, there have been many instances where publication or non-publishment in the Voice of Ukraine could have led to both decisions or failure to approve them. We remember very well how we released the subtitles of the Voice of Ukraine in order to print the decision. We remember how we did not want to print. Do you not think that by denying such a right a key printed body, where all legislative decisions, decisions, have always been printed, we are actually in a situation where there is no single body that can do so? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-05-m1.u8	Thank you. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-05-m1.u9	Thank you for asking. In fact, the logic of this bill was precisely to solve the priority task so that we would not be deprived of a printed body for official publication. The other issues, as we think of them, are, as the committee thinks, derivatives. And that's what we came up with when we proposed to adopt the bill in the first reading. So really the logic that came out of your question, I'm absolutely dividing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-05-m1.u10	Thank you. Next question from the national deputy Eutuska, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-05-m1.u11	Sergey Eutuszek, "The Fatherland" faction. Dear colleagues, in 2016 we passed a good law on reforming public and municipal media. And that's logical, because we've seen print media, their teams have started to create new statutes, they've gone, more loyally, they've given up whatever authority comes, they've pushed them and, as it were, editorial politics. But I have a question about the next point. Please give me the answer: Where, then, should the normative acts of the Supreme Council of Ukraine be published, which should be legally binding? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-05-m1.u12	In fact, there's still the news of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, but a more operational source like "The Voice of Ukraine" is not going to happen if we take away that possibility.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-05-m1.u13	Thank you. Our time for questioning is over. I invite you, please, to the words of the subject of the legislative initiative of the Ukrainian national deputy Vladimir Litvin.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-05-m1.u14	Honourable National MPs, the need for this legislative initiative is due to the fact that the Supreme Council of Ukraine should have a printed body that would only publish all the documents adopted by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. I don't understand, you know, some of the speeches by some of the colleagues who refer to the Constitution and the Media Dismantling Act. If the Supreme Council believes that laws, regulations and other decisions taken by the Supreme Council can be printed underground, unknowable by whom and thus acquired legitimacy, then we need to make a decision and allow the Voice of Ukraine collective to dissipate this printed media in order for them to decide for themselves, as defined by the Dismantling Act, on the issue of life and activities of this publication. Clearly, then, we need to make either one decision or the other. In this case, we and other national MPs, particularly Oleg Lášk, who prepared this legislative initiative, came to the conclusion that the Supreme Council, as a higher legislative and representative body of the people, should publish authentic texts. That's the first one. And the second. And demand that these laws become effective and sign or return to the Supreme Council in accordance with the Constitution. So I think it's wrong when they start talking about what there is a violation of the Constitution, and they close their eyes to the fact that the laws adopted by the Supreme Council are simply motionless, which is a gross violation of the same Constitution of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-05-m1.u15	Thank you. Please remain in the rostrum to answer your questions. Please record for questions to the reporter. Please. I would like to invite you to the floor of the People's Deputy Ednak. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-05-m1.u16	Dear reporter, I'd like you to explain in more detail how the law is supposed to work. So you're proposing the original texts that were submitted by the people's deputies when the bill was signed up to be published in the Journal of the Supreme Council? What, then, about the numerous amendments, the technical and legal developments and other processes that laws are subject to during the second reading and after the vote, after the signing by the Speaker of the Supreme Council and the President of Ukraine? Or do you have any warning about this procedure? And were there, perhaps, facts or falsifications, or changes to the texts of the bills that went through this process of signing, especially by the President of Ukraine? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-05-m1.u17	Well, as to how we handle the texts after the adoption of the law, I think you're convinced of this office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. I can give you an example. When it comes to a decision for the authorities to make quickly and publish, there's some kind of newsletter that's unknown, and it's recognized through the Ministry of Justice, it was in the previous period, the official issue, it publishes the decision, and then it disappears. We believe that the Supreme Council of Ukraine should publish its acts through the body of the Supreme Council, the newspaper Voice of Ukraine. This is true of the laws and other decisions of the Supreme Council. And if there is a need to print some relevant legislation that is of interest to the whole of society, drafts of these documents can also be published for discussion. Thank you for asking.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-05-m1.u18	Thank you. The following question is asked to the people’s representative, Ruslan Sidorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-05-m1.u19	Ruslan Sidorovich, Self Help Union. Of course, the issue of the official promulgation of laws adopted by the Supreme Council is extremely important and very relevant, because otherwise the legislative work will be completely blocked. At the same time, I have a question about the proposed addition of article 21 with badge 1 to the known population of Ukrainian laws and other legal acts. Do you not think that the final sentence in the proposed article, which is proposed to be added, that "and also in another way defined by law", should be specified in order to ensure legal certainty? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-05-m1.u20	Thank you. Your point is correct. The publication of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine was "Governmental Courier". Generally, these are two publications that print official documents. Obviously, if the Supreme Council finds understanding and supports this document in its first reading, appropriate clarification can be accepted. But once again, I would like to point out to you, my dear colleagues, that a team of the newspaper Voice of Ukraine has addressed all the political factions of the Supreme Council with this question: either let us exercise our authority as an organ of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, or you let the team go in order for it to work on its own issue.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-05-m1.u21	Thank you. I invite you to the floor of the People's Deputy, Olena Sotnik.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-05-m1.u22	Thank you, Madam Chairman. I have a completely technical question that comes out of the observation of science and science. They note, in particular, article 21 prim. to the Act on the Order of Disclosure of the Activities of State Authorities and Local Self-Government Authorities in Ukraine by Media. And here you're suggesting that leading to the knowledge of the population of Ukrainian laws and other normative acts is done through their official publication, that is, publishing, and in other ways, including audio-videoized methods, and posting on official websites and so on and so forth. So the scientific and expert office is pointing out that it might seem that, apart from the way it was printed, any other would also be sufficient to consider the legal and regulatory act public. And that could lead to an incomprehensible moment when a legal act or law becomes effective. You can comment on that, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-05-m1.u23	I thank you for your reasoning, your fears have room. But it is not clear that we have made it clear that the authoritarian nature of the legislative acts adopted by the Supreme Council is the responsibility of the official body of the Supreme Council of the Voice of Ukraine. Other publications, including electronic documents, may also be distributed, but they should understand that the authenticity of the text takes place exclusively in the official publication. Obviously, in the process of processing, there was a need for more clarity, emphasis being placed on the responsibility for the authenticity of the text.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-05-m1.u24	Thank you. Question time's up. I thank the reporter. And we're moving on to the discussion. First, we have a discussion from the parliamentary factions. Parliamentary factions please prepare for recording. Please hold the recording. Please, from the "Unification of Self-Help" faction, National Deputy Sidorovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-05-m1.u25	Ruslan Sidorovich, Self Help Union. It is a pity that Bill 6518 is only being considered at the end of the session and that Parliament has not yet reached the bill. At the same time, it is extremely important to realize the very simple thing: the work of a legislative body that will not be able to publish the laws that it adopts leads to the absolute collapse and failure of Parliament to actually perform its one of the most important, important functions, such as enacting laws. Because according to the Ukrainian Constitution, the laws of Ukraine that could be passed in parliament and that would not be published would have no effect. So the non-admission of this bill is actually a threat to Parliament's ability to work. There are a number of comments before this bill on the part of the Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration. Of course, certain things would have to be corrected, and the authors of the bill on the questions asked indicated that certain things could be corrected in order to ensure the legal definition that should be in the law. At the same time, the adoption of this law today, at least on a basis, is critical. So I call on all the MP factions and groups to support Bill 6518 in the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-05-m1.u26	Thank you. I invite you to speak to the faction of "The Opposition Block" of the National Deputy Yuri Pavlenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-05-m1.u27	Dear colleagues, the honourable chairman, no doubt, the newspaper Voice of Ukraine is a highly professional professional in its affairs, and they are people who have been delivering the work of the highest legislative body of the state on time for many years. No doubt they deserve the respect of each one of us. That path that was chosen in this room for dissipation, evidently except perhaps the right strategy, created a whole range of other problems. So we have serious problems today with dispossessing not only the central authorities printed but also at the local level and, unfortunately, they remain unblocked to this day. The committee is constantly receiving appeals from prominent print media outlets such as the Ministry of Defence, from district government administrations, especially Donetsk, Lugansk, from, in fact, the emergence of this bill is also caused by the problem of publishing decisions that are adopted here in the walls of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Undoubtedly, it is good that this bill is not being considered by a reduced procedure, which unfortunately has become a tradition for this Parliament, and it has led to the adoption of often inconclusive bills, but is being considered in full mode and there has been an opportunity to have a professional discussion on this bill. Therefore, the Opposition Block, having studied all the arguments, having heard the position of the various parties, decided to support the bill on the basis of allowing the Voice of Ukraine to work fully, professionally. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-05-m1.u28	Thank you. And may I have a word with the Radical Party of People's Deputies, Oleg Laska, please?
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-05-m1.u29	Dear colleagues and deputies! May I have your attention, important message? First of all, please pay attention to the Ukrainians. Now it seems that the issue of publishing in the newspaper Voice of Ukraine laws is being discussed. In fact, the question is not that of the Ukrainians, but the question is whether or not to be in Ukraine of Parliamentarianism? Today, President Poroshenko tried to extend the CBC to control 10 of the 15 members of the CBC. Think each of you, every wise person: the one who works in the factory; the one who works on the earth; the one who works in the enterprises; the one who teaches our children; the one who heals us; each one of you is wiser than the one who exercises authority; otherwise, we do not live. Think about why the President has 10 out of 15 members of the CBC.Oh, my God! I think each and every one of you knows the answer to that question because the President wants to fake the election. Today, Parliament, the Radical Party factions, the Fatherland, the People's Front, the Self-Help Office, have prevented the President from making decisions that would allow for falsification of decisions that would allow for falsification of elections. What did President Prašenko and his faction do? They presented the ultimatum to Parliament: either you vote the right way, or we make Parliament ineffective. I want to address everyone and, first of all, President Dusty. Peter Alexiyovich, we're not going to let you do an ineffective parliament, because this is the only center of democracy in Ukraine. We're not going to let you fake the election, and we're not going to let you form a CBC that's going to draw you a result. The one who is stronger, more just, must win the election, the one who defends Ukraine. That's why I'm talking to all the MPs who care about parliamentaryism, who don't want to usurp power, who don't want to continue robbing the country, come to parliament, vote for law, no matter what law. It is important to show that, despite the ultimatums of Prashenko and its factions, a good parliament is making a decision, and if they continue to present ultimatums, tomorrow there will be the President’s Impeachment Act, the Interim Commissions Act, the new Election Act and President Prashenko’s resignation. Janukovic has fled – Dustenko will end up worse than Janukovic. So I'm talking to Dusty and his chambermaid: stop, your Parliament won't be a branch, and we won't let you fake the election!
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-05-m1.u30	Thank you. Unfortunately, not all of them. Not all factions have been able to register, so I'd like to invite more representatives. He's a representative of the People's Will. Please, National Deputy Ribczynski.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-05-m1.u31	Eugene Ribczynski, Bologna district of Kiev Dear friends, the wire circus continues, you and I are under the dome. In fact, the electoral campaign, even though Banka does not have a penny in it, has already begun. They don't like to spend money, but they like to spend our nerves: the nerves of MPs, the nerves of people, the nerves of voters who come and don't vote. The thing is, I don't think there's any other way to do it since the morning when the bank brought fresh ratings. To disband Parliament or make some new force majeure, as it were. See, this has never happened in Ukraine, and this time it will not pass. To win is to fight, to win is to fight honestly. And I'd like to say to Peter Alexiovich, who I've known for 30 years: Peter Alexiyovich, a member of the CBC, even sent to the Central Electoral Commission, seeing the ratings and the real results, will never go against the winner. So I want to point out that any warehouse voted will work. He'll just come after Maidan to vote honestly. So let's be clear: the revolution in this room will not pass. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-05-m1.u32	Thank you. I'd like to invite a representative from Fatherland of the People's Deputy Eutushka.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-05-m1.u33	Sergey Eutuszek, "The Fatherland" faction. But in fact, the Fatherland faction is also on the same ground and is ready to stand up for democracy in this room, but to prevent the President of Ukraine from usurping power in this country. And here's what I want to say about the bill. In 2016, the author of the law, Alexander Abdullin, was presented with this bill and with it, I tell you frankly, I received a number of calls from news groups, especially local printed media outlets, who, with the entry into force of this law, got rid of the fair, which required them in their newspapers to print the order information that came from the local authorities. I mean, yes, the law foresaw and foresaw the transition period. And this enabled the newsgroups to create new paperwork, new statutes, to write down the rules for journalists to work on. But if we speak even more complexly, this bill further regulates the situation, because really the legal and regulatory acts that are governed by the Ukrainian Law on the Rules, which are regulated by the Ukrainian Cabinet Act, only come into force and enter into force after they are published in newspapers such as the Voice of Ukraine. And that's why the "Fatherland" faction is now calling on all the national MPs to support this bill, thereby strengthening and enabling the introduction of legislation, that is, the laws that we are enacting with you in this room, to obtain a valid text. Once again, many calls, positive calls, were received, as local journalists were relieved of the burden that the local authorities were obliged to print the materials. Thank you. Fatherland votes in favour.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-05-m1.u34	Thank you. And a performance from the People's Front faction, National Deputy Victoria Sumar.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-05-m1.u35	Dear colleagues, I understand that everyone is not discussing the issue of today's legislative act, but I will talk about it on the subject. First. The Voice of Ukraine and its promulgation of laws and other acts pose absolutely no threat to reform as well as to the Government courier. Because reform predicts that newspapers. [[B in m in s a l in]] My colleagues, I'm not interrupting anyone in the first part of the room? No, no, me. It's very funny here. Because reform foresees that instead of a newspaper, it becomes a printed newsletter, an official bulletin of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, or another state authority. What does that mean? Is the printed newsletter different from the newspaper? It's very simple. It doesn't use the creative work of journalists, which is the opposite: there will be no interpretation. There'll be documents, there'll be texts of deputies, because it's obvious in the Voice of Ukraine that people's MPs should be printed, but there'll be no work, there'll be direct creative processing by journalists. We talked a lot with the Supreme Council's apparatus. Our committee thinks it's the Voice of Ukraine. [[B in m in s a l in]] Oleg Valeriyovich! Oleg Valeriyovich! Oleg Valeriyovich, I have great respect for your bill now, and I respect the copyright team with great respect. Thank you. [[B in m in s a l in]] Thank you. And so by continuing, accordingly, "The Voice of Ukraine" does not fall under the law, it's the position of our committee, because it's the organs of executive power and local self-government. So the bill in this formulation allows not only to preserve the collectives of the Voice of Ukraine, the Government courier, but also the collectives of all other printed editions of the government. These are actually hundreds of editions including the courts. That's huge budget money, that's what it's all about. We need to make a political decision whether we are ready to go or not. I think that before the second reading, in any case, this bill will need a very serious correction. It's very strange that he went to the Rules Committee, not the profile committee. And finally, let's say that if we want to be a normal modern country, we have to transfer the authorities to electronic governance for a long time. We need to publish all of this on the Internet, enough to cut down forests, enough to use these tons of paper that no one actually reads, and very often they just have some money on them, and they don't come to people and stay in warehouses.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-05-m1.u36	30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-05-m1.u37	Therefore, colleagues, if this bill is to be adopted in the first reading in order to demonstrate that the Ukrainian Parliament is working and working, we need to leave only "The Voice of Ukraine", "The Government Courier", everything else from there to take and anticipate a mandatory requirement to publish these acts and on the Internet, to take a step towards a normal system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-05-m1.u38	Thank you. People's deputies, please prepare to participate in the discussion. Now we're moving on to a discussion from the people's deputies. People's deputies, please concentrate. Please hold the recording. I invite you to speak to the People's Deputy of Lozov.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-05-m1.u39	Andrew Lozova, Radical Party of Lazka. Presidents come and go, and Ukraine is eternal. Let's think about who we were sworn to: President Prashenko or the Ukrainian people? 1991, 2004, 2014 -- it was the Ukrainian Parliament that saved the Ukrainian statehood. And so today, Parliament is saving our statehood why. Because what President Poshenko did, trying to have a hand-held C.V.C.C. and by forging to take from the Ukrainians the right granted by God to free will, he did it not against us, he did it not against Parliament, he did it against the Ukrainian people, and he must bear responsibility for it, including political. I'd like to see my colleagues at the BP faction. I know there are a lot of decent people among you, a lot of self-sufficient people, a lot of high-ranking people who have made their efforts to support people in the districts, people who have passed the front, and as fighters, and as volunteers. Say, please, to the last ones in particular, and for whom do we fight: for Dust or for Ukraine? For a strong democratic European rich, rich, where people feel protected. A wise person has spoken of our time as fighting Mordor, but he has almost become one. Dusty tries to usurp power, tries to treat parliament, where millions of people are chosen as cattle as sheeplike slaves. And today, I'm very proud of you, distinguished colleagues of various factions and groups, you've shown that we are not slaves. We have shown that we are protecting our constituents, not bending down under the desire of Dusty to usurp power and rule our country as Putin rules Russia. And what happened today -- essentially a coup attempt, an attempted usurpation -- it wasn't against Parliament. This was done, I would stress, against the Ukrainian people. One of the symbols of our people is the Kalina. When broken by a branch, it blossoms infinitely stronger. I'm calling on good colleagues from WFP once again: get your courage, think about your tomorrow, think about Ukraine and go back to the hall and work to have a stable number of votes to adopt for the state and the nation – industrial reform package, "Buy Ukrainian", criminalizing forgeries – laws needed to protect Ukrainians. "Shame on! Be ye men, for ye shall be in trouble," said Taras Shevchenko. It's a historic day. And Parliament has a chance to show that we are strong and Ukraine is strong. And we're on our own.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-05-m1.u40	Thank you. I'd like to invite you to the floor of the People's Deputy, Oleg Bresück.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-05-m1.u41	Ladies and gentlemen, we are witnessing a perfectly artificial parliamentary crisis. It's fake, why? Because Peter Poshenko's Block is being bullied by Parliament today by the President of Ukraine. Today, there is every opportunity to vote for the CLTC by making a consensus decision. But what does BPT do? A coalition member, a coalition bone comes out of the hall, blackmailing Parliament and the country, and doesn't come to the Conciliation Council, where all the factions are sitting and looking for a consensus solution to show that there is a parliament, a president and a government in the Ukrainian state. It's a desire in the dark to hide what it is under the leadership of this coalition of presidents that has been robbing the Ukrainian budget for four years, and now with this rave to cover it up and go out with heroes. This is unfair and unfair. So BP has to go back to the hall, work with Parliament to find solutions in the artificial crisis that they created. And this is the task of every citizen of the country today, and even more of a parliamentarian, and more of a coalition member. As far as this law is concerned. Without a doubt, the media should be either social or private. But the situation with the Voice of Ukraine is also important because this body has to publish documents that are important to the country. That's why we're going to vote in favour of this bill, and we're going to invite the BP to the Hall, and we're going to ask the President to lead the quality development of the Ukrainian institutional state, not to fight for the power that belongs to the oligarchs and the bandit clans.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-05-m1.u42	Thank you. I invite you to speak to the National Deputy of Ukraine, Valeria Zarztko. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-05-m1.u43	Valeria Zarztko, Oleg Lachka Radical Party. Good afternoon, dear fellows! Good afternoon, citizens of Ukraine! In our country today, unfortunately, not all members of the Supreme Council are able to accept these challenges. I want to quote the leader of the Radical Party, Oleg Laska, who always says that politicians only think about ratings, and real statesmen think about the country. Those words must be remembered by every parliamentarian. We in the Radical Party are responsible and honest with our voters. Millions of Ukrainians voted to represent their interests here in the Ukrainian Parliament. Today, miners who have come to Parliament are demanding the adoption of Bill 8362 from various parts of the country: Donetské, Luhansk, Volinsk, Lvivsk. We went out with Oleg Valeriovich to communicate with them. These people are very offended and outraged by the fact that parliamentarians have nothing to do with what's going on in the regions, that they don't care about people who care about them, that they don't care about people who are hungry. They came here to demand that we stop the abuse of them, to adopt Law 8362, which unfortunately ignored some factions that said we had nothing to discuss except CEC. It is a disgrace in the country today if a worker demands a salary. The Radical Party of Oleg Ljaška proposes to adopt the Law "Buy Ukrainians, Pay Ukrainians". We have repeatedly insisted that Ukraine must buy Ukrainian coal and pay wages to Ukrainian miners rather than buy coal abroad in Kazakhstan, America, or Africa. The Radical Party has proposed an economic development programme for a country that has a host of laws that will give new breath to the economy of the country, which will raise industry and make Ukraine a strong and important state that will be respected worldwide. We fight for the happiness of every Ukrainian, for the happiness of a miner, a metallurgyr, a builder, a medic, a teacher. We want all people to feel dignified in their own country, to receive decent wages, to have jobs to support their parents and to see their children’s future in their own country. We are proud that the country will become stronger, that the Ukrainians will be proud of it, that we will be well represented in the international arena, and that we will be proud that we are Ukrainians. Thank you to everyone who understands the importance of these decisions and who is here today working on the trust of their electorate, as is the Radical Party of Oleg Lachka. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-05-m1.u44	Thank you. I'd like to invite you to the floor of the People's Deputy, Anna Gopko.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-05-m1.u45	Good afternoon, fellow Ukrainians, dear Ukrainians! In fact, today we have taken a very important step – we have addressed the institutions of the European Union before the anniversary of the 20th summit of Ukraine-EU. And we've broken some very important questions there. In particular, we called on the institutions of the European Union to develop a comprehensive strategy with the support of Ukraine. We also called for increased sanctions against the aggressor state. We would also like to see more investment in Ukraine on the basis of, inter alia, a plan developed by Lithuanian friends to support Ukraine or the so-called Marshall Plan. The following week, in Brussels, there will be important events: the 20th anniversary summit of Ukraine-EU, as well as the NATO summit where the Ukrainian delegation will be. And I would like to understand the position that the Ukrainian delegation will take. Today, Parliament was to approve, in particular, and update the composition of the Central Election Commission. After the adoption of the Anti-Corruption Court Act, the National Security Act, whether imperfect or imperfect, because there we did not start the reform of the BSS, but nevertheless, Parliament shows and demonstrates its effectiveness at this difficult time when the presidential and parliamentary races have already begun in many parties. So I think it is very important for Ukraine now that we show in Parliament today that we are ready to adopt the decisions that the citizens of Ukraine are waiting for. I think, given Russian aggression, it's very important to demonstrate the unity of the branches of power. And so you want to see more responsibility from the President, you want to see responsibilities from the government and from the parliament, you want to see Ukrainians learn to work as one national assembly that plays as one team. Because we must protect our Ukrainian interests and understand clearly that strong Ukraine is all we need. And in conditions that are complex, turbulence, global politics, the day before Trump's meeting with Putin, we must become stronger, not allow enemies to use the weakness of the political class to show once again that Ukraine -- failed state or unable to change itself. Last week, when there was a reform conference in Copenhagen, Christ Freeland, Minister of Foreign Affairs of Canada, spoke English and said that you, Ukrainians, 125 years ago, came to Canada and built my country, Canada. So what prevents you from building a truly strong state of Ukraine? In 27 years of independence, I think we should demonstrate that a country with more than a thousand years of history. We're a nation of marathoners, we're a supporter of European security, we have one of the most powerful armies, we have such a working people. It seems to me that we lack political maturity, take responsibility, and do not hide ourselves from political things today. So I invite BP and I urge the President to return his faction to the hall and show that Parliament.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-05-m1.u46	Thank you. And the final speech, I invite you to the speech of the national deputy Ednak, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-05-m1.u47	Good afternoon, dear fellows! I absolutely agree with the previous speaker. This is me and my colleague Natalya Wesselova, members of the political party "The Force of Humans," we came to Parliament on time this morning to work, to vote for important laws in the field of economics, in the area of deregulation, customs policy. The vast number of laws (here and miners before parliament) that apply to ordinary people. And why we are now, why we are inefficiently using parliamentary time. Last week wasn't the plenary that prevented the leaders of all political factions from finally agreeing on an updated composition of the CLTC? What prevented you from doing this yesterday? What prevented them from doing so during the busy hours? Why should parliament be paralyzed, and we cannot consider bills because of political misunderstandings, manipulations, distrust of each other, among the main players, now, political? So I'm going to ask you to make a deal and update the composition of the C.V.C.C. because it's out of date. In terms of the bill proposed, your honor, we've been working here for four years, and the Supreme Council is sinking into macularism. We get huge amounts and periodicals, and we print laws in paper form, and the world goes on, there are modern technologies. The website of the Ukrainian Parliament, one of the most visited Internet portals in the world. And now we're looking at the issues of the past or the future. Or leave, yes, fine newspapers: Voice of Ukraine, Government courier. Nice but very expensive pleasure for a country in war. So it's a question of the future or the past, or the technology of blockage, protected data, and the publication of all the material online, having only official newsletters, yes, for the protocol to print them. Or leave massive, huge volumes and journalistic compositions in dozens of different editions, different states. authorities continue to spend millions, tens, hundreds of millions of dollars on taxpayers. So this is really a political decision that we have to make today, whether we are moving forward, or whether we are standing still. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-05-m1.u48	Thank you. And now the closing statement -- Yuszkova's handing it to Halasyuk -- and this will be a closing statement, colleagues. I'm asking everyone to come to the hall. I'm asking you to prepare for the decision. In two or three minutes, we'll move on to making a decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-05-m1.u49	Victor Halasyuk, Oleg Lachka Radical Party. Dear colleagues! May I have your attention, the BP presidential faction has left the room in protest. Perhaps they left the hall in protest against the poverty of the population, against the multimillion-dollar immigration of Ukrainians to Poland? Are they protesting the humiliation of Ukraine, permanent, for all kinds of international loans in the international arena? Can this protest two million unemployment in Ukraine? No! No! They're fighting for power, they're putting ultimatums on Parliament, they're putting ultimatums on the Ukrainian people! Isn't there a powerful industrial reform package in Parliament developed by the People's Deputies and by the Radical Party and by the Fatherland and by the People's Front and by other factions and groups? Isn't there any law on expanding the National Bank's tasks so that the Ukrainian National Bank can lose its loans, and just like the US Federal Reserve System, it was responsible for long-term economic growth and for reducing unemployment? Isn't there an industrial park bill in Parliament to win competition for investment and jobs in neighbouring countries to create hundreds of thousands of new jobs in Ukraine and attract billions of dollars of investment, not IMF loans? Isn't there a Ukrainian Buy, Pay for Ukrainians in Parliament that will give fair systemic, life-saving advantages to the Ukrainian manufacturer and allow them to win intra-country competition in imported goods, which will give billions of orders to factories not to bankrupt but to develop and to make Ukraine live, not on foreign taxes, ultimatums and loans to IMF, but on account of developing their own industry, economy and budgeting for successful enterprises? It's just a fundamentally different approach. What the authorities want to do, they're just fighting for influence, they're fighting for their future with absolutely flawed economic policy. Look at that modernization plan presented by the President at the business meeting! Is this a plan for modernizing the economy and the country? Read the radical party’s anti-crisis development plan that we proposed over a year ago! You can read it simply and compare it, but it's like heaven and earth. Because the plan that we're proposing will allow us to move from 1-2 percent of economic growth to 10 percent growth per year and increase the income and wages of Ukrainians is a real modernization of the country. Go back to the hall and work!
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-05-m1.u50	So, colleagues, the speeches by the deputies have been completed. Final word, I remember. Now two minutes is the closing statement, Litwin Vladimir Mikhailovich. I'm asking everyone to come into the hall. Is there a need, Mr. Paul, in the closing room?
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-05-m1.u51	Yes. No, no. Litwin. Attention! Litwin, two minutes. Come into the hall, I'm asking everyone to take up their jobs. Please, Mr. Vladimir.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-05-m1.u52	Ladies and gentlemen, I'm going to give you a simple example to understand the content and orientation of this bill. In 2010, the Constitutional Court ruled that we should go back to the 96th Constitution. The Supreme Council of Ukraine did not allow the Voice of Ukraine to publish this text. Look who it was published and put into action. Question: Who is responsible for the content of the Constitution, the one we use today? So, rather than talking about the past and the future, we need to decide what fate is. We, the Supreme Council of Ukraine, are responsible for the decisions we make or are not responsible for those decisions? Because when I listen to some of the talks, I have the impression and the reminder of a professor who, in defense of the dissertation, always said something like this: I didn't read the dissertation, but I'll say a few words about it. Please read the document. It is incomplete, but it is necessary to make a decision without politicizing it. I see there are no votes on the Supreme Council today. I'd like to ask the head of the Supreme Council to hold. [[Noise Nodes]] carry out a signal vote to check whether the Supreme Council is working. And the next thing you know, it's the wish, the honourable colleagues, or the suggestion: if we see that there's a crisis and we can't normalize it, it's better to make a decision to close the session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, go to work in teams and work then.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-05-m1.u53	So, colleagues, let's move on to making a decision. I'm asking everyone to take up jobs. I would like to stress that this law is very important for the Supreme Council of Ukraine to be able to publish the legislative acts of the Supreme Council of Ukraine in order to ensure the legislative process. The other one. I want to say that this is just a vote on the ground. If there are warnings, we can accept them. [[B in m in s a l in]] I'll do it. If there's a position, I'll put it all together. The first one is based on the base. I'm asking everyone, colleagues, just for a basis. Based on the base. I ask everyone responsible to take part in the vote, colleagues. And I am voting on the draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine to provide for the official publication of Ukrainian laws and other legal acts (No.6518) on the basis of a committee proposal. Everyone please take part in the vote. We support the Ukrainian Parliament, we vote! Vote. Please be supportive. Vote! I'll hold it. [[17:02:36]] For 240 Decision taken. [[Applause]] I welcome the Ukrainian Parliament with this responsible decision. My colleagues, congratulations. And I'd like to inform you that as Head of the Supreme Council, I have received a statement from two factions, from the MP faction of the People's Front and the deputy faction of the Radical Party. Colleagues, two factions. [[B in m in s a l in]] Are you really taking a break? [[B in m in s a l in]] Real break, announcing. They want to announce a real break between the two factions. I invite all the heads of factions to consult with the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. [[B in m in s a l in]] That's the deal, colleagues. I also invite Peter Dustenka's Block to join our meeting. Now I ask all the heads of factions and groups to come to me. Yeah, for half an hour. And at 5:30, I ask everyone to return to the hall. At 5:30, please return to the hall. So please, everyone. This is a real break. Please all return to the hall at 5:30, and the heads of the factions will enter the office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Welcome to the decision-making process. I'll meet you in my office.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-05-m1.u54	Colleagues, time, break is over, done. Please come into the hall, take up jobs. Are all the factions' heads back yet? Colleagues, we held a meeting at the initiative of two factions with all heads of factions. And I think this conversation was constructive and meaningful, and it was focused on how we can overcome the misunderstandings that might be in the room. And how we can ensure the effective and productive work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. There are all the statesmen in this room who understand and know the weight of the state. And I'm sure this council has helped us understand Parliament and made Parliament even stronger. We agreed that after the meeting, by exercising my right as Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, I would give all factions two minutes to speak. And we're going to make it, and we're going to be able to use that time before 6:00. I'll give my word at will, obviously. So, colleagues, by factions. Who will be the first to act? Oleg Lazko. Baby, come on. Two minutes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-05-m1.u55	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. The head of Parliament, as should be his office, is very diplomatic. It's not a misunderstanding, it's a crisis, it's a political crisis caused by President Dustenk's desire to usurp influence on the Central Election Commission, to try to falsify the next presidential and parliamentary elections and to usurp power. Today’s events have shown that there is a parliament in Ukraine that does not resort to blackmail that does not succumb to ultimatums and that is able to hold a position. But this crisis must be halted, for it must be remembered that Donbas, the occupied Crimea, the economic crisis, and Ukraine must be strong behind the walls of this Parliament. So our team is asking the President to take steps not to deepen the political crisis, so that the politicians of the early 20th century do not repeat the mistakes of the early 20th century when, as a result of the fratricidal opposition, they won the Ukrainian state and lost their Ukrainian state, resulting in millions of people starving, repression, war and deaths. We call on President Prashenko, to resolve the political crisis, to transfer a motion to parliament to appoint members of the CLTC, so that there is no influence of power, that all political forces are represented and that there is no attempt to falsify the elections. We call on President Prashenko to support our initiatives to restore the national economy, to strengthen parliamentaryism, to ensure that the Ukrainians live decently in their own country. This is our answer to the crises that are causing.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-05-m1.u56	People's Front, Andrew Teteruk, please. Then the Bondar, then the Mikhail. As you report. Please, Andrew Teteruk, People's Front, two minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-05-m1.u57	Andrew Teteruk, People's Front. Dear Lord, the presiding, distinguished colleagues of the national MPs, the distinguished Ukrainian people! At times when our country faced trials, our Parliament found understanding of these threats, challenges, and has always acted to save the situation and fix it for the better. It was the same in these four years when we worked in this Parliament. The position of the People's Front is clear, clear, consistent. We came to Parliament to work. We came in the 14th year when we had the worst crisis and caused our entire country, all of our future. And no ambitions, no misunderstandings can stand before us or between us, we all have to remember the oath we made here and the goal we had in the 14th year -- to make the country stronger, to make decisions that will unite us all, to strengthen us, and most importantly to give away the most terrible enemy we now oppose -- the Russian Federation. And the failure of our work here will testify that we have lost this battle. So we're set up for a consolidated job, we have to work, make decisions and move forward as we've been working all day. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-05-m1.u58	Thank you. Victor Bondar from Rebirth Group. Then, I promised, "The Opposition Block," then "The Fatherland." I'll give it all to everyone, boys. Please, Victor Bondar for two minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-05-m1.u59	Thank you. Dear colleagues! Dear Andrew Volodymyrovich! Of course, the whole country understands what is happening today. For 25 years in this country, every President's wish to have an absolute monopoly of power, 25 years of every President's desire to bring in law enforcement, bring parliament under him and break it. As a result, we have a huge set of problems: the problems in the economy, that it's ruined and there's no logical development, the problems in investment in Ukraine, the problem with law enforcement, that they're unreformed and do not match our idea of how the real work of the law enforcement system, the legal problems and much more. But why did this happen? Because of disputes in Parliament over buying, divorcing, and trying to squeeze, and suction. Today, Parliament has shown that it is beginning to emerge from the crisis and Parliament is beginning to be the only body. People have come down from our fights, people are waiting for everyone to get back together here, and we're all the same to them regardless of the flags. And I am glad that today there is the wisdom to break the situation and unite the parliament in order to come out of these crises in the future and to start uniting the country. We are a war country, we are a country with enormous problems external and internal. And so we propose that we finally begin to understand what needs to be changed, vote on the Law on the Elimination of Intactity, prepare for the Law on Temporary Inquiry Commissions, vote on the Law on the Impeachment of the President, and it will balance the power of the country, and many others who will bring the situation out of the crisis and start making a prospect for that country. What's important is to start translating situations when the government realizes that in Parliament, when the government starts to come and report on what economic programs it's going to do in order to have a coin in the country, so that people have a good salary, the prospect of a rise in the economy, and the restoration of the Ukrainian state. That is why we save, and that is why we support the need to come out of this crisis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-05-m1.u60	Thank you. From the Opposition Block, Mikhail Papiev, two minutes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-05-m1.u61	Thank you. Honorable National MPs of Ukraine, distinguished voters! Today, the Ukrainian Parliament passed this examination for Europeanism, for European values, for European traditions, for European approaches. And today we have already experienced a sense of justice, and even this vote is 240 votes. And we should thank each of the Ukrainian national deputies for showing this consciousness today. And what you've asked the President of Ukraine today: Mr. President of Ukraine, and why there are no candidates for the opposition bloc in your submission to the CTC today from the parliamentary faction of 43 Ukrainian national deputies. And today, I'm sure we've seen another negative moment: the Supreme Council of Ukraine has turned out to be unprepared for such conflict situations. Why? And because the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine did not in due course bring the Ukraine Special and Temporary Investigation Commissions Act into order, and we do not have a monitoring tool at all for Parliament. Because we don't have and we haven't seen the Ukrainian Law on the President's impeachment. Because we have a lot of laws that should actually form a full-fledged work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine under the terms of the parliamentary-presidential republic, when this room should be the main and main venue for discussion, addressing all important issues of Ukrainian citizens. The Opposition Block insists that the Supreme Council of Ukraine continue to work, if this is the case, maybe even without a holiday. We are now ready to lay down the most important social laws, and today we need to see that miners are standing on the street, and we need to put Bill 8362 into consideration, and we need to pay off the debt to miners working in government mines. This is the responsibility of the government. This is a duty of authority. Let's do it.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-05-m1.u62	Thank you. From the Fatherland faction, Sergey Sobolev.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-05-m1.u63	Dear colleagues, I think Parliament has taken the first, very necessary step today, but only the first. We didn't give power to one person who thought she would run the Central Electoral Commission the same way she ran the Attorney-General, just like she ran the Force, but if it were to fight crime, I think the reaction was completely different. But I insist that this is just the first step. Next. The next week's sessions are actually the last of the eighth call. I appeal to the Chief of the Supreme Council to ensure that the agenda is not formed in the President's Administration, but here in the session room. Because those who, even from the Petra Prashenko faction, took a courageous step and refused to be blackmailed, but stayed in this room and voted with us for such an important decision, these people showed courage, and these people showed that they were not slaves. Now it is important for us to continue the most important steps. First and key. Why did this happen in the first place? Because one person in the state is completely uncontrollable in law, it is untouchable – it is the President of Ukraine. That's why the Law on Special Investigation Commissions, on the President's impeachment, on the law that regulates the situation of high-profile settlements, on the issue of debt to coal miners, energy workers -- that's how Parliament's work needs to be formed. And these will be the questions that will really give us the opportunity to conclude the eighth session. And since September, we're going to move on to the issue of removing the inviolability, because unfortunately, by now there's no conclusion on the relevant profiling committee. And other issues that will allow us to continue to come out of this political crisis, where we find ourselves with a key issue.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-05-m1.u64	Ten seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-05-m1.u65	And the key issue is the Election Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-05-m1.u66	Thank you. Colleagues, as far as I have been concerned (I will give you my word), I would like the speakers to speak properly and honestly among themselves about the formation of the agenda somewhere else, outside the Supreme Council. I want to ask you in public right now. We were looking at a media block yesterday, let the committee head say where the agenda was formed -- in Parliament? In Parliament. We've been looking at information policy, let the head of the Self-Help Committee say, was there a list in Parliament? In Parliament. There's no Bakumenko, he can confirm, there's a block of agrarian politics, is Bakumenko in the hall? The block was formed in Parliament? In Parliament. Don't talk nonsense, the agenda is formed in the Ukrainian Parliament by committee heads, as stipulated by Ukrainian law. Let's be true to each other. Thank you. Ribczynski from the "will of the people" group.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-05-m1.u67	Gentlemen, this is actually a celebration of parliamentaryism. I am very grateful to all the factions, and I am very grateful to Oleg Valeriyovich and the radicals. I am very grateful to the People's Front, which is actually represented by the whole faction. I'm very grateful to Fatherland, Self-Help, People's Will, Rebirth and even the Opposition Block, and to the non-fractional, and even to the BP who allowed himself to remain here. And to you, directly, Andrew Volodymyrovich, for your bravery. In fact, one man was not able to break through the knee of a parliament today. Well, it just didn't work out. It seemed that way. You know, like this. And Parliament has proved to be more than a mere ladder. He's flexible, he's flexible, he's flexible, he's flexible. Parliament is, I would say, the only source of power in Ukraine is real. For the executive authority, as we see, unfortunately is not controlled, stolen, or operated. And that's what we keep talking about. The central authority, Bankow Street, is only working to get back to Bankow and sit down and live there, and they're even strips. And they don't open the curtains. Why should they see how the people live? They accuse others of having other citizens there, and in themselves two, three, three citizens, of the lords themselves, and so on and so forth. [[Applause]] Let them look at themselves in the mirror and be accountable not only to the people but also to the soul and to God. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-05-m1.u68	Colleagues, did all the factions come out? Aah! Excuse me! Another performance. Final speech, colleagues. From Self-Help, Oleg Barresuk, 2 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-05-m1.u69	Ladies and gentlemen! Ritorical questions. This has made it easier for countries to live in four years? Better? Are we new? Did we have a stable tariff? Did we get a raise? Do we have those in prison who robbed the country? Of course not. And this rave, which today, unfortunately, makes the faction a name, under the name of the President of Ukraine, is proof that this rave wants to cover up its inaction and failure, both in politics and in the economy of the country. You can't do that! There was a time in the country when criminal decisions were made alone, and Parliament supported this vote for years. Today was an important event: Parliament said no," Parliament said it was a parliamentary-presidential republic where decisions are made by collective thinking, because even older people said that two are not one, especially in public policy. Parliament has very important decisions, as does the President. We need to get quality C.V.C. We need to adopt an amendment to the Anti-Corruption Court Act. The Law on the Cancellation of Deputy Inviolability should be adopted. We need to adopt the Supreme Council Elections Act on a proportional basis with open lists, because we can't go to elections without this law, because it's going to be the capture of power by the same clans by the same oligarchic groups. Therefore, before this House, responsible decisions, including the Presidential Law, will be made with weights and contradictions, and never will the Ukrainian statehood be in danger.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-05-m1.u70	Ten seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-05-m1.u71	was not threatened by single - minded decisions that would harm the nation of the country, which by its very nature is a nation.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-07-05-m1.u72	Thank you. So the speeches are done, colleagues. I want to give you another message. When I voted in favour of Decree 8541, I noted that it was voting with those rights that the head of the Committee on Culture, Mikola Knajicky, made available under the transcript. And I confirm that we voted, actually, in that edition of the amendments to Nikola Knieżicke, and I ask the apparatus to take this into account and thus issue a decree for signature. Today was a tough day. We made very important decisions and perhaps very difficult decisions. But today we have shown once again that the Ukrainian Parliament is working and has great potential for work and for victory. Thank you. The evening session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is closed. Tomorrow at 10 a.m., I invite everyone into the hall to continue our work. Good-bye.
