ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-06-m1.u1	Dear colleagues, I ask you to come into the hall and prepare for registration. My colleagues, I'd like to inform you that we were to start today on security and defence issues. Among them was the first draft of the Anti-Discrimination Act, the draft law on the adjacent zone of Ukraine, and today we had to consider a block of agrarian politics. Parliament has responded to the resonating events of the day, but, nevertheless, we must now move on, consider security issues and, if possible, at least part of the block of agrarian politics. So I ask everyone to concentrate, prepare for the work of active and productive, and ask everyone to enter the hall so that we can start the evening session without delay. I'm asking everyone to come into the hall and get ready for registration. Colleagues, please come into the hall and prepare for registration. Can we have the registration, colleagues? So, colleagues, I'm signing up, and I'm asking the national MPs to sign up for the plenary meeting. I'd like you to sign up. [[16:00:42]] 359 national deputies registered. I declare the evening session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine open, colleagues. And we're moving on to the issues of the National Security and Defence Unit, and I'm asking everyone to prepare. The first issue in this block is the draft Anti-Discrimination Act (Nos 9080, 9081, 9082 and 9083). And we're going to look at all the bills. I want to stress that there is a basic bill, and there are three alternative bills. For about a year and a half, there was a very busy work and committee, and a working group led by Andrew Teteruk, following the drafting of this bill, which allows us to conduct an important humanitarian mission to exchange the territories in which the Russian aggressor visited. But, colleagues, in order for you to effectively pass the National Security Block, I will have a traditional request for you to support the review of the reduced procedure, colleagues. We will listen to all the authors: both Winnik, and Kishkar, and Nedav, and Najam, all of them will report. But if we go into a full discussion, it'll take about an hour and a half with all the co-reporters. Therefore, it is a great request for all to support the consideration of the reduced procedure. I urge everyone to enter the hall and prepare for the vote. I'd like to invite all the national deputies to the hall. I remind you that the first Law on Opposing Activities, which we have already entered, is part of its consideration. The next is the draft law on the adjacent zone of Ukraine. And the third is the draft Act amending some Ukrainian legislation on engineering and maintenance of the state border. Three drafts of the security and defense bloc. In order to be able to look at them and move on to the issues of the agrarian policy box, we have an important vote in favour of a reduced procedure. I ask everyone to prepare and support my proposal and the committee's proposal. So, colleagues, I'm putting to the vote the proposal that the draft Act on Opposing Activities (numbers 9080, 9080-1, 9080-2, 9080-3) should be considered in summary procedure. Please vote and please support everyone, colleagues. Please be supportive. We're voting for a reduced procedure. [[16:04:07]] Z-62 62. I'll put it again, colleagues, if there's no votes, we'll go in full motion. But I would also like to address the Agrarian Policy Committee on the issues that are next in line. If we go into a six-and-a-half-hour review right now, we're not just going to come up with agrarian politics. So I'm just warning you that there's an understanding of the consequences of this decision. I'll put it again, if there are no votes, we're going into full procedure, colleagues. But everyone has to understand the consequences, and at the foreknowledge, we realize why we're not doing what we're planning. So once again, I propose that the draft Law on Opposing Activities be considered in a simplified procedure. Please vote, please support. Vote. [[16:05:14]] Z-71 71-yes. So, colleagues, we're moving on to a full procedure. And I ask the reporter authors to be as concise as possible during the performances. So, according to the draft Anti-Discrimination Act, 9080, the National Deputy of Ukraine, Naim Mustafa Massi, is invited to the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-06-m1.u2	Dear colleagues, your opinion is proposed by a bill on anti-trading activity that we have really prepared for a long time. The fact is that at this point a large area of our country, which is particularly close to the frontline, is contaminated by explosive objects. The bill that we propose creates an effective system of strategic and tactical planning for anti-discrimination activities through the adoption by the Supreme Council of Ukraine of the National Anti-Nuclear Action Strategy. The Ministry of Defence of Ukraine, the Ministry of Internal Affairs, the State Department of Emergency Situations, and the Ministry of Defence as the main agent are currently involved in several matters. But we know that there are a lot of problems involving other countries or other donors who can do, for example, humanitarian work. Humanitarian anti-mandatory activity, i.e. exchange. We propose by our bill to establish a system of parliamentary control over the implementation of the national strategy, which, as I said before, we propose to create right in Parliament. In order to consolidate all activities related to antimutory activities and the clearing of contaminated areas, we propose to create a new central executive body that will unite, control, coordinate all activities related to antimutory activities. The activities of this body will be directed and coordinated directly by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and will be called the National Agency for Opposing Activities. The same agency will grant licences and permits to other authorities or other entities that may participate in opposition activities in Ukraine, including foreign money, because sometimes government money for such things is not enough. We also propose this bill, with the aim of avoiding corruption risks, to create a simplified system of permission to engage in anti-discrimination activities in Ukraine for all operators of anti-corruption activities, including foreign ones. What does that mean? Which, under the simplified procedure, any structure that wants to engage in counter-action will have the necessary resources, will have experience, will have the right to obtain such permission and to engage in counter-action and exchange of our territories, including not only those that are close to the frontline, but also in the peace area. In some regions, explosions or remnants of World War II still leave areas that are polluted. In order to obtain such a permit, the opposing operator should provide only documents confirming the availability of equipment as well as certificates to persons carrying out humanitarian exchanges. We foresee that such a permit is granted by the Ministry of Economic Development and Trade in Ukraine, and that foreign operators who also want to work in our country will also be granted additional permission by the Ministry of Economic Development along with the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. Separately by our bill, we foresee benefits and anticipate a program of assistance for those involved in anti-trading activities but who have been victims and victims and tragically or damaged or injured, and we offer them benefits and discounts for the first time in this bill, as well as a program of state support. And persons who perform technical inspections, search for explosive objects, exchange in humanitarian exchange, are subject to compulsory medical insurance and are entitled to qualified medical care in military and medical facilities. I very much ask you to support this bill, because this is what the Ministry of Defense needs right now, and all the services involved in anti-discrimination. And what's important is that this bill will allow us to raise additional funds to clean up those areas that are "polluted" as a result of the war in the eastern part of the country. You know, there's a lot of times now when people are going down, when children are going down, when there are unclean areas just because we don't have the ability to do it systematically throughout the country. I would like to reiterate that the creation of another central executive body that might seem wrong in this situation is entirely justified because we have several bodies involved in this process. They have a conflict of interest, and we now see that this leads to either slowing down or lacking additional state support. There are three other alternatives in our bill that are very similar to our bill with the various simple definitions of this central executive body and the mine action strategy that we propose to adopt the Supreme Council itself. Thank you very much. Please support this bill, and we will be working on it on the committee. It's really necessary, it doesn't have any policy, there's no government money in it, because most of the money will still be involved at the expense of the exchange that foreign operators will also be able to do, which will be granted permission by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Economics. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-06-m1.u3	Thank you. Please, three minutes to ask. Stay in the rostrum. Please record the question to the reporter. Controversy Ivan Dmitrovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-06-m1.u4	Ivan Sporish, Peter Dusty Block, 15th District. Of course, we have actually heard what was said for the benefits and also discounts and so forth for those who have suffered. It's very clear to us that it's necessary, it's also necessary, and it's a bill. But I have a question, you can't measure in here because every life is expensive. And whoever's there, don't give it to me, Lord, it's on the mine, it's on. Every man is on our way. Yet, how much money is needed to get the bill to work?
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-06-m1.u5	The point is that since the bill proposes to create a new central executive body, it is also impossible to calculate the cost of the entire demining system, including the creation of a foreign money strategy. As far as the aid program is concerned. We have not yet had such a program in our country, that is, we have never counted these people as a special category involved in anti - anti - sex activities. We have to count how many people have been hurt, and we have to figure it out. That's why we're proposing a bill to be adopted now to take into account these costs that will be necessary to create this central executive body, to do it and to direct the aid money to this state budget for 2019.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-06-m1.u6	Shepherd Taras Timothyovich
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-06-m1.u7	The Honourable Mustafa, obviously, has really been given this bill for a long time, more than that, it should have been accepted by now, probably since the beginning of the hostilities we have in the East. Questions about. In this bill, I can't see the guarantee for our Ukrainians, who, after these measures of exchange, will be able to transfer this territory to the authorities of local self-government, to feel free and at ease in this area, and, God forbid, if there is a precedent, that, as a result of the impeccable work of cleansing the territory, the inadequacy of control will still happen, don't give God a precedent and someone will die. So how does the law provide for control and, in fact, responsibility for these structures, which should guarantee that the territory is clean and safe for the use of our citizens, and what responsibility should this happen? Who bears personal responsibility, not college or college responsibility.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-06-m1.u8	We propose this bill, first of all, to determine that the exchange of specific areas will be granted to operators on the basis of a tender and on the basis of competitive purchases. That's the first one. The other one. In the event that an area assigned to a particular operator is shared by the clearing operator, the Mine Action Centre and the Ministry of Economic Development, which has granted the operator a licence or work permit. All of these stories are going to be fixed, so we understand that the operator who takes responsibility for opposing activities, exchange, whether it's military or humanitarian, is actually giving this territory to the Centre for Opposing Activities, which takes that into account in the entire strategy. So the actual responsibility will be for an operator who writes and signs a contract and already controls and coordinates this activity of the Centre for Opposing Activities, which will indicate whether or not he accepts the territory from the operator.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-06-m1.u9	Thank you. Question time is up, and I invite you to report to the National Security and Defence Committee's co-rapporteur Ivan Yuliyovich. Let's do this, colleagues, Vinnik will be speaking, yes, of course, that Vinnik will be the last to speak and will immediately make a report. Please. I just don't see Paul Kiskar in the hall right now. [[B in m in s a l in]] Neda and Kishkar. Then here we go. I now invite you to the report. Yeah, yeah, then the authors, then the committee. Colleagues, whatever you say. Is that normal? First all the authors, then the Winnick committee. Roger that. So now Teteruk. Then Kishkar, then Neda Oleg. And then Vinnik, Mr. John, and then you, the committee report. It's a deal, isn't it? Then, in such a sequence, you will remember the report and the questions. Please, Mr. Andrew.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-06-m1.u10	Dear Mr. Head, dear fellow national MPs! Dear Ukrainian people! Right after the Russian aggression began, we had many trials that we had successfully overcome, and some of them we would have endured for decades. The cleansing of our land from the traces of "Russian peace" will take more than a decade for the experience of those countries that have also suffered civil wars or other states' aggressions. In this case, we have a targeted aggression of the Russian Federation. And they use every day to kill Ukrainians. And the result of this activity is the pollution of Ukrainian land by explosives, substances that daily threaten Ukrainian society, not only military but also defenseless civilians. So that experience that I got during the UN peacekeeping mission in Kosovo, seeing the consequences of poor land clearance and land clearance from mine-explosion devices, the experience that was gained at the Geneva Centre for Humanitarian Demining during our trip to Croatia to the National Centre for Humanitarian Demining (CROMAC) all of this allowed us to concentrate all the knowledge that other countries are now doing. According to United Nations experts, the Security Organization of the Council of Europe has in a year and a half in a working group drafted a bill that will allow us to establish an effective mechanism to cleanse our land from the effects of Russian aggression. It's about creating a National Centre for Humanitarian Demining under the direction of our Cabinet of Ministers, which will allow for a completely transparent and clear way of planning in what ways, in what ways, in what ways, we will carry out an evaluation of the cleaning and reporting of this work in our country's parliament, that is, planning, under the control of the Parliament of our country, the results of the work should also be reported to the Parliament of our work. What are the basics of this bill? The main activity should be not only to finance this centre from our country's budget, but first of all to create such a transparent, understandable tool for our donor countries that would allow them to understand the amount of financial and intangible resources that Ukraine needs in order to clean up our land as quickly as possible from the mine-explosion devices that could pose a threat to our country. So we suggest that we make an effective mechanism in our anti-action bill, which will also be a prescribed mechanism for democratic civil control, which is a very important element in controlling the functioning of this body. We are obliged to introduce in this bill all the modern terminology used by the United Nations, the OSCE, in order to bring this legislative act into line with international legislation. This will allow us to make decisions and interact with the most modern resolutions and documents already adopted and operated by the United Nations and the organization. such an organization as the OSCE. Experts estimate that we should clean up some 7,000 square miles [7,000 sq km] of land that is controlled by Ukraine and some 15,000 miles [5,000 km] that is temporarily out of control by the government of our country. All of this will require a totally high level of funding, both from the State budget and from donor countries. Why does our bill meet such criteria? Because other bills that focus on the Ministry of Defence or the Ministry of Emergency Situations do not allow effective implementation of the financial and material aid mechanism by military groups. This is contrary to the statutes followed by certain organizations that provide such assistance. So in my opinion, by supporting this bill 9080-1, we're allowing an effective mechanism to use all the powerful tools of both Ukraine and countries that are trying to help us solve the consequences of Russian aggression, and allow us to get out in the shortest possible perspective into the fine cleaning of our land and to take away Ukrainian citizens and civilians and military from the possibility of, let's say, the explosion of explosives, unexploded shells, all we have to get rid of in the shortest possible time. Yes. Yeah, yeah, yeah. Everything I wanted to say, I basically said. So in favour of this bill, we're going to make our fight for cleansing Russian aggression effective, protecting citizens possible, and the report of the executive authorities to the accountable parliament, to society and to the active in terms of what costs were spent on, for what purpose. Above all, we will see a working mechanism that uses all of our resources to clean up our land as quickly as possible from the threat to the life and health of Ukrainian citizens. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-06-m1.u11	Thank you. Please remain in the rostrum. Colleagues, please sign up for the question. Please, National Deputy Markevich, give me your word.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-06-m1.u12	Please tell me, how is your bill proposed, what are the actions for the establishment of a private, private business? Because a competitive market offers the best prices and the best qualities. So what's in it for you?
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-06-m1.u13	Thank you, Mr. Markevich, for asking. It was also, in fact, a key condition for developing such a mechanism that would allow for a completely transparent way of using the ProZorro system. First of all, giving information about tenders that will be announced in the area of land and clean-up; first of all, it will enable all companies that will participate in the humanitarian exchange process to meet all the high criteria for doing the work, the report for the work done. Most importantly, in a public report mode, what kind of territory needs cleaning, which has been cleaned up, and which company has been involved in these jobs. All of this will allow us to control the quality of the work, allow us to engage companies competitively and in a transparent way to report on the quality of the work. And the main thing is the insurance premiums to insure a special warehouse, which is to be insured against the consequences in the event of an inequitable possible job. That's why.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-06-m1.u14	Thank you. Please complete 30 seconds. Finish it. Mr. Andrey, please finish the microphone. Is that it? Okay. Please, John Sporish.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-06-m1.u15	Ivan Sporish, Peter Dusty Block, Winniechkin. Of course, I've heard, really, statistics and we've all heard statistics on land-mine pollution, both controlled and uncontrollable. I think there's really a bill about what to do with the mine action center. But I would like to hear what a mechanism to involve these different missions of European both financial and practical assistance. That's what I'd like to hear.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-06-m1.u16	The amount of work that needs to be done, compared to the country of Croatia, which in 20 years has created similar mechanisms that we offer. And in order to understand the amount of financial assistance involved by the European Union and other donor countries, it was about 700 million euros in 20 years, which shows that this is a very difficult and tiny job almost after testing every square metre of territory that needs to be cleaned. And so the mechanism is going to be that the centre that's going to be created, it's planning its activities, it's preparing documents on the input of the necessary funds, on the part of the state budget, and on the part of the countries that want to fill the state budget, they're going to be collectively controlled in the form of the funds that are going to be on the accounts, they're going to be planning their activities, they're going to report on the amount of work they're doing, and that's what this job is going to be.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-06-m1.u17	30 seconds to complete, please. Please ask the next question, Dove.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-06-m1.u18	Thank you. Vladislav Dove, 197th constituency, Cherkashina. Dear Mr. Andrey, your bill is essentially an alternative to the bill that our colleague Mustafa Nayem is proposing with you, there are also two other alternative bills. I would like you to make it clear, however, exactly how your bill differs from the main one that Mr. Nayem submitted, and from the other two, that national MPs understand which laws will actually bring Ukraine closer to anti-discrimination. And I also ask you to give a clear argument as to why it is the MPs who should support your bill, not the bill of other colleagues. Thank you again for your answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-06-m1.u19	Thank you, colleague. I'm actually glad we have a lot of bills. This reflects the high attention of the national deputies to the issues that are being raised and proposed for resolution. Our bill is different from others because not only did we spend a year and a half in the National Security and Defence Committee, working and at numerous round tables listening to the opinions of all experts and experts, but, above all, that we were laying the groundwork for it to be an effective mechanism that would allow our nation to resolve this issue. As far as other bills are concerned, I personally consider them to be aimed at hiring individual ministries. But they don't allow them to engage in effective assistance from other donor countries or create a situation where they don't trust, for example, other countries, by funding the Ministry of Defence, considering it to be a powerful corruption factor. And what I see more is that these bills have been worked on by some experts from other countries, because, for example,
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-06-m1.u20	30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-06-m1.u21	If you're looking at fair criticism, I see that the first bill, even the ministries, are listed as not responding to the list of ministries. Our department. The Cabinet of Ministers. Because, for example, there are 10 articles on a foreign ministry, I don't know if this exists in Ukraine, and whether experts have actually produced the result of this bill for the state of Ukraine. As for the last drafts, then.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-06-m1.u22	Thank you. Please, 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-06-m1.u23	Bills, I didn't want to comment at all, but once you asked them, they're actually plagiarism that, for example, the third bill is 10 percent copied by Mustafa Nyem's Bill, by the 90th Bill of our Working Group, and it's actually a disgrace that it's just stolen from the original authors. Well, copied text. That is why our bill is solid, fundamental. And it's given a high score by the United States Embassy and more than eight signatures.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-06-m1.u24	Thank you. Dear colleagues! There is no way in the Presidium to sign up for questions, but I will also allow myself to ask a question to the honourable representative of this bill now, because it was asked during the discussion, including the leaders of the faction of this bill. Dear Mr. Andrey, there's a discussion in this room right now, why do we have a joint bill with you that sets the standard for humanitarian, civil exchange, not for the Ministry of Defence, but for the other structure? And is this in harmony with European practices? Like: Croatia, other countries. I would like to make this clear, for some of our colleagues see corruption risks in this regard. Please clarify this point. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-06-m1.u25	Thank you. Thank you. See the key task is to clean up the land from the mine-explosion devices. What do we propose? The Supreme Council today is proposing a mechanism that will allow not individual ministries under the control of the Cabinet of Ministers to create a national body in which a separate commission will operate, which will certify all those who will try to work on this market, which will avoid any fraudulent companies or schemes. Secondly, this central authority of executive authority, which is going to be called the Center of Opposing Operations. the operator of the anti-dumping measures. The operation is actually going to be the main manager and will report for the work that has been done. The main thing is that it will create a quality commission that will check the quality of the work after each job and deliver quality work. All of this is going to be comprehensively done with the mechanism in the online charts, showing what area.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-06-m1.u26	30 seconds, please, this is important, really.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-06-m1.u27	The mechanism for informing the specific composition of the area, which will be carried out with regard to information on the conduct and handling of explosives, will be involved, and will also expose information, to danger. The main thing is that all of this will take place under the clear control and conduct of Parliament. All of this creates completely clear reporting mechanisms for their activities that simply won't allow.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-06-m1.u28	Thank you, Your Honor. I ask you to return to your workplace. I invite you to give the floor to the submission of an alternative bill by his author, Paul Kiskar. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-06-m1.u29	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Thank you, Your Honor, for the opportunity to present your bill. It was really designed on the basis of the work that the Ministry of Defence is doing. We speak and confirm the figures that Andrew Teteruk mentioned about the amount of exchange. I'd just like to add that we're looking at exchange and Crimea after its invasion, because somehow we're all about the Donbas conflict when we have one single enemy, the Russian Federation, and the question of the occupied Crimea is forgotten or we don't want to mention. I'm going to comment on the differences, first the political vision, then the differences are specific in the bill. The bill proposes to create an interministerial subsidiary within the Cabinet, whose mandate is to coordinate the activities of entities of antitrust. For the practical organization of action against anti-activities, a centre of opposing activity is formed, which is a budgetary institution and is formed by a ministry or other central executive body, in accordance with the recommendations of an interdeputy subsidiary body. The point is that the responsibility remains with the Cabinet of Ministers and its vision, its responsibility, or the creation of a separate CEV is the central authority of the executive authority, or that it should be left with the Ministry, respectively, by placing them in a separate unit, concentrating on the responsibility of the centre in a particular central executive body. The financing of antitrust programs is proposed for government targeted programs from government budgets or from external donors and from other sources of funding that are not prohibited by legislation. To date, the Ministry of Defence of Ukraine has already taken action in the areas of antitrust activities in the Donetsk and Lugansk areas by the NGOs The HALO Trust, the Danish Mine Action Group (DG) and the Swiss Antitrust Fund (FSD). These measures are already being implemented at the expense of donors. Indeed, there are limits to funding. on direct financing of the Ministry of Defence as the only central authority to carry out anti-discrimination activities. But the establishment of a special centre at any ministry or specifically under the Cabinet of Ministers does not in any way prohibit non-governmental organizations, trust companies or foundations that specialize in European or global financing of this centre. And action, when it comes to differences with the bill of honor and respect I have for Andria Teteruk, we can even reduce the possibilities, especially the State Service for Emergency Situations or the Ministry of Defense, to take action against anti-discrimination activities, and that is not acceptable. I think that these possibilities, especially our Kamyanec-Podil Center, should be used to the full, especially with regard to the training of those or other experts in anti-discrimination. In Ukraine, in general, various ministries and public authorities are involved in the implementation of measures against the use of anti-discrimination measures, which require regulation at the legislative level. And our bill completely and completely allows this responsibility to be concentrated in one hand by the Cabinet of Ministers, to form an auxiliary body. In fact, there will be representatives of all the departments that are involved in the conduct of anti-trading activities, perhaps even representatives of our donors will be able to participate in this interdisciplinary body in order to develop an effective system of exchange. I certainly don't agree with the thesis that exchange cards should be online by the end of the war, me. Well, it's absolutely, and Andrew realizes that before the end of the war with Russia, we can't place and show the work that we're planning to do or are already doing, we can't do that right now. About specific differences in the bill itself. We are talking about our bill being fully in line with NATO's international standards and standards of definition, particularly the definition of the component of anti-discrimination in our bill, which is fully and completely in line with NATO standards. I can read it if I need to. The exchange, the elements of anti-personnel activities are: exchange and disposal, destruction of explosive objects, training on the risks associated with explosive items, destruction of munitions unfit for further use and storage, and ammunition subject to destruction in accordance with international obligations, assistance to injured persons, promotion of the prohibition of the use and use of anti-personnel mines. This definition is clearly consistent with international and valid national standards of anti-activities. In particular, the concept of exchange is defined, humanitarian exchange is carried out with the aim of eliminating the danger of mines and explosive objects, including non-technical and technical survey of areas, mapping, disposal and/or destruction of explosive items, marking, preparation of post-mining documentation, provision of information to citizens on anti-mandatory activities and transfer of cleaned territory. Actually, this definition is internationally recognized and it doesn't need to be added to this law if it becomes law, any changes. This is what allows the centre to carry out appropriate work and to complete its work, to transfer clean land to local self-government authorities, by accepting, by signing acts of acceptance, the transfer of these cleansed lands. We believe that our bill fully and fully takes into account all the wishes of international donor companies, allows us to concentrate on the responsibility of conducting humanitarian exchange and exchange in general, both before the end of entry and after the end of the war with the Russian Federation, by concentrating fully on such powers in the Cabinet of Ministers and by defining the Mine Action Centre as a tool. Thank you, colleagues, for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-06-m1.u30	Thank you. Dear colleagues, please sign up for questions. And let me ask you a question first while the recording goes. In your bill, the responsibility for the exchange and control rests primarily with the Ministry of Defence, while Western practice says that the military must be solely responsible for the military exchange, according to those maps of military replacements that were made to carry out the military's tasks. How can you explain the contradiction? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-06-m1.u31	Thank you, Mrs. Irina. There's really no opposite, because the war is going on. This is the first thing to remember. And as long as this war lasts, the responsibility for the exchange or replacement of hostilities remains with the Ministry of Defence or, more specifically, with the Special Operations Force in the conflict zone with the Russian Federation, and we will not do so until this war is over. There is no reliance on the Ministry of Defense on this law. Responsibility is the only one on the Cabinet of Ministers as a real government of Ukraine exercising executive power. The Ministry of Defence may be involved in demining operations if the appropriate interdisciplinary union at the Cabinet of Ministers determines that such works will, in most cases, be close to the front of the Russian Federation, and this responsibility for any exchange will be imposed.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-06-m1.u32	Please, 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-06-m1.u33	Thank you, Mrs. Irina. It will be placed directly on the Ministry. Let's do it again. There's a whole series of nuances until this war is over. I think that these nuances we have taken fully and fully into account in our bill, allowing the Cabinet of Ministers to respond quickly to changing circumstances, to use one or the other means, forces and methods. If it's 60 kilometers from the line of delimitation, of course there's going to be a HALO Trust working or a DDG, there's no problem. But if there's an area defined.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-06-m1.u34	Thank you. Please ask the following question, John Sporish. You're arguing, I'm sorry, Sporish.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-06-m1.u35	Ivan Sporish, Peter Dusty Block, Winniechkin. Of course, we've just heard the third draft of Kishkar, but if you take all the bills, they really complement each other. We see the same exchange centre that should work, we see the inclusion of different missions in each bill. We see both financial and practical assistance from European missions. But I would still like to ask that question. Are you ready to unify all four bills together for the second reading? Because really, they're the main goal, I'm counting, it's very fair for these mines to exchange and send Putin back. Let him rejoice in them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-06-m1.u36	Mr. John, I don't even know whether to answer or support you. Of course I will, if I have to support the Teteruk Bill and there will be more votes, I will support it and substantiate its bill for second reading. Once again, until the war is over, my bill will respond better to the challenges that stand. So you have to decide as the people's deputies who vote as the basis. I don't think we have a discussion about the purpose of these bills. Of course, our goal is to win the war and to demarcate the territory of Ukrainian lands in order to pass them on to local governments. And me, and Andrew, and all the other colleagues, we're only pursuing one goal, and we're going to do everything we can to do that. Thank you for asking.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-06-m1.u37	Next question. National Deputy Ednak, please Ostap Ednak.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-06-m1.u38	Dear Mr. Kishkar, I thank you for your initiative in law-making, and I urge you to work actively on any bill that we will adopt today in furthering the second reading. And my question is this. Are you aware of the fact that the use by an aggressor — the Russian Federation of Ammunition, anti-personnel mines that are banned by international conventions that may be held — poses a particular threat to the local population? And in particular is he running our or the Ministry of Defense, or the military-civil cooperation of organs, or the military-civil administrations courses for local residents, for children, how do they avoid possible hidden anti-personnel mines that are banned by international conventions if the aggressor uses them? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-06-m1.u39	Thank you for asking, Mr. Ostap. Indeed, in the area of fighting and the Ministry of Defence in the area of responsibility, and the State Service in emergency situations is conducting active information policy among the local population. I've read you the mandate and definition for nothing, because, unlike other bills, it's defined both prevention and land transfer, and these seemingly non-military aspects of exchange, they're also clearly defined by definitions. And this will be the responsibility of the center for carrying out such measures. At the moment, information on the use of prohibited ammunition by the Russian Federation is being collected by the Ministry of Justice, with the help of, of course, military authorities and those who are conducting direct hostilities with the Russian Federation. That's the data we have, it's transmitted. And these materials will certainly be the next evidence of military aggression before the Hague Court or any other international tribunal. Thanks again for asking.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-06-m1.u40	Thank you, Mr. Paul. Question time is complete. And I invite you to the report of the National Deputy of the Ukraine of Nedava. [[B in m in s a l in]] There was a promise to ask Melniczuk a question. I'm turning on the microphone. Turn on Sergey Melnichuku's microphone for questions. Prepare Nedava for the performance. Please, Mr. Sergei.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-06-m1.u41	Sergey Melniczuk. I even want to support Mr. Paul more, because it is the Ministry of Defense that has this area of responsibility for the exchange of mother. First, indeed, the war is not over. That's the first one. The second is that there must be a UN resolution in which much will be determined. And that's going to have to be taken into account. And what is already a certain structure created by the Ministry of Defense, the clearing house, is just to be expanded. And I want to remind everyone that exchange is a battle task. And some of our military men who were here saying that they were traveling with missions were sending military personnel, not teachers, not other specialties, but military personnel were sending the exchange. That is why the military should be responsible. It's their zone of influence.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-06-m1.u42	Please, Mr. Paul.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-06-m1.u43	Thank you, Mr. Sergei, for your support. The point is that we don't narrow down the scope of application that we've already created by our bill. Yes, we have a center in Preyaslav-Hmelnicki, we have no more material resources tomorrow after the adoption of the law, but this center will be able to perform qualitatively in the future, yes, its functions no longer as a subordinate centre of the Ministry of Defence, but as a subordinate, for example, to Kabmin or any other ministry, let them define the subordination of the DNS – that is their responsibility. The talk is that after that, all international donors will be able to fund the jobs they consider necessary. Of course, the necessary use of ProZorro, use ProZorro is a responsibility. Nobody's rejecting that. And the Ministry of Defense, so that we don't narrow it down, some bills don't narrow down the possibility, including the Ministry of Defense, of actually fighting the use of mine action. Thank you for asking.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-06-m1.u44	Thank you for your professional report and for your answers, Mr. Paul. And I invite you to the word of Nedav Oleg Anatoliovich. Please, Mr. Oleg.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-06-m1.u45	Neda Oleg, Doñecina, political party "Our End." Two weeks ago on Donetsk, a 24-year-old military guy who was walking behind a group of bomb squads in a supposedly swapped territory in a Syrian zone ripped his foot off. Mine is forbidden by the Geneva Convention, as Mr. Ednak said. And so hundreds of cases. There is no point in stressing once again how important this bill is for Ukraine, which has become one of the most polluted explosive objects in the world, especially in the case of Donbas, where opposition to Russian aggression persists. About 16,000 square miles of our land, including the temporarily occupied Donbas, are literally painted with various munitions and explosive devices that are cool to explode at any moment. It's a solid decade-long mine that's built into our future. So the main goal of our bill is to reduce the risk of a mine to a level where people's lives can be safe. So unlike the previous draft laws, we are trying to make anti-negligence activity less regulated. We propose to subordinate the centre of the anti-trading operation to the Ministry of Interimly Occupied Territories and Internally Moved Persons of Ukraine, because it is on this body that the authority is empowered to coordinate and carry out anti-trafficking activities and to agree on civilian exchange projects. We believe that the licensing of operators as well as the control of responsibility and quality of work should be entrusted to the executive body of the Anti-Discrimination Centre, which should be composed of appropriate experts in this field. This will allow you to create a more rational management system. In our view, the proposed accreditation procedure will make it very difficult to access and extend this activity in time. That's why we're only proposing to leave two stages of licensing. Two stages: licensing and public procurement. Today in Ukraine, it is time to take care not only of the existence of structures that take care of this problem but also of the introduction of an effective institutional vertical that meets all international standards of antitrust. It is our duty to create the right conditions for the preservation of the lives of citizens. We have minefields, but we don't have a legal field. As long as we're delaying this, the scale of this socio-economic and environmental disaster is only spreading. So on behalf of the people of Donbas, I call for a vote in favour of our bill. I want to thank the working group led by Mr. Teteruk and Ivan Vinnik. It's very good, and it's a lot of work, and we really used it. But these are the international standards that all of the bills that we've been listening to today are using. And there are several differences. I will personally vote in favour of all the bills in order to redraft them in the second reading, because it is a very difficult question, and it has been for a long time when it has to be accepted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-06-m1.u46	Thank you. Please record the question. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-06-m1.u47	Please give the word of Ostap to Ednak.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-06-m1.u48	Dear Mr. Neda, here my colleagues are saying that the billboards with your face are actually in large numbers in eastern Ukraine near the line of delimitation, which means you're probably very close to the local population, to the people. And how do you think the locals in the Syrian zone are treating this large number of land mines? Do they clearly recognize the threats that this poses to their lives and, in general, the actions of the aggressor regarding Ukraine? How do you feel about that? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-06-m1.u49	Thank you for asking. In addition to the billboards that are in this area, my personal public reception center is at the Majoorsk KPW and there are my assistants, and I work there to hear everyone entering the reception hall and to hear all the troubles, and all the things that people think and what they're in pain about because they're on the collision line, I understand. And the basic thing, and it's very bad that people die in general, but when children die, it's our personal responsibility. And we have to deal with these issues in the shortest time, and these bills have to be adopted, and we can already take the steps that we need to take. For example, when building in the Slovenian Psychiatric Hospital, nearly 42 explosive devices were removed, and this was done by the Ministry of Emergency Situations, but this is not their parish, and this should be public exchange. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-06-m1.u50	Thank you. Shahov Sergei Volodymyrovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-06-m1.u51	Sergey Shahov, the political power of Our End. Dear colleagues, this is a very important bill, in general four bills, which are virtually identical, are important, so perhaps, as John Spores said, should unite together around these bills. Because both in Donetsk and in the Luhansk region today there is a very dangerous situation with minefields. Everywhere you look the mines, the children explode on these mines, today there's nowhere to look at the farmers, today the fields are replaced. Therefore, we must immediately vote in favour of these bills. And to think about another question, the energy mine that happened in Luhansk is happiness, which is not enough for today's coal, has two days at all. It's a huge mine in the heads and the officials, and in general, who's in charge of those areas. Therefore, I think that should also be noted, Oleg Anatoliyevich Neda thinks it is necessary to vote in favour of your bill. "Our End" will support it. Sergey Shahov, the political power of Our End.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-06-m1.u52	Thank you. I understand it was a performance, not a question. And the final question of Romanov Anna Anatolyevna. He's handing over the Shepherd, yes.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-06-m1.u53	Taras Shepherd, Self Help Union. Honorable reporter, can you clearly describe the extent of the responsibility of the entities involved in the exchange of information and the authorities that will control it? So it's not the general structure of the state, it's the direct official who has to sign it to guarantee that the territory is completely safe for the Ukrainians, for housing, for farming. And, God forbid, some of the cases that have arisen will be carried by the same official, including criminal responsibility.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-06-m1.u54	That's a very good question, and I thank you for asking. Indeed, criminal responsibility should be borne by officials who issue permits and who accept and sign acts of work done. And I think this is going to be worked out between the first and the second readings, and all the comments will be taken into account. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-06-m1.u55	Thank you, Mr. Oleg. Thank you for the meaningful report. You can take your place. And, colleagues, now from the committee report by the Secretary of the Committee on National Security and Defence of Vinick John Yuliyovich. And after that, there'll be factions from factions. Please, Mr. Ivan.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-06-m1.u56	I'm going to report for the first time in full procedure, five minutes, there's a little bit of time, so I'm going to allow myself to comment on some of the typical questions that are being answered. First of all, why the committee-supported project is about an equidistant central executive body, a newly created, not in a separate ministry system, but directly subordinated to the Cabinet of Ministers. Because, according to our Western partners and taking into account the practice of working in this direction, this is the only way that there is no corruption risk in the conduct of anti-discrimination activities. It's not just the exchange, really. I'll say more, not so much exchange, it's also the definition of areas that are polluted, it's a proper identification, including visualization, publicity, it's also a measure, actually, of clearing and demarcating these areas, of markings, of learning and of the local population or of objects of anti-discrimination, how to deal with this situation properly. Well, even measures to treat and rehabilitate those who have suffered, and there are quite a number in Ukraine. It is about 1,000,800 citizens of Ukraine who are affected today by the pollution of the territories by explosives. And they got hurt -- that means they got either injured or they died, and that's why the problem is huge. Ukraine is now included in the ten most polluted countries with the antiviral explosives that today must be cleansed of our territory. From the effects of the war, from the explosions of arsenals observed throughout the country. Indeed, thousands of square miles of numbers are also a fact. That is why the Committee on Safety and Defence has given so much attention to this issue. As for the committee's decision. The committee has decided to support Bill 9080-1, given that we are as equidistant as possible. One is the regulator in the Cabinet of Ministers system, the other is the operational organ as the central authority of the executive branch. The regulator will take steps to form a state policy that will be approved by the Cabinet of Ministers. The operational body will ensure the implementation of this state policy. And the first organ is going to be called the National Opposing Center, it's going to be an interdisciplinary organ. And all those ministries that were now mentioned in the context of the discussion will be represented in this body. In addition, by implementing the principles of democratic and civil control, we will certainly be able to have an advisory vote to be present to the subjects. other entities of opposition, including our Western partners, and, in fact, those involved in the operation. Another authority is an operating entity that will already execute the mandate to ensure that competitive principles are implemented on the basis of those established proposals. That's how it's going to work, so it worked in Croatia, so it led to its effectiveness, and so, in the opinion of our Western partners, it's going to be able to and will allow Ukraine to invest not only the cost of the state budget in the direction of anti-activity, but also, in fact, the cost of our partners, the NATO funds and so on. Today, by the way, the Supreme Council received a letter from representatives of embassies, such as the Embassy of the United States of America, from the Ambassador of Switzerland to Ukraine, the Ambassador of Great Britain, Canada, Austria, the Head of the EU Mission in Ukraine, the Ambassador of Germany, the Ambassador of the Czech Republic, Denmark, Sweden and Norway. All these high - ranking officials have supported the work of the committee and the introduction of security and defence by the Committee in the sessional room of the anti - anti - anti - activity bill. So, colleagues, to implement the committee's decision, I ask you to support in the first reading of Bill 9080-1, to send it to the committee for further work, and we will certainly, taking into account all the suggestions that have been made in the hall, try to find the maximum compromise solution that would be within the framework of the standards of anti-discrimination of the NATO countries, as well as our legislative system and that was within the framework of the Constitution of Ukraine. Please vote 9080-1 in first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-06-m1.u57	Thank you very much for the presentation of the committee. And indeed, I would like you to sign up for a question to the committee representative, to the Secretary of the Pro-Profession Committee on Safety and Defence. Please, Yuri Bereza, your question. Yuri Bereza. I'm sorry, I didn't have a computer. Please, Ostap Ednak, your question.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-06-m1.u58	Please pass the word to Paul Kishkar. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-06-m1.u59	Please, Paul Kishkar, your question.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-06-m1.u60	Dear colleagues, Mr. Ivan, I thank you for your thorough answers for your work. Indeed, we will go to the finale with a quality law that will be easy and easy to implement. Actually, the question is very simple. How does the bill that you support the committee differ from other bills? And don't you think our authorship bill will allow us to ensure the quality of the law by examining all international practices and writing definitions according to international standards? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-06-m1.u61	Differences are. We have four projects. There's Mustafa Nayem's project, so let's call it the other co-authors (9080). He's in charge. He's actually practicing the same ideology, but unlike the 9080-1 alternative, he's not that detailed. And in our view, in the context of our young, modern democracy, it is appropriate to make the most detailed legal regulation, the most unambiguous definition, the most unambiguous function, the authorization of organs. That's why we supported an alternative as detailed. As for the project that you've submitted, Mr. Kishkar, really, the main organ in the supply system of your alternative project is the Ministry of Defence and the functions that are today.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-06-m1.u62	Please finish, 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-06-m1.u63	The Ministry of Defence will be involved in accreditation and will be involved in defining the territories and making proposals to the Cabinet of Ministers for decision-making. The Ministry of Defense's function is broader in terms of our project, which we supported. Why did we still follow that logic? Because in our project, we give a clear definition of military exchange and humanitarian exchange. Military exchange is what the central executives do.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-06-m1.u64	Thank you. Please, everyone else will have the closing word. Next question from the national MP Meparishvili. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-06-m1.u65	I give the word to Andrei Teteruku.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-06-m1.u66	Please pass the question to Andrew Teteruk.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-06-m1.u67	Dear colleague John Winnick, first of all, I want to thank you personally for the contribution you made to the bill. And secondly, in order to eliminate any misunderstanding in the session room before making a decision, I'd like you to explain the difference between military exchange and humanitarian exchange. And why does the introduction of the possibility of humanitarian exchange significantly increase the position of military personnel operating in military units and the involvement of professional civil society companies, who are also professionally engaged in humanitarian exchanges and who are much faster in both the quality and the pace of humanitarian exchanges? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-06-m1.u68	So I'm going to finish the answer to the last question. Indeed, we clearly distinguish between military exchange and humanitarian exchange. What Is Military Demining? This is what the Armed Forces of Ukraine, the Ministry of Defence, the Ministry of Defense are doing in order to carry out the actions envisaged by the leaders with documents, laws, regulations and regulations. And humanitarian exchange is the exchange of areas where active combat activities are no longer being carried out, which are already considered to be free, which are no longer included in the so-called "sirous zone" or the high-risk zone, which is located around the bases of arsenals that have been blown up by Russian diverters, where the main fire on the arsenal has already been extinguished, is no longer detonated. At the same time, the area around it is polluted and must be cleaned. It is for these purposes that we propose that a wide range of subjects be involved for humanitarian exchange. And in the order defined by law, they will, on competitive principles, implement this function. That's the main difference.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-06-m1.u69	Thank you for your answer, dear colleague. And please, the next question, John Sporish.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-06-m1.u70	Ivan Sporish, Peter Dusty Block, Winniechkin. I think I also heard this answer that Kishkar had just given and that was given by all the speakers. So it seems to me that we should really make one bill, make it really and work to exchange what territories there are today. So I owe it to the committee because they've really taken a pretty solid approach to this question. Thank you, and let's make a decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-06-m1.u71	Thank you, Sir John. I ask you to return to your workplace. Dear colleagues, I'm asking you to sign up for a discussion right now from the MP factions. And also to emphasize the attention of all the deputies present, as well as those who are currently watching the broadcast of these four two-pronged bills, which relate to the key humanitarian challenge at Donbassa, is the question of replacing the territories. The fact that we received a letter of support from our partners, including Ambassador Marie Jovanovic of the United States, Ambassador of Great Britain, Ambassador of Switzerland, Ambassador of Canada, other countries, indicating that these countries are supporting Parliament's work on the Mine Action Act and are also ready to step up cooperation with Ukraine so that we can overcome this challenge together -- to exchange seven thousand kilometers of explosive property in the occupied territories. So this question today, it really doesn't have absolutely politics, we have to determine when we vote. And I ask the factions to join the speech now, to discuss. Please state the position of the People's Front. Passes the word to Andrew. Passes the word to Andrew Teteruku. Please, Mr. Andrey, get out of here.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-06-m1.u72	Andrew Teteruk, People's Front. In fact, the People's Front faction will vote in favour of Bill 9080-1 as one of the most thoroughly prepared and professionally evaluated bill that answers all questions related to the humanitarian exchange process in Ukraine. The bill was approved and developed with leading experts not only in Ukraine but also with international organizations involved. He's been given a good grade for the positions that are contained in the process of implementing this humanitarian exchange program, he's completely transparent and open and allows him to view the process of humanitarian exchange as a transparent, non-corruption process, which is extremely important in today's Ukraine. We also approve of it because, without diminishing the leading role of the Ministry of Defence, the Ministry of Emergency Situations, the other authorities that carry out the exchange processes, we greatly reinforce them, without denying their role in clearing our land from objects that pose a threat and are those that have not exploded. Because we're introducing an additional definition of "humanitarian exchange" and this bill is a transparent way of involving civil society in the humanitarian exchange process. Those colleagues who are not familiar, I can tell you, and all of Ukrainian society, for example, that in Croatia today there are 40 companies operating, and they are all civilian, with modern remedies, equipped to find and destroy explosive devices. And this greatly reinforces what the Croatian Ministry of Defense is doing. So it's not about conflict of interest, it's about complementing and consolidating our efforts to, in the shortest term, not stretching out this process for decades, in the shortest term to clean up Ukrainian land from objects that pose a threat to the life and health of Ukrainian citizens. And it's Bill 9080-1 that will allow these processes to be launched. So the People's Front is asking all the people's deputies who are now in Parliament to understand that this is not just about the different versions of the bill, but about the fact that we're starting to save human lives, our citizens of Ukraine. And so I ask everyone to return to the session room. To return and vote in favour of Bill 9080-1, and to begin the process of humanitarian exchange in our country. Make our lives safer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-06-m1.u73	Thank you. And I invite Igor Mosiyczuk, who represents the position of the Radical Party, the Radical Party faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-06-m1.u74	Igor Mosiyczuk, Oleg Lachka Radical Party In fact, these are very important bills. And in fact, our faction supports their consideration and approval of the law. But after the government -- the Cabinet of Ministers, the President, the ruling coalition -- replaced the country, replaced every Ukrainian, unjustifiably raised the price of gas, we don't see the possibility of taking part in the vote, until a draft decree on a moratorium on raising tariffs, a decision by the leader of our faction, Oleg Lazko, supported by the five heads of other factions on what we have to stop what is going on with the price of gas. We have to show the Ukrainians that we're not letting the whole country replace every Ukrainian. Because you're changing the country, you're undermining Ukrainian statehood, you're provoking social rebellion, and you're taking on this responsibility. We spent two weeks resting, walking. Our faction demanded an emergency session, but very few of our colleagues responded. This morning, the Roman Empire of Heaven, Catherine Gandzük, was set up by the emperor on blood. The people who broke up with Hatiya Decanoidze National Police, who destroyed the operative part, the investigation part, these people threw their whistles on the bones here, and now you're proposing to vote for the exchange. There is a need to exchange. I have to say it again. But first of all, let's exchange the mines that the government has laid for the Ukrainian statehood, for the future of every Ukrainian, for the future of Ukrainian children. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-06-m1.u75	Please, from the Self-Help faction, Taras Shepherd. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-06-m1.u76	Dear National Deputies, Taras Shepherd, Self Help Union, Ternopil. Actually, here I want to support the chair's position that these laws should be without politicization. And actually, the Self-Help faction can demonstrate this when two different bills present our deputies as co-authors. I mean, really, we've worked a lot to solve this issue. I, in particular, took part in various meetings, round tables, where we looked for these decisions together with foreign partners, who urged us to speed up the work. But seeing these bills as work, unfortunately, it's hard to say about their systemicity and most importantly that they're doing the task that all of the speakers in the rostrum today are talking about, I think, and the hall and society, which is the solution and sense of security for the Ukrainians who want and should walk without fear in that land, which today can be potentially replaced and dangerous for their livelihood, for their agriculture. And actually, what's the problem here. The fact that these laws were written not in terms of the interests of these Ukrainians, how do we have to make the exchange in quality, who has to give quality control and the most important question that I've actually asked all the rapporteurs who will be personally responsible if this work is carried out in an inadequacy. If we first say that one central authority or another, practice shows that no one is responsible, citizens have been tried by the state for years, trying to raise funds, and as a result of the percentage of executions, I think the entire world community knows about Ukraine today. Unfortunately, we have approached, not the security of the Ukrainian, but the creation of another central authority and the direct creation of positions to satisfy the ambitions of the ministries, representations, or political powers. And actually, as an example, I want to mention the commission that's being set up in the bill that the committee recommended for support, this is the Commission on Accreditation and Monitoring, where there is actually a staff assignment, the head of the commission, one first deputy, another deputy, another deputy, another deputy. So as a result, we're creating an organ with a bunch of positions where, in order to exchange one square meter or one square kilometer of Ukrainian land, we already have to finance a whole year of tens or maybe hundreds of people who might not even fully understand what they have to sign. That's why the position is that this bill is really a risk, because it's impossible to make alternatives anymore. These four bills returned to the committee and made one based on them, where a Ukrainian would be at the centre of the law, not one’s.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-06-m1.u77	Please finish 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-06-m1.u78	No job, no job. And most importantly, the distribution of taxes that the Ukrainians are paying today and their security for the sense that they are free and protected in their country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-06-m1.u79	Please, from the Peter Dust Block, Ivan Winnick. Please, Mr. Ivan.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-06-m1.u80	Colleagues, I'm hearing from some of our factions the unwillingness to vote for one reason or another. I would like to remind everyone that this problem is not new, it's been a problem for more than two years. And all those who wanted could join in processing their ideas, giving them, passing them in the form of alternative projects, on their own or in any other way. In general, this work is being created to carry out the overall plan of action that we understand that our state must achieve in order to acquire membership, membership in the NATO security bloc. We started it by adopting the National Security Act. Today we are looking at the actual NATO-led Anti-Dominal Action Act on Humanitarian Demining. Because NATO is not just military action, but NATO is also the primary respect and protection of fundamental rights and freedoms of citizens. And in this case, the right to public security must be guaranteed in full and complete terms. The committee is currently working on the reform of the Ukrainian Security Service. And as co-chair of the working group, I can tell you that there have already been two meetings, where there are the same composition of advisors from both the US Embassy and the EU Advisory Mission and NATO Embassy in Ukraine, and other ambassadors who have also signed under this letter to support the 9080 prim project. 1, which the committee is proposing today in the session room to vote in the first reading. We, on a large scale, can send all of this to the committee and wait another two, three months, maybe more, we can take another political step in this sessional room, but we will not demonstrate Ukraine's readiness to implement NATO standards and, in fact, respect fundamental human rights and freedoms. Thousands of 800 injured or killed as a result of explosive activity in the area that has been released, and this is highlighted by our Western partners, this is unacceptable, unacceptable, colleagues, the situation. So I don't see any political prospect of sending this right now to the committee for work. I don't see any problems supporting Project 9080-1 in the first reading and taking all the comments into account. I'd like, by the way, to get them in writing as a license to get them in order not to be simple words, but some reasoned position and eventually work on them. Or let's fail and then demonstrate that, in large numbers, we don't care that our children will be suffering again as a result of the presence of explosives in the freed areas. Let's tell the NATO countries that those suggestions and the advice that you're giving us, we don't need, we ourselves know how better we are to do away with and suppress Russian aggression or eliminate its consequences. Let's talk.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-06-m1.u81	30 seconds to complete.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-06-m1.u82	Let's say we don't need the money, we're rich enough, we can fund everything ourselves, the NATO funds are nothing. But, dear colleagues, let's or should we stick to some single political position that we seem to have been united many times in this room, is the integration of Ukraine into NATO, it's the support of Western partners, as postulate, in general the liberation of Ukrainian territories and the provision of strategic long-term national security. So I still ask you to forget all the political conflicts, vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-06-m1.u83	Thank you for the position expressed by the faction of Peter Dustenk. Dear colleagues! Did all the factions, the groups, take part in the discussion? All of them. Now I ask you to sign up. Not all of them? Please, Julia Volodymyrna Timoshenko to present the position of Fatherland, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-06-m1.u84	Dear colleagues! There is no doubt that the draft law on de-mining the country is needed and that we need to coordinate with the international organizations that are helping Ukraine today and that can really help solve this big problem in Ukraine. But at the same time millions of people in Ukraine are looking forward to every member of the Supreme Council today. They and their deputies in the land, the rajids, the mischievous people became one team. When did you see such a thing, that in Ukraine, in the land, in the hoax, in Paradise, all deputies from all the factions that could only be united, regardless of the party flags, and make one fundamental decision, calling on the President to immediately cancel the gas price hike? And you know that now more than 130 councils have made this decision in their emergency sessions. And now you and I are working in the hall, and all over the country, we're going to have an emergency session of paradise. And a shell to immediately cancel the gas price hike. The people with us in this room, regardless of our party membership, are looking to you with the hope that if the President has already done so, you will not be able to do so. And our Supreme Council, the curse, and so on, well, it starts to vindicate people's hopes, because now the draft decree to cancel this gas increase was signed by the leaders of the six factions. You realize that this is an absolute majority, and you'll definitely have the required number of votes to take this decision. And that's why, as long as this ruling is not adopted, our faction has decided not to vote for any bill, for any other decree, until we vote on exactly what the whole country expects. You can't imagine the state of people. I've traveled halfway across the country, I've seen them in the square, they can't eat enough at the meetings, and we MPs who are elected by them to the Supreme Council, we're pushing them into practically winter for destruction today. Well, please don't do that, be that truth in the last instance, and remember a few figures: the cost of producing Ukrainian gas is $12,000 per cubic meter, taxes, transportation, 30 percent of profitability is the maximum.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-06-m1.u85	30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-06-m1.u86	That's up to $90. Why are Ukrainian gas, which is scarce, sold to people for $300? Because this condition has been imposed on those who have succeeded in taking some of the Ukrainian ancestry and have an impact on Ukraine. Let's stop this very harsh, very cynical treatment of people and stop the price rise for gas.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-06-m1.u87	So, colleagues, the factions are finished. Now we have nine minutes of nationals speaking. I'm asking you to prepare for the recording and please record. Nine minutes from the National Deputies. And I'm going ahead, colleagues, to inform you that in nine minutes we're going to the vote. I ask that the factions of Parliament be maximized and that all deputies be informed that in nine minutes we are moving on to the decision-making process. So, the River Andriy Alexanderovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-06-m1.u88	Please pass the word to Sauvka.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-06-m1.u89	Thank you. Mr. Chairman, Your Honor, I ask, first of all, that there be order and everyone come into the hall. Because this law, the draft law that we are about to vote on, is essential, essential to our state. Especially every day our military personnel, every day the citizens of our country of Ukraine in the east, are torn down by closed mines, which are saturated by the Russian Federation. At the moment, these draft laws themselves -- we need further development, further development, as to who will perform and register certain explosive mines that are located in the territory of our country. First of all, we should rely on the military prosecutor’s office. The second one in the next. Some of the work that will be done will be in the second reading. But now I'm going to ask everyone to come in and vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-06-m1.u90	Thank you. Sugonako Alexander Leonidovich. Gives the floor to Sergey Kaplin, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-06-m1.u91	Colleagues. Oh, yeah.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-06-m1.u92	Please, Capplin, the microphone's out of the way.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-06-m1.u93	Of course, there is no doubt that this bill should be voted on. We will vote for everyone without the exception of the offer of our colleagues. And at the same time, there's only one warning in ordinary Ukrainians that the money that's going to be spent on exchange isn't stolen in the first place as money that's been allocated to all the possible walls of the Russian Federation and so on. But I'd like to do the same thing as a bunch of my colleagues, to stop at tariffs and perspectives to clean up emweephic entanglements, plus 25 percent in the first phase of the gas price supplement for our compatriots. It's our fault today that we have these tariffs on everyone, without exception -- and today's, previous governments of our state. Just think, over the course of this, 27 years, nothing has been done to modernize the networks in the utility system. As a former communist, I want to tell you that 30 percent of the entire generation is lost as long as it gets warm to our people's homes. The second is that we have a completely out-of-date generation of heat, and we have an average CPD of 60 to 80 percent. Nothing has been done by any government to ensure that any energy conservation policy in our country has been implemented. The whole country consumes just as much gas as the entire economy of developed Poland. At the same time, we did nothing to harmonize the entire vertical of production and transportation and the sale of gas in the country. These Naftogazu pads don't work for the first year and they weren't born last year, they weren't born in the past, they just started charging the pockets of the masters for a year. Nothing in this direction has been done for a simple Ukrainian. And today's tariffs are the sum total of the shameful destructive policies of all previous non-professional governments and all without exception of the presidents. So we insist that the only chance for our nation to change tariff policy is a fundamental change in the composition of the Supreme Council next year. And it is only when this hall has an entirely new political power with completely new political leaders and a completely new strategy for energy security and the energy sovereignty of our nation, nationalizing gas fields, modernizing networks, creating a new utility system, gaining more production, that we can really make our citizen independent of Russian gas and these terrible tariffs and emveyphic enquiries. It's the only way to.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-06-m1.u94	Thank you, colleagues. And I urge you to speak on the subject of this bill, which is really very important. And I want to inform you that Sporis Ivan Dmitrovitch is giving the floor to Oksani Korczynski. Please, Mrs. Oksana.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-06-m1.u95	Thank you. Praise be to Jesus Christ. I apologize to the Presidium, I'm going to try to scream to the National Deputies, because as long as you're sitting in the Hall, you probably don't know for the most part that 3.5 years our humanitarian exchange missions every day at 8 am 30 minutes leave for exchange. 95 percent of these people are Ukrainian citizens. Every day they risk their lives to keep our children alive in Donbas. In order for our peaceful population to be left behind, our military forces will be less subdued. What are the two factions of the Radical Party and the Fatherland doing now?Oh, my God! Who are you making hostages now?Oh, my God! You're hostageing our exchangers, our volunteer medics, who save every day people who risk every day?Oh, my God! And they have the only hope for this law! These people have been waiting for this law for four years. You can't make them hostages of populism! In this case, if this law is not voted today, I believe that these two factions must now assume responsibility for every victim of the downfall that will take place on our front lines! Because these are our military, these are our medics, these are our children!
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-06-m1.u96	Thank you. All right, lineup. Mrs. Irina, Mrs. Irina, we still have the Fishbuck, there's another three minutes left. Then I'll give you, yes, I'm sorry. As for the end, we're about to finish the speech, Fish, aren't we? All right, Irina Heratchenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-06-m1.u97	Dear colleagues! You know, I'm, well, to be honest, it's very painful that there's a debate in this room right now on the one hand about money, on the other hand about life. You can hold dozens of beautiful forums, and today there's a party called Women for Peace. But the new story of peace in Donbassa is exchange. You know, when Masha Ion and I sent a boy with all the amputated limbs to Canada, you can't forget that. You can't talk about tariffs, because it's just money to put on one weight of life. I want to talk to my colleagues again and to everyone who listens to us is unacceptable! The war is about a thousand eight hundred dead and 7,000 miles [7,000 km] replaced. And I understand why today a lot of people say, "Then we'll figure it out." Because you didn't see it. Here's the village, and it can't save Ukrainian cows, because these fields are replaced, and the kids can't go for a walk. And really, we have to adopt the best European standards that there should be exchange, there has to be responsibility for this exchange, and there has to be a very clear answer that this is a professional exchange. In Donetsk and Lugansk today, the bomb squad technology has remained in occupied territory, and our poor economy can't afford to buy this technology, and our partners are telling us from NATO countries, we'll give it to you if you adopt European, NATO rules. The bill that we're discussing from the committee may be flawed, and we need to work together on the second reading, but we don't have time. We don't have time, we have to start the exchange, we have to set up a task for the local authorities to mark all these fields, we have to set up a task for the military to restore the minefield maps, we have to clearly determine who's leading the exchange, who's responsible. Do you understand? Dear friends, you can't just think about choices. War is that. and exchange, at which it's not as easy to do pear as on tariffs. This is no way to view it! I call upon colleagues who are co-authors, all factions, this bill, to vote in favour of this law, I urge everyone to follow very closely: this is the vote now for what really is the attitude of Donbas. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-06-m1.u98	I'll give you a line right now, colleagues, but I have to say my position. There are many questions in the order of the day of Ukraine, of a social, economic nature, but there are issues that are most important and fundamental: it is a matter of the life of the state and the protection of the Ukrainian state. The day we make decisions, our boys and girls protect the state on the front. I am convinced that the issue of security and defence must be out of politics, beyond the socio-economic debates that are in this room. And I'm sure all the patriotic forces will do the same, and they will. This is beyond all political debates. It's a matter of state, defense of state and the lives of our citizens. Colleagues, there'll be a vote in a few minutes. I urge everyone to come into the hall and give the floor to Oleg Lazka.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-06-m1.u99	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Dear colleagues from a well - held coalition, you have taken hostages and replaced the entire country. As a result of your decisions, millions of Ukrainians do not know how to make ends meet, how they will pay the utility, how to buy medicines for which money is given to feed their own child. Children are given to live parents because there are 5 consents per day. Because as a result of your anti - Ukrainian policy, children with living parents cannot be fed. So don't speculate! And when you talk about not talking about social issues, what questions do you have? There will be no land of peace, there will be no freeing of territory if we are weak, if millions of Ukrainians are on foreign earnings, if there is no money for an army, for defense, for security, for diplomacy. So the plan of the Light and the Radical Party is to restore the economy, reduce the cost of tariffs, increase.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-06-m1.u100	30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-06-m1.u101	for Ukrainians, the opportunity to make money for exchange, for arms, for diplomacy, for special services, for law enforcement agencies that will protect the lives and health of every Ukrainian. So you want real peace, return territory, restore sovereignty, restore the economy by the recipes of the Radical Party, lower tariffs, raise wages, return employees to your home and.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-06-m1.u102	Thank you. Timoshenko, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-06-m1.u103	Dear colleagues, we have been at war for 4.5 years, and the Exchange Act has not been applied for 4.5 years. And here at a time when the whole country is expecting us to take a decision that cancels the gas price hike, you're blackmailing, you're exaggerating, and you're saying it's like two factions don't want to swap. Why this deception, and why this manipulation? I think what you're doing right now is you're doing against Ukraine. Our faction, our team for the Mine Action Act and all the procedures. It's a shame you haven't done that in four years. And here on this day, if it wasn't, it really liked what you have to do instead of putting a downsizing order on gas prices. And that's why we're insisting now that the Gas Price Reduction Order be put in place as we agreed with the six factions and then.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-06-m1.u104	30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-06-m1.u105	And after that, let's start today's session and sit at least an hour in the night and vote on the exchange bill, but first, the order to cancel the gas price rise by 23.5 percent. And stop manipulating sacred things, including the lives of our children.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-06-m1.u106	Thank you. So, colleagues, I want to say for information to all the audience and Ukrainian society. The Mine Action Act, like many other security laws, almost a year, is true, has been prepared both in the committee, and in the working group, when all the factions were involved, it has been preparing for almost a year. I want to point out that he was next on the previous plenary Thursday, and we just didn't get to him technically. I want to remind you, I've made a public promise that he will be the first to stand this sessional week. And he was the first to stand, even though we didn't get to him until 6:00. It's not fair to talk about manipulation, there's no manipulation, colleagues. I emphasize that we don't need manipulation and politics where we're talking about a warlord state and a law that protects both our citizens and our military. I ask you to separate things that relate to war and that refer to political discussions. I ask everyone to take responsibility, I urge everyone to enter the hall, prepare for the vote. Now to the conclusion, I invite the representative of the committee, John Vinnick. In three minutes, in two, even minutes, we're going to vote. I ask the Secretary of the Supreme Council to invite all the deputies into the Hall and ask all the heads of factions to maximize the mobilization of deputies in the Hall. Please, John Winnick, the closing statement.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-06-m1.u107	Indeed, it is difficult to add, I think, that we are united around what we need to define a clear order of humanitarian exchange and stop the destruction of our fellow citizens as a result of Russian aggression in essentially peaceful territories. I was a little surprised by the position of individual factions in terms of gas position. We feel the same way that Ukraine needs a fair price for gas. And we also want to remind you that it really was a requirement of the International Monetary Fund to raise prices for gas for the population. Why? Because there is a gas market in Ukraine today and it works in a opaque way because NAC Naftogaz Ukraine, which controls 100 percent of the gas balance, which consists of 50 percent of the Ukrainian gas and 50 percent of the imported gas, is deprived of the right to sell gas to the population. The gas is sold to the population by private gasses, which are 75 to 80 percent owned by Firthash. All the counters, the personal composition of the subscribers, it's hidden in these private structures today, and it's a commercial secret. Colleagues, we've failed with you 25 times at least Bill 9361. One that would require private bribes to unlock the commercial secret and hand over the personal composition of NAC's gas-consumer Naftogaz Ukraine. After that, by the way, my dear colleagues, we could ask questions about address aid to individual categories, but we need to know the addresses for that. Why did these projects fail? Because perhaps the opposition individual factions are financed by the corrupt revenues that Firthash receives. How do they get it? It's very simple to explain, because of price diversification: 8.55 for the population and 13 for the commercial consumer. By distorting the consumption balance and educating NAC Naftogazu, which seems to be 90 percent consumed by the commercial sector. citizens of Ukraine, they'll get the bill from.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-06-m1.u108	Thank you, colleagues. So let's move on to making a decision. It's me, colleagues. All the factions and deputies have come forward, we've been looking at an hour and 45 hours of law, an hour and 45 hours. So, colleagues, I'd like everyone to take up their jobs. I'm asking you, colleagues, from the bed to return to the hall. I'm sure the military laws are supposed to mobilize everyone. Colleagues, I don't want to name names. They're coming, aren't they? Okay. All those in the beds, please come into the hall. Please take up your jobs. We have four bills, but the first one I'm going to put to the vote is the one supported by the committee, 9080-1. And I ask everyone to prepare for the vote. And I'm voting on the draft Act on Opposing Activity (No. 9080-1), which is proposed by the Committee to adopt the Supreme Council on a basis, colleagues, as a basis. I ask you to vote and I beg you to support, vote, vote. We'll support the Ukrainian military. [[17:47:55]] For 209 Colleagues, pay attention. I'm going to set up some, uh, other drafts. I'm asking everyone to get as many people as possible, whoever's got the most people, we'll get back to him. I'm asking for factions. "Block of Peter Poshenko" – 97, "National Front" – 62, "Occupy Block" – 0, "self-help" – 10, Radical Party – 2, "Fatherhood" – 0, "will of the people" – 4, "Party of Rebirth" – 11. Colleagues, I'm going to put the next three in law, and then we're going to go back to the one who's got the largest number of votes, that's the one who's offering the committee. Next bet. 9080. Whoever supports this, I ask you to vote. The committee recommended that it be rejected. Please vote. And please invite everyone into the hall, into the hall. [[17:48:54]] For-83 Next 9080-2. The committee recommended a rejection. Please vote. [[17:49:17]] For-67 The decision is not made. Next up, 9080-3, the committee's offering to reject it. Please vote. [[17:49:41]] For-61 The decision is not made. So during the vote, the highest support in the room was obtained by the draft law, which is supported by a committee that is recommended to the Supreme Council for adoption as a basis. He's got 209 votes, and now I'm going to go back to him and then I'm going to put it back on the ground. I'm asking everyone to come into the hall, see who's not there, invite them into the hall, and that committee bill that the committee's offering to support the hall, I'm going to go back to it, and then I'm going to lay the groundwork. I ask you, colleagues, all to take responsibility for this vote. This is everyone's responsibility in the vote, please maximize your mobility. And I'm voting on the proposal to go back to the draft Anti-Discrimination Act (No 9080-1), which the committee is proposing to take as a basis. Please vote for the return. Colleagues, we vote, unanimously and responsibly. Vote. Please vote, please support, this is the lives of our boys, the lives of our soldiers. Please be supportive. [[17:50:56]] For 205 205. I'll do it again, colleagues. I'm in factions. No, colleagues, we're just gonna knock it off if we get into the show. No, there have been speeches. We have until the end of the session for a few minutes. I'll read the factions. Peter Poshenko Block – 102, People's Front – 62, Opposition Block – 0, Self-help – 9, Radical Party – 1, Fatherland – 0, Will of the People – 4, Rebirth Party – 5. Colleagues, I ask you not to play with this question. If this law goes down in the hall today, it's going to be a devastating blow to our security and defense sector, to all our boys, to the front. I ask you, colleagues, to come into the hall and prepare for the vote. So, colleagues, the discussion is over. It lasted 1 hour 55. I'll put it back. I'm asking everyone to maximize their mobility. So I'm betting on the vote. So, colleagues, please take up jobs. I ask, colleagues, for support especially to those deputies who are close to demining. Colleagues, there was a discussion that someone had not been given a word. Colleagues, I don't know how that could have happened, but I'm asking you to put this thing down and support it. Colleagues, please, I've been informed by Sergey that there is such a problem, please give me your word another time. The discussion is now over. [[B in m in s a l in]] It's a humanitarian, not a political law. I ask your support, colleagues, for a return to the draft Anti-Discrimination Act (9080-1). I ask everyone to be responsible for supporting and voting. I ask you to support the humanitarian mission of the Ukrainian military. Please support Ukrainian citizens who live in the area of war every day, aggression by Russia, and are horrified to be killed, both of them and their children. I'm asking you to vote and I'm asking you to support the return. Vote! Please back up! Vote, please. [[5:53:55]] For 206 Colleagues, I'll do it again. I see the MPs are entering the hall. [[B in m in s a l in]] No, colleagues! I am. Attention! You can see who's not in the room right now. I'm not kidding with this law! We're taking him in today! We're going to pass this law! I'd like to see who's not here and invite you to the hall. This is not a question for discussion! Colleagues, please, look, I see not everyone gives up on factions that even support. I don't understand why I might have missed a moment of discussion. I'm talking to you, colleagues: support, there's no politics here. I address all factions, every faction. I'm first of all. First of all, I'm going to inform you that I'm going to continue this meeting for 15 minutes. [[B in m in s a l in]] So, colleagues, I'm asking you to come to the hall, prepare for. [[B in m in s a l in]] Now, fellows, we've gone to the towers to urge everyone who is. I request the responsibility of all the factions' heads to invite deputies to the Hall. I'm giving you one minute to get the MPs out of the towers right now. I'm asking you, colleagues, to gather everyone. [[B in m in s a l in]] No, MPs are supposed to be at work and have to support the Ukrainian army. I'm asking you all to come to the hall. And Ukrainian civilian and Ukrainian military. I'm asking everyone to maximize their mobility. Now let's go call everyone from the towers. I'm asking you to keep your jobs, stay out of the hall. I'd like the factions' heads to be pollinated. I see the MPs are coming in. Colleagues, I'm giving Oleg Laszko a minute to reach the compromise. In a minute, we're going to vote. Please, everyone, come into the hall. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-06-m1.u109	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. For our team, as for our distinguished colleagues in the Fatherland faction, the issue of defence, the issue of sovereignty and independence of Ukraine, the protection of military personnel and the peaceful skies above our citizens is a priority. That's why we're going to support this defense law, but we're asking the Parliamentary Coalition to consider our two factions and all those who signed a moratorium on the reduction of gas prices, to immediately consider this bill, to introduce a moratorium, to stop robbing Ukrainians. The more urgent, the more important question we see. The question of lowering gas prices, protecting citizens' lives is a matter of defending the country, it's a matter of national security, because poor people, dependent people -- it's a weakness of the country, it's a victory of our enemy. We must make the country stronger and protect the Ukrainians from being robbed of power.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-06-m1.u110	Victor Bondar, please. And this is the closing statement, they didn't make the discussion, and then we vote. I ask once more every man to see who is not here, to invite him into the hall. Please, Victor Bondar, Rebirth.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-06-m1.u111	Thank you. Dear Andrew Volodymyrovich, distinguished colleagues! Of course, the hall is fainted, everyone is tired, everyone is waiting for Parliament to make a key decision today, and we've been counting on it. And we're not talking about this and we're not voting because we're asking and we're trying to ask questions about the elimination of tariffs and the abolition of this disgraceful decision by the government to raise tariffs. And we demand that, first of all, we now have a decision signed jointly by the leaders of the six factions and groups, that we cancel this increase in tariffs, that we review, that we audit the energy tariffs and that we stop this communal terror of the population. And then we can calmly continue to consider all the bills. And we're constantly trying to get involved, to make a hostage situation. Yes, an important bill. Yeah, we'll back him up. Yeah, we're willing to vote by 100 percent of the faction, but let's still vote on the tariff order. Well, people are expecting today. People are freaking out about the government and the cynicism of the municipal tariff that the government has offered us. It's not our policy, it's politics.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-06-m1.u112	Thank you. So, colleagues, once again, I'm giving those factions that haven't voted, with the hope that they're voting, and we're going to get votes. Please come into the hall. This is really the closing statement of Tymoshenko. We'll vote in a minute. I've moved on, I've moved on. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-06-m1.u113	Right now, I think dear colleagues, which is very noticeable, how our team differs from Dusty and his team. It's different that we, knowing that we've now asked the question of lowering gas prices as the main one for millions of people, might not be voting right now. But we're only different from you because we're statesmen, and we understand now that the Exchange Act is just as important, just as important. And so now we're going to vote in favour of the Mine Action Act, but only on one condition that, literally tomorrow morning, the first question or Thursday morning the first question, when they're going to vote in this Chamber, you're going to make a difference between the price of gas and gas by twenty-three and a half percent. Yeah, we're going to vote on this law now, but we're not going to vote on you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-06-m1.u114	30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-06-m1.u115	But we will in no way allow you to increase the price of gas for people as part of the genocide of the Ukrainian nation. And that's why we're voting right now, but don't think we're going to drop this one more time. Because it's a crime in front of the Ukrainians, and you'll be responsible for it with the President.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-06-m1.u116	So, colleagues, I'm putting to the vote the proposal to go back to the draft Anti-Discrimination Act (9080-1), which was supported by the committee and which has raised the largest number of votes. I'm asking you to vote, I'm asking you to hold everyone responsible and vote. Vote, colleagues, for your return. Please vote. Please be supportive. Vote. [[18:01:38]] For 242 Decision taken. And I'm putting the draft Anti-Discrimination Act (9080-1) on the ground. Just for the basis. Please vote. Please be supportive. Vote. Please support me as a base. [[18:02:06]] For 240 Decision taken. Congratulations, colleagues, on making an important state decision. Thank you all for the state's position. I want to let you know, I, by the way, remind you that I've continued for 15 minutes, there are two statements of statements. It cancels, doesn't it? And from the BP and the Front, Irina Heratschenko, three minutes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-06-m1.u117	Dear colleagues, I apologize for taking three minutes of your time, but the subject is really very important and disturbing. Today the representatives of the Russian Federation, the authorities of the Russian Federation, have declared that in any case they recognize the illegal and illegal elections they have organized at Donbas. I want to remind you that these elections have been condemned by pseudo-elections, the Great Seven countries, the European Union, the United States, and most of the countries of the UN Security Council. Yesterday at the Conciliation Council, I addressed all of my parliamentary colleagues, the leaders of the parliamentary factions, in a public way, during today's performances. And I would appreciate it if you would do it tomorrow during the performances and on all airs. Because in fact today Russia has essentially issued a mandate to destabilize the situation in Donbassa, both secure and political. In fact, Moscow issued a mandate for a war against Ukraine. And actually, it's a very disturbing signal that can repeat the 14th year scenario, when tragic events occurred after the pseudo-benders were held -- both the Donetsk airport, and the tragedy under Debaltsev, which was solved by the Russian Federation, essentially breaking the Minsk Accords. Also, colleagues, I would like to point out to you that, today, in the Minsk representative of Ukraine in the Tripartite Contract Group, the ex-mission deputy, Mr. Hugo's SMS, who allowed himself in an improper form to claim that Russia is not an aggressor country and that they are not there when they are there. And Ukraine also requires the OSCE to remember that Crimea is also Ukraine. And we expect the press to have their observation mission not only on occupied Donbassa but also on Crimea. I hope that this position will also unite the hall as a vote under the Law in the first reading on antitrust activity. And in fact, we're talking to our partners in the European Union, the "normal" format, which can't be just a "deep concern" by holding pseudo-cities in Ukraine not under Ukrainian law, it requires severe sanctions against Moscow, against the country that's organizing it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-11-06-m1.u118	Thank you, colleagues. Today was a difficult emotional day, but Parliament has made unifying decisions that unite the entire room. After difficult difficult negotiations, but we did not allow any of the issues to be addressed, and Parliament took a state position in turn. Thank you all for supporting this day. At this evening's meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, I declare closed. Tomorrow morning at 10 a.m., I invite everyone to the hall to continue our difficult but necessary work for the country. Good-bye, colleagues.
