ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-07-m1.u1	Dear colleagues, break time is over. I ask everyone to come into the hall and prepare for the continuation of our work, for the registration in the evening session. I ask the heads of factions to maximize national MPs. So I'm going to invite all the national MPs again. So, colleagues, I'm asking your attention so that we can consult together on how we should act. So right now, the next question is the draft of the Ratification Act. During the afternoon, however, the Committee on Foreign Affairs approved the draft Order, initiated by the People’s Deputies, the appeal of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to parliaments of foreign nations, parliamentary assemblies of international organizations, world leaders, and international society in connection with the wrongful judgment of the Moscow City Court in a case unlawfully held in the Russian Federation by Ukrainian citizen Roman Sistenko. This decision will obviously be supported by all the factions in Parliament, we can put it in place, but there will be a request that we support the consideration of the reduced procedure. If we go into full procedure, we won't be able to consider the following issues and the order of the day session, and the ratifications that stand. And that's why I have a call to the heads of factions to invite MPs into the hall. I'll wait another 30 seconds, a minute. I ask everyone to enter the hall, and especially those authors of the laws that stand after this. Please come in. So we can register? Please come into the hall and prepare for registration. So, colleagues, I'm asking you to register and register for the evening session. Please register. [[16:06:39]] 362 national deputies registered. I declare the evening session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine open. So, colleagues, I remind you that we are currently in the process of reviewing the draft Decision on the Referral of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to the parliaments of foreign states in connection with the wrongful verdict of the Moscow City Court in the case of an illegally held citizen of the Russian Federation of the Ukraine of Roman Suschenk. This question will obviously be supported by all of us, and I will ask that we vote in favour of the shortened procedure. I ask you once again to invite all your colleagues into the hall and please prepare for the vote so that we can move quickly, effectively to the following issues of the agenda. And I ask all factions to support this proposal. Please come into the hall. Dear colleagues! I also want us to celebrate in the Supreme Council Hall, honoring the memory of the man in whose films a generation has been raised. You know that the great director Kira Muratov died, who was and produced works that raised entire generations of Ukrainians. And I ask that you, dear colleagues, honor the moment of silence of Kira Muratova's memory. [[A Minute of Silence]] Thank you. So let's move on to the question, and I hope so. Heads of factions, help me. Heads of factions, help me now to collect 150 votes for a reduced procedure so that we can go through effectively, just as we worked effectively before lunch. And I would like to support the discussion of the reduced procedure. So I'm voting on the proposal that we draft the Order on the Referral of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to Parliaments of Foreign States, Parliamentary Assemblyes and International Associations in connection with the wrongful verdict of the Moscow City Court in a case unlawfully held in the Russian Federation by a citizen of the Ukraine of Roman Suschenka be considered in a summary procedure. Please vote and support all factions, all those who support this decision, please support, please vote, vote, vote, please support. [[16:10:12]] For-125 We didn't make it. I don't really understand why you're holding back, I don't really understand why. This determination is an important sign and symbol, and we obviously have no doubt about its importance. And I, my colleagues, would really like for the Council's effective work to support this position. My colleagues, I'm hoping to understand and I'm going to do it again, and I'm asking you to do it anyway. Thank you very much. Colleagues, please take up jobs. During the vote, I ask to take part in the vote, not in the political debate. So, I ask, colleagues, to vote in favour of the proposal, to consider for a reduced procedure the draft Decision on the Referral of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to the parliaments of foreign states in connection with the wrongful verdict of the Moscow City Court in the case of an unlawfully held citizen of the Russian Federation of Ukraine, Roman Suschenka. I ask everyone to participate carefully in the vote, and I ask for your support, and I ask you to vote. Colleagues, please, each voice please back up and please vote, we vote carefully every vote, please back up, please back up. [[16:11:42]] For 158. Decision taken. Thank you for understanding. And I invite you to the report of Ukrainian National Deputy Sumar Victoria Petrovna. Please, Mrs. Victoria.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-07-m1.u2	Dear Sir, dear colleagues, dear Ukrainians! 12 years of strict-mode colony. Twenty-six days of hunger for Oleg Sensov and the years of the colony for our colleague Roman Sushchenk is a Ukrainian journalist who worked for the Ukrainian agency Ukrainform. Eight days of famine by Alexander Kolchenk. Dozens of Ukrainian prisoners currently in Moscow prisons, Russian prisons, and dozens of prisoners held in prisons in occupied Ukrainian Crimea and on Donbassa. All this evidence that Russia’s repressive steel policy on Ukraine today is not just ongoing, it is constantly intensifying. This policy threatens every Ukrainian today, because Roman Suschenka was caught literally in the streets of Moscow, held a closed court in a closed court for unknown factual charges, accusing him of espionage and sentencing him with such a cruel sentence, which apparently is in Ukraine today, and in international society as a whole. It's very significant for us here today in the Ukrainian Parliament Hall to show that we won't give up ours or give up ours. We will continue to fight for Ukrainian prisoners. We urge Moscow to immediately release Roman Suschenk and other prisoners, and we urge the world today to respond to this, to respond both by position and by concrete action. And these actions are increasing sanctions. We also demand that the Ukrainian Parliament be held accountable for all those officials in the Russian Federation who are responsible for the repression and crimes against Ukrainians for human rights violations.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-07-m1.u3	Please, 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-07-m1.u4	which the whole world can't help but worry about today because Russia is a key and fundamental breach of international law, which today nullifies international law and security as such. I would like to thank Irina Heraszczenko, First Vice-Speaker of the Supreme Council, for the work she is doing along with her team on the release of Ukrainian hostages. This work is likely a source of great respect and support. And today, as the Ukrainian Parliament, we have to do it by voting for it.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-07-m1.u5	Please, 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-07-m1.u6	We must contribute to the liberation of Roman Sąszczenk, Oleg Sánzov, and other Ukrainian political prisoners. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-07-m1.u7	Thank you. The report invites the head of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Hopco Hanna Mikolayovna. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-07-m1.u8	Thank you. Dear National MPs, 12 years of strict regime. This judgment of Suschenko proves that Putin has turned Russia into an area of lawlessness and terror. As in Stalin’s day, fabricated accusations give people huge prison terms. That is why the Supreme Council of Ukraine today strongly opposes the illegal decision of the Moscow City Court of June 4, 2018, to condemn a citizen of Ukraine, journalist Roman Suschenka, to 12 years ’ imprisonment for fabricated espionage charges. What do we ask in this regard? We call upon all nations of the world, international organizations and institutions to impose new sanctions against the Russian Federation in connection with its continuation of human rights violations and political persecution, particularly the wrongful judgment of the Moscow City Court in a case unlawfully held in the Russian Federation of Roman Suschenka. We also call on the international community to contribute to the accountability of all persons involved in systemic violations of human rights by the Russian Federation and politically motivated persecution of Ukrainian citizens. And it is, colleagues, that we call upon the international community to condemn the aggressive policies of the Russian Federation and to increase the pressure on Russia in order to end politically motivated pressures. Ukraine will seek to free political prisoners from the Kremlin’s cremations by all means. And our European partners could be of great help to us both in the liberation and in the cessation of Russian aggression if, instead of ambiguous gestures on the side of Moscow, Russia was clearly forced to return to international law. And that's what all the possibilities are, the main thing is the political will and the inadmissibility of trade in basic values of the free world. The Committee on Foreign Affairs today, I thank the members of the committee, I have considered asking for support. I ask you, colleagues, to vote for this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-07-m1.u9	Thank you. So let's do the recording: two in, two in, two in. From the People's Front, just a minute, High. Sergey High, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-07-m1.u10	..colleagues, despite the fact that we've had a very fruitful day and, indeed, there have been several very important victories today, I urge you to concentrate and vote for this decision. It's very simple, but it's a principle for our state. A week ago, we saw a special operation by the Security Service and other law enforcement agencies that saved the life of a journalist. I would like to remind you that since then, Ukraine has begun to face international criticism: “Reporters Without Borders”, the OSCE representative, all of us have been accused of being so-called Faiknews. When Roman had been given 12 years, we had not seen a single word from the international community, from public organizations, from the OSCE, condemning this sentence. I want the word of the Ukrainian Parliament for the protection of Roman Sushchenk, as for the protection of the other supporters of the Kremlin, for the protection of the heroic people -- Oleg Senzov, for the protection of Semina, for all those who are now in the Kremlin's shadow, to be heard, and he was heard as a position not just by the journalist community, but by the Ukrainian state. We need to pay attention to our advocates all over the world, so we need to do more than protect the Kremlin's right to kill our citizens. People who want to trade with an aggressor, people who want to do North Stream with him and other businesses. We need to reach into the hearts of the public, into the hearts of the world’s society, and force them to protect our advocates and help Ukraine. So this decision is very important, very important today. Let's support Roman Bischenk at least in this way, let's prove to all our advocates that the Motherland has not forgotten them. Let's say we save them and let's do everything we can to do that, even if we vote today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-07-m1.u11	Thank you very much. From the Radical Party of Igor Mosiychuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-07-m1.u12	Igor Mosiyczuk, Oleg Lachka Radical Party Of course, our faction will support this appeal, because it is truly an extraordinary principle for the Ukrainian State in the person of the Ukrainian Parliament to say its strong word to protect the Kremlin's political prisoners, in defense of Ukrainian journalist Roman Suschenka, who is sentenced to such a terrible term in the Russian Federation's aggressor country. But here I would like to support a previous speaking colleague. It's a very interesting question for Reporters Without Borders and other law-abiding journalistic organizations, where's their voice? We heard that a week ago they broke up Ukraine for a special operation that saved the lives of Ukrainian journalists. And when a Russian aggressor arrests a longtime Ukrainian journalist, they remain silent for some reason. So it is recalled that when Ukraine was broken up, Europe was silent. I wouldn't want that, I wouldn't want that. And there's more. Dear colleagues, let us all be aware and united not only in the release of our political prisoners, which is fundamental, but also in the protection of Ukraine and the Ukrainians from Russian terror, for Russian terror does not sleep and daily chats about where to find the weak spot to strike. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-07-m1.u13	Thank you. From the "Peter Prashenko Block" to the word "spores Ivan Dmitrovich." Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-07-m1.u14	Ivan Sporish, Peter Dusty Block, 15th Wynnickin County. Of course, and surely, there will be no such thing in our national parliament that does not vote in favour of the decree. I don't even want to believe it here. But perhaps what I would like to say first of all is that every national MP who's in the towers today doesn't even know what he's talking about right now, so I'd really like everyone to come in. I would very much like to see how many votes we have just accepted as an anti-corruption court. We would like to show, today, all the national MPs, our attitude toward political prisoners. So I urge everyone to come into the hall, everyone has voted that there should be no "holding back," so there is no red one, just so that we can be pressed by the "for" button, and all of us, as one, have supported the decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-07-m1.u15	Thank you. From the Self-Help faction, Sergei Kiral. Out of place, right? Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-07-m1.u16	Dear colleagues, of course, the "Unification Self-Help" faction calls for all to vote in favour of this, as the Head of the Supreme Council has said, symbolic determination in support of our supporters of the Kremlin. Also, to join the fund -raising work of our prisoners ’ families. On the other hand, to inform us that the delegation, the Ukrainian delegation in Paris, will be initiating a debate on this issue within two weeks, and to remind all of us that we are not fully using our sanctions regimes, tools, as a state, as Ukraine. As deputies of Self-Help, we were initiated in this Parliament by the adoption of the so-called Magnificent Act. This is one of the tools that has been put in place personal sanctions against those Russian citizens who are directly involved in the abuse, in the conviction, in the sentencing, in the sentencing, are the judges, the Russian prosecutors.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-07-m1.u17	Please give me two more minutes, just like everyone else. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-07-m1.u18	These bills have actually been discussed in our National Security and Defence Committee and are ready to be moved to the Hall. I ask all my colleagues to join in the appropriate decision, to sign it. This decision is the appeal of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to the National Security and Defence Council, to the President of Ukraine without delay to review the imposition of sanctions against more than fifty Russian citizens who are involved in crimes against Ukrainian citizens, against citizens of other countries, and to impose, to decide on the application of the "Magnitsky Act" in Ukraine. Ukraine has a chance to join eight other countries of the world where such acts have already been adopted. So, colleagues, let's move from symbolic action to specific sanctions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-07-m1.u19	Thank you. Colleagues, statements from factions and groups are complete. In two minutes, we're going to vote. I'm addressing the factions' heads to inform all the national MPs that in two minutes we're moving on to the decision-making process. And I'm sure the voters will be watching. That's why I'm asking everyone to have a high level of discipline. I now give the floor to the First Deputy Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Irina Heratchenko. Two minutes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-07-m1.u20	Thank you, fellows of honor! Surely the position of the Supreme Council of Ukraine regarding the fate of the Kremlin’s political prisoners is important. Notice that yesterday, for example, the United Kingdom Government approached Putin, the Putin regime, demanding the release of all its supporters. So the PEN Club went to Putin, and to FIFA, demanding the release of the players before the World Cup for football. Every time we turn, it has a moment in the world. But it is also true that my distinguished colleague Sergey Visocsky, who notes that such respectable organizations, where today the cross of the Putin lobbying has too strongly released their tentacles, such as the Council of Europe, have not yet responded to the hunger of Oleg Suntsov, nor to the abuse of Roman Sunchenk. On the contrary, today, the Secretary-General of the Council of Europe, Yagland, is once again making a statement about a post in Facebook there that is the secretary-general of our Attorney-General. But notice what happens to people's fates. Dear colleagues, why can't we really free the Kremlin today? But only because the Russian Federation itself and President Putin are not interested in freeing the Ukrainians, but are not interested in returning to Russia the citizens of the Russian Federation, whom Putin and his regime sent to Ukraine to set up diversions, espionage and disorder. Yesterday absolutely false information came out of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the Russian Federation, as if Ukraine had not given any initiative to hand them over to the Russians. It's an absolute and outright lie! I want to say that within the Minsk Humanitarian Group for the past two months, we've been insisting that we're willing to hand over to the Russian Federation the 23 terrorists, the murderers.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-07-m1.u21	Please, 30 seconds. Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-07-m1.u22	The Russians who were sent here to free Suschenko, Sensov, Kolchenka, and others. And once again yesterday, I sent this initiative to the Russian special representative of the Russian Federation in the Tripartite Contact Group of Grizzlow, with all the names of the Russians who are in Ukrainian prisons, for one reason, to hand them over to Russia and to free our captives. We look forward to an official response to the official offer of Ukraine. And for ours, we will fight! Unlike Russia, Ukraine does not quit!
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-07-m1.u23	Thank you. So, colleagues, the discussion is over, we're moving on to making a decision. I ask everyone to take up their jobs, the people's deputies who are in their beds, I recommend that they take their jobs, we move on to making decisions. And I put to the vote a draft decree on the application of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to parliaments of foreign states, parliamentary assemblies of international organizations, world leaders and international society in connection with the illegal verdict of the Moscow City Court in a case unlawfully held in the Russian Federation by a citizen of the Ukraine of Roman Sąszcznik" (number 8446) on the basis and in general. Please vote, please support. Vote, fellows! Please be supportive. Vote. [[16:30:17]] For 238. 238, yes. It's been decided. Congratulations, colleagues, this was an important decision for the Ukrainian Parliament. And let's move on to the next issue of the agenda: ratification. Colleagues, a very important ratification, because without it, we will not be able to get funds in time to secure our law enforcement activities inside the country. The next is the draft of the Act on the Ratification of the Agreement between the Government of Ukraine and the Government of the French Republic on official support for the creation of a single system of aviation security and civil protection in Ukraine (number 0189). And I ask you to support the consideration of the reduced procedure. Please vote, please support. Vote. Please be supportive. [[16:31:20]] For 176 176-yes. Decision taken. And I invite you to report to the Secretary of State of the Ministry of Interior, Tahtay Alexi Volodymirovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-07-m1.u24	Dear Andriy Volodymyrovich, distinguished national MPs, today we present a large ambitious project for the first time in years of independence – the creation of a single system of aviation security and civil protection of European level. A large structural project for us inside the country, which will allow a helicopter unit to operate in the coming years in the vicinity of each inhabited area to quickly address any emergency situation. Our goal is to create one of the best security and operational services for the population. Among the main tasks of the new system are rescue and public order, criminal investigation, anti-terrorist and special missions, security of the state border, air safety on the roads, air-medical evacuation, primarily from the area of Operation United Forces and search-and-rescue. Experts from the Ministry of Aviation with the involvement of aircraft experts of all without excluding the system's assets as a result of careful selection are recognized as the most effective product of a leader among helicopter manufacturers in the world of Airbus Helicopters, primarily by the criterion of price-quality. One of the most important factors that directly affected the choice is, of course, the support of this project by the French government. An international agreement signed on May 29 in Paris defined the state support of the French government in the form of a guaranteed loan, first of all a treasury loan. So under the terms of the contract, Ukraine will receive 55 helicopters in three modifications. The total cost of the project is 555 million euros. Eighty-five percent is a loan from the French Republic to Ukraine, consisting of a treasury loan from the French government and a bank loan. The previous payment of 10 percent and 5 percent of the payment for the delivery of each unit is paid by the Ministry of Internal Affairs. The cost of servicing a loan for Ukraine will be about 4 percent a year, including interest on use, insurance premium, and a bank commission. 30 seconds. 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-07-m1.u25	Please, 30 seconds. Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-07-m1.u26	As an example, more than 7 percent of Eurobonds were issued in 2017. In 2018 this rate will be 6.5 percent. The time limit for lending 6 years for each helicopter is 10 years, taking into account production and delivery schedules. Besides, I suggest you watch a short video presentation of our project.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-07-m1.u27	Thank you very much. I invite a member of the European Integration Committee Msorina Olen Sergiyevna to the report. And, Mr. Alexi, thank you for your report. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-07-m1.u28	Dear colleagues! The Committee on European Integration considered the bill tabled by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and approved the decision to recommend it to the Supreme Council of Ukraine as a whole. I note that this decision is in line with the Scientific and Expert Bureau, which also considers it necessary to take it as a whole. Please support and use my time to display the video.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-07-m1.u29	Thank you. As we agreed, the time you had the opportunity to perform is given for a demonstration of the video. I'm asking you to include a video that was prepared by the project initiators. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-07-m1.u30	Dear colleagues, there's been a presentation of a video that's also a propitious for colleagues to vote, support, an appropriate bill. We cannot vote because there is a Rules. I'm asking you to sign up for a discussion right now: two for, two for. Please, colleagues, please. Please, the People's Deputy of Krivoshia.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-07-m1.u31	Anton Gerashchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-07-m1.u32	Passes the word to Anton Heratchenko. Please, Mr. Anton.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-07-m1.u33	Honorable National Deputies, Honourable Ukrainian People, Honourable Chairman! Today, we make a historic decision about who we will be with — with the former Soviet Union or with the European Union. We are proposing to agree to the Agreement on the Ratification of the Purchase of 55 Helicopters of the Modern Production of Airbus Industries of France. This agreement is signed on behalf of the Government of France by the French Minister of Finance on behalf of the Government of Ukraine as Minister of Interior Arsen Avakov. These are 55 modern helicopters that will serve us to save people in the mountains, in the ATO zone, at sea. We're going to create a powerful air force that can come to any point of the country in an hour and save those people who are in trouble. This is a matter for each of us because every Ukrainian can't feel safe today if a helicopter can fly in half an hour or an hour in the mountains or at sea or somewhere in the depth of Ukraine. So I ask all the deputies, regardless of factions and MPs, from the political preferences to support this agreement, it is convenient for Ukraine. And now we're going to work with the modern company Airbus Industries. This is the European choice of Ukraine. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-07-m1.u34	Thank you for your performance. And to your word, we invite national deputy Sergei Melnik, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-07-m1.u35	Ladies and gentlemen, I'd like to say that we've had a joint meeting of the Committee of Budgets with the Ministry. I'd just like to point out that on the financial side, it's really quite acceptable. I want to point out that if last year the government bragged about involving Eurobonds under 7.25, this loan would cost the country almost 4 percent, i.e. fairly favourable conditions. And I think that we need to support, vote, and this is going to make it really possible to create a real service that will work for the country, for the people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-07-m1.u36	Please give the next performance from "Rebirth Group" Anton Yatzenko. Please, Mr. Anton.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-07-m1.u37	Dear colleagues, indeed, a very painful problem. Today, I apologize, we live like stone when something happens, we cannot even save people. So this is really a necessary bill that needs to be adopted immediately. And I'm going to say that there's a lot of so-called criticism that you could buy Ukrainians out there and so forth. But let me remind you that it's a loan, and it's not a budget expense, it's a loan that we get, a commodity, to buy these helicopters. So basically, it's a normal thing, and you have to support it, because there's no alternative. And we can fail now, but what are we going to have? We'll have it again, sorry, I'll say rudely, live like a hammer? You can't do that. So, of course, this law must be passed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-07-m1.u38	And from the Opposition Block, please give me the word of the People's Deputy of Dobrenkov.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-07-m1.u39	Respectable Ukrainian communities, honourable colleagues, are now, indeed, being considered without exaggeration a historic decision. And this is a historic decision because it destroys the final country’s helicopter industry. They said that let's build Europe and finally say good-bye to the former Soviet Union. And I'll say another way: and let's be a member of a European family, a European community with strong industrial potential, not with raw materials, but with technologically developed potential. We have the Motor City company, we have other airline companies. We have a modernized MSC-2 helicopter that fits European certification. What's going on now? We take 550 million dollars, half a billion dollars, 475 million euros, and we buy French helicopters. Who are we helping? French sector. The French banks are lending their French goods. And now they're saying, this is a breakthrough solution, we need to save the Ukrainian state. Colleagues, patriotism doesn't begin when you put on your embroidery and yell "Glory to Ukraine!" At every angle, and from when you're rebuilding the domestic economy. This is the protection of a national manufacturer. You're destroying it now, no matter what you say, this is the destruction of the remnants of the Soviet Union that you're taking out that aviation sector that we've got. In order for these funds to be sent there, you give them away, you give them to the French. The government debt is owed, it's going to be spent on the state budget. Under the Landbudget Act, we owe $100 billion, add another 500 million -- here's all of it.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-07-m1.u40	Finish up. Come on, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-07-m1.u41	And you're talking about protection. It's about protection. I think we need to do something about the renewal of the helicopter park, but we need to involve state funds, foreign investors' costs in order to restore production and localize maximum production in Ukraine. And here we're talking a lot about raw materials, and we're finally making laws about what we're behind.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-07-m1.u42	Thank you. Colleagues, I think all the factions have already had the desired performances. There are no more willing factions to join the debate on this bill?
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-07-m1.u43	So, colleagues, we've finished the discussion. Let's move on to making a decision. I'm asking everyone to come into the hall now. I ask you to prepare for the vote. Colleagues, we have a very difficult ratification because the Supreme Anti-Corruption Court was on Wednesday. Let's concentrate so that at least one of those ratifications can be accepted today. This ratification does not allow us to drag and transport for the next week. It is important for us to accept it today, and so, colleagues, I ask everyone to take up their jobs and prepare for the vote. I ask you to leave the cabinet beds and the guest beds, we move on to the decision-making process, and please prepare for the vote. Let's support the IMF, support our border guards, support our emergency personnel, support the decision together. So I'm voting on the draft Act on the Ratification of the Agreement between the Government of Ukraine and the Government of the French Republic on official support for the creation of a single system of aviation security and civil protection in Ukraine (No.0189) as a basis and as a whole. Please support me, colleagues, please vote carefully every vote. Please vote and vote. Let's vote, colleagues. Please be supportive. [[16:46:54]] For 224 Two votes. We didn't make it, I can see we didn't make it, now. Don't leave the hall. Stop who's coming out. I'll be right back, colleagues. I ask everyone to take up their jobs, please prepare for the vote. I'll put it back, and I ask everyone to vote responsibly. So, colleagues, I ask everyone to come to the hall and vote responsibly. So I'm voting on the proposal to go back to draft Law 0189 of the Treaty ratification. Please vote and please support, everyone matters. Please vote and please support, we vote. [[16:47:53]] For 228 We're back. Now, colleagues, there will be a vote for the law itself. I call for a personal vote during the vote of the law, I demand a personal vote. And I'm asking you not to come out of the hall, but everyone to come into the hall. We mean every voice. And I'm putting draft Law 0189 on the ground and in general. Please vote, please support. Vote, vote, please. Every voice, every colleague, we vote carefully. [[16:48:38]] For 227 Decision accepted, ratification accepted. Hello, IMF. And, colleagues, we now have a very important chapter: integration into the agenda of the day session. Committees cannot deal with matters. Don't leave the hall, colleagues. I'm asking you not to leave the hall. I'm asking you to come into the hall. And as everyone knows, they were all shown in the order of the day "inclusion into the agenda of the session." So I'm starting their list, these are the next questions of the order of the day. The first is the draft Act amending certain Ukrainian legislation on the use of the term "person with disabilities" and derived from it (No. 8358). Please support the intrusion into the order of the day session, only inclusion. Please be supportive. Please vote. Please be supportive. [[16:49:44]] For 201 I'm asking you, colleagues, to return to the hall. I'm asking everyone to return to the hall. I will read again, the draft Act amending some Ukrainian legislation on the use of the term "person with disabilities". This is requested by the Committee on Veterans and Fighters and ATOs, 8358. Maybe they didn't all know each other. I'm asking you to support the inclusion in the agenda of the day session. Please vote, only inclusion. Vote. Please be supportive. [[16:50:33]] For 216 Next. 8383. Draft Law on Amendments to the Customs Code of Ukraine on Harmonization of Terminology with the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities and Certain Other Matters (8383). Please support the inclusion in the agenda of the day session. Please vote. [[16:51:07]] For 219 I'll do it again. I will read again: the draft Law amending the Customs Code of Ukraine on Harmonization of Terminology with the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities and Certain Other Matters (8383). Please vote. Please be supportive. [[16:51:40]] For 226 Questions are included in the agenda of the day session. The next 8265 is a bill amending the Ukrainian Public Procurement Act and some other legislative acts. I still didn't understand why he wasn't supported. I'm hoping for backup right now. So 8265 is the order of the day session. I ask everyone to take part in the vote and to vote with care. Please vote, please support the inclusion in the agenda of the session. Vote. [[16:52:29]] For 175 The decision is not taken. Next is the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on the State Budget for Ukraine 2018 on adequate financial security for the State Coal sector (8362). Include in the agenda of the day session. Whoever supports this, I ask you to vote. [[16:53:06]] For-161 The decision is not taken. Next draft of the Civil Code Amendment Act (4521) Please vote. Can I have your back, please? [[16:53:42]] For 124 The decision is not taken. Then I'll do it again. 4521, inclusion in the agenda. [[B in m in s a l in]] Include in the agenda of the day session. Please vote, please support. Vote. [[16:54:12]] For-96 The decision is not taken. Colleagues, we have the next one, listen to me carefully, Bill 8424. And I have a request from the vice-premier that we include him in the agenda of the day session to make a decision to make today. So it's me. This is a draft law amending Chapter IV, "The End and Transitional Positions" of the Ukrainian Law on Commercial Accounting of Heat and Water Supply." And the profiling committee says it's absolutely necessary to accept it today, today. And that's why I'm asking you to support this position. So I'm voting on draft Law 8424 to put the day session in order to make a decision. Please vote, please support. Vote. Please be supportive. [[16:55:24]] For 243 Decision taken. And we can look at it today. Colleagues, the next we have is a draft Act amending some of the Ukrainian legislative acts to improve the procedure for conducting expert studies (8249). Include in the agenda of the day session. Anyone who supports it, please vote. Vote. [[16:56:02]] For-138 The next one is 8336. Draft Act amending some Ukrainian legislation on strengthening the guarantees of the independence of the judicial expert and ensuring the proper conduct of judicial and expert activities" (8336). Please vote and please support. Vote. [[16:56:39]] For-161 161-yes. Colleagues, we're all just breaking up. [[B in m in s a l in]] Colleagues, I will return to ProZorro. I'll put ProZorro on again. I'm going to put ProZorro again because otherwise we're just losing votes on all the other entries. I don't understand why they don't support them. I'm asking you to support everyone, because we're just not going to include anything, colleagues, we're just not going to include anything. I'm voting on the proposal to include in the agenda of the day session, only the order of the day session. We will not be considering today just the inclusion of a draft Act amending the Ukrainian Public Procurement Act (8265). Please vote and please support. Please support public purchases. Please support everyone. [[16:57:50]] For-174 174. 174. Tell me, do I have to go back to the law or does it make any sense? Colleagues, pay attention! Look, I'll tell you what other proposals there were from factions that could be supported. I'll give you the first one. Attention! Attention, colleagues! Listen to me! Listen to me! There have been several factions asking us to vote today on a draft regulation on non-transmission in Ukraine of measures taking place in the territory of the Russian Federation if their broadcast violates the legitimate rights and interests of Ukrainian citizens. Maybe it'll be supported. So I'm proposing that Project Order 8343 include in the agenda of the day session for decision-making today. Anyone who supports it, please vote. Please vote, please support. Please be supportive. [[16:59:04]] For-142 142. Next thing you know, what's going on? Colleagues when 80 votes are missing. 80 votes short. So the next is the draft Act amending some of the Ukrainian legislation on the establishment of a cost-accounting algorithm for electricity suppliers at a regulated tariff (7390). There was also a request that we include him in the agenda of the day’s session to make a decision. 7390, please vote, please support. Please vote, please support 7390. [[16:59:59]] For 190 187. You guys want me to stop? Let's give the factions a minute. After a minute, the factions. Please, Maxim Burbak, one minute. I'll give you a minute. Colleagues, pay attention! We have a block of important questions. They're just falling apart. Committees can't deal with questions. Let us discuss how we can act. In a minute. In a minute. Please, Maxim Burbak. Arthur Gerasimov, then Maxim Burbak. Arthur Gerasimov, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-07-m1.u44	Dear colleagues, I call upon all the heads of factions and deputies to vote for the inclusion of all bills in the agenda. I understand someone wants to talk about ProZorro right now, and I want us to comply with European world standards with our laws regarding the conduct of such a term as "persons with disabilities." I want us to vote now to ban the broadcast. And it's not a broadcast, it's just an aggressor country agitation. Someone wants to go to the football championship or is he going to watch it or what? Is this where they bought us all just the main question. That's why I'm talking to everyone, my dear fellows. We vote for all the bills, we don't put one question or the other at the top of our list. And we need to vote in favour of the coal sector, and for supporting our people with disabilities, and for supporting the National Police, and for the National Security and Defence Bills. So let's not take priority, let's vote and work on it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-07-m1.u45	Arthur Gerasimov, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-07-m1.u46	Dear Andrew Volodymyrovich, distinguished colleagues, distinguished voters! First. When I'm told that there's a ProZorro there, I want to remind you that the President of Ukraine's initiative is ProZorro has saved billions of dollars in this country. So we urge the entire room to support this initiative and to put this bill in order of the day. I want to tell you that we're coming up with a proposal, Andry Volodymyrovich, to go to the law now so that we don't lose time, 8424, which concerns the JRC and which we've seen has every chance of being voted on in this room. After, more specifically, before the bill is voted on for inclusion in the agenda, the Presidential, regarding the ProZorro system, improving its effectiveness, our faction will not vote for the inclusion in the agenda of any bill today. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-07-m1.u47	Thank you. Igor Storm, Opposition Block, one minute. Igor Šurma, yes.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-07-m1.u48	Igor Shurma, the Opposition Block. Respectable Euro-Integrators, Democrats, I refer by name to the People's Front, which says a lot about honesty and justice. And I'm addressing you, Andry Volodymyrovich, as presiding officer, why on one occasion do you see the transparency of one hundredth and one second time blinds you? 0189 is an inter-government agreement between Ukraine and France, when everyone's watching, is buttoning up, and I'm coming to you, and I'm telling you, there's a video on the phone of the buttons at 226 and 228, you don't see that? Can't you see there's a constant click? And now I'm talking to you. You said the power went out, bad. I won't argue, is it your right, you've fought, death, blood and now you're knocking, you've got a conscience now? You look people in the eye, you're not ashamed, you're a disgrace. And to you, Andrew Volodymyrovich, you're not like that.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-07-m1.u49	So, colleagues, look, there are two positions: one to continue, the other to stop and move on to the law that was upheld. One minute from Rebirth, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-07-m1.u50	Dear colleagues, well, really, two laws that need to be passed immediately. The first is 8424 on the transfer of housing terms. So today we're not ready to introduce it, this law, and it's actually paralyzing everything. The second law is 7390, which refers to salaries paid to employees of the skynergo. Today's critical situation -- everyone's attention, people don't get paid by the skyscrapers for months. And today, for example, Zaporozhyeblanergo, 2,000 people have been released in six months. So we're on the verge of an energy disaster and there's no voices, so it can't be that way. We ask everyone to uphold these two important laws. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-07-m1.u51	Thank you. Colleagues, come on, everyone, I'm going to suggest this formula, and I'm going to ask you to listen very carefully, especially to Peter Dustenka's Block. Arthur Gerasimov, can you hear me? Now I'm going to ask the other question where there were only three votes missing, about the pensioners, is the bill of Law 8358 on persons with disabilities, attention. I'll put it up, he's only missing two votes. Let's make sure that we act properly, let's include it so that the Veterans Committee can look into it. Then I'm going to demand 7390 and everything, and we're going to move on to this consideration so that we don't fail to make a productive vote. Colleagues, do you take it that way? Roger that. So I want to remind you, when we included Bill 8358, we ran out of votes, I don't remember, literally a few. I'll re-establish it, consult it, support it. So I'm proposing the inclusion in the agenda of the day session of the draft Act amending some Ukrainian legislation on the use of the term "person with disabilities". And I'm asking everyone to vote, so we just agreed to just put it into the agenda of the session. Please vote, please support. Vote. Please vote. [[17:06:42]] For 234 Decision taken. And I'm going to do 7390 again. 7390 is a draft Act amending certain Ukrainian legislation on the establishment of an algorithm for the conversion of funds into current accounts to regulated electricity suppliers. The authors demand that it be considered today. I'm putting the session in order to make a decision. Anyone who supports it, please vote. [[17:07:22]] For 190 The decision is not taken. And so, colleagues, we're moving on to the only question that we've got when we turn it on. Andrew, and immediately thereafter, criminal offenses. It'll take us 15 minutes and now it's a criminal offense. [[B in m in s a l in]] So we have a really next question. So, colleagues, pay attention! We really are. I'm asking for your attention! We really put in the agenda for decision 8424, right? But, colleagues, pay attention! But now we have criminal misconduct. Arthur, we're facing criminal charges. And the committee head is justly making a point. I beg you, criminal misconduct, and then 8424. It's going to be fair, it's going to be right, it's going to be legal and it's going to be fair. So, colleagues, now. That'll be fair. I'm announcing a transition. I'm going to move on to the next question, which is the order of the day. This is the draft Law on Criminal Offences. The number of Law 7279-d is the order of the day after inclusion in the agenda. And I'm asking you to support the proposal to consider it with a reduced procedure. Please vote and please support. Vote. Please be supportive. [[17:10:10]] For-166 Decision taken. And I invite you to report to the head of the Committee on the Law Enforcement of the Protective Activities of Kožemjakin Andrija Anatoliyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-07-m1.u52	Thank you, Andry Volodymyrovich. Dear colleagues, your point is to consider the draft Act amending certain Ukrainian legislation to simplify the pretrial investigation of certain categories of criminal offences (No. 7279). In other words, the Crimes Bill, which is called on to humanize criminal legislation, and to simplify the investigation of crimes of small gravity, which will greatly burden investigators, will allow them to effectively investigate serious and particularly serious crimes. This project was being worked on by a working group formed by the committee, which led us to agree on all the key positions of the project, both with the authors of the alternative project 7279-1 and with the main users. Law enforcement agencies. In particular, the project has clearly defined criteria for the separation of criminal offences and crimes. Criminal misconduct. the offence is defined by an act that provides for a basic penalty of not more than three thousand untaxed minimum incomes of citizens, or other non - willful punishment. In view of the above, the committee decided to recommend a bill to the Supreme Council during its first reading. Colleagues, this is a very long-suffering and expected by law enforcement agencies and investigators, and all the operational composition of law enforcement agencies, because today's investigation is our task, because when they're serious crimes and especially difficult to deal with, because they have a lot of petty and incomprehensible thefts and what they're distracted from, it's not possible to look into and investigate hard ones.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-07-m1.u53	30 seconds, finish, please. 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-07-m1.u54	The law enforcement authorities begin to load themselves with these little things, and they do not pay any attention at all and do not have time to investigate the difficult and especially difficult ones. We ask Parliament, all the members of the committee are the authors of this bill that has been worked out, supported us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-07-m1.u55	Colleagues, I'd like you to sign up for a discussion, please. Please, Igor Mosiychuk, give you the floor to the Radical Party faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-07-m1.u56	Igor Mosiyczuk, Oleg Lachka Radical Party Our faction will support this bill, which is called upon to humanize the responsibility for the commission of light crimes, which, according to the new bill that is proposed to be adopted as a law, will be considered criminal offences. This will allow the investigators to be unloaded, the investigating bodies unloaded from that mass of petty crimes that are currently being investigated, which prevents them from investigating more serious crimes that are just covering a wave of the country. At the same time, with the opportunity, I would like to draw the attention of the Attorney General of Ukraine to a recent statement by the prosecutor in a court of law concerning the assassination of Amina Okiwa and Adam Osmajev, when the prosecutor claims that no Russian trace of this case has been found that the attempt on life has been made on personal grounds. I hereby state with full responsibility that Keeler Kadirova Denis Sultanov approached and tried to get acquainted with the leader of our faction, Oleg Lášk, with Russian political immigrant Elijah Ponomarov, with colleague Yuri Brez. In this regard, I believe that the prosecutor’s investigators have not studied the materials of criminal conduct enough and either.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-07-m1.u57	30 seconds to complete, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-07-m1.u58	and either discredit the Ukrainian law enforcement authorities, or act intentionally. I ask the Attorney General to intervene personally in this situation. We're willing to testify in court on this matter, but a feesbean agent, a man with blood in Austria, a murder in Turkey and Ukraine, freeing and saying "personal reasons" is a crime against Ukraine and a crime against the memory of the hero of Amina Okoway.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-07-m1.u59	Please state your position. Olena Sotnik presents a self-help position. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-07-m1.u60	Thank you, Madam Chairman. I'll briefly remind you of the history of this bill. We had already passed a bill in which a criminal offence approach was formed. And where we really talked about criminal offences being investigated in a different way, and running their institutions should actually simplify the lives of the police, and at the same time make it easier for those who did. Because in criminal law, in the criminal justice system of Europe, European practices are really different from criminal crimes. Sadly, though, the bill was then ruined by this hall. And another bill began to be drafted. This is the second time that we are considering it today. Sadly, a number of systemic threats remain. The first is a return to some practices, in fact, the Criminal Procedure Code of the 1960s, when we enter the Single State Register of Crimes, we begin to collect evidence by collecting explanations from individuals. The second moment is actually this bill, despite the fact that it's a criminal offense. Yes, they're easier to investigate than criminal crimes, but nevertheless, they have to be fully investigated, and people have the right to be able to prove their innocence. Thus, for criminal offenses, it is only 72 hours to investigate, which in principle is a nonsensus even for simple crimes or simple forms of misconduct. And once again, we're back to the great practice of improving the rate, when actually police instead of investigating crimes, just doing the tingles and kicking the show off the suspects. And the last. There is an unconstitutional violation of the right to protection. Lawyers are not mentioned in general. It is generally suggested that if a person has confessed his or her own.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-07-m1.u61	30 seconds, finish, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-07-m1.u62	Thank you. If a person has confessed his guilt, he is not invited to a court of law. That is, the judge does not even check that the person was really under pressure to confess. So, dear colleagues, I understand the need for this bill. But you can't actually negate the constitutional rights of people in order to simplify the life of a police officer. So I invite the committee to do the job properly, not blackmail.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-07-m1.u63	Thank you. The position is clear. Colleagues, look, all the factions agree that this is a very important bill. It's already on re-reading the same thing because there's no discipline in the room when we voted it out for the first time. I'm asking you to speak to Yuri Miroshnicka right now. Please, Mr. Yuri. Then Anton Gerashchenko. And in four minutes, we're voting. So we ask our colleagues to return to the hall. Please, Mr. Yuri.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-07-m1.u64	Dear colleagues, I'd like us to understand what this is all about. Today, the whole category of cases is criminal. There is criminal responsibility for crimes, there is administrative responsibility. But there are crimes that are not so complex, scary that can be investigated more simply, they are criminal offenses. And according to certain categories of offences that are crimes, it is suggested that criminal offences be transferred with appropriate facilitated investigation procedures. So our committee has considered, our committee has worked on, our committee has suggested that the people's deputies improve our legislation in this part. So, dear colleagues, I ask you to come into the hall and make a responsible decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-07-m1.u65	Thank you. The last performance during the discussion. Please give Anton Gerashchenko the position of the People's Front. I very much ask colleagues from all factions to return to the session hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-07-m1.u66	Dear National Deputies! Dear Ukrainian people! Dear Chairman! What is this law about? I'll put it in plain words. We have a part of the crime that's easy for us not to put in jail. This, for example, may have been caused by a person’s peak or some minor theft. To date, these crimes are dealt with under the Code of Criminal Procedure. And I'm especially talking to major MPs. People come to you and say that my son has been beaten or beaten, and the court has been looking at him for two years. So this law for us to simplify the investigation of minor crimes is, first of all, bodily damage is easy, it's the protection of narcotic drugs, it's small thefts. If we're breaking this law now, we're going to go down five years before the Criminal Code is passed. This law is generally provided for by the new Criminal Procedure Code. I'm asking him to support me very much. If we support him now in the first rereading after the rights and accept him as a whole, then the light crimes will be dealt with by the courts in two or three months. This will lead to less crime, the principle of inevitability of crime. I ask you very much to accept this law. It's not about money, it's not about influences, it's not about law enforcement, it's about law enforcement, it's about law enforcement, it's not about law enforcement, it's about law enforcement, it's about law enforcement, it's about law enforcement, it's about law enforcement, it's about law enforcement. Because if a little crime takes two or three years to wait for a court decision, when it's obvious when video recordings, when there are dozens of testimonies, it's just stupid. Thank you for your respect. And I hope that you will support, regardless of factions and parliamentary groups, political preferences.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-07-m1.u67	So, dear colleagues, the speeches are over. I very much ask everyone to come into the hall and prepare for the vote. We've already sent him to read again, and now he's only offered to be accepted as a basis. And I'm asking everyone, this is a responsible vote, to go into the hall and take jobs. I ask the heads of factions to maximize their mobility. And I want to make a point, this is just a proposal for a basis. I ask one minute of the head of the committee, Andrey Cosemyakin, and I ask all the heads of factions who have stressed the importance of this law to enter the hall and prepare for the vote. I'm very much asking you to invite the deputies into the hall. One minute now, Andrew Kožemyakin, and we move on to the vote. Invite people into the hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-07-m1.u68	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say that, here I have, yesterday and today, a call from our European partners, including from the European Union Consultative Mission, here, Kyastutis Lanchinskas, the head of the mission in Ukraine, wrote and fully supported us in order to reach out to the national MPs, to the European optimists, to the Asian optimists, to the American optimists, to all of them to understand, to the Ukrainian optimists, because there are a lot of them in the hall, to support this project and to help the law enforcement officers to work, because they are now distracted by what they don't need. What it takes is everything, there, day, day, two, three. And serious crimes and especially serious crimes, they stay away, unfortunately. And they point out that we can't investigate these crimes because we have 500 registered in the register of other petty thefts, damage and so forth. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-07-m1.u69	Thank you. Colleagues, I think the position of head of the committee is convincing and objective enough. I'm counting on the support of all the halls, and I'm reminding you, that's the basis. We had doubts when we spoke. I'm addressing all the factions, I'm asking you to support this bill as a basis. I ask everyone to take up their jobs and prepare for the vote. It'll be wrong if we can't find the voices for the second time. Can we vote, colleagues? So I'm voting on a bill amending some Ukrainian legislation to simplify the pre-trial investigation of individual categories of criminal offences (No. 7279-d) just as a basis, colleagues. Each voice has a weight. Every voice. We're just going to give it a chance. Please vote, colleagues. Please be supportive. And we're voting carefully, colleagues. Please be supportive. Vote. Vote. [[17:25:54]] For 229 229th. Decision taken. Welcome to the committee. Hello, everyone, if you're ready. Thank you all for your support, colleagues. Now, colleagues, one minute Irina Heratchenko. One minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-07-m1.u70	Colleagues, please have a moment of your attention. Two reports came to the presidency of the Supreme Council of Ukraine from the national deputy of Antonishtak and the national deputy of Savichuk, who also indicated that they had voted in favour of the minister of finance of Daniluk, but their card did not work, and they asked that their votes be taken into account in favour of that decision. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-07-m1.u71	Give Irina Heratchenko a chance. So, colleagues, I ask you to prepare for the vote now. We have the following situation, we have the following three laws: 8194, 8195, 8196 – extremely important laws. I'm going to put the ratings vote on whether there's support for those laws so we don't waste our time. I'm asking you very much, everyone has a day's work, everyone's readin' the day's work. I'm going to set up a rating to see if there's any support in the room. I ask you, the following three laws: 8194, 8195 and 8196. Now Andrew Kožemyakin will explain the essence of these laws. Please, Andrew Cosemykin, one minute. In order not to lose them, I'll put the ratings first. Please, Andrew Cosemiakin.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-07-m1.u72	Colleagues, these are the bills that we've been asking for a year to put in place so that we don't have to repeat in Parliament the night, the early, the late voting and the introduction into the KPC and the criminal amendment that once, but corrects 70 articles of the Criminal Code. And now, I'm sorry, we're correcting ten laws, ten projects now on the committee to correct this amendment. To that end, we propose to amend the Criminal Code, the Criminal Procedure Code and the Code of Administrative Offences only by law, dot. Short, in one piece, every law. On the ground and in general, that's all. And we will no longer have a situation where people in morgues lie and cannot bury them without expertise. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-07-m1.u73	You got it, right? So I'm betting on the rating vote on the draft law. Is there a ready one? Take up jobs. 8194. Please vote, please support. This is a rating vote for support, please vote. [[17:29:12]] For-187 8195 – rating vote, rating vote. Copy that. We're rolling. So, colleagues, as we agreed before, we're going to draft Law 8424 amending Chapter IV of the Final and Transitional Positions Act of Ukraine on commercial thermal energy accounting. And I'm asking you to support the proposal to consider it with a reduced procedure. Please vote, please vote, please support for the cut. [[17:29:54]] For 175 Decision taken. And I invite you to the report of the Ukrainian National Deputy Babak Olen Valerievna, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-07-m1.u74	Honourable People's Deputies, Bill 8424, prepared by the deputies of the Committee on Construction, Urban and Housing as technical. In fact, today he must correct the situation of the introduction of two laws: The Law on Commercial Accounting of Water and Warmness and the Law on Housing and Utilities. Regrettably, the number of legal acts that were to be carried out to implement these laws has not yet been fully prepared by the government. And because water, heat, gas, electricity, waste and everything else are used every day, unfortunately, we can't just leave it in chaos and not in the decision to put it into effect. And with great sadness, but with great request to support the committee today, you are asked to vote on the basis of this law as a whole. What's his point? Because we're delaying the entry into force of the Housing and Utilities Act only in part of the utilities. This is water, heat, waste management, electricity and gas, while the management service will be operational as of Sunday of this year. So we're not going to keep people in slavery for maintenance, and we're going to allow owners from the next month to choose their own administrators. We expect the government to make the right decisions from day to day, and we really will demonolysify the housing management market and allow the owners to manage their own dwellings on their own. It's on the commie. For absolutely objective reasons, because of the absence of regulations, there are no Kabmin regulations or tariff formations, so we ask that we postpone until May 1 the following year after the heating season. But the committee had a very important point to make.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-07-m1.u75	30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-07-m1.u76	time the introduction of a penny for residential services, as well as the entry into force of the law, and corresponding fines to the providers of services. So two points: both foaming to people, and fines to businesses as a balanced thing, and also at the request of the vice-premier, we have clarified the transitional provisions on subsidies so that there is no vacuum. So this is an extremely important technical draft of the law that we're asking you to support as a whole.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-07-m1.u77	Thank you. The report invites the secretary of the Committee on Construction, Construction, and HKG Stasuk Vitaly Filimonovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-07-m1.u78	Good afternoon, dear colleagues. At the commission of the committee, I would like to read out the changes we are proposing. That's very important, because the stenographer has to have those suggestions that Alona Valerievna just talked about. We suggest that in paragraph three. Part two, and delete the words "a" and "a" and "a" from "parts of the third article 11, paragraphs 1 and 2 of the fifth part of article 18, which are entered into force on 1 January 2019". Proposals were also supported by the Deputy Prime Minister, Minister of Regional Development, Construction and Housing of Zubkom, in part of the social protection of the population using benefits and receiving housing subsidies, namely: Part One of Chapter One and add the following point to point 4.1: "To complement part 4.1 of this content: "4.1. In compensation for the expenses of the operator of external engineering networks related to the installation, maintenance and replacement of commercial accounts nodes, consumers of utility services and owners (joint owners) of premises equipped with individual heating systems and/or hot water supply in the relevant building, which pays the fees for the installation, maintenance and replacement of commercial processing nodes, benefits and subsidies are provided." After the second paragraph of Part Two of Section 2 and add the following paragraph: "Plums and subsidies to compensate for the cost of maintenance services and buildings and adjuvant areas are granted to the date of entry into force of contracts for the provision of services for the management of a multi-room building." So the adoption of Bill 8424 will allow the transitional period between the adoption of new legislation in the housing and utility sphere until it is fully put into effect. Such a transitional period should be sufficient for the executive to approve the legal acts necessary for the implementation of Ukraine's laws on commercial thermal energy and water accounting and on housing and utilities.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-07-m1.u79	30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-07-m1.u80	Thank you. Please support our bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-07-m1.u81	Thank you. [[B in m in s a l in]] Tell me under the stenogram. 10 seconds, turn it on.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-07-m1.u82	Please support on the basis and in general with the proposals of the committee that have been bugged.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-07-m1.u83	Thank you. Please record: two in, two in. Please. From the Peter Dust Block, Oxane Sold, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-07-m1.u84	Dear colleagues, I and a group of deputies registered a similar bill yesterday -- a little wider, a little better written. At the same time, I ask you all to vote in favour of this bill now, because every citizen of Ukraine needs it. If we don't vote it today, we're going to have a breakdown in utility since June 11. We voted the law, it works, but there are no regulations that allow today to enforce the law for all those who supply water and heat. So once again, I ask each of you to vote in favour of this bill. I support the proposal to vote on the basis and in general. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-07-m1.u85	Thank you. From the People's Front, please from the People's Front.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-07-m1.u86	Good day, dear fellows, good day, Mr. Chairman. First of all, I would like to thank the members of the committee who have actually processed the changes in a fairly productive way, who have made the adjustments that have been read. I would like to propose voting as a basis for the whole, taking into account what has been read in the committee’s editor today. And, Andrew Volodymyrovich, I would like to point out that today there are a lot of MPs complaining that they don't have a card. We understand how important this is when we adopt serious bills that we have voted on today. A big request: Give an order to the Council’s apparatus to check our system during our break. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-07-m1.u87	Thank you. I had already given such an assignment to be tested. You know what we're preparing now is an IT strategy for the entire Supreme Council's electronic vote, for an electronic card. But for the time being, this system is in operation, and the apparatus is able to make sure that it works effectively. And from the Fatherland faction, Kugel Alexander Volodymyrna, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-07-m1.u88	Dear colleagues, Alexander Kugel, Fatherland. I am addressing and reminding all of us that one of the main functions of the Supreme Council is to monitor the adoption of draft laws. Our committee today called for an envelope by the Ministry of Economics, and I'm addressing the chairman that the minister and the first deputy are ignoring committee meetings. And they checked the approved License Act three years ago. Normative acts are accepted at this time. What I'm saying is that we're making laws now because we don't have the Cabinet of Ministers. To the authors. I've said it ten times, you can't write a direct act law, you don't put it in three months, six months later, because you realize that the Cabinet of Ministers at least a year later introduces the internal documents that you have written in the law. The second question. We support the part where we stop the fines now. But we have to understand that this is a stop to energy conservation reform, because you haven't taken any steps to reverse monopolies. Monopolies receive investment programs and do not want to set up a population of counters, but install only inducers. We are ready to give our votes, but only in the first reading. In general, no. We need to examine everything very clearly, for this law is passed in violation of the Rules.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-07-m1.u89	Thank you very much. And from Rebirth, Jacenko Anton Volodymyrovich. Then I'll give it to the Radical Party. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-07-m1.u90	Dear colleagues, you know, it's surprising that these laws that have now been considered and this Law 8424, which must be passed immediately, and the Law 7390, which generally applies to salary payments, and we ask that it be made again, and none of the factions have any observations. It's just that because of the little attendance of the Supreme Council, we're actually sorry, like cartwheels, we're exchanging entire industries, the HKG now, then, well, the oblenergo that got pushed into a collapse, and the reason one is unaccounted for. That's why we're asking for these important laws right now. So to all faction leaders, please mobilize factions, let's vote because they relate to wages, people's lives, our housing system. Let's support now and vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-07-m1.u91	Thank you. From the Radical Party of Lazko Oleg Valeriyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-07-m1.u92	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Dear colleagues! Every time I meet people, the biggest problem is prices are high for food, medicine and tariffs. People are horrifyingly waiting for information about the increase in gas prices to 11,000 dollars. When the government commits itself to receiving a second loan from the International Monetary Fund, they want to raise prices for gas, sell land, and raise the retirement age. How can Ukrainians live under these conditions? When does the International Monetary Fund demand an increase in gas prices and at the same time says you can't raise wages and pensions? Go to the millions of Ukrainian pensioners who have worked their whole lives honestly and get a pension of 11,000 dollars per year, go tell them that they have to pay 11,000 dollars per thousand cubes for gas. Or is it a family that works and receives an average salary of 3, 5, 7, 000 dollars? How can you even ask questions about rising gas prices, about rising tariffs? In order for Naftogaz and its officials to receive a $45 million bonus in cash from every working man to every Ukrainian? So that people can pay them these cosmic bonuses at the expense of their children without caring for them without being able to put them on their feet? We demand that the authorities stop this anti-Ukrainian policy and do everything they can not to raise the price of gas but to increase the production of their own gas. The cost of Ukrainian gas is 1.5-2 thousand dollars. Why do we have 11,000 to pay for it? We're told you pay the European gas price. Give Ukrainians European wages and pensions, and everyone will be happy to pay the European gas price. And when pensions and wages are Ukrainian, and the price of gas, food, medicine, and European, no one ends. That's why people are leaving Ukraine. We're offering an alternative, we're proposing a policy of economic recovery, job creation, raising the income of Ukrainians. After that.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-07-m1.u93	Thank you. So, colleagues, the discussion is over. I ask everyone to come into the hall and prepare for the decision. I'm asking everyone to come into the hall. Now I'm giving two more minutes to Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine, Gennady Zubka, and in two minutes, we're going to make a decision. I'm asking the faction heads to track everyone to the workplace. Please, Hennaday Zubko. And let's move on to the decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-07-m1.u94	Ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I would like to thank you for the two very important laws that have been passed in the Supreme Council: commercial accounting and housing and utilities. More than 50 normative acts are already being developed and 30 of them have already been approved. But the question is that reform is not easy and we have differences in the timing of reform. Only from 10/12 does the date come when the houses, when the owners, must be determined by the form of the administration. There's a six-year gap between a law-making term and a date when people can determine and choose a steward. The second question. During the vote, we lost the possibility of compensation, aid, and subsidies for contributions related to the installation of counters. This means that people who install counters will not be able to compensate for the benefits and subsidies. The third question is that we don't have the opportunity these six months when the water service and other issues of compensation and subsidies in the direction of house management go away. So once again, I would like to urge, firstly, to mobilize and support -- this is a very important bill that returns the possibility of compensating benefits and subsidies on contributions and towards housing management, and which allows you to compensate for this time, half a year, which is. Inadequate entry into force of law and decision-making directly by co-owners of houses. We're going to go to the Supreme Council again to give municipalities the opportunity to work with them in buildings where people don't choose to work with them and determine how to run them. And the main thing is to be more active in preparing the things that apply to the introduction of 01.05. In 2019, this law. Thank you for your support. Thank you for your attention. And again, thank you for such a difficult but crucial reform to save the country's energy.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-07-m1.u95	So let's move on to making a decision. And I put to the vote draft Law 8424 on the proposal of the committee to adopt as a basis and as a whole, taking into account the committee's proposals. Please vote and please support. Every voice. Every voice matters. Please vote and support as a whole, taking into account the proposals made by the committee with technical and legal rights. Vote. We're backing it up. Vote. [[17:46:11]] For 242 242. The law is passed. Decision taken. I've been approached by a statement from two factions on my break from the Peter Prashenko faction and the People's Front faction. They're ready to take a break. And I give the floor to Winniku from two factions.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-07-m1.u96	Good afternoon, dear colleagues. You know, Ukrainian society believes that there are two major threats to Ukrainian statehood: corruption and war. Regarding the principles of combating corruption in public authorities, the Supreme Council reaffirmed its commitment by voting today on the bill submitted by the President of Ukraine on an anti-corruption court. We need to strengthen our position as to why this happened. That in 2014, the Russian Federation carried out an act of armed aggression against Ukraine. Clearly, Ukraine was a military weakling. Obviously, the weak resilience of the Ukrainian army has led Russia to start implementing its strategies, external strategies to influence Ukraine because of the spread of the ideas of "Russian peace" and the Ukrainian army in 2014 was unable to give back immediately. The reasons for this are a systemic reduction in resilience, which occurred in relation to the Armed Forces from 2004 to 2014. In fact, we need to confirm that there are no such manifestations today. That is why, in the order of parliamentary supervisory and organisational powers, in the order of parliamentary control, we invite you, Your Honorary colleagues, to create a temporary inquiry committee of Parliament to determine the circumstances of the dissolution of the Ukrainian Armed Forces, which has led to a substantial decrease in the security of our state between 2004 and 2017. All factions of Parliament and of the group in accordance with the Rules have delegated their representatives to this commission. I ask now by my decision, the Supreme Council's decision, to approve the establishment of this commission with a defined order of action, with the aim of working out a report that, if the Supreme Council accepts it, we will be concerned about drawing on the responsibility of the persons set up by this commission of inquiry. Thank you for your support. And this is our common, unifying question, this is our future, for when we forget the past, we cannot plan for a successful future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-07-m1.u97	Thank you, colleagues. So it was really handed over to everyone the draft Ordinance on the Establishment of a Provisional Investigation Commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to investigate information about the facts of the dissolution of the Ukrainian Armed Forces and the undermining of the state's defence. This is a unique thing when all factions have given their representatives and this has enabled the regulatory committee to make a decision. I would like to remind you that, according to the Rules, it does not need to be included in the agenda of the day session. And at the request of two factions of the Peter Prashenko Block and the People's Front, I have the right to bring it up to date, and it only needs 150 votes. I would like to point out that all the factions have given their representatives and supported the decision. The issue is being addressed in the simplified procedure system, reports: two in favour, two in opposition. And we're moving on to draft regulation 8434. And I would like to invite you to the report of the Ukrainian national deputy Kishkar Pavel Mikolaiovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-07-m1.u98	Friends, the proposed ruling allows within the framework of parliamentary control to create an entire group of people who are impartial, and I will personally guarantee the openness of the process of studying the documents that will be before the committee to ensure attraction. the transfer of materials to the relevant law enforcement authorities for the purpose of their investigation into the existence of a crime. I thank the nonfractional ones: both Chumaku and Derevianka, and Lewchenka, and Ednak, Gopko, Bublik, Marchenko, who entrusted me with the work from nonfractional work, and I guarantee that all work will be as public and transparent as possible and will produce a good result. Dear colleagues, please support this decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-07-m1.u99	The report invites the first deputy chairman of the Committee on Rules and Organization of the Work of the Supreme Council, Phinehas Phinehas, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-07-m1.u100	Honorary National Deputies, Honorary Fellows, we discussed in our session the draft Ordinance establishing a Temporary Investigation Commission to investigate the facts of the dissolution of the Ukrainian Armed Forces and the undermining of the defence of the State between 2004 and 2017, which was submitted by the Ukrainian National Deputy Paul Mikolaiovich Kiskar for registration number 8434. The project proposes to establish a TSK to investigate the state's defenses by lowering the level of military special technology and armament of the Ukrainian Armed Forces and other military formations established in accordance with the laws. The committee noted that it was proposed that 12 national deputies should be selected for the number of TSC personnel, according to written agreement between the respective MPs and the MPs. The chairman of the commission is invited to elect a national deputy for the Ukraine of Vinnik. We made some comments about the drafting of the decree. You can read them in a written conclusion that has just been handed down to you. However, this is indeed a unique situation where the principles of the Rules on Proportional Representation in the Commission are upheld, which allowed us to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine that we decide on the establishment of a committee by way of a vote. This, I remind you, requires 150. to support 150 votes of Ukrainian national deputies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-07-m1.u101	Thank you. Please record: two in, two in. From the People's Front, Bondar Mikhailo.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-07-m1.u102	Please give Lapin Igor.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-07-m1.u103	Dear colleagues, I suggest you all take your seats. I think there's nothing left to discuss here. Our army was robbed, and what we came to the front in 2014 was the result of these robberies and these robberies. Today, some are pianists on television and tell us what kind of president he will be. So right now, I really want everyone to vote for this decision today, and we have the opportunity to either draw, or reward, or shoot. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-07-m1.u104	So, colleagues, are they still willing to speak? There's no one who wants to do the show. So, colleagues, I'm asking everyone to take up their jobs and get ready to vote. What a unique faction that all factions have united have given their representatives! Because when there are no representatives of all factions, the regulatory committee simply does not make decisions. It's a unique TSC, actually. And I'm voting on the bill of motion for the creation of an interim commission of inquiry by the Supreme Council of Ukraine to investigate the facts of the dissolution of the Ukrainian Armed Forces and the undermining of the state's defence between 4 and 17 years of age (No. 8434) as a whole. That's 150 votes. Please vote. Please be supportive. Vote [[17:54:59]] For 184 Decision taken. Colleagues, 7390. I've heard your position, colleagues. I'm going to ask you again to consider 7390. I want to hear it again. This is a requirement of several factions, because they were not informed when there was a vote that the draft Law amending certain Ukrainian legislation on the establishment of a cost-recalculation algorithm for the current accounts of electricity suppliers at a regulated rate (7,390) should be included in the agenda and considered now. That is the requirement. Anyone who supports this proposal please vote, please support. Vote. Please be supportive. [[17:55:55]] For-154 It's not a decision you make, colleagues. There are huge numbers of votes. Now we need to read an important announcement by those who voted and their votes were not counted. And I give the floor to Irina Heratchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-07-m1.u105	Dear colleagues, we have today quite a diversion with the Council system, because once again, a very important statement came to the fore from our highly respected John Grigorovich Kirilenko, who asks that we take into account that his "yes" card did not work during the vote of the draft Supreme Council of Ukraine's decision to appeal against the illegal condemnation of Roman Suschenk. Thank you, Your Honor, for giving us this information. And so John Grigorovich Kirilenko's voice joins this important vote. Well, we're going to the Supreme Council Secretariat in the meantime, and we're asking you to check out the "Council" system. Because today, you see how many, enough complaints. During the vote or other ballots, the card did not work. Please perform some testing of your system.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-06-07-m1.u106	Thank you. But despite the fact that not everyone's card worked, today we were able to make a historic decision for the Ukrainian State about the creation of a Supreme Anti-Corruption Court. The constitutional majority is indeed the victory of both the Ukrainian Parliament and the Ukrainian Government and the President of Ukraine as the initiator of the bill. And I, colleagues, would like once again to welcome everyone to this important event! Many doubted. A lot of people didn't believe it. But our common concern about work, all the national MPs, and the committee, including the working groups, has been able to give us an important, irrefutable outcome for the Ukrainian State. This has demonstrated once again that the Supreme Council of Ukraine is working as an effective, effective, patriotic and reforming body of the highest legislative body of Ukraine and of the Ukrainian people. Hello again, fellows! And at this evening's meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, I declare closed. Tomorrow at 10 a.m., I'm waiting for everyone in the Supreme Council of Ukraine to resume our work. Thank you again, and welcome again. See you tomorrow.
