ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-03-m0.u1	Good morning. I'm asking the national deputies to come into the hall and prepare for registration. Please take up jobs. So I'd like the National Deputies to register. Please enable the registration system. [[10:05:43]] 367 national deputies registered. The morning plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. I would like to inform you, colleagues, that today is the birthday of our fellow national deputy Yuri Volodymyrovich Timoshenko. Let's welcome our colleague. Mr. Yuri, welcome. [[Applause]] And today, according to the Rules, we have 30 minutes for the speeches of the authorized representatives of the MPs. Then I want to remind you that the first questions we're going to discuss today are the distinction between electronic declaration for public actors and for foreigners who are taking part in supervisory councils. And so I'm asking all factions to maximize national MPs. I ask the chairman of the Anti-Corruption Committee to inform whether it was a quorum or whether the committee decided in the morning. If the committee has not taken a decision in the morning, I will immediately give an order during the meeting to hold a committee meeting. If there is a need, you can do it right here in the hall, and you can draw any conclusions on those bills that have been registered, especially those that we've discussed and agreed upon, which are the signatures of most of the factions' leaders. And that's why I'm now giving the commission to the committee during the Supreme Council of Ukraine, during the factions, there's enough time to hold an emergency meeting immediately and decide on the two bills that have been registered. And I'm asking you to hand over my assignment to the technical services and to the head of the committee. And now I'm asking the factions and groups to record statements from MP factions and groups. So, colleagues, I'm asking you to prepare for the recording and please participate in the recording of the factions and groups. Please. From the Opposition Block, the word is given to the head of the Yuri Boyk faction. Please, from the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-03-m0.u2	Dear Head! Dear National Deputies! I call on the Supreme Council once again to stop discussing and discussing small-scale events and to address the common problems that concern our citizens, first and foremost, the issue of peace. Last week, the leaders of the Norman Four countries reaffirmed their preference for the Minsk Accords as the only mechanism for settling the situation in the eastern part of the country. Parliament needs to stop ignoring the issue of Donbas, particularly the migration issues I had last week in the Kharkiv and Lugansk areas. It's one and a half million people without rights and the possibility of a normal life. In order to help the displaced, 13 million dollars are allocated from the budget, and 3 billion are provided by the U.S. and German governments. That's very revealing. We demand that this week consider our laws on displaced persons and increase their funding. When I talked to the food markets in the regions, I heard from people that today’s authorities had prepared another gift for Easter: the so - called great food set was traveling for 130 dollars a year. This is a showcase of work, including Parliament. Once again, he became convinced that there should be a state programme to support the real economy and create new jobs. We have a clear economic development programme for the country. Taxes need to be reduced, businesses need to be able to obtain cheap loans, lower tariffs, and stop the nightmare of business. We need to give people the opportunity to work and make money. Instead, the authorities continue to intimidate the population with nonexistent threats. And they want to make enemies of everyone who doesn't agree with the power that builds the police state, that's the 1937 path. And at this pace, Ukraine can finally say goodbye to European prospects and values. And the last. On the eve of Easter, we urge all parties to observe the truce and the regime of silence on the collision line. In cities and villages, ensure the safety of citizens and avoid provocations so that everyone can pray in the temples and meet the Light Day of the Resurrection with peace in the soul. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-03-m0.u3	Thank you, Mr. Yuri. I'd like to welcome the representative of the Self-Help Party, Olenna Sotnik. Mrs. Olena, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-03-m0.u4	Good morning, citizens! I want you to know that this morning the authorities continued to cynically abuse the public sector, the anti-corruption committee didn't even meet. The chairman of the committee simply did not appear, so bills were not considered as priorities. And yesterday at the Conciliation Council, the entire power coalition claimed that, of course, we would cancel the disgraceful declaration, the electronic declaration for public figures. Well, I think you've got what you wanted. The key task was to discredit, and now very active leaders are starting to discredit the public sector. I said there were three reasons why an electronic declaration was introduced for public figures. The president had the highest level of cynicism when he claimed that it was necessary to cancel immediately. Because he had three opportunities to do it. For the first time, we're not allowed to vote coalitions. The second time is to veto this bill. For the third time, at least bring this bill back to Parliament with its rights. He didn't do it. Then before the first number, everyone was actively waiting, making any appearance that you wanted to cancel that declaration, but you didn't. Why? To discredit the public sector in order to humiliate Ukraine before European partners and the world. Because it's non-democratic, it's, I say, worse than the Russian Federation is the Foreign Agents Act. And the third. You just wanted revenge on those public activists who actually expose the corruption and corruption that you're doing in the walls of this Parliament. We demand that these issues be immediately brought to the fore and that the disgraceful electronic declaration be lifted for the public sector and that the independent public sector be stopped, the only one controlling this power in this state. And the last. Today, under the walls of Parliament there are agrarians, they have come from all over the country. They're going to cover up, and they're going to demand that you return what you stole ten minutes before the budget was adopted. They stole their money. That's why we're calling for a vote today for Bill 7403-2. And give the agrarians their money back.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-03-m0.u5	Thank you, Mrs. Oleno. I invite you to the words of Maxim Burbak, leader of the People's Front faction. My colleagues, we're asking for a more peaceful atmosphere in the hall so that it's comfortable to speak. Please, Mr. Maxime.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-03-m0.u6	Dear colleagues! Three weeks ago, the People's Front registered a draft decree to refer to the international community for the inadmissibility of building a gas station called North Stream-2. During this time, the U.S. government has announced the imposition of sanctions against companies that will participate in the construction of North Stream 2. The European Parliament passed a bill from the European Commission which extends the single rules of the internal gas market of the European Union to this project. Only the High Council's Preparatory Committee cannot consider this decision at its meeting so that Parliament can finally vote on it. To those who don't think that the resistance to North Stream 2 is that important to Ukraine, I'm going to remind them that it's Russian Gazprom, cooperation with which there are always serious risks. If the Northern Stream-2 is built to contradict Europe's interests, European citizens will soon feel Russian kindness through the Gazprom dictatorship. I want to give events on March 1st this year when there were frosts in Europe, and Gazprom reduced the pressure in the pipe, reducing the volume of supply to Europe. Nord Stream-2 needs to be buried, because it's a plan of energy pervading all of Europe. The Imperial State of Gazprom will never separate business from hybrid aggression against Europe. Russia's chemical attack on Britain and the new deepening of relations between Russia and the West is an illustration of the frenzy of the Kremlin and the mental imbalance of the Russian dictator. It's absolutely irresponsible to introduce North Stream-2 in these conditions. We must bring this to the world and show a clear position on this issue by the Ukrainian Parliament. The People's Front faction calls for national MPs and a profile committee to support our resolve. By this decision, we also call on the President and the Government of Ukraine to initiate consultations with the European Commission on the issue of Northern Stream-2 in accordance with the signed Association Agreement between the European Union and Ukraine. The fight against Gazprom and the Kremlin's gas weapons must continue in this room. In 2014, thanks to the government of Arsenius Yatsenuk, we started a court-martial with Gazprom, and we won it by saving the citizens of Ukraine $60 billion. I'm sure we'll win this fight. The other one. The People's Front faction requires the removal of the legislative requirement for the declaration of revenue by public activists and persons who receive foreign funds under the assistance programme, as well as by foreign members of the supervisory boards. Our position is unalterable. Today we vote in favour of repealing this rule. And a little bit more on the anti-corruption theme. The level of trust in newly created anticorruption bodies is very low. Instead of investigating billions of corruption schemes, we see intermittent pianist wars. No one has so discredited the fight against corruption in Ukraine, as anticorruption authorities have. The People's Front is a political force that has chosen to implement anti-corruption reform, and it is extremely outraged by the differences between the leaders of anti-corruption bodies. Ukrainian society expects results, not other shows. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-03-m0.u7	Thank you, Mr. Maxime. You're welcome. Dear colleagues from Radical. Which one of you will speak? Now, your word. The leader of the Radical Party, Oleg Lazko, is invited to the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-03-m0.u8	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. And yesterday, and today, the Head of Parliament, and they come out here called "young activists," and everyone says that the main problem in the country is canceling the electronic declaration for activists. Listen, dear comrades, gentlemen, friends, "grant eaters," what do you call you in truth? – come down from the sky and go to the village! Go to the workers, go to the villagers, go to the budget office, and ask them if they are interested in the problems you are talking about? "What a hare stop-call!" That's why we live like a nigger in one place, because instead of solving people's problems, Parliament solves its own problems. The Radical Party faction will not vote in favour of canceling the electronic declaration for activists. If they're getting millions from abroad, declare it! Let the people see that the fight against corruption is no less profitable than corruption itself! And you don't have to fool people, because activists -- those who do it on the call of the heart -- and when you get money from abroad and tell people that you're activists all the time, they call them influence agents, lobbyists, traitors, diversantes and all that sort of thing, but not "activists"! So do not discredit the high rank of activists. Now to the problems that the people are interested in. Yesterday I received a letter from a young man named John in the Kyiv region. A large family, eleven children. Their only dream is to work on the ground. They don't dream of gold toilets, they don't dream of villas in Canary and abroad -- they dream of working on their own land. And they can't realize this dream, because the price of milk for the copycat and the cows has to be put to death, because there's no way to take the land to process it and earn it. These are the main problems of people. And through the meager wages, through the meager pensions, because Ukraine trades raw materials, our millions of people go abroad instead of making money in their own country. The Radical Party's team, instead of this akinea, offered by today's government along with its sales grantors, the Radical Party's program offers economic recovery, jobs for Ukrainians, salary increases and pensions. There is a clear plan that we have registered and we require Parliament to consider. Enough to trade raw materials, enough to dance at the expense of those who lend you credits, you have to earn your own money. We will return Ukrainians to our homes, we will reunite families, we will give Ukrainians a decent salary and a pension, we will restore peace and territorial integrity in our home country. We're going to do what people need, not foreign centers, who want to turn Ukraine into a disaster. We will not let Ukraine be destroyed!
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-03-m0.u9	Please, Arthur Gerasimov, the head of the Petra Prashenko faction, is invited to speak. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-03-m0.u10	Dear Irina Volodymyr, distinguished colleagues, distinguished voters! Cancelling the submission of electronic declarations to representatives of anti-corruption social organizations is the most important and urgent task for the day. The faction of the Party of Peter Poroshenko believes that the most perfect mechanisms for this are laid down in Presidential Bills 6675 and 6674, which take into account the proposals of international partners, defenders and representatives of society. In fact, this is a way to remedy the shortcomings of the Law on Prevention of Corruption and to introduce transparent reporting by public organizations on income and expenditure. Despite the emergence of a series of drafts aimed at distinguishing the electronic declaration from that of a public organization, only the Presidential Bills have the conclusions of the Venice Commission. In view of the fact that our Western allies have been distracted before the issue is resolved, we should not take risks by adopting decisions that are written at the last moment. The faction of the Party of Peter Poroshenko will continue to support the drafting of the Presidential Bills, on which we have focused Parliament's attention for the last eight months. Although it must be acknowledged that alternative bills, such as 8209-1, have the right ideas, which, along with the recommendations of the Venice Commission, can be made into the final edition of the presidential initiatives for the second reading. It is equally important to support Bill 8120-1, which continues the deadline for the submission of declarations to representatives of public organisations by 1 July 2018. Such a step will give Parliament time for effective drafting of the Presidential Bills and will protect representatives of public organizations. Next. In recent weeks, the pro-Russian lobby in the EU has resumed discussions on the construction of the North Stream, and not only talks, but also actions that threaten the energy, economic and military security of our state. In view of this, the faction of the Party of Peter Prashenko is convinced not only of the need for Parliament's decision on the North Stream but also of the completion of the reform of the diplomatic service. To this end, it is necessary to finally adopt appropriate legislation that will provide the home diplomatic corps with modern mechanisms to effectively protect Ukraine's interests in the international arena. It is worth noting that no less important national security bill awaits consideration. The Peter Dustenka Party faction has consistently and relentlessly supported all initiatives to strengthen Ukraine's security and integrate our nation into the security space of the Western world. And finally. A month ago, the Supreme Council adopted Bill 7466 in its first reading, strengthening the protection of intellectual property rights. The faction of the Party of Peter Prashenko is already looking at this plenary week to consider this bill on second reading, so that the new mechanisms of protection will work in Ukraine as quickly as possible. Obviously, without reliable protection and copyright, our state will not be able to fully integrate itself into a civilized world. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-03-m0.u11	Thank you, Mr. Arthur. From the "will of the people" group is invited to the words of the national MP Labazük. You're welcome, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-03-m0.u12	Dear Mr. Head, colleagues, dear Ukrainian people! The expected spring heat coincided with the boiling point of the electronic declaration. What is common to national MPs, ministers, hundreds, thousands of government officials has become an insurmountable burden for anticorruption officials. The end of the world did not happen, most of them were declared, but for some part it was a problem. The public sector does not accept this approach, and this has resulted in reputational losses for the state. Parliamentary Group "The Will of the People" for incorporating the harmonized bill into the agenda and for its first reading 8209-1. And at the same time, colleagues, we have to close this question and not go back to this story, not make the same mistakes. So less politics, more action. You have to accept a quality document and put dots on it. Equally important in today's agenda is the issue of Bill 7403-2, which needs to be considered and supported immediately. What's the point? I repeat to those who have not fully understood how important this is for the agricultural sector. 7403-2 fully returns VAT compensation when exporting oil crops. This bill has been considered and developed by a professional committee supported by associations, the public, the agricultural sector, and it is that social justice for the agricultural sector. Agrarians are full of promises. Instead of preparing for the sower, they are forced to go out on strike today, to rally, to show their position, to regain their right. Colleagues, if we don't get this wagon out of place today and we don't accept Bill 7403-2, then the most powerful processors will get the surplus, and thousands of agrarians will lose at least 16 to 18 billion dollars at least, and they'll have to think again about how to survive. And for the rest. I don't want to thicken paint, but today's raiding is a cancerous tumor for the Ukrainian business. Think about it, just over the past year, experts from Business Worth have calculated and shown that more than 500 raids of various businesses have taken place in Ukraine. About 50 companies are heavily employed by professional gangs that carry out raids, technology, assets, and human lives on a threatening scale in an agribusiness complex. Not only can this paralyze our agricultural sector but it can also undermine the authority of the external markets and the investment attractiveness of Ukraine. The problem is that there's a lot of gaps at the legislative level that make it possible.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-03-m0.u13	Let me finish. 30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-03-m0.u14	We work together with business and the public sector to eliminate them. I would like to remind you that there is already a bill 8121 in the session room on anti-riding in the agrarian sphere. However, we will not stop at this. Last week a meeting was held on the basis of the district government with the participation of state institutions, power structures, the public, and the agrosector. And we worked together on the plan.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-03-m0.u15	Thank you, Your Honor. Thank you for your performance. And I'd like to invite you to speak with the group "Rebirth" of the national MP Victor Bondar. Please, Mr. Victor.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-03-m0.u16	Thank you, Your Honourable Chairman, Your Honorable Friends. You know, I think the whole country is already watching and understands that in recent years, in the pursuit of credit, our authorities are fulfilling any requirement of creditors, and we are essentially seeing destruction in the first place in the Ukrainian industry. What does this say, and what does this have to do with it? In summary, this is going to be a big problem in terms of labour migration, because when there are no jobs, all young people, skilled personnel leave the country. This suggests that there is no economic basis to increase wages, to increase pensions, to make the country's investment attractiveness and so on. So our faction of the Rebirth Party requires a review of this policy, a review of economic policy and a decision to launch a new economic policy on the industrialization of the country. Look what happened to industry in the last year. The constant change in fiscal policy has led to the fact that tens of hundreds of searches in all businesses, the constant fight against tax evasion and so on. In energy, gas tariffs have grown almost 2.1 times in just four years, electricity tariffs 2.4 times. Compared with the countries of the European Union, our tariffs for industry in Ukraine are now more expensive than in Germany, Belgium, Lithuania, Romania, the United States, France, and so forth. What competitiveness is there when there are such crazed tariffs in relation to the Ukrainian industry? Look at the National Bank rate of 17 percent. Look at the lending of credits that the State is doing today on domestic government bonds, which is 18 percent. This suggests that cheap loans for industry exist in the country under such a policy of the National Bank is essentially not possible. So our faction proposes and registers a bill that is discussed with all industry. Many conferences were held, a meeting with the Ukrainian Association of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs. And we propose to support this bill in the hall, which proposes an economic recovery programme for the Ukrainian industry. This is about preferences and protection of Ukrainian domestic production. This is about cancelling the land tax under production, under industrial objects. This is about the cancellation of customs and excise duties on imports of new equipment for factories and businesses in Ukraine. This is about lowering the income tax for companies in the training of qualified personnel. This is about cancelling VAT during government purchases for state-owned enterprises, for Ukrainian businesses. And that would give the preference 20 percent for our domestic production. So we ask the government to support our proposal. We propose to hold a joint meeting with the government on this issue and to review Ukraine's economic policy, to launch a new industrialization policy for Ukraine, these are jobs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-03-m0.u17	Thank you. Last performance in our faction block. Please, Julia Timoshenko, leader of the Fatherland faction, welcome to the floor.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-03-m0.u18	Good afternoon, dear fellows! When you came to the Supreme Council, I'm sure you've seen the people roaring under the Supreme Council. First. These are united right - hand forces that have come up with enough action today against the fact that the clan system of governance and the clan system of corruption continues to prevail in the country after two revolutions. And we support in this right-wing force. Similarly today, the Supreme Council gathered from all over the country of agriculture. No word is said today that they have been blocking roads for weeks, that they have no opportunity to run their businesses, and that they have been deprived of their employment rights through their regular budgets and laws. They're waiting for Bill 7403-2, but Parliament doesn't even raise that question. If there is a Parliament and it's a bit of a social situation today, we are obliged to invite agrarians to the Conciliation Council, to listen to what they want. They chose this Parliament and they have the right to hear the answer from you. We insist that Bill 7403-2 be heard and voted in this room. And there's a story going on with the motorists who got back together at the Supreme Council without finding a way out. But what's important is the show that's now being shown on all television channels, like all factions at the same time want to cancel the electronic declaration for public activists. Everyone talks about what needs to be undone, the President insists, the Prime Minister insists, the Chief of the Supreme Council insists, the faction leaders simply tear out the embroidery and say cancel. But it's a lie. Deception, because today the committee that had to draft bills to abolish the electronic declaration for activists met, the quorum was, but the committee’s head did not appear. I think it's totally random. That is why we are now asking Parliament to take the basis of Bill 6271-d, which was passed by a committee that is included in the agenda. Join him to all the faction leaders who want to cancel this, complete with a paragraph on decriminalizing what kind of violations have been committed, and immediately, right now, remove the electronic declaration and decriminalize, remove criminal liability from the public.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-03-m0.u19	30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-03-m0.u20	That's when the whole country, our friends in the world will see that it's not a lie that faction leaders declare from the rostrums, including the Chief of the Supreme Council, that's a real thing. So we ask you to take a break, look at this situation, and accept it. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-03-m0.u21	Thank you. So the factions are finished. I want to report again that I have given the commission to the committee to meet immediately. Now I'm going to draw up a written commission so that there won't be any variations on this. Let me remind you one more thing, we can put a day session in order without a committee, but there's got to be a committee to consider. And so now, after the first question that is in order of the day, on the pension insurance of persons released from military service, I'm going to propose to the hall to include in the order of the day's session bills 8120, 8121, 8209, 8209-1. And once again, I have an immediate commission to convene a decision-making committee on those bills. I'm sure there's plenty of time on the committee to make that decision. Now we move on to the first question of the agenda. And after that, I'm going to suggest that we put the day-to-day issue of cancelling electronic declarations into order. Colleagues, in order for us to work more effectively, I'm going to ask that we consider the first draft of the law for a reduced procedure, and I hope that all of them will support me, given the importance of the issues that follow. In addition, I would like to inform you, colleagues, that during the day I will be proposing to vote on the issue of the elimination of disagreements in the text of the adopted Ukrainian Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Code on Administrative Offences and Some Other Ukrainian Laws on Foreign Security. This is the technical regulation that ended up in the adoption of the law. This decision does not need to be discussed. And I have a request for all factions to be able to get to know him, and it was handed out to all factions on the previous Thursday. For the record, I ask you once again, registration number 5442, read this clarification to the law so that when we put it to the vote, everyone knows and understands what we are voting for. 5442, I'm asking all factions to hold consultations so it won't be a surprise. I now propose that we go to the draft Act amending article 30 of the Ukrainian Act on the Pension Insurance of Persons Released from Military Service and Some Other Persons” concerning family members who are entitled to a pension in the event of the loss of a breadwinner (No. 5366-d). And I'm asking the room to support the consideration of this bill by a reduced procedure. Can we keep it up, colleagues? Please vote and please support. Vote. Please be supportive. [[10:39:16]] For-162 Decision taken. And I invite you to the report of the Ukrainian National Deputy Teteruk Andrija Anatoliyovich. Please, Mr. Andrew.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-03-m0.u22	Dear Mr. Head! Dear fellow national MPs! Dear Ukrainian people! We can see that there are usually different thoughts in the session room regarding such or other matters. But it is obvious that our sessional room is being consolidated around matters of national security or the strengthening of the social protection of military personnel and their families. Likewise today, I am convinced, we will vote for the restoration of justice by adopting Bill 5366-d, in which. The bill corrects absolute injustice when, in article 30, paragraph 6, of the Ukrainian Law on the Pension Insurance of Persons Released from Military Service, as well as some others, we need to exclude the words “except students and listeners of military educational institutions and educational institutions of the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Public Fire Protection”, thereby restoring justice in the payment of pensions to family members, in this case to students and listeners of military educational institutions and institutions of the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine and the State Fire Protection in the event of their loss of a breadwinner. The Chief Scientific and Expert Authority of the Supreme Council does not object to the adoption of the bill because it guarantees equal entitlement to receive pensions in the event of the loss of a breadwinner. I ask you to support the adoption of the bill as a basis and as a whole as a law. Thank you all very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-03-m0.u23	Thank you. I invite the co-report of the National Security and Defence Committee of Vinick Ivan Yuliyovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-03-m0.u24	Good morning, dear fellows! Well, really, it's a technical project. Article 30 of the Ukrainian Law on the Pension Insurance of Persons Released from Military Service and Some Other Persons will be amended. I really don't. I don't know what the reasons are for excluding the categories of students of military and teaching institutions and educational institutions of the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, the State Fire Department. The language says that social protection is provided when a caregiver is lost. Why these categories didn't fall, I don't understand. So, really, my colleagues and I prepared a project on the committee. We propose to vote on the basis and in general, and to establish the principles of social justice for all categories of citizens or families who have lost a breadwinner. Thank you for your support. We're working.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-03-m0.u25	Thank you. Please record: two in, two in.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-03-m0.u26	From Peter Poshenko's Block, Ruslan Knazevitch. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-03-m0.u27	Good morning, dear colleagues, dear Mr. Head. The Petra Prashenko faction will certainly support this bill. We have consistently supported this idea, and those drafters of the People's Front faction bill that bred it, they, including, agreed to this idea with the faction. Therefore, the faction has no objection that we should accept it as a basis. And we will continue to prepare our vision actively for the second reading because we have a whole range of suggestions that we will ask for in the second reading procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-03-m0.u28	Thank you. From the People's Front, Igor Lapin, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-03-m0.u29	Good afternoon, dear fellows! I'm pointing out to the hall that we need to mobilize and stop this, you know, chaotic movement in the hall. The fact is that we are all very concerned that we have defenseless categories of people who need to be supported and who have lost their breadwinners, including as a result of the various events that take place in our country, including the result of the war. So, your honors, the People's Front votes in favour. The Peter Dusty Block has just confirmed that they're going to vote in favour. I call on all other factions to join the vote and support the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-03-m0.u30	Thank you. From the Self-Help faction of Semimenach Roman Sergiyovich. Shepherd, right? Please, Taras. Out of the way.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-03-m0.u31	Taras Shepherd, Self - Help. The Self-Help faction will support this bill. And for the sake of the economy of time, I only want to say one thing: this is really a technical omission in the previous amendments when the issue of the social protection of our military personnel was being considered, and this issue had a chance to be settled long ago. But recently there have been several changes to this legislation, and the authors have been forced to redraft the bill. In the way that it was introduced into the hall today for the purpose of further economics of time and in the session hall, and in order for the issue of social justice to be resolved more quickly, we offer to really support it both in the first reading and in the second reading, as well as in general. Therefore, everyone’s request is also supported by the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-03-m0.u32	From Fatherland, please, Alona Skrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-03-m0.u33	Alona's splinter, Fatherland faction. Colleagues, what's this bill about? Let us listen carefully. It is proposed to correct truly absolute inequality and discrimination when children who are students or hearers of military establishments of the Ministry of Internal Affairs receive pensions in the event of the loss of a breadwinner who was a civilian, such as a father. And if their father or breadwinner was military, they have no right to any pension insurance for the loss of a breadwinner. Clearly, this is a totally unjust, wrong situation in our legislation and clearly needs to be corrected. But I have a simple question for both the profile committee and the coalition, and for all of us: why do we have these situations, why do we not have a systematic view of the change in terms of at least the military, their children, the veterans, then the pensioners for the loss of such breeders? Why are we making points? We're forced to correct our mistakes all the time, to miss things. One law we make without reading, after a reduced procedure, another law we then correct. Well, unfortunately, this situation, it's not lonely, we see it very often, in regulation and in the status of military personnel, veterans, their children and atos. Well, it's totally unacceptable in these important national security, for national defense, and in general to raise some patriotism of the bill. So the Fatherland faction systematically is that we have one vision for all the social benefits for the military, for the veterans, for their children, and for this system of vision, it has some expression in the single legislative base or in the only law, if possible, so that we don't have to be so quick to adopt bills, and then correct mistakes and correct discriminatory positions. Well, as for this bill, we've made a decision that we rarely adopt, that we can support, and generally, because it's a very important thing, we have to correct mistakes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-03-m0.u34	Thank you. Let's get started. Okay. From the Opposition Block, Yuri Pavlenko from the site, and then Sergey Melniczuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-03-m0.u35	The honourable chairman, the honourable colleagues, in our view, is not just a technical project, because it refers to the lives of specific children, specific young people, specific families. Regrettably, this bill is an example of the Supreme Council's consideration of laws without general consideration, and of the reduced procedure, and then there are errors that lead to injustice in relation to the entire category of people. The opposition bloc will support both on the basis and in general this bill, because it guarantees equal rights to receive pensions in the event of the loss of a breadwinner to all students, students and others. At the same time, I turn to the Ministry of Social Policy for immediate solutions to injustices against children who have suffered from military action. During the year of the order you approved, only nine children were granted this status, with UNICEF talking about 580,000 children.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-03-m0.u36	Please let me finish. 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-03-m0.u37	Hundreds of children have been injured, 19,000 children are now living on the line of separation, and 12,000 are being bombed or shot every month. Instead, the Ministry of Social Policy continues to cynically ignore the rights of children affected by military action. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-03-m0.u38	Thank you. Now, colleagues, there will be a closing statement. In two minutes, the vote will take place. That's why I'm asking all the people's deputies to come to the hall. Heads of factions, please invite deputies to the Hall. And I ask the Secretary of the Supreme Council to invite members of the House. It's 1 minute, Sergey Melniczuk. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-03-m0.u39	Good afternoon, dear colleagues. Sergey Melniczuk, non-fractional. The bill really needs to be voted on in general, but we forget about volunteers on the other hand. We recently celebrated a volunteer’s festival, but many volunteers died. This is the Right Sector, this is Carpathian City, and many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, They did not serve in the Armed Forces, nor did they serve in other divisions, military formations. But the dead, many of them. Let's say there's a specific number. They too need not be forgotten, so let us unite and not forget this category of citizens too.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-03-m0.u40	Thank you. My colleagues, please, I can see that many are not in the hall or are not in the workplace. I'm asking everyone to come into the hall, take jobs, get ready for the vote. Colleagues, please. And the heads of factions please invite the deputies to the hall. The committee representative Vinick Ivan, one minute, and we're making a decision. Please come into the hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-03-m0.u41	Colleagues, as a representative of the committee, would like to respond to a comment that we have heard from the Fatherland faction about the need to organize in general all the social benefits that exist today in the security and defence sectors, the law enforcement authorities in relation to military personnel, law enforcement officers and members of their families. It seems to me that it is time for us to develop and implement a specific code of social protection for Ukrainian veterans, military officials, and members of their family, where we can unite, analyze everything in this direction, and record once and for all, so that it is clearly understood. This, on the one hand, will bring legal certainty into these processes, on the other hand, definitely enhance both the prestige of the service in the army and in the law enforcement agencies, and guarantee the protection of members of their families. It's important on the front, it's important when performing law enforcement functions. This strengthens respect for the state, for the citizen, and protects his future, and for the members of his family. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-03-m0.u42	So let's move on to making a decision. Please take your seats, prepare for the vote. And I put to the vote the draft Act amending article 30 of the Ukrainian Act on the Pension Insurance of Persons Released from Military Service and Some Other Persons” on family members who are entitled to a pension in the event of the loss of a breadwinner (No. 5366-d). I first put to the vote the committee's proposal to adopt the law as a basis and as a whole. Please vote and please support. Let's vote, colleagues. Please be supportive. [[10:53:01]] For 282 The law is passed. Welcome to the developers. And, colleagues, right now, I've warned you that a very short introduction of rights (colleagues, be on site) will remove disagreements in the text of the adopted Ukrainian Law on Amendments to the Code of Ukraine and some other laws of Ukraine on ensuring the border security of the state. A technical error when we adopt a bill that we now have 30 seconds to correct. I ask Andrew Kožemiakin to explain briefly. And I ask everyone to prepare for the vote. Don't leave the hall! Stephen Barna, come back. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-03-m0.u43	Good afternoon, dear colleagues. The Supreme Council of February 27, this year, passed the Act amending certain laws of Ukraine concerning the security of the border State (No. 5442). During the preparation for the signature of the text of the Act, it has been found that its individual positions do not fully comply with the provisions of the new Ukrainian Law on the Constitutional Court of Ukraine. In accordance with article 131 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s Rules of Procedure, a proposal is made to correct such inconsistencies or disagreements. In view of what has been taught, such refinements have been sounded. First. In paragraph 1 of section I, in paragraph 13, the second paragraph reads as follows: in the paragraph “State Border Service bodies (Parts II, fourth and fifth of article 85, article 92, part 4 of article 185 with a badge of 3, 185 with a badge of 10, 191, 204-2042, 205-2061)” paragraph 1 of the first part of the figure “204-2042”, “205-2061” replace the digits “204 with a badge of 1, 206 with a badge of 1. Paragraph 6 and 7 put it this way. To supplement paragraph 23 of this sentence: "23rd: officials of the Ukrainian Security Service (article 203 with 1, 204 with badge 4)." In paragraph 14, the words and digits "parts one, second and third of article 185 with the 3rd badge should be replaced by the words and digits "parts one and two, and third and fifth of article 185 with the 3rd badge. All of it. Thank you. Please support and vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-03-m0.u44	Thank you. Let's move on to making a decision. Once again, these are technical clarifications, I hope the whole room will support them. So I put to the vote the proposals I have tabled to remove the disagreements in the text of the adopted Ukrainian Law on Amendments to certain Ukrainian legislative acts on ensuring the border security of the state. Please vote and please support. Let's vote, colleagues. Please be supportive. Vote. [[10:56:21]] For 245 Decision taken. And now, colleagues, attention! I'm putting the agenda of the day session and the decision-making of the bill block on one topic, because by one vote. This is draft Law 8120, draft Law 8121 – the author of Herasimov, draft Law 8209 and 8209-1, where the authors are the majority of the heads of the factions of inclusion in the agenda for decision-making today. So, colleagues, please prepare for the vote, please take your seats. Please prepare and take up jobs. So I'm voting for inclusion in the agenda for decision 8120, 8121, 8209 and 8209-1. Please vote and please support. Let's vote, colleagues. Please be supportive. Vote. [[10:57:35]] For 208 208, obviously not all of them were oriented. Colleagues, this is the Bill Block, and I emphasize where the authors are both the Supreme Council Head, and the head of the Peter Poroshenko bloc, and the head of the People's Front faction, and the head of the Self-Help faction, and the head of the Fatherland faction, and the representative of the Rebirth Group, colleagues. We just didn't get it right. Take your seats. Don't leave the hall. Please take your seats. Not all of them were orientated, apparently. I ask you to prepare for the vote now. I'm saying who are the authors of the laws. So, my colleagues, I'm sure they just didn't. I ask everyone to prepare for the vote and take up jobs. And I once again put to the vote the proposal to include in the agenda of the day session for the adoption of today's draft laws 8120, 8121, where I am the author of Arthur Gerasimov, 8209, 8209-1, where the authors are Parubia, Burbak, Berezuk, Timoshenko, Pisarenko. Please, colleagues, support the inclusion in the agenda of the day session for decision-making. Please vote and please support. Colleagues, every voice matters. I'm asking everyone to be in the workplace. Please vote and please support, colleagues. Vote. Please be supportive. I'm sorry to vote. Vote. [[10:59:31]] For 199 Show by factions. Show by factions. "Block of Peter Poshenko" – 64, "National Front" – 64, "Resistance Block" – 0, "self-help" – 19, Radical Party – 1, "Fatherhood" – 19, "will of the people" – 2, "Resurrection" – 10. Colleagues, let's talk for a minute. In a minute. All factions per minute. Please, Arthur Gerasimov, one minute. Turn on the microphone from Arthur Gerasimov's location.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-03-m0.u45	Dear Andriy Volodymyrovich, distinguished colleagues, we now see the inclusion in the order of the daily laws of 8120, 8120-1, introduced by the representatives of our faction, and we will support them. With regard to other bills, I have just received advice from the members of the regulatory committee, from our faction that voting by packs and many people is not clear how to include four bills at once. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-03-m0.u46	Please, Maxim Burbak.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-03-m0.u47	Dear colleagues, I call upon the entire House to vote in favour of the inclusion in the agenda of those bills that were signed yesterday by the Head of the Supreme Council, the People's Front, the Fatherhood, the Self-Help and the Vice-Speakers, because it is a matter of concern to everyone, that has ruined society. Let's correct our mistakes that we made, secondly, let's not drag down the blanket of political dividends from each other and call on our colleagues from the BPP faction to also support a bill signed by their coalition colleagues. The People's Front faction supports the inclusion of the committee's day-to-day review and will also vote in favour of all the bills that propose the removal of the declaration from public officials, as well as foreigners who work on the supervisory boards. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-03-m0.u48	Thank you. From the opposition block of Dudenkov. Yeah? Please, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-03-m0.u49	Dear Ukrainian citizens, you are now witnessing a political game that takes place in the plenary hall, when the heads of some factions that join the coalition seem to be calling for a vote, but they vote in half, that is, they don't vote. The position of the opposition block faction is that we don't support the legislative initiatives mentioned, because we think that this is a violation of the principle of equality, and those who control anti-corruption should also submit electronic declarations. And I'd like to add. Andrew Volodymyrovich, you promised not to violate the Rules. This is a re-voting, this is a violation of the Rules. Please follow the law.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-03-m0.u50	Let me remind you that putting the vote in the agenda of the day session does not limit the Rules to any number of times. Show me the norm, please show me the norm, and we'll talk to you professionally, not in slogans. All right. And you don't have to go back, of course. So, from Self-Help, Oleg Barresuk, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-03-m0.u51	As we can see, the words are different and the actions are different. Public organizations that monitor corrupters from power are a real threat to the oligarhat. A real threat. Thus, there is great opposition, hatred, and vengeance in this room. These bills need to be put into the agenda and voted on, this is an honour of the Ukrainian State. Because we are persecuting people who, without access to the government budget, control those who, with access to the state budget, steal it, not in the interests of the people, but in the interests of their own pockets. These bills are to be voted on today.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-03-m0.u52	From the Radical Party, Oleg Valeriovich Ljashko. From the rostrum, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-03-m0.u53	Dear colleague Berezuk! You and I have different ideas of honor. Because our faction believes that the honour of the Ukrainian state is to make sure that the Ukrainians do not go abroad. The honour of the Ukrainian state is that Ukrainians receive decent salaries and pensions. The honour of the Ukrainian state and the duty of Ukrainians to treat their children in their own country, to put their children on their feet, and to see the future in their own country. What a task, responsibility, and honor of the Ukrainian State! What you're proposing is a policy of double standards, it's a policy of covering up grants, it's a policy of external governance, and it's a policy of losing the sovereignty and subjectivity of the Ukrainian state. In America, the harshest legislation when one of our deputies hired lobbyists in America, the lobbyists reported that they were paid $60,000 a month for lobbying. Why should there not be such a report in Ukraine? Why Ukrainians have no right to know who orders music and.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-03-m0.u54	Thank you. From the Fatherland faction, Sergey Sobolev. Then there's Victor from Rebirth. From the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-03-m0.u55	Again, they did not get a sense of direction. As far as you can go, Mr. Herasimov, I'm addressing you. You weren't informed when you voted in favour of the amendment you were introducing by electronic declaration, you weren't informed when the President was advised to sign the law, instead of vetoing it. You didn't know when you were lying to ambassadors, to international funds, telling me how you were going to correct that amendment. And you weren't getting your bearings again? We knew you weren't coming back. Because that's your policy, because you're covering up officials who are supposed to make declarations, and you're demanding these declarations from those who are checking out thieves and thieves in this country. That's why your faction wasn't oriented again. You're on the right path to hell with your president.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-03-m0.u56	Gerasimov's replica. From place to place, yes. Please, out of the way.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-03-m0.u57	Dear colleagues, you know, when we all tried to adopt these bills in this room on March 22nd, those who are now more than anything have just walked through Parliament's meetings. And when certain factions, less than two out of ten deputies voted in favour of these bills when they were needed, there is no need to switch from a sick person's head to a healthy person right now. That's the first one. And the second. Let us not make double standards, we have the Supreme Council Rules, and I remember many times when it was from this faction that we were told what we should do according to the Rules. And look closely at the Rules, as in the Supreme Council sittings, drafts are included in the agenda. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-03-m0.u58	Victor Bondar, please, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-03-m0.u59	Dear colleagues, you certainly see in the vote, our faction supported this bill, it votes because it understands that a degree in society needs to be reduced, and it is not possible to translate Ukraine's policies instead of considering economic issues into a weekly discussion of fighting anti-corruption. Although, of course, in the entire civilized world, especially in the powerful countries that think about their national security, the activities of grant eaters would be under special control. In our view, a standard could be introduced, for example, that if the level of acquisition of property or human income is more than a million per year, a declaration could be introduced to explain where these funds come from, what they come from, and what it's doing inside the country. But understanding the degree in society, we today support this bill, we vote in the first reading, and we provide an opportunity to solve the problem in order to relieve the tension in society. So, darlings, let's think about national security for the future and still make decisions today.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-03-m0.u60	30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-03-m0.u61	Today we are taking off the tension, and in the future we need to think and control the coming of the huge financial resources for people who in Ukraine form information space and form people's opinions in terms of Ukraine's future, because it can really be an external influence. But today we vote to relieve the tension, although it is not our problem, but a problem that the authorities themselves have created and do not know how to solve. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-03-m0.u62	Thank you. So, colleagues, please come into the hall. Now it's a line. After that, there will be a vote, and in one minute there will be a vote. I ask all the national MPs to come to the hall and prepare for the vote. In a minute, there will be a re-voting for inclusion in the agenda of the day session. I'm asking everyone to come into the hall. Please, Oleg Berezuk's line, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-03-m0.u63	Ladies and gentlemen! Honor is when people chosen by the people serve people, not those who pay them money in their pocket from the oligarchic income. Honor is when we vote for bills that bring money into the budget to pay minimum wages and pensions, not those bills that allow oligarchs to export ore, clay, gas, oil and money to leave in offshores, that's a disgrace. So I urge everyone here to be honest with people.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-03-m0.u64	Thank you. Colleagues, I am addressing all the national MPs who are in this room to put aside political emotions and political opposition. When we talk about these bills, and I remind you, these are four bills, including Arthur Gerasimov, and a bill signed by several factions, we have a goal, I stress, to abolish e-declaration for public figures, for many of those social structures and activists who may not even know their duty and who today may face criminal responsibility. We also aim to free and decriminalize those foreigners who came to Ukraine to help the Ukrainian State during reforms. And I stress, on the air, in public statements, everyone will claim support for those bills. I very much ask you now to mobilize and support the inclusion of the day session in order to make a decision. I would very much like to see public statements not run counter to real action, otherwise it's not politics, otherwise it's Byzantineism, it's not European politics, it's what we say about our European development. That's why I'm asking everyone to take responsibility, and I want to say the question of canceling the e-declaration of foreigners is the position of the government and the Prime Minister, canceling the e-declaration is the position of the President of Ukraine, who clearly declared on Friday that he was in favour of canceling the e-declaration and canceling those rights. This is the position of both the People's Front and the Fatherland and Self-Help, we are total 280 deputies in those factions. Let's, colleagues, mobilize and vote. I'm asking everyone to take up jobs. I ask everyone to vote responsibly. There is already a committee chairman who is ready to consider these laws on the committee. We need to put them in the order of the day session. So each voice. And I am proposing the inclusion in the agenda of today’s session and the adoption of the decisions of Law 8120, Law 8121, 8209, 8209-1, where the authors are representatives of five factions, and Deputy Chiefs of the Supreme Council, and Head of the Supreme Council. I'm asking you, colleagues, to vote carefully now. Please take up your jobs. Please support and vote for inclusion in the agenda for the decision-making session today. Please vote. I'd like your support, colleagues. Please vote. Vote. I urge all my colleagues to support and vote. Vote. Please be supportive. [[11:13:43]] For 203 Please include the factions. "Block of Peter Poshenko" – 64, "National Front" – 65, "Occupy Block" – 0, "self-help" – 21, Radical Party – 1, "Fatherhood" – 19, "will of the people" – 0, "Party of Rebirth" – 11. Colleagues, do you mean to exchange your thoughts again? Let's talk for a minute, let's talk about something else. Please, Arthur Gerasimov, one minute. Please, Mr. Arthur.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-03-m0.u65	Dear colleagues, I would like to remind you that more than 8 months ago, the President of Ukraine submitted to the Supreme Council a bill concerning the abolition of electronic declaration. Maybe someone doesn't like it because they're walking the meetings of the Supreme Council. But what I want to say right now is that the Ukrainian President's drafts are already on the agenda and today they stand for the vote right after that. So the position of the Peter Prashenko faction is constant and consistent. We support the abolition of the electronic declaration in the context of the Presidential Bills of Ukraine, which are the only ones to have the conclusions of the Venice Commission, and to which we can go right now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-03-m0.u66	Thank you. Maxim Burbak, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-03-m0.u67	Dear colleagues, I urge you to lower the level of tension in the session hall, deal with all the bills that were registered before that were signed yesterday by the Speaker of the Supreme Council, the People's Front faction, the Self-Help faction, the Father's Motherhood, the Vice Speakers. And we invite our colleagues to join these bills, so that this decision to correct the unfortunate mistake they made eight months ago is shared. So once again, I urge everyone to vote in favour of the inclusion of a daily bill signed yesterday and submitted for consideration by the Supreme Council. Then we'll discuss whose bill is best. And finally, let's do what we're here for today -- free the public actors who fight corruption, free the declaration, and the foreigners who work on the supervisory boards of our entrepreneurs. Thank you. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-03-m0.u68	Thank you. Igor Šurma, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-03-m0.u69	Igor Shurma, Opposition Block. Dear colleagues! Dear National Deputies! Parliament is, first of all, to respond immediately to the painful points that are in society today. Please tell me, an urgent review of these bills at the request of other states, is that the most painful point for Ukraine? Did you go to the hospitals for a long time? Have you seen how many drugs there are? People are dying. Where's the money from the budget? There's no $10 billion from abroad. We demand that, as a matter of priority, we stop clearing our territories and destroy our people. Instruct a decree on the report of the so-called Minister of Suprun, declaring her work unsatisfactory. May your coalition, which today has become a terrarium and absorbs, devour each other, take responsibility for it, and for what is done in medicine. Don’t do comedy, ask ten questions about those who engage in corruption, or pay them legal money, or don’t.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-03-m0.u70	Thank you. I'll remind you, there were three votes. And, colleagues, let me tell you, the international dimension is also very important. And I remind you, 100 years ago, when Ukraine was burning in war and we didn't have the support of our partners, we were defeated. And today, when we stand against the Russian aggressor again, we need the support of a civilized world. And today the international aspect of this law is also important. And I'm asking you now, Oleg Lazko, one minute. I'll give Jaroslav. One minute Easy.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-03-m0.u71	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. I'm talking to the Ukrainians now. Dear Ukrainians, do you want a president who will be led by foreign embassies? Do you want the authority that will walk like a god all over the world, to get married, to collect loans that will then be impossible to repay? Do you want Ukraine to be ruled by people who care about the interests of Ukraine, who teach their children abroad, who are being treated there, who keep the offshores there and what interests they have there, and Ukraine for them is a territory to make money and collect accounts. I don't think any of you want that kind of president or authority. We want to have the President and the power that will be exercised by Ukraine and that will serve exclusively the Ukrainians. We barely breathed a dictatorship from the east, and now we are forced to dictate from the outside and from the west. I don't care where this dictatorship comes from, I want Ukraine to be an independent, sovereign state, not a colony run from the outside.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-03-m0.u72	Thank you. From "The Will of the People" Moskalenko
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-03-m0.u73	I want to point out to my colleague at the People's Front, it wasn't a pity mistake when we introduced e-declarations for public organizations, which was the position of the Ukrainian Parliament. And if anyone asks themselves today whether we need to cancel the e-declaration or not, I want to tell you, go to the village and to the village deputies and village councils and ask whether you want to do it or not. So, a lot of MPs are coming into the "will of the people" section right now and they're saying, "Well, support the difference between this and you." We'll support the difference. Let's make a law in a package: e-declaration for public organizations and for the deputies of rural and rural councils. "The will of the people" will give 100 percent of the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-03-m0.u74	Thank you. Colleagues, I'll give it to everyone, just listen to me carefully. The idea is that we put 8,120 and 8,209 separately, so that we can put it separately, and maybe that'll give us the votes. Consider this idea, perhaps it will give us a voice. Please, Oleg Berezuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-03-m0.u75	As friendly as for electronic declarations for those who struggle with oligarchic corruption, you voted 10 minutes before the adoption of the budget for the theft of agrarians for 10-15 billion? Didn't you think you'd go to the village? They didn't. Because you were thinking about a billion dollars that went into the Supreme Council. Dear colleagues, this is the rematch of the oligarhat, it's the revenge of the oligarhat to those who have shown their true innermost self. And the second. We have to figure out, we want to live in a Western civilization, where there's transparency, there's accountability, where there's understanding, who's making money, not stealing from the budget, whether we want to be part of a despot that's always destroying and destroying people, stealing from the budget, making them poor.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-03-m0.u76	From Fatherland, Ivan Krulko, and then Victor. And this will be the last performance, final. So I ask everyone to come into the hall and prepare for the vote. Please, Mr. Ivan.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-03-m0.u77	Ivan Krulko, "The Fatherland" faction. You know, I remember the time of Maidan when these public activists who exposed the corruption of Yanukovich today expose the corruption of today's government -- the Dusty, all its scrolls -- expose it, honestly do it. Then Janukovich fought them. Now the ones on their backs are fighting to take power after Maidan. Here's what's happening right now. And cynicism is when they say from all screens that we're in favour of cancelling the electronic declaration, and then the head of the BPT faction, which says right now, I'm not voting for that in favour of putting these bills into the agenda. Arthur Gerasimov, this is already, you know, going beyond anything! Then don't talk about it! Well, the Radical Party is voting against it, so it's voting against it. And you vote against it if you don't mind. Don't fool the people. Don't fool our international partners. And don't fool yourself. And the last thing I want to say to you is, dear colleagues. Do not include God in the order of the day with him. Bill 6271 of the authorship of Yulia Timoshenko is included in the agenda.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-03-m0.u78	30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-03-m0.u79	And national deputies from different factions. Please vote on this bill with one amendment to Transitional Positions: Enter decriminalization if you have not submitted an electronic declaration in time. Period. And we have a draft bill that actually corresponds to 8209 and 8209-1. You don't have to include anything extra here. If that doesn't work, we go into the order of the day that we have written down and we solve this problem. Because at first they're made, and now they're pretending to be heroic about it.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-03-m0.u80	Thank you. I want to let you know. I'll give you a line. I want to report that we have the following bills 6271 and 6674. After the discussion. I got it, I got it. After the discussion, I'll put in 8,120, 8209 separately. If they don't pass, we'll move on to the next issue of the agenda. Please, Victor Bondar, and then the line is Arthur Gerasimov.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-03-m0.u81	Dear friends! I want to see Ukraine rich and rich. I want to see professional ministers. I want to see a professional government that clearly understands what it's doing, where it's moving the country. And I want to see that in Ukraine, first of all, there's an economic policy of its own. I don't want to see a country that walks like a beggar around the world asking for money from foreign creditors. I do not want creditors to impose on us the requirements that we have to do. But we are conscious of ourselves and are constantly being caught up in what we are about to do, and we are constantly being forced to do what we need to do and when we need to do so. It's okay if we accept this bill now. This will relieve the tension, and this will finally make it possible for us to get out of this crisis. What we're talking about is we've been losing weeks to talking nonsense instead of looking at the government's activities, what they've done in four years, the sums of reforms and so on. So we demand, let's end this blasphemy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-03-m0.u82	Thank you. So this is Arthur Gerasimov's replica, one minute. Then we vote. And I ask everyone to come into the hall and prepare for the vote. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-03-m0.u83	Dear Andrew Volodymyrovich, distinguished colleagues! You know, in Parliament, and wherever you are, you need not only to talk, but sometimes to listen. At times, it is not just listening but hearing what is said. So once again, the President of Ukraine, not yesterday, not night, but eight months ago, passed a bill repealing the electronic declaration to Parliament, and the faction of the Peter Prashenko Block will support it. I would also like to remind my honourable colleagues that it was also the House of Peter Poshenko that passed the Bills of 8120 and 8120-1 on expulsion, and we will also support them. So let's get together, colleagues, about what's already been introduced, what's got international conclusions, and what's going to happen today in the hall. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-03-m0.u84	So, colleagues, now I'm putting 8120, 8209 separately, if no decision is made, we're going to go to the next question, this is Law 6271 and Law 6674. So now I ask you to prepare for the vote. And I'm voting for the day-to-day session to decide today's drafts of Laws 8120 and 8120-1. Please support, please vote, vote. It's a delay, it's a delay. [[11:27:03]] For 225 Once again, I'm putting the day session in order to take decisions 8120 and 8120-1. Please vote, please support. This is an extension, these are the laws of Gerasimov and Leschenko. Please vote. [[11:27:34]] For 219 I now put to the vote the inclusion in the agenda of the day session for the adoption of decision 8209, 8209-1. 8209-1 is a bill signed by representatives of five factions, which provides for the abolition. I emphasize, and once again, he foresees the only one who foresees cancellation and decriminalization, colleagues. And this vote, I think, is going to be fundamental and decisive. And I ask you to support the inclusion in the agenda of the decision-making session: 8209 and 8209-1, by my authority as Head of the Supreme Council and representatives of the five factions. Please vote, please support. Vote. Please be supportive. [[11:28:33]] For 190 The decision is not taken. And we're moving on to the next question of order of the day. We won't talk anymore, colleagues, position, I think we understand. And we're moving on to the next issue of the agenda -- this is the bill amending the Ukrainian Anti-Corruption Act on the characteristics of financial control of individual categories, 6271 and 6674. It's a law from the same block, on the same subject of cancelling electronic declaration. And I'm asking you to support his consideration of the reduced procedure. Please vote, please support. Vote. [[11:29:25]] For-141 We're going in full procedure. We didn't make it. Once again, colleagues, I'll put 6271 and 6674 on short notice. Please vote, please support. [[11:29:56]] For-143 No votes. We're going in full procedure. And I invite you to report to the first reporter, National Deputy Krulk Ivanovich of Ukraine. Please. The report from the copyright team will be Julia Volodymyrna Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-03-m0.u85	Dear colleagues! I want to start with the nature of this phenomenon. Because when each leader of the faction spoke from the rostrum, it was virtually incomprehensible to people who were right, who were wrong, what they were fighting for, what they were fighting for, an electronic declaration could be reversed for all. Many people who are watching the broadcast now simply don't understand what it is. And so I'd like to make it very clear right now what's going on in the room, in society, between our friends in the world and the Ukrainian authorities. The point is that when corruption in Ukraine has reached such a limit that it is impossible to enter foreign diplomats' offices, foreign leaders, not to be asked, and when corruption is stopped at the highest level in Ukraine, when it is understood that neither the President nor the government nor the power structures are fighting corruption, but there are those who are leading it, the participants, then, apart from the opposition political forces in the country, public officials, leaders of public organizations that are engaged in anti-corruption activities, their collectives, and friends of Ukraine, who are helping Ukrainian civil society to fight systemic corruption, which is now practiced in Ukraine. And in fact, public figures, those who are systematically fighting corruption today, have started this fight because both Ukraine and the whole world have started with the mouth of our young, and young people are now engaged in this anti-corruption activity, and young people have become a major threat to the President and his corrupt environment. And in fact, it was decided that these young people "take their throats," eliminate their rights and opportunities as a civil society to fight against the corruption of the President and his environment, as well as other senior officials of the state. And there's actually a great deal of experience in previous presidents, such as Yanukovic, to destroy civil society. Dustenko has now taken over all strategies and tactics, and it is at the hands of the President-in-Office of his faction, his "cash majority" in the Supreme Council, that has begun, practically war against our young people, who are fighting corruption. And then they almost unanimously, this majority, passed a law that, by electronic declaration, introduces a system of political repression against public actors who fight corruption. So it wasn't really a transparent reporting system, and it was a package, like taking our young people's throats, our activists. And they did well because on April 1, such declarations had to be made, but this so-called e-declaration system for public activists fighting corruption has also involved active people outside Ukraine who have become members of the boards of directors of these social organizations to help young people and protect young people. This is the world-renowned international actors who have become close to our anti-corruption civil society. And they are also affected by this system called transparent electronic declaration. And that's why right now in this Supreme Council, the question in society is whether they're going to get rid of political repression by voting in this room of public activists who are fighting corruption, which has taken over the entire country, which is destroying the lives of Ukrainians today, or whether they're going to stop these political repressions, that's what this is about. And that's why it looks more shameful in the hall today. Because the leadership of the Peter Prashenko faction publicly on the air, publicly stated from this rostrum that they were behind the abolition of such a form of political repression against anti-corruption activists as a fairy electronic declaration. They said they would vote. What's going on in the hall now? When these laws are taken into account in the day-to-day order or are put in place in order to actually cancel the electronic declaration as a tool of repression against public activists, the Petra Poroshenko Block gives a little bit more than half of the faction. This means that from the rostrum they say they're for cancelling the declaration of public activists, and the voices give just as much so that it doesn't go through in the hall. This is called the great manipulation and great deception that is now wearing on the head of Ukrainian society, including all friends of Ukraine outside it. It's shameful, humiliating, it's an open deception that everyone sees today. And that's why the daily bills are not included in order, which would cancel the electronic declaration of public activists as a mechanism of repression against them, and would cancel the criminal responsibility of public activists for doing something wrong. Because if these laws are not voted on today, mass repression will begin against our young, the best young people in our country, who are taking an active life position that is supported by the democratic world and that can really affect the decline of corruption in our country. And because they didn't include those bills, which, by the way, submitted by the Chief of the Supreme Council, Andrey Parubi, are also signed by virtually all the factions that support the abolition of such an electronic declaration against public activists. It's not included in the agenda, and that means we need to find a way out now. The way out, we suggest. There is Bill 6271-d, which is also supported by most of the deputies in the Chamber, supported by the leaders of the factions of democracy, is also supported by the Venice Commission, as opposed to the President's bills. Here, this bill cancels the electronic declaration against anti-corruption activists, and in fact, there is one important element missing: the abolition of the criminal responsibility of these activists, which allows them to be dealt with. And that's why we're proposing in Bill 6271-d to include an additional paragraph that I now want to read for the transcript, and to vote on it in general. Paragraph: "Set out who are exempt from administrative and criminal responsibility for failing to comply with the anti-corruption requirements of the Law on Prevention of Corruption, concerning the submission of a declaration of persons authorized to perform functions of State or local self-government: firstly, representatives of public associations, scientific institutions, educational institutions, experts of appropriate qualifications, other persons who are part of a competitive commission established pursuant to the Ukrainian Law on Service in Local Self-Government Authorities", the Public Council of Goodwill, established in accordance with the Ukrainian Law on Justice and the Status of Judges, public councils, the Council of Public Controls, established under the State bodies and participating in the preparation of human rights decisions, the preparation of the Ukraine, the evaluation of the implementation of anti-corruption programmes and at the same time, are not persons set out in paragraph 2 of the first paragraph of the Act. And two. Natural persons who receive funds, property within the framework of Ukraine's project programmes, technical or other, including non-refundable assistance in the area of anti-corruption, both directly and through third parties or any other means envisaged by the relevant project programme, systematically perform work over the year, provide services for the implementation of standards in the field of anti-corruption policy, monitoring."
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-03-m0.u86	30 seconds to complete.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-03-m0.u87	We can finish, can't we? "the monitoring of anti-corruption policies in Ukraine, the preparation of proposals for the formulation of such policies, if financing, the payment of such services is provided directly or through third parties at the expense of technical or other persons, including non-refundable assistance in the field of anti-corruption prevention, are managers or are part of the higher body of the other bodies of the administration of social associations, other non-entreprehensible societies that carry out."
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-03-m0.u88	Let me finish. 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-03-m0.u89	".to prevent corruption, to implement standards in anti-corruption policy, to monitor anti-corruption policies in Ukraine, to prepare proposals for formation, to implement such policies and/or to participate, to take action to prevent corruption". If the law in general is passed with such an amendment, it liberates public officials from the political repression of Dustenka. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-03-m0.u90	Dear Mrs. Timoshenko, I ask you to return to the rostrum. Now, according to the Rules, there are questions for you. Dear colleagues, I ask you to sign up for a question to the rapporteur from this bill. First question, Mr. Restless.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-03-m0.u91	Dear Julia Volodymyrna, you wouldn't be able to recall, and as was voted out, where did the problem arise when this amendment was introduced, as those factions voted, present here, that's why. If I'm not mistaken, since March of last year. So who created this problem that Parliament is now trying to solve?
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-03-m0.u92	First of all, it is obvious that Peter Poroshenko and his immediate corruption environment are at the forefront of this whole strategy, including those young people who are fighting corruption, as well as those who are under his control in this room, who, first of all, are now sabotaging this issue, and secondly, have voted massively for the introduction of such a repressive declaration against public activists. They said it was a mistake, with the head of this faction. But in fact, the pension reform was also a mistake, and the tariff hikes and all the budgets that were adopted were a mistake. So if all of this is a mistake, it might be better to leave office and go away so that other people can correct these mistakes and make no more of these mistakes.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-03-m0.u93	Please have a question from Natalia Wesselova.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-03-m0.u94	Please pass the word to Vladimir Ariev.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-03-m0.u95	Please ask Vladimir Ariev. Please, Mr. Volodymyr.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-03-m0.u96	Thank you very much. I have one question about what happened on March 22nd. For example, I was absent from this room because I was on an official mission signed by the Head of the Supreme Council on the line of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe. We heard from you that you were on an official mission to Jerusalem. I have a question then. At that time, in principle, we were able to resolve the issue and not discuss it today. But then tell me, please, who signed your official ship if the Chief of the Supreme Council didn't officially sign you? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-03-m0.u97	The invitation was signed by the Jerusalem Patriarch of the Orthodox Church, and I was there on his invitation, with great respect for this man. But I want to contact you, Lord. You know, I remember you as a person who represented civil society as a person who, in fact, tried to keep some moral boundaries. I would like to advise you, in my opinion, on an important detail, to return to the Lord of that period and become the real Lord, as I remember him, you know. And do not conform or adjust to the formats that are destroying the country today. I want to see you as I have remembered you since 2005.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-03-m0.u98	Thank you. Please. What? What was there. No, I beg you not to mention the presidency. That's the first one. And second of all, I'm asking you to answer the questions, not switch to personalities. I'm asking you to transfer the right now. No, I'm giving it now. Colleagues, please, we're taking time to ask your questions and the answers of the reverend Julius Volodymyrna. Please, Mr. Eutuszek, your question.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-03-m0.u99	Sergey Eutuszek, "The Fatherland" faction. Well, I guess I'll tell the entire Ukrainian people that we're now seeing what a cynical pharisaic position the President of Ukraine is also calling for a vote, and the faction of his name doesn't add up at all, out of 135 deputies in all, 49 votes. Here's the answer to whether they're ready to support it. Not ready for one simple reason: that it is these young people who are fighting the President and his environment with the corruption they are doing while in power. And the question, Julia Volodymyrna, is this to you. Mr. Gerasimov spoke of the findings of the Venice Commission. Please tell me, what are the conclusions of the Venice Commission, and is your authorship also the conclusion of the Venice Commission, and what is it? Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-03-m0.u100	That's an absolutely right question. Because the two bills tabled by the President, as it were, that he thus wants to abolish the reprisals against civil society by electronic declaration, actually further reinforce the repression against public figures. And that's why the Venice Commission didn't support the bills passed by the President. On the other hand, by openly naming the 6271-d bill, she supported a bill introduced by that part of the deputies and leaders of factions who were willing to lift political repression from public figures. And that's why when they manipulate the words that the Presidential Bills were supported by the Venice Commission and, more faithfully, they passed the Venice Commission, not to say, the Venice Commission against the laws of the Dustenk. This is very important. And I'm asking you to pay attention. And to support Bill 6271-d with that paper that she read for the stenographer.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-03-m0.u101	Thank you, Reverend Julia Volodymyr. It's time to ask you some questions. Please return to your workplace. Colleagues, we're looking at two bills in a package right now. And for the presentation of the following bill, 6674 is given the floor to the representative of the President of Ukraine at the Supreme Council of Irina Stepanovni Lucenko. I beg you, Mrs. Irina, to your report.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-03-m0.u102	Dear colleagues! Dear Mr. Head! Your attention is drawn to the proposal made by the President of Ukraine and defined as an immediate draft of the Act amending certain legislative acts to ensure public openness about the financing of community activities and the use of international technical assistance. This bill aims to improve Ukraine’s anticorruption legislation and regulate legal issues related to public disclosure. In order to achieve the stated goal, the bill proposes to abolish the need to make declarations to individuals who receive funds, assets, as part of Ukraine's technical and other assistance programmes in the area of prevention and anti-corruption. Establish the responsibility of public associations in statutory cases, ensure that information about financing their activities is made public (condition: if the annual income exceeds 300 living minimum). To determine the conditions for nonresidents not to be subject to the anticorruption law requirement of Ukraine on issues related to conflict of interest prevention, a restriction on the value of gifts, NAMC information on the opening of a nonresident bank’s currency account, and substantial changes in property status. It is also proposed to establish that information with limited access to the declaration of a person who is a foreigner and a nonresident will be information about property, assets, liabilities and rights outside Ukraine. NAZC will ensure that foreigners and non-citizens can be entered into the single register of English declarations. In addition, in order to protect the rights, freedoms and interests of citizens, public or public interests and legal persons protected by law, legislation is proposed. The bill proposes that criminal responsibility be established for the disclosure by the head or members of NAMC, the official or official of his limited-access information apparatus. Taking into account the above and taking into account that the implementation of the proposed provisions will help bring Ukraine's legislation into line with international standards on the activities of NGOs, please support the legislative initiative of the President of Ukraine and adopt Bill No. 6674 as a basis. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-03-m0.u103	Thank you, Mrs. Irina. We understand that your report to the bill has been completed earlier. I'm asking you to sign up for a question to Bill 6674. Please, Mrs. Wojcietzka. Oleni Sotnik, questions, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-03-m0.u104	Thank you for being able to ask questions. Olena Sotnik, Self-Help faction. I have this feeling that, of course, we've been very, very involved in horses, people, corruption, public figures. I remind you that the fight against corruption is the control of the assets of those who have access to authority or budget. Public officials have nothing to do with this. But in connection with this specific bill, I have a question to answer. Tell me, what is this, a specific bill, first of all, different from a bill that was, more specifically, a law that was passed by the Russian Federation on foreign agents? And the second question. Please explain to me the need for a declaration, such as by public officials, or by individuals, and by NAMC information on the increase in their assets or the opening of accounts in foreign institutions. If they are just as natural persons as anyone else have the same rights under the Constitution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-03-m0.u105	Please, Mrs. Irina.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-03-m0.u106	I'm answering. During the drafting of this Bill and Bill 6675, they are bound by these bills, taking into account the international experience used by the United States of America, Britain, they are a little far from Russia, Spain, Italy and other countries where public organizations and the management of public organizations that receive technical assistance, international or state aid, and are engaged in related activities, including the fight against corruption, are using an expanded 15-page report. Here's an example. In the United States, 990IRS is used to reflect the income of organizations exempt from income tax, 12 pages of a detailed financial report. In Britain a declaration is also used for the reporting of nonprofit organizations.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-03-m0.u107	Let me finish one minute, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-03-m0.u108	Reporting. The financial reporting of nonprofit public organizations on page 15 is used in Italy, a requirement for reporting. In Spain the accounting rules for nonprofit organizations were adopted by Royal Decree No. 776 in 1998. Recommendations on the legislative status of non-governmental organizations adopted by the Committee of Ministers of the Council of Europe, not Russia, on 10 October 2007, and fundamental principles on the status of non-governmental organizations in Europe, not Russia, in Strasbourg in 2002 were also taken into account. These documents say that public organizations get any form of government from the state.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-03-m0.u109	Thank you. I think you'll be able to add in another question. And I'm sorry, I'm giving you more time to answer, because Mrs. Irina has saved her time in her speech and has the right to answer more carefully right now. Please, National Deputy Abdullin. National Deputy Abdullin, you have the floor for the question.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-03-m0.u110	Please pass the word to Leschenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-03-m0.u111	Please, Sergey Lechchenka, give me your word.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-03-m0.u112	Thank you. The question is based on why we should spend our precious time in Parliament to correct the foolish, not even the mistakes, but the targeted scenarios for the destruction of democracy in Ukraine, when we oblige anti-corruption officials to report the same way that officials do, because it is a total dungeon on the part of the Russian Federation, the Foreign Agents Act. And I wanted to ask you, Mrs. Reporter. Why did you personally press the pro button a year ago as head of the President's faction for this bill, for this amendment, number 12. And I want to take this opportunity to apologize to the speaker for mentioning him yesterday as the one who voted. He didn't vote. Mr. Parobius did not vote in favour of this amendment, but you were voting. Why did you do that?
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-03-m0.u113	Please respond. The only thing I should have said was that Mrs. Lucenko is not the head of the faction. [[B in m in s a l in]] No! No! Mrs. Lucenko, please. was not the head of the faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-03-m0.u114	Mr. Leschenko, I have not been the leader of the faction for a day. So please study more closely the direction of the faction from which you do not want to leave, stay, and water it with dirt. You're probably afraid of losing your mandate by covering up the faction that you're now watering with dirt, and the President that you're representing in the Supreme Council. That's the first one. The other one. I've just explained to the self-help faction representatives, Oleni Sotnik, why we want to oblige public organizations to report: because this is an international practice. Next, it's not a matter of identifying foreign agents, it's a question of transparency to the Ukrainian people. And technical assistance, I remind you, Mr. Leschenko, is not specifically given to our fighters with corruption, to children who speak, technical assistance is provided to the Ukrainian people. In the face of other countries, which support our state, taking into account.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-03-m0.u115	30 seconds, complete. 30 seconds, complete.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-03-m0.u116	In view of this, Ukrainian society should know where public organizations are spending these costs, from which countries are coming this technical assistance, for which purposes this technical assistance is being spent, who is working with this technical assistance, because it is money not specifically for individuals, but for the non-profit public organisations that are engaged in this relevant activity. That's why it's proposed because.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-03-m0.u117	Thank you, Mrs. Irina. I want to remind you that the question was given by the unreliable information that Mrs. Irina was the head of the faction, the answer was that she was not. Question time's up. Dear colleagues, thank you. We do. Question time's up. [[B in m in s a l in]] 30 seconds, please. Then it will be. Mrs. Irina, there'll be a right to a line. I'm asking you, as chairman, to put a dot here. I. [[B in m in s a l in]] No! No! I'm continuing with Mr. Chairman for 15 minutes, and we'll give it to you. No, it's all right. We give our word to the presiding officer.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-03-m0.u118	Colleagues, it's 12 o'clock. We're not going to be able to look at the law anyway. I suggest 12-12:30 recess and resume consideration after recess. So, colleagues, 12 o'clock, I'm calling it a 30-minute break. At 12:30 we will continue to consider the law, there will be statements from factions and groups, and then from deputies. And you're on break. [[Noise Nodes]] At 12:30, I ask the committee head to be in the hall at 12:30. We're closing up. 12:30 a.m. - Continue our work. I emphasize, committee head, report, 12:30, please be in the hall to resume our session.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-03-m0.u119	Dear colleagues, we are continuing our meeting. Now we're still looking at two. [[B in m in s a l in]] I remember everything. I don't have sclerosis yet. We've got a replica of the place, please. Now. Dear colleagues, we are continuing our meetings. We're looking at Bills 6271 and 6674. Requires a word on. The right not to reprise Sergei Leschchenko. Please turn the microphone on. Out of the way, Sergei. Sergei, please, out of the way, please. Well, the lines are out of place, aren't they? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-03-m0.u120	Good afternoon. Good afternoon, Ukrainians. You know, today Parliament is considering an issue that really shouldn't have been considered at all. It's the Anti-Corruption Revenge Act. We spend precious time simply clearing up this disgraceful norm, which is completely written out of Russian, Putinian, foreign agent laws. And you can see how much it costs to clean up this standard. Still, her corrupt elite won't clean up. This is the vote that was a year ago. And you're going to see all the names of the ruling elites who have adopted this law with one goal: to take on those who expose today's corrupts, those who steal money from the budget. And they want these people to be under investigation now, because they're used to using state authority as a personal nurse. And that's why these passions are in the hall, and that's why they happen to me, because I don't keep my mouth shut, and I try to do everything I can to save the government money and make it available to all citizens, not a few families who use power as a caterer. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-03-m0.u121	Dear colleagues, we continue to consider the bill. And now, according to the Rules, the word for co-reporting is immediately followed by two bills: both 6271 and 6674 -- giving the first deputy head of the Committee on Prevention and Anti-Corruption of Corruption to Yuri Savchuku. Mr. Yuri, please report on two bills. Please. Complete procedure, you have 10 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-03-m0.u122	Good afternoon, dear fellows! Your point is to propose the bills that were. These are for the consideration of the Supreme Council. The Committee considered the draft Act amending the Final Provisions of the Ukrainian Law on the amendment of certain Ukrainian laws on financial control of individual categories of officials" (registration No. 8120), submitted by the Ukrainian National Deputy Lechenko Sergey Anatoliyovich, and the alternative to that of the amendment to Chapter II of the Final Provisions Act of Ukraine on the amendment of certain Ukrainian laws on the financial control features of individual categories of officials" (registration No. 8120-1), submitted by the Ukrainian National Deputy Gerasim Arthur Vladimirovich, and decided to recommend that the Supreme Council of Ukraine accept it as a basis and as a whole. The bill calls for the extension of Chapter II of the Final Provisions of the Law of Ukraine "To amend certain laws of Ukraine on the financial control of individual categories of officials" by submitting electronic declarations to co-workers of anti-corruption bodies, namely: Bill No. 8120 proposes to postpone the submission of e-declaration for one year for co-workers of anti-corruption organizations; Bill No. 8120-1 proposes to defer to 1 July 2018 the submission of e-declarations for co-workers of anti-corruption bodies. At the same time, I think it is necessary to note that the alternative bill (registration number 8120-1) submitted by the Ukrainian national deputy Gerasimov received the greatest support during the committee vote among the Ukrainian national deputies.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-03-m0.u123	I'm sorry. Dear Mr. Yuri, I'm sorry, we're now considering Bills 6271 and 6674. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-03-m0.u124	Dear colleagues, the committee reviewed the draft Act amending the Law on Prevention of Corruption on the Financial Control of Individuals (Registration No. 6271), submitted by the Ukrainian National Deputies Timoshenko, Sobolev, Chumak and other Ukrainian National Deputies, and the Presidential Draft Law on Amendments to Certain Legislative Acts on Public Security for Public Information on the Financing of Community Activities and the Use of International Technical Assistance (Registration No. 6674). As a result of the review, the Committee adopted a decision that bills met the requirements of anti-corruption legislation and recommended that the Supreme Council of Ukraine accept them as a basis. The draft Law No. 6271 proposes not to extend the Ukrainian Anti-Corruption Act to citizens of activists, persons who receive funds, property as part of the implementation in Ukraine of technical or other programmes (projects) including non-reversible assistance in the area of prevention, anti-corruption, both directly and through third parties or by any other means envisaged by the responsible programme (project). The draft Law amends the Criminal Code of Ukraine, the Laws of Ukraine on Public Associations and the Prevention of Corruption with the aim of introducing transparent reporting of public organizations on income and expenditure to increase the openness of their activities. Draft laws (registration 6271 and 6674) contain provisions that regulate the same. one circle of questions and repeat the substance of the position regarding the regulation of the same relationship. So they're being looked at at at the same time. At the same time, it is suggested that the first reading of these bills should be based on the adoption of one of them and that the Committee on Prevention and Anti-Corruption should redraft the bills adopted, taking into account the relevant standards and regulations of the second bill, the observations and proposals of the right-holders of the legislative initiative, and that it should be brought to the attention of the Supreme Council of Ukraine in the second reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-03-m0.u125	Please remain in the rostrum. Dear colleagues, I ask you to sign up for a question to our reporter, who represents the committee on prevention and anti-corruption, and is now actually the head of this committee. I'm asking you to sign up for two drafts of 6271, 6674. Thank you. Please, Sergey Sobolev. Please, Mr. Sergey, they'll give you their word.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-03-m0.u126	Dear reporter, please tell me that you have examined on the committee two bills, the conclusions of the Venice Commission, which have clearly stated that the bill, which is sponsored by a number of national deputies led by Timoshenko, meets those requirements that are actually relevant to this bill. The Presidential Bill is considered to be one that does not meet the requirements of the Venice Commission. How could it be that you're supporting a bill that doesn't support the Venice Commission? Do you not listen and feel that our commitments made by Ukraine when joining the Council of Europe at the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe are not binding? You understand that the Venice Commission is actually an organ that is a conscience of the Council of Europe, and its recommendations take all countries into account. Is that not a mandatory recommendation for your committee? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-03-m0.u127	Thank you for asking. All the bills were discussed on our committee. The main objective and purpose of the committee is to review and conduct an expert study on the corruption of these bills in the first place. It was suggested that all the bills put forward on this issue be sent to the Hall for consideration. That's why the committee voted in favour and put these bills in the hall. Here, for the consideration of the hall, let the hall decide which bill is one that should be accepted on the basis and in general.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-03-m0.u128	Thank you. Next question from a respected colleague, Mrs. Jurinec. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-03-m0.u129	Please pass the word to Olga Belkovi.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-03-m0.u130	Mrs. Belkova, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-03-m0.u131	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. Reporter! Please help me find out which of the bills we have discussed include the efforts of the Supreme Council to also repeal the declaration requirement for members of the supervisory boards of state companies. Is this amendment already in one of the drafts? Was it discussed with you on the committee? And what is the attitude of the deputies on this matter on your committee? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-03-m0.u132	Please. Please, answer me.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-03-m0.u133	I'm not going to be able to give you an exact answer to that question right now, which is one of the bills. But in fact, not every bill in these bills gets one. It meets all the standards laid down in this bill. So I'm not ready to answer your question.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-03-m0.u134	Thank you. Please, the next question, Maxim Burbak, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-03-m0.u135	Dear reporter! Please tell the Presidential Bill to cancel the declaration for public officials and foreigners who are currently working on the supervisory boards of state enterprises. Please tell the committee's decision to support what issues are the issues that need to be worked out between the first and second readings? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-03-m0.u136	First of all, we need to understand clearly which organizations are going to be involved in this declaration and will report directly or not report directly. Similarly, these bills refer to the technical means that organizations will receive. And we today have many situations where the documentation acquired by these organizations cannot be accounted for because it is not properly documented because it is not properly documented and the technical means by which it is done are not properly documented.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-03-m0.u137	Thank you, Your Honor. Our time to ask questions has come to an end. Please return to your workplace. Ladies and gentlemen, in the context of the discussion of the two bills, I ask you to sign up for the statement by the MPs. Then we will have the opportunity to discuss the matter with the national deputies of Ukraine. It's from MPs and factions. Please, National Deputy Kuprienko. He's handing it over to our colleague Oleg Lazko, the leader of his faction. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-03-m0.u138	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Our team for transparency, not selectivity. For us, there is no problem in filling out electronic declarations, we voted in favour of introducing electronic declarations, we voted in favour of creating anti-corruption bodies, and we want a real fight against corruption. Not the propaganda and imitation of today’s authorities, but the real fight against corruption. And so there's no problem for us to fill out electronic declarations. I have a question about why those who claim to impose a daily order on Ukraine should not declare their income. You're proposing a bill to exempt people from declaring the income of foreigners who are members of the supervisory boards of public authorities. Naftogaz, operating on tens of billions of dollars, members of the Foreign Supervisory Board, don't Ukrainians have the right to know who in the Supervisory Board, who makes the decisions, how do we pay these cosmic tariffs? And take any other company. So if you claim to be members of the Supervisory Boards, if you claim to make decisions that affect the lives of Ukrainians, there should be transparency. So that your decisions don't go out in the offshors. Because when my esteemed colleague Julia Timoshenko asks when corruption will end in Ukraine, I think you know when corruption will end, as will every Ukrainian. When all the money taken out of the offshore is returned to Ukraine. That's a first for you. First step on the road to ending corruption. When will corruption end in Ukraine? When Ukrainians have a decent salary, there is no country in the world that has overcome corruption. Because poverty is a nutritious ground for corruption. And that's why we're fighting to raise Ukrainian wages, so that people don't go abroad, so they don't get married. When will corruption end? When we vote with you in Parliament and change the electoral law. So they don't spend 500 dollars or buy votes on a major. Corruption will end when state enterprises are not "active cows" for the political forces that put their people's leaders there to fund their elections. Corruption will end when Parliament adopts the Law on the impeachment of the President and on the provisional commissions of the Supreme Council to have real instruments of parliamentary control. And so that the person who holds the presidency is accountable and can be held accountable. Corruption will end when Ukraine ceases to trade cheap labour and raw materials, earning decent money by trading products and providing jobs for Ukrainians in their country. Here's the guarantee that Ukraine will be freed from corruption! Well, at last.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-03-m0.u139	30 seconds to complete, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-03-m0.u140	Finally, the restoration of justice. The real fight against corruption is the re-election of all judges and prosecutors, not the imitation of judicial reform by the authorities. And the last. The whole country is shocked by the scandal with anti-corruption prosecutor Cold. I propose that Parliament vote, call on the Parliament of the anti-corruption prosecutor, the director of NABU, the Attorney General, and consider this corruption scandal, which today discredits the fight against corruption and discredits it.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-03-m0.u141	Please, the next performance is Maxim Burbak. Mrs. Tetjana Blackwall. Mrs. Tetjano, we invite you to the word "The People's Front."
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-03-m0.u142	In fact, it is a great shame that we have been dealing with this issue for many days and today, especially so much. The point is, on April 1, according to the law, so-called anti-corruption officials had to submit declarations electronically, otherwise it was a criminal responsibility. And so it has happened that many so-called anti-corruption organizations have not submitted a declaration, counting on us today to vote and make amnesty to criminals, decriminalization, as it is officially called. So the situation is very embarrassing for our Ukraine. We had anti-corruption civil organizations in the country by April 1st, and now we have criminals demanding amnesty. Why did this happen? Why was the country to be so disgraced worldwide? Sadly, there are many examples of this. It's the stolen Danish money for e-declaration, it's the stolen American money for reforming the prosecutor's office by certain so-called anti-corruption organizations, it's the work of Yanukovic's lawyers, many years of blocking, the confiscation of Yanukovic's corruption funds into the state budget of Ukraine. Think of how many so - called anticorruption organizations were behind this. And a lot of, unfortunately, other things that really need to be talked about in public. But here I have to say, these organizations have done a lot of good. I thank them for, for example, giving e-declaration to all MPs right now. This is the right way, this is the path of transparency. Any basis for fighting corruption is transparency. So thank you to these organizations that we, MPs, are e-declaring. But I think that these organizations should also thank me for the amendments that I have been obliged to make these declarations, because these declarations of anti-corruption are their weapons, their authority, because they can only demonstrate their transparency and honesty, and they are the only weapons of anti-corruption. You know, it's not that simple in our country. E-declaration of so-called "anti-corruption" is an evolutionary way of developing anti-corruption. What do we vote now? We are now voting for the suicide of anti-corruption organizations. After we have voted amnesty to criminals, these amnesty criminals should not be given their hand. [[Applause]] That's it, that's the cross for life. But what should we do? If the suicides so require, vote for their suicide when they have activated such resources. They say they don't affect the state -- you see, they're Parliament already.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-03-m0.u143	Please finish 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-03-m0.u144	But you know, we're voting for their suicide -- it's also a choice. There will be a new birth, a new real anticorruption movement that will take an evolutionary course. But unfortunately, it's time. This body of suicide. Who has committed suicide will continue to "warm" in Ukraine for a long time. So at the moment, there are two ways for MPs to decide what to do -- the path of evolution, the path of suicide. Sadly, we are placed in such conditions that we should accept.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-03-m0.u145	Please. Thank you, Mrs. Tetjana. Please, from the will of the people, the people's deputies of the country are invited. Chessman's got the word. Please, Mr. Shahov.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-03-m0.u146	Dear colleagues, Madam Chairman, it has been four months now since the murder, indeed, of the man who fought corruption -- the head of the BP in the Lugansk region in the city of Severodonetsk, our colleague, MP Samarski. Please honor the memory with a moment of silence.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-03-m0.u147	Dear colleagues, please honor the memory of the murdered activist Mr. Samarski for a moment of silence. [[A Minute of Silence]] Please sit down and we all expect the law enforcement authorities to expose this resonant crime and other resonance killings. Please continue.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-03-m0.u148	Dear colleagues, we've been talking about corruption that we've been dealing with for 26 years. Corruption is a real murder when a woman is driven on cowboys, on the roads that officials steal from, they drive to do Caesar's and the child, and a woman dies. Real corruption is murder when a person has a heart attack and is fast. And the ambulance can't get him to the hospital, the person dies. Corruption is murder when people are shut off during the winter, when they turn off water, it's a vital need when they're shutting off electricity. The deoligarchiization in our country hasn't happened, and we're still talking here and in the middle of this room are the corrupts who cover those oligarchs. In each kitchen, people say that this light should be cut off and that there will be a folk illustration. In every kitchen people want this Supreme Council to fall apart, and immediately, and they want every death in every kitchen in Ukraine! Dear colleagues, let's get this over with. We've talked about e-declaration today, so every person has to make a declaration in our country to be transparent. And I support Jaroslav Moskalenko. I go to my country, to Luhansk, people begging, they come to my reception and they say, "Shakhov, when is this going to end? When will the Supreme Council finally come to its senses?" Therefore, I believe that immediate attention should be paid to the delligarchy that did not take place in Ukraine. Rats away from state monopolies! Rats away from gas, ratites away from electricity, and ratites away from water that we can't drink today! Today, infrastructure upgrades have not taken place either. What have we come to, Your Honor?Oh, my God! Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-03-m0.u149	The next speech is the People's Deputy of Doubenkov. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-03-m0.u150	Alexander Doubenkov, opposition block faction. Honorable citizens of Ukraine, honourable colleagues, what is this discussion about? The Supreme Council of Ukraine has already discussed 50 percent of its working time on the issue of freeing public activists from declaration. We, as the legislature, are called upon to defend the constitutional interests and rights of Ukrainian citizens. Are we doing this now? Does this issue concern ordinary Ukrainian citizens? Probably not. Are we good with the economy? I want to remind you that in the last four years, our exports have dropped twice, our GDP has dropped from $180 billion to $100 billion. We've got 300 percent devaluation of the bracelet. Is everything okay with the housing-communal tariffs? Do these problems concern Ukrainian citizens? No, it's not. Will the adoption of these bills somehow contribute to the fight against corruption? No, it's not. Because giving public activists electronic declaration is a further increase in the transparency of them in front of society. What's the problem anyway? Article 24 of the Ukrainian Constitution states that Ukrainian citizens are equal in their constitutional rights and obligations, and they are all equal before the law. So let's not break the Constitution and make one category of citizens who act as civil activists who are more equal to those who really should submit this declaration, and do, in fact, the economy, not the politics of any issue here.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-03-m0.u151	Thank you. I'd like to invite you to the speech of the National MP, Olena Sotnik, the Self-Help Association.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-03-m0.u152	The rhetorical question has been raised here several times: What is the problem? I'll explain what the problem is. Actually, there's a couple of them. First of all, she's selective. We're talking only about declaring activists in anti-corruption activities. Neither ecological nor economic nor legal, exclusively in anti-corruption activities. Why? The answer is very simple. Because "Schemes," "Our Money," Bihus.info ", "Following.info" and many other anti-corruption activists and programs expose the only ones in this country, expose what they really are. They actually live in power: their real wealth, their real assets, their real income. Only they, because neither the law enforcement system nor the investigation nor the courts are capable of doing so. And that's why they became the object and purpose of this bill. No one else. No other public organizations, including those involved in the political life of that State, are interested in this Hall. The second question. It's a question of pressure. Of course, those who speak the truth are hindering those who continue to enrich themselves. We need to find a way to shut them up. This is nothing more than a declaration. And after that, selective persecution of activists, those who will not remain silent. And they won't keep their mouths shut. And the last. It's a democracy. More specifically, pseudo-democracy, which is now trying to build a coalition. I would like to remind you that the principles of any democratic society are freedom and the possibility of control by public authorities. What you're doing right now, you're actually completely overstepping the ability of public organizations to do this. The Venice Commission did not simply conclude. The Venice Commission is following the rule of law and the principles of democracy in the country. And when it tells you that such a law is harsh and completely contrary to the requirements of a democratic society, it means that you're doing nothing but a despot. So, please, I'm asking the people's deputies right now, there are two very different bills on the table: one bill from the opposition forces that they're telling us that this disgrace needs to be overturned, and the other bill, the bill from the President, from the authority that says that we're just going to call it another electronic declaration. But this is nothing more than a continuation of pressure on public activists. So I call on you not to support the Presidential project and only to support the opposition force project. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-03-m0.u153	Thank you. And I invite you to the words of National Deputy Sergio Soboljeva, "The Motherland Union."
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-03-m0.u154	Dear colleagues, Janukovic is now sitting in Rostov or at Rublovka under his wing in Putin and he thinks, well, how would I have such a law to do with them in the distant year 2013. Where would those critics now tell us how to troll and destroy public activists? Where would you all be? But thank God that the nation changed, sadly, that authority did not change. And so when I'm reading two bills, Timoshenko's Bill and the Poshenko Bill, my hair is getting up. After all, Poroshenko has learned nothing, but he still thinks he will shut his mouth to public activists, journalists. It won't work. That's why our faction filed a bill that clearly distinguishes the two functions for which an electronic declaration was actually introduced. You have a bearing on the state's budget, you have a bearing on the administration of state institutions -- please give a declaration and report on why your assets are changing so dramatically. If your job is to be in opposition, and journalists should always be decent in opposition, they also criticized Timoshenko when she was Prime Minister, but that doesn't change our position in relation to journalists. They should be the ones who give the information first. Because if there were no journalists, would you and I have learned about the cases sold by the Attorney-General and the cases that are closed today, as if they could not be investigated? Would we know about those billion-dollar thefts? Now you want to shut them up? It won't work. They will declare, they will not declare. Any journalist who has a conscience who understands that his key call is to give objective information, to respond immediately to all the events that are taking place in the country, will do so whether you intimidate them or not. Janukovic failed to do so, and Dustyka could not succeed. That's why the bill prepared by Timoshenko and the "Fatherland" faction, along with the Self-Help factions and the MPs from virtually all other factions, provides the answer to a key question: Our position is to corrupt power, not journalists. So support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-03-m0.u155	Thank you. From Peter Prashenko's Block to Honcharenko's. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-03-m0.u156	Alexei Honcharenko, Peter Poshenko's Block, Odessa District. Dear colleagues, all of this. All of this discussion, which is now taking place, is demonstrating the main problem of our Supreme Council when any issue is being discussed exclusively in a political sense. All of it. Look, we want to solve the problem so that civil activists don't have to file declarations. Great. To this end, the President of Ukraine passed the relevant Bills 6674 and 6675. Why not vote for them? Now we hear the call "let's not vote for them, but only for these" -- why? Do they solve this problem? Yes, they do. After the adoption of these laws, civil activists should not submit electronic declarations. Period. We're solving the questions. Moreover, these are the only bills that have the conclusion of the Venice Commission, and others don't. We're told it has a note, in this conclusion of the Venice Commission. Great. We adopt laws in the first reading, and we can take all these comments into account in the second reading. That's why we've been pushing society for weeks to talk about what it's like to fight a young man who's trying to investigate power and so forth when we can take a vote now and just vote. And that's it, and put a dot on it. And move on to solve the social issues of doctors, teachers, pensioners, and the issue of Ukrainian infrastructure. Instead, the Supreme Council has been discussing for weeks whether to make a declaration to several hundred people or not? But let's say no, let's put a dot and move on. No, we see politics, we see politics, we see politics, we see politics, we see politics again, we see politics again, and we see lies. Because those who voted in favour of the introduction of these electronic declarations also have representatives of the "Fatherland" faction who is so indignant today and tells us that these are destruction, destruction, destruction. And their voices are there, and by their names you can see them. So, dear colleagues, I urge everyone to support the Presidential Bills. All those who don't support them will mean that these people don't want to solve this problem at all, they just want political speculation on it. So let's vote on the Presidential Bills after a reduced procedure for second reading, take into account the remarks made by the Venice Commission, and let's settle this issue once and for all. And we're going to do what people really do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-03-m0.u157	Thank you. Now, speak to the national MPs. It gives us nine minutes, colleagues, so we can look into it. Nine minutes for speeches by national deputies. We have a busy day’s order and a large number of laws, including local self - government and ecology. So I'm asking everyone for a moment, we've wasted too much time. So for nine minutes, please hold the record. Thank you. Rudik Sergey Jaroslavovich, please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-03-m0.u158	Dear colleagues, often in this room you have to blush for yourself and for that guy, you know, there's this saying, this guy is the guy who never came in on time for a session, that guy who doesn't go out on Wednesdays and Fridays in the hall, that guy who declares on all airs a desire to support a good cause, but then doesn't come into the hall for different reasons, someone goes out to the bathroom, someone goes out for some very important international action, someone else comes up with 25 reasons and doesn't vote. I have always called and called for personal responsibility for making a decision that is important to the State. You each have your own position on these bills, and so do I. I'm going to vote in favour of the president, not just the president's. There's nothing difficult about this, despite all the controversial points of view, if we deprive people who don't act as statesmen. At the same time, I think it's very appropriate to offer representatives of the People's Will faction to get rid of electronic declarations and MPs of rural councils. Because of this problem in so many villages, in very many, both Cherkaščina, and Kirovogradina, and Bukovina, rural deputies do not want to perform functions that are prescribed by law because they need to do the same thing that we want to do today, we call on, or vice versa, representatives of monitoring organizations. That would be very appropriate for many people. So I'm talking to the audience, let's vote for both of these bills, which will get more and become a valid rule of law, nothing will happen. If you don't want to vote essentially, let's postpone making the decision by 1 July, which is also an acceptable option, but let's stop referring to other people. I'm sorry to keep taking responsibility for myself and the guy who doesn't vote. We vote yes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-03-m0.u159	Thank you. Salovi Yuri Igorovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-03-m0.u160	Yuri Solovay, 89 constituency, Gutzulščina, and Pocust. Dear colleagues! Dear Ukrainian people, I've been in the fourth year as in the walls of the Ukrainian Parliament, and the fourth year I've heard about the fight against corruption. And you know, as far as we're talking about this fight, it doesn't get any smaller, but as far as I'm concerned, it gets bigger every year. And the worst part is, this fight against corruption is starting to cost a very expensive Ukrainian budget. I want to remind you that over the last three years we have created a series, by the way, on demand, including so-called anti-corruption workers, of a number of law enforcement structures that cost billions of Ukrainian budgets today. It's an NAB that costs 800 million dollars. This is the Specialized Anti-Corruption Prosecutor's Office, which costs 400 million dollars. This is the State Bureau of Investigation, which costs 800 million dollars. This is the Anti-Corruption Court, which costs 500 million dollars. These are other law enforcement agencies and so on. In sum, I've calculated that the Ukrainian state is spending more than 4 billion dollars fighting corruption today. Is that a lot or a little bit? We're spending 2 billion dollars on Ukrainian sport, that's twice as much on fighting corruption. We spend 100 million dollars on the treatment of oncological children, 40 times less than on the fight against corruption. We're spending 40 million dollars on supporting youth housing, a thousand times and a hundred times less than we're spending on fighting corruption. So, honourable colleagues, if you speak frankly and honestly and take populism out of this subject, if you want to fight corruption, let's remove the state from regulating social relations. We want to fight corruption in medicine, let's introduce insurance medicine. We want to fight corruption in pension insurance -- let's put in a build-up pension system that we're already talking about. We want to fight corruption in the public sector -- let's build up some courage and get into this hall and take down the moratorium on privatization of state-owned enterprises and sell state-owned property. We want to fight corruption in the land sphere -- let's eventually introduce the law and put the land market in place. This is real corruption. Not the fight, the pseudo-fighting that is being fought today by certain politicians with a view to achieving certain political goals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-03-m0.u161	Thank you. Mustafa Najem. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-03-m0.u162	Dear colleagues, there is a lot of talk in this room today about transparency. I'd like to remind you that we still don't have declarations from those people behind Rotterdam Plus. We don't have a Renata Ahmedov declaration that holds two factions in Parliament. We still don't have the Igor Kolomoysky Declaration, which we gave 157 billion people money to, and no one in this room asks for declarations. We don't have a Dmitry Firtash declaration that's behind the gas field, so far no one's asking for a Dmitry Firtash declaration. We still have no idea who we gave Yuszowka to, and no one has a declaration of the people to whom we gave Yuszówka. And most importantly, I have a question for those people here today who are demanding that these amendments be abolished. Please tell me, I will now have a question by name: Mr. Arthur Gerasimov, Mr. Maxim Burbak, the leaders of the BPT factions and the People's Front, Mr. Peter Poroshenko, Arsenij Yatzenuk, Irina Heratschenko, Irina Lucenko, Attorney General Lucenko, please tell me what happened in one year. A year ago you went out into these towers and shouted that it was a battle for justice, and that there were the right adjustments. Why do they now demand that they be abolished? They've been cured? Did something happen to them? No! No! It's a slave psychology, it's a slave power that needs someone from across the ocean or from the West to talk to them. And there's no difference between Yanukovic and them. Janukovic was waiting for guidance from Putin, who were waiting for Bayden or Han. I hope that the new generation that will come will take power in this country, will not look to the East or the West or the North or the South, and we will listen to our people, our citizens and our activists and make our own policies. If there are no brains in the head to hear their journalists and activists, then we really need to listen to someone from the West. And this is the humiliation of the country, the humiliation of this Parliament, of this power and all that has been done in three years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-03-m0.u163	Colleagues, two minutes -- and the closing statement by Melniczuk Ivan Ivanovich, and then I'll give the line. After John Melniczuk's speech, I'll give a line to Maxim Burbak. Please. And Irina Heratschenko's replica. In a minute. Please, Mr. Ivan. Turn on the microphone, Ivan Melniczuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-03-m0.u164	I sincerely request that you pass the word to Oleg Stepanovich Barney.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-03-m0.u165	From the rostrum, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-03-m0.u166	Praise Jesus Christ! As a member of the Anti-Corruption Committee, I make it clear that it is impossible to fight corruption selectively because selective fight against corruption is corruption. A selective electronic declaration does not help to fight corruption; it only makes it a movie. So when we're talking about public organizations, maybe our Western partners don't understand how distorted the activities of certain social organizations that receive certain funds work for orders that are agents of external influence. Public organizations that work for no use, free of charge, but at this time, they drive the activists on elite cars or take stock of the purchases. In addition, it is important to understand that a public organization like UNDP, which has made it possible through the pseudo-tender commission to win an electronic declaration system for a questionable company called Miranda, has resulted in a priceless electronic product and money stolen from the Danish government through an Estonian firm, through these pseudo-activists. So if we want to talk about the fight against corruption, especially those who now claim very much, I want to say that some of you have traveled to the holy land at the invitation of the patriarch, you've probably made a little mistake by confusing the patriarch with the runaway oligarch. But you are right to repent of your sins, to repent of your sins with Lazarus, to repent of your sins under the gas treaties, to break up the army, and to sell your weapons. I'm still addressing everyone, we all need to unite to fight corruption -- both society and power, and law enforcement, including public organizations. But under all circumstances, an honest person should not be afraid to fill an electronic declaration. The electronic declaration is afraid to fill liars, populists, and others.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-03-m0.u167	Thank you. Irina Heratschenko, two minutes and then Maxim Burbak, one minute. [[Noise Nodes]] It's not a replica, it's a performance. It's not a line, it's a performance. Please, Mrs. Irina.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-03-m0.u168	I always so stoicly listen to all the performances of your faction that I think you'll listen for three minutes, Your Honor. Okay? Dear colleagues, of course, in the session room we have deputies with very different memories and very different depths of parliamentary work. There are, for example, factions who don't even know who the leader of this faction is. And this is very symbolic of how they work in this Parliament. But there are MPs who can remind you of how this vote took place. And I want to remind you that the e-declaration bill is very important, very responsible had one terrible norm, it applied to Ukrainian military. And the first mistake the session room made when it didn't rule out at the first vote, putting really children, 19-year-old boys who protect the country on the border, on the requirement that they put up arms and run, fill in the e-declaration. I'm not going to mention how two years ago I was working on this site, when no one in this room, including a bunch of hot anti-corruption people, could fill it for months. And actually, then we were going to make our mistake with you, our mistake, because this law was imperfect, and we were going to consider the moment of an imperfectly working site. Well, raise your hands, who, for the first time then, two years ago, filled out that declaration. And give us a chance. A few people have been filled up, and I welcome you. But also allowing our military to fight, really children, they are children, at the age of 19, who have taken responsibility for protecting the country, and not to fill out a declaration at this time. When we made this mistake, we compromised the parliamentary system, taking into account the demands of one of the coalition factions and the MPs who took his stand here and voted in favour of this rule. In politics, it is vital that we be able to correct our own mistakes.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-03-m0.u169	Please add 30 seconds to finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-03-m0.u170	In politics it is very important to be able to correct your own mistakes and apologize and work as a team. Sadly, some have not learned this in three years, just as they have not learned the name of the faction in which they work.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-03-m0.u171	And the line is Maxim Burbak. One minute, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-03-m0.u172	Dear colleagues, you and I have heard a powerful speech by a specialist in slave psychology, who in three years has become a slave to the MP's mandate, who has been lying about the power here, sitting alone in a coalition, ruled faction, unable to get out of there, and telling us how honest and brave he is. So I can say that I am personally proud that I am on the People's Front team, which is the leader of Arsenius Yatsenuk, who in 2015, 2014 and 2016 did everything to create new anti-corruption bodies, everything to serve e-declaration deputies and to report to all society. And as for the Baydens and everyone else he mentioned here, I can remind you that you don't go out of America, you burn our country, and you don't give away a car. It's not an attack on anti-corruption workers, it's an attack on the freedom of all Ukrainian citizens. Repent, this is a terrible week, and stop eating each other! Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-03-m0.u173	So, colleagues, I'm going to explain the logic. The final words of the authors and the committee will now be made available. Then I'll put both bills to the vote. The committee concluded on the basis. And then. Attention! I've had political consultations, and I feel like we can make a decision about the suspension, that is, about Bills 8120 and 8120-1. And I, colleagues, will put this to a vote after this law. Some say that they do not fully understand the sequence, so I give advance notice. After voting for this law, I will once again re-enter the agenda for the adoption of drafts 8120 and 8120-1, Gerasimov and Lechchenka, which do not cancel, but end. And I think at least we can get out of this. I see. Learn this position and prepare for this vote. Now the closing word. From the author's team Ivan Krulko, then Irina Lucenko, and the committee is Savichuk Yuri. Three closing words, and then we go to the vote. Please, Mr. John, the closing word.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-03-m0.u174	Ivan Krulko, "The Fatherland" faction. Well, dear colleagues, we have two bills on the table. Both bills -- 6271 and Presidential 6674 -- were analysed by the Venice Commission. There's a conclusion. What does the Venice Commission conclude? 6271 solves this problem, solves it correctly, and has to be voted for. And there is Bill 6674 (presidential), which is criticised by the Venice Commission, which states that this bill and its adoption will make it even worse for the control and repression of civil activists and public organizations that are fighting corruption in that country. Let's choose. We're told beautiful things here. Why do we hear what the West tells us? There's no problem, but be as firm as you are when, at the request of the IMF, the tariffs were raised here, when, at the request of the IMF, the pension was frozen when, at the request of the IMF, people were pushed into debt. Be so principled here! When the earth. When a forest round wants to let go. Where, then, is your principle? Where, then, do you stand in the interests of Ukraine? Well, when it comes to punishing public activists to get revenge, then we are firm and should not listen to anyone. That's the logic. And it's logic that simply exposes the whole of Ukraine, it exhibits absolutely in an unseemly world, no one will want to talk to us, with that kind of power. And everyone will finally realize that only its change can change the way Ukraine is treated by the entire civilized world. And now, dear fellows, a very simple moment of truth. There are two bills -- we vote for them. The second bill, 6271, authorship of deputies, deputies from the faction of Yulia Timoshenko and other deputies from other factions solves the only problem. He returns what was before the amendment was adopted, and so that all of Ukraine can go on for so long. And second, he's decriminalizing those who haven't been able to submit these declarations. Period. This amendment, read by Julia Timoshenko, should be voted on. Put a dot on it. Stop making Ukraine laugh and "borrow eyes to Syrka," which we said we couldn't, we wanted, mmm so good. This is the moment of truth. Now, go ahead and do it! Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-03-m0.u175	To conclude, the representative of the President of Ukraine at the Supreme Council, Lucenko Irina Stepanovna, is invited to attend. From the rostrum, please. Saucyuk Yuri, are you insisting on the performance? No, it doesn't. Colleagues, there'll be a vote in three minutes. So I ask everyone to come to the hall and prepare for the decision. Please, Mrs. Irina.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-03-m0.u176	Dear colleagues! A venerable society! We're being told about a disgraceful amendment here, and I want to remind the whole community. Every day 35,000 military personnel are on the front line. These are the people, these are the young people that we've made this amendment to enable us not to declare our wealth and possessions. Because they are protecting the Fatherland and there is no way for them to have access to reliable, accurate, and complete information today. It's for the military. Thus, the question of the infamous release of our military personnel from the obligation to declare at that time is controversial. Next. I want to remind society, please go online. The e-declaration developers broke UNJA's money. Some company called Miranda, Yuri Novikov, who was brought across the offshore via Estonia and the United States, it was our fans of the United States who were going there, what Maxim Burbak had just talked about, that cost $140,000. These funds were used by public organizations to avoid making a normal register of electronic declarations where no testing and analysis function has been installed, where no servers and communication equipment have been transmitted. This tells you that public organizations must show where technical assistance is going to support and combat corruption in Ukraine. So, dear fellows, let's not make this up, the Venice Commission has made some slight remarks, on which we and the Reanimation Package of Reforms have already prepared these presidential bills for second reading. Bills are ready for second reading. You don't have to vibrate on the last day when you get to top-50 MPs who don't go to work. For eight months, bills were ready for second reading. Let's vote!
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-03-m0.u177	So, colleagues, let's move on to making a decision. I ask everyone to take up their jobs and prepare for the vote. I'm going to remind you that the two bills that we've been considering are the committee's decisions as a basis, and I'm going to put them first one, then the other as a basis. Which of them will take on most of them, and will be accepted as a basis. Then I'm going to make a proposal for a second reading on a simplified procedure. And then I'm going to re-initiate the agenda of the day session for decision 8120 and 8121. Got the logic, didn't you? So let's move on to making a decision. And I put to the vote the first draft of the Act amending the Ukrainian Anti-Corruption Act on the features of the financial control of individual categories of persons (number 6271), which was amended by the bill of Julia Timoshenko from the rostrum, based on the committee's decision on the basis. Please vote, please support. Vote. [[13:30:17]] For a hundred and The decision is not taken. Next. I am voting on the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Anti-Corruption Act on Financial Control of Individuals (No. 6674), the Ukrainian President's Bill and submitted by the President of Ukraine. The committee recommends that it be accepted as a basis. Please vote and please support. Vote! Please support me as a base. Please be supportive. [[13:31:03]] For-157. Colleagues, bill. [[B in m in s a l in]] I'll be back. [[B in m in s a l in]] Who's to go back to looking at those bills, please? There will be no more discussion, don't raise your hands, colleagues. So I'm proposing to go back to voting for those bills. Please vote, please support. To return. Please vote, please support. To return. [[13:31:48]] For 222 I'll do it again. So once again, I propose to go back to the consideration of Bills 6271 and 6674. Please vote, please support. Vote. Please be supportive. [[13:32:15.]] For 218. I'll put it again, third time, if there are no votes, we'll go to another bill. This is the third time I have put the motion to return to the consideration of Bills 6271 and 6674. Please vote, please support, vote. [[13:32:45]] For the 220. Guys, I'm the last one, I'm gonna put it down for the last time. I'll put my colleagues back on the committee if I don't. Please support the return to review 6271 and 6674, last time I vote, colleagues. Please vote, please support. [[13:33:24]] For 224 Colleagues, next position: return to the committee to prepare for the re-reading. Please support the proposal, return both bills to the committee for re-reading. Please vote, please support, vote. Please vote, please support the committee for re-reading. [[13:33:57]] For 223 Colleagues, let's not cancel the bill. I'm asking you to concentrate, colleagues, we're short three votes. I'm going to re-supply, send it to the committee to prepare for the re-first reading. I ask you not to disgrace the Ukrainian Parliament so that the bill is not repealed. I ask you to vote that both, I stress, both Bills 6271 and 6674 should be sent to the committee to prepare for the re-reading. I ask you to vote, colleagues, every vote I ask you to support, we vote, I beg you to support, I beg you to vote. [[13:34:52]] For 221 The next suggestion is to direct the subject of a legislative initiative for further development. I propose that both bills: 6271 and 6674 direct the subject of the right of legislative initiative to work. Colleagues, I'm asking everyone to concentrate, a few votes, I'm asking you to keep them from being rejected. I ask you to vote. Please be supportive. Please vote. Vote. Please be supportive. Please be supportive. [[13:35:35]] For 225 One voice came up, one MP came up. Colleagues, I repeat, take up jobs, make a proposal for both Bills 6271 and 6674 to direct the subject of the legislative initiative for further work. Please don't go outside. I ask your support, and I ask you to vote on this proposal. Attention, colleagues, every voice, please support, please vote. Vote. Please be supportive. Please be supportive. Vote. [[13:36:19]] For 215 I'll do it again, third time. [[B in m in s a l in]] Colleagues, draft laws 6271 and 6674 were rejected. And I, colleagues, now ask everyone to come into the hall. I've conducted consultations, and I've received confirmation from most factions that are voting for inclusion in the agenda, and now I'm looking at drafts of Laws 8120 and 8121. They're bills of limitation, three months of suspension. The authors of Lechchenko and Gerasimov. Come on, colleagues, let's do this, let's vote. I am voting on the proposal that the draft Act amending the Final Provisions of the Law of Ukraine "On Amendments to Certain Ukrainian Laws on Financial Control of Certain Categories of Officials" (8120 and 8121) should be included in the agenda of the day session and considered now. They have both the committee's decisions. They both have committee decisions, we can look at them now. Please vote and please support. We are voting for the inclusion in the agenda of the day session. Please vote, please support. [[13:37:54]] For 210 I'll do it again. Colleagues, please mobilize the inclusion in the agenda of the day session again, please vote. Please be supportive. Please be supportive. [[13:38:17]] For 214 Colleagues, we. All of it. [[B in m in s a l in]] No, colleagues, we're done. I'll put, colleagues, 8209, 8209-1 in the agenda so we can look at it now. Please vote, please support. Please support the inclusion in the agenda of the day session to see now – 8209, 8209-1. Please vote, please support. Vote. The bill is supported by most factions, most of the heads of factions. [[13:39:02]] For-191 The decision is not taken. Colleagues, that's how we ended up. [[B in m in s a l in]] All right, I'll do it another time. Okay. I'm re-entering the agenda so we can look at projects 8209, 8209-1. This is an emphasis bill that cancels the e-declaration that carries out full decriminalization, that's exactly what we've talked about on all airs. On all airs, the bill was signed by five factions of Parliament. Signed and prepared by me and initiated by me. Four, I'm being corrected. And I'm asking you to support the inclusion in the agenda for decision-making -- 8209, 8209-1. Please vote and please support. Final vote, final vote. Let's mobilize. Please vote, please support. Vote! [[13:40:17]] For-198 The decision is not taken. My colleagues, to be honest, this is one of the days I'm unfortunately ashamed of our decisions in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. It's a complete inadequacy of what we're talking about on the air and how we're voting in the hall, but the cluster of issues that we've put into the agenda, we've considered, the discussion of all of these issues is over, and we have a lot of questions ahead of us, and the self-government block, and the environmental block. We have no right to drag them away. The next draft of the Law we have in our daily lives is the Law. draft Act amending the Ukrainian Tax Code to provide public information on the financing of the activities of public associations and. No, I'm sorry, we have the next one about the service in the local government. This guy took out the committee. The 75th Law Committee has passed, we're not looking at it. Next one, that's it. Colleagues, the next law we have is 2489. Before I was informed, however, there was a demand for factions to be invited by the head of the Special Anti-Corruption Prosecutor’s Office of the Republic of the Republic of Ukraine and the Director of the National Anti-Corruption Bureau of the National Anti-Corruption Bureau of the Republic of Ukraine, Mr. Yeah? And the Attorney General. So, colleagues, so this proposal that I made, I have to put it to a vote. And according to articles 6 and 34 of the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, I am voting on the proposal to attend a plenary meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Wednesday, at 12 o'clock, the head of the Specialised Anti-Corruption Prosecutor's Office of the Holonic Nazar, director of the National Anti-Corruption Bureau of the City of Artem. Is that what I'm saying? I wasn't in the hall. Please support and please vote, 150 votes. Please vote. [[13:43:18]] For 247 Decision taken. And I'm now reporting that both the director of the Anti-Corruption Prosecutor's Office and the NABU, we'll agree in detail tomorrow, arrive in the hall at 12 o'clock. And I'm now announcing the transition to the next issue of the agenda -- the Ukrainian Service in Local Self-Government Act -- this is the new edition (2489). There's a short cut. And that's why we can look at it for a break. I would like to remind you that this bill is being considered under a special procedure, and a report is being made. A report is being made by the committee manager, then a report by the president's representative, then a question to them and a vote. So this is a special procedure, and I invite the head of the Committee on State Building, Regional Policy, and Local Self-Government of Alona Ivanovna. Please, Mrs. Alona.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-03-m0.u178	Good afternoon, dear fellows! I hope that, without looking at such a covert beginning today in the Supreme Council, we will still be able to adopt and adopt today the Service Act in the local self-government bodies, which was adopted for the first time by this Parliament as a foundation, as a whole, in the second reading of February 9, 2017. Fellows, think about it, it was more than a year ago -- when we fulfilled both our international commitments, both the Coalition Agreement and the government program, and actually adopted the Service in the Authorities Act, which could enable us to develop local self-government, and could finally separate politics from service in the local self-government, settle pension issues, pay, create the governing city and many other things that we talked about with you. You know how important this law is to local self - government. Especially senior MPs, I think, about a year or so like me, they hear requests for the quickest disclosure of this bill. After the law was passed by the Supreme Council on February 7th of the previous year, he was unfortunately dedicated by the President of Ukraine on March 22, 2017 and returned to the Supreme Council with two small proposals. The first proposal was then considered on the committee, and we made four proposals from the committee to this important Law on Service in Local Self-Government. I'm going to make every proposal right now, I'm going to make a decision to the committee on each of these four proposals, most of which are technical, and I'm going to ask the Supreme Council of Ukraine and the House to finally unblock this bill, to vote in favour of every proposal "for" or "against" 226, and then I'm going to re-vote this law and send it to the President, finally, to fulfil our commitments to local self-government. The proposal is essentially a reflection of the proposal made by the President of Ukraine at the time of the bill's promise and determines the size of local government officials' salaries according to the subsistence minimum, not the minimum wage. The committee agreed with this proposal and suggests that the number one proposal be supported. The second proposal is technical and contains a technical amendment to the Act on Service in Local Self-Government. Since the committee has completed its work on this bill more than a year ago, here I will ask Mr. Vlasenko, on behalf of the committee, to speak up and propose a new date for the entry into force of the Law on Service in Local Self-Government Authorities, which will probably be on September 1, 2018, if we can today adopt the law, which I hope very much. The third proposal is the most resonant, and she proposes to establish that the city head's appointment to replace him is based on the results of the competition, although these deputies are not officials of local self-government but are political authorities. And the order of the competition will be approved by the City Council. This is the amendment of the People’s Deputy Alexi Hotcharenko. And after this amendment, the most resonant committee has not reached a decision, has not adopted a decision, has failed to agree, and I will ask the Supreme Council of Ukraine to decide on this amendment. And the fourth proposal is to include in the Final and Transitional Regulations a series of technical regulations to amend legislation.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-03-m0.u179	Please, 30 seconds. Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-03-m0.u180	Thank you. The fourth proposal provides for a series of technical regulations to be included in the Final, Transitional Regulations to amend legislative acts resulting from the text of the adopted law. On this proposal, the committee has also taken a "yes" decision and accepts this proposal. In the event of the re-admission of the law, I would also like to add. Involve the Public Buildings Committee in preparing the text for signature to the Head of the Supreme Council to carry out, together with the Chief Legal Authority of the Supreme Council, the technical and legal drafting of the law. Thank you for your attention, colleagues. I really hope that we'll unlock it.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-03-m0.u181	Thank you. And I invite the committee head to the report. Out of the way. Sergei Vlasenko. Out of the way, please. Turn on Sergei Vlasenkov's microphone from the spot.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-03-m0.u182	Thank you, Andry Volodymyrovich. I'm going to be very short. In fact, Alana Ivanovna noted that the bill had been considered by the committee. The committee considered the President's remarks almost a year ago, and then we proposed a date of entry into force – September 1, 2017, but today we can talk about September 1, 2018 as the date of entry into force of this law. This is a completely technical thing, and I also very much hope for the support of this bill with a session hall, because the law is really very necessary for local self-government. And there's rural, rural, urban councils, rural, rural, city heads, district councils, district councils, district councils for what they should normally do. should start functioning normally. Thank you, Andry Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-03-m0.u183	Thank you. And please record two for, two for against, please. From Peter Prashenko's Block, Mr. Ribak Ivan Petrovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-03-m0.u184	Please pass the word to our colleague Irina Stepanovni Lucenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-03-m0.u185	Colleagues, we would like to support the President's proposal, which he mentioned, by promising this bill, and we would still like to stay with the proposal that Alexia Honcharenko made on the committee. That is why we will support this bill with proposals from the President of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-03-m0.u186	Thank you. By "self-help" Plew Teofilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-03-m0.u187	Please pass the word to Ljubomir Zuba.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-03-m0.u188	Lubomir Zubac, Self-Help faction. Veto is a constitutional mechanism that is given to the President as Head of State to be a guarantor, to be a guarantor of the Constitution and to guarantee respect for rights and freedoms. So the veto is not really about desire, it's about the veto, it's about the law, it's about the rule of law. What do we see in this situation? This is a classic example of the abuse by the head of state of his constitutional right. Why? First. The veto is completely unfounded. If you look at the conclusions of the Council of Europe experts, if you look at the conclusions of the Association of Ukrainian Cities, if you look at the conclusions of even our Chief Scientific and Experimental Authority of the Supreme Council, then they're all unanimous about the fact that the introduction of competitions for city heads is an absurd thing because they don't fit in with common sense or European practice. Finally, the banal substitutes of the city's head are the electives who have never competed. And that's not how it works in any country of the world. The second thing I'd like to pay attention to. The reporter said that this law was passed more than a year ago. Veto was imposed for reasons that seemed to require a competition. But in parallel during this year, I remind you, the President of Ukraine was pushed into this session hall by changes to the State Service Act, which eliminates the competition for the heads of local government administrations. That is, with one hand for local self - rule, elected political positions require this competition, and for subordinated heads of the local government.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-03-m0.u189	30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-03-m0.u190	double standards, since local self-governance is allegedly required by elected persons and there is no need for such competition for the heads of local public administrations. Therefore, our proposal is to support the Service Law in the local authorities, but with the exception of the offer made by Deputy Honcharenko. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-03-m0.u191	From the People's Front, Leonid Yemen.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-03-m0.u192	Please pass the word to Oleni Boyko. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-03-m0.u193	Dear friends, I just want to remind you in 2015 when the government of Yatsenuk started reforming the public service. In those distant and difficult times, it was very ambitious, but it was essential for reforming government. We have adopted the Law on State Service, and the service of local self - government is still blocked. We ask very much for the support of this bill. What matters is what is important. On April 1, 2014, we believe that this reform of local self-government has been adopted in the same way as the Yatsenuk government's initiatives is a reform of local self-government called decentralization. So serving in local governments is essentially a tool for this reform, we need to untie our hands, give an effective tool to local governments to enable them to serve effectively for the benefit of local communities. A strong community is a strong state. Please give local authorities the opportunity to do so. We support the bill and ask for support from our colleagues from other factions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-03-m0.u194	From Fatherland, Sergey Eutuszek.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-03-m0.u195	Sergey Eutuszek, "The Fatherland" faction, Ravenshkina. Dear colleagues, I would like to remind you that our common victory was the adoption of the law, right in the walls of this House, of the Service Act in the local self-government. Many officials, those who work in this very authority, the authorities of local self - government, have looked forward to the bill. And in fact, we were happy to have him here. But then the President introduced the law and sent it to Parliament first. With some adjustments, we may be able to agree. But those who have worked in the local authorities, I know that there are city heads of past appeals, they definitely cannot agree with the proposal to establish that the city head's appointment as his deputy is being made solely as a result of a competition that will be approved by the City Council. Who hasn't felt it.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-03-m0.u196	30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-03-m0.u197	Who doesn't feel working on the local council, what an organ that's supposed to help the city's head, not block its work, won't realize what an amendment is. In fact, this right is suggested, some probably city councils where urban heads have no control over the majority, to block the work. So the "Fatherland" faction will support this bill, except for this particular amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-03-m0.u198	Thank you. It's now from the non-fractional deputies, Andri Illenko, while we hold consultations, please, for two minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-03-m0.u199	Andrew Illenko, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. I'm informing the Supreme Council that there's now a multi-million-dollar campaign under its walls called the March of the Nations for the Ukrainian Future without the oligarchs, organized by the United Nations: the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union, the National Corps, the Right Sector, and other forces. And this action, it has very clear requirements primarily for the Supreme Council. Consider and adopt an anti-oligarchy package of radical transformations that have been in the walls of the Supreme Council for years without movement and without consideration. Those bills that are to be destroyed in Ukraine are the root of evil, the root of corruption, the root of weakness, poverty is the oligarchic system. And the center of this oligarchic system is actually the Supreme Council of Ukraine today. That's why we demand the adoption of antimonopoly legislation, anti-shore legislation, legislation that will give us back control of our energy, the President's impeachment law, because it is necessary for us to have kings, the law on the recall of a deputy, both the Supreme Council and local councils. In order for us to have new rules of the game, we must finally adopt new electoral legislation, put in a second reading and electoral code, make decisions, fulfill the commitments made by the Supreme Council. And we believe, and we leave the right to act in every way to achieve this outcome and to ensure that Ukraine is free from this oligarchic dictatorship. We will continue our actions now, our multi-million-dollar march will go to the President's Administration, because we understand that today the President is the main oligarch in our country. And we will continue our fight in places to make Ukraine strong, Ukraine was free, and Ukraine was free, and Ukraine was without hops, and without a master for all Ukrainians, for all citizens, not just for a bunch of oligarchs who are robbing the whole country today. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-03-m0.u200	Dear colleagues, we have concluded our discussion. During the discussion, I held a meeting and we defined the structure of how we would vote. First of all, I'm going to continue for 15 minutes and ask everyone to come into the hall, and we're about to move on to making a decision. I ask all the heads of factions to invite deputies to the hall. First. We're going to vote on Goncharenko's amendment, and only after that will I put the law on the vote as a whole. Now I'm going to give you one minute to have Hotcharyenko explain the essence and logic of his work. I ask everyone to come to the hall and prepare for the vote. Please, Hotcharyenko from the rostrum for one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-03-m0.u201	Thank you. Honcharenko, BPP faction, Odes region. Dear friends, what is this about? In fact, today we see how very often the substitutes of the city’s head appear to be completely unprofessional and unprofessional. What did the President propose in his veto, and what did I propose in my amendment to take that veto into account? In order to solve this issue, to introduce a competition procedure, as we now introduce them almost everywhere, so that the viceroys of the city will go through this procedure in order to replace the city's head, and this is an extremely high position, there were only people who proved their expertise, not just political appointees, friends, godfathers or drivers, or anyone else, or those who raise money. This needs to be decided. And the second is extremely important. If we don't vote on this right now, then we're going to get the President's veto again, and we're going to lose all this very important law. So I'm asking everyone who supports local self-government, who wants to solve this issue, to make this rule seem debateable, not debateable.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-03-m0.u202	30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-03-m0.u203	But in order for us to be able to adopt this law, really, at last, because it's awaited by people in all your districts, villages, villages, cities, it's an extremely important law. And we won't be able to get him through unless we have the President's support and understanding that he will sign it. So, please, I ask you to support the amendment that I have made, which is fully in line with the President's position, which he has made by making a promise to this law, and then we will be able to get a new, European one.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-03-m0.u204	Thank you. So I'm putting to the vote the amendment of the national MP, Honcharenko, which he just made from the rostrum of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Please vote and please support. Please vote. [[14:01:32]] For-81 The decision is not taken. And now I'm putting the Ukrainian Law on Service in Local Self-Government (new edition) with proposals by the President of Ukraine (worked) (2489) as a whole. Please vote, please support. In general. [[2:02:05]] For 133 The decision is not taken. And now I'm making the following proposal, colleagues, to the committee for further work. Colleagues, the committee for further work, let's unite, the discussion is over. There will be no more discussion, I very much ask you all to unite, come into the hall. Colleagues, this observation, the committee head and I have discussed in detail the sequence of our actions. I am acting under the Rules and acting with the sequence that we have agreed with the authors and the committee. Now we can unite and send him to the committee for work. Please. Okay, 30 seconds. Deputy Prime Minister Hennaday Zubko, please come into the hall in 30 seconds and I'll put a vote on the committee to work on it, and we'll be able to unite around it. Please, Zubko.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-03-m0.u205	Dear colleagues! It is this law that is very important to the local authorities to establish authority and enable them to engage professional representatives and professionals in the field ministry in local self - government bodies. Many deputies have worked on this bill, spent time, and there is an offer, really, to turn it back into a committee, not to lose the opportunity now to not lose all the work that has been done. Therefore, the proposal to support and vote for the Committee’s return. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-04-03-m0.u206	Thank you. Colleagues, I'm going to put an offer on the committee for further work. If there are no votes, the bill will be rejected as the subject of the legislative initiative is here and there is a committee. So I'm proposing that the Ukrainian Law on Service in Local Self-Government (2489) be sent to a committee for further work. Please vote, please support. Vote. Please be supportive. [[14:04:14]] For 190 The decision is not taken. Thus, the Ukrainian Law on Service in Local Self-Government (2889) has been rejected, allowing for the drafting of a new bill. I know that the work is very thorough, and I hope that the committee will be able to carry out this work. Guys, we had a rough start in the day. Let me remind you, after lunch, there will be an extremely important Bill 6466, as well as a cluster of environmental policy issues. And so I'm asking everyone to come to the conference room at 4:00 to continue our work. And now I declare the morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine closed, closed. At 16 o'clock, everyone please come to the hall. Thank you.
