ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-22-m1.u1	Dear colleagues, the time for recess is over. I'm asking everyone to come into the hall and get ready for registration. And, colleagues who are in the hall, I ask you to listen carefully. Now we're going to move on to the next question of order of the day 6578. But I do have with you colleagues, petitions and petitions. By noon we did not vote or support draft Laws 8120 and 8121. Today there is a deadline when we can adopt this law. And I'd like to call everyone to account, colleagues. Because it's not just about the public expertise, it's about a lot of experts coming from all over the world to help Ukraine in a difficult time for Ukraine. And we can get rid of a large number of people who have come to support Ukraine at the most difficult time and in the interest of revenge and ambition. After this question, which will be now, I will once again ask the Hall to support this bill. So that we can look today at the three-month extension of this problem. I would like everyone to hear me and understand that this could be a big, strong blow to Ukraine, in our perspective. And I'd like maximum responsibility from my colleagues. I would also like to say that I have been asked by the Committee on Budgets, including Andrew Pavelko, to ask that the three bills necessary for the implementation of UEFA in Ukraine must be adopted today. These are simple laws. But they also need an immediate solution. And that's why I'm going to ask everyone to hold our meeting after lunch as efficiently as possible. To do that, colleagues, I'm going to ask everyone, on the first question, to vote in favour of a shorter procedure so that we have more time. For that, maximum mobilization is required in the hall. And most importantly, it takes the responsibility that we've demonstrated before dinner, the responsibility of everyone, whether it's a faction in opposition or a coalition. For when it comes to the prestige of our nation, this should not disunite us, we should be united in the interests of Ukraine and our prospects. I hope everyone heard me, and I hope we can get a positive vote. So now I'm announcing the next issue of order of the day from the building and building blocks. This is a draft law amending certain laws of Ukraine concerning the prohibition. Oh, yeah, it's still a check-in. I'm sorry, I didn't make the registration. Everyone please take your seats and get ready for registration. They tell me I'm tired, Mrs. Irina, and I'm full of strength and energy. And I'm asking everyone to get their strength and energy. And please come into the hall and prepare for registration. We have ambitious tasks ahead of us today. And I'd like you to call your colleagues, meet some people who can't make it, have them come to the hall, get ready for work. So please take part in the registration. Please register, colleagues. [[16:06:40]] 363 national deputies registered. I declare the evening plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine open. And I remind you, in order for us to implement all our ambitious plans, it would be positive for us to vote in favour of the first law. If we go into the hourly consideration, we don't have all the questions to consider. Colleagues, I'm addressing all factions. Peter Dustenka's Block, support the shortened procedure. People's Front, I'm sure it will. The Radical Party will support it. "Julia Tymoshenko's Block" will support it. Self-help will support the abbreviated so that we can look at all the questions. "The will of the people," "Rebirth," I'm sure we can now vote together. Please take up jobs. And we are going to consider the draft Law on Amendments to certain laws of Ukraine prohibiting the recruitment and arrest of operators in the areas of heat, water and water supply received from international financial institutions for the implementation of investment projects (6578). And, colleagues, given my message, I'm sure everyone supports the idea of a reduced procedure. Please vote and ask everyone to support the consideration of this bill by the summary procedure, colleagues. Let's just stand by. Please vote. Please be supportive. Please vote. Take your seats. Please be supportive. [[16:08:36]] For 111 Colleagues, please take up jobs, I see not all are in place. [[B in m in s a l in]] Because they're gone, and you are. So, colleagues, I'm asking you to take jobs and remind you of those who came in today, so that we can make the e-declaration today, so that we can adopt the laws that are necessary for the UEFA, I propose that we consider the first law that is now behind the shorter procedure, so that we have time, that we can mobilise for 20 minutes, and we have the power and time to implement all the laws. So, colleagues, please take up jobs, please vote and support the proposal for a reduced procedure of 6578. Please vote. I'd like your support, colleagues. Every voice, we vote carefully. Please support everyone. Vote. [[16:10:06]] For-147 Three votes. I'll put the third time. Please come into the hall. Now I don't see those people who asked me for UEFA laws. They have to be in the hall and support. Colleagues, be careful when voting. Everyone, please take your seats and vote. We're short three votes. This means that each voice has a weight. And I'm begging everyone to get ready for the vote. I'm asking you to take up your jobs and I'm asking you to support the proposal that we've considered draft Law 6578 as a reduced procedure. I ask every voice to vote carefully and to support it. Please vote. I'd like your support, colleagues. We lost three votes. Please be supportive. Vote. [[16:11:12]] For-152. 152th. Decision taken. And I invite you to the report of the Ukrainian National Deputy Irina Stepanovna Lucenko. Please, Mrs. Irina. And I'd like you to invite the deputies into the hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-22-m1.u2	Dear colleagues, investing in residential utilities is a priority that needs to be addressed urgently. This area is not attractive to investors, including international ones, because it is chronically harmful. Some numbers. Minus 6.1 billion dollars for 2016. Minus 5.6 billion dollars in the 17th year. It is characterized by an increase in receivables and creditors' debt. As of 01.01.2018, the receivables of residential and utility enterprises amounted to 23.7 billion dollars, while the payable amounted to 39.3 billion dollars. In Ukraine, the court’s decision to do so resulted in enforcement. They arrest the funds of international financial organizations in the current accounts of residential and utility enterprises, which are designed to carry out investment projects, under the terms of international agreements. Such a situation has a negative impact on the relationship of economic operators with these international financial organizations, and ultimately has a negative impact on Ukraine's reputation as a state. In Ukraine, with the participation of the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, there are a number of investment projects aimed at increasing energy efficiency, strengthening energy independence and reducing price impacts, and increasing the price of natural gas for consumers of appropriate services. Our project introduces a legislative mechanism to protect funds in the current accounts of residential-communal operators received from IFIs to implement investment projects or measures in appropriate areas of energy efficiency. The draft law proposes to amend the laws of Ukraine on drinking water and drinking water supply, on heat supply, on executive conduct. And set up a ban on turning, pulling, and pulling.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-22-m1.u3	Give me a minute, Mrs. Irina.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-22-m1.u4	The ban on addressing, seizing, and placing funds in the current accounts of operators in the field of heat, water supply, and water supply. Got from international financial institutions in the form of loans, loans, to implement these investment projects in the relevant sphere. In doing so, it is estimated that the cost of international financial institutions to the current accounts of economic operators in these areas, which have been opened by banks in national or foreign currencies. And the use of such funds to implement investment projects, in an appropriate area, is made in accordance with the terms of the contracts concluded with international financial institutions. Please support this bill in the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-22-m1.u5	Thank you, Mrs. Irina. The report invites the deputy head of the Committee on Construction, Urban Affairs, and ZKH Babak Olena Valeriyivna. Please, Mrs. Olena.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-22-m1.u6	Dear National Deputies! The Committee on Construction, Urban and Housing considered the proposed bill on 4 October 2017. Investing in housing is one of the priorities that needs to be addressed today and even yesterday. However, this area is not yet attractive to investors, including international ones, because it is characterized by chronic losses and significant amounts of debt that the initiator of the bill has been talking about. It also aims to involve international investment in the sector and to ensure that there is no legislation to protect the interests of investors and thermal and water supply companies and to guarantee stability in the process of involvement and return of investments, such as protecting the accounts of the listed enterprises used to carry out credit agreements and agreements with international financial institutions. As a result, we have little effective cooperation with IFIs and donor organizations, as well as an unfavourable investment climate in the JCG area. Of course, this situation does not help to solve the tasks of technological restocking and upgrading housing and utilities and the development of municipal infrastructure. The main science and expertise agency has made specific comments that can be taken into account when the project is being finalized before the second reading, the Committee on Prevention and Anti-Corruption has failed to identify corruption factors in the project. The Committee on Environmental Policy, Environmental Management and the Elimination of the Effects of the Chernobyl Disaster believes that the project needs further development. The Committee on Budget Issues noted that the implementation of the bill would not have a direct impact on the budget. Taking into account that investment in housing and utilities, in particular from IFIs, is one of the priority areas needed for the development of the sector, the importance of ensuring at the legislative level of effective mechanisms for the protection of such investments, the committee decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine Bill No. 6578 to adopt it on a basis, to work on it, taking into account the observations and proposals made by entities of the law of the legislative initiative.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-22-m1.u7	Please, 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-22-m1.u8	she will submit a second reading to Parliament for its consideration. Please support the committee's decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-22-m1.u9	Thank you. Now, I'm asking you to do the recording: two in, two in, two in. And my colleagues, while the recording is being done, I ask you to invite all the deputies. Look who's not around, call me back, invite us to the hall, we have an important stage in our work after lunch. And I'm asking everyone to mobilize into the hall, the heads of factions, I'm asking everyone to mobilize as much in the hall as possible. Thank you. So, from Fatherland, Odarchenko. Turn on the microphone, Odarchenkovi, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-22-m1.u10	Thank you. Yuri Odarchenko, Fatherland faction. Dear colleagues! Today we are offered a really useful bill for Ukraine. It provides that the funds received from international financial institutions for the reconstruction and development of heating and water systems cannot be arrested and spent according to their purpose. In a situation where international donors are providing assistance to a localized site to develop its infrastructure, it is very difficult for Ukraine to explain why, instead of new pipelines, the funds were spent on paying off debts to tax authorities or the Pension Fund. No less surprising is the situation when creditors break up a utility that has managed to engage in extended international credit. All of this is not conducive to investment climate and does not allow communities to cooperate effectively with international institutions. But this law needs to be worked out in another, it needs to be taken into account by the scientific expertise, and instead of the words "account with special use mode," write "special account," because the Law on Drinking Water and Heating uses that term. In addition, it should be noted that the prohibition of recourse, seizure and the imposition of an arrest on funds should apply exclusively to the costs incurred under the ratified international treaties of Ukraine. So this project needs to be complemented by these points in the second reading, vote on it, and protect our utilities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-22-m1.u11	From Peter Dustenka's Block, Melnik.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-22-m1.u12	Dear colleagues, I fully support the idea of this bill to ensure the targeted use of funds from international institutions, but I would like to point out that today there are established practices and investment costs that count on special accounts, so-called current accounts, a special use regime. So I think we need to use this problem in some other way. First of all, either expand the definition, investment costs, adding funds to it from international investment organizations, financial organizations, or otherwise simply expand investment programs and funds from international financial organizations. Because if it's accepted in this way, what happens is, on the one hand, we let these costs come into current accounting accounts, and then we say we can't bring them in. I believe that these funds, which have a purpose, should be accounted for in special accounts. These are the current accounts with a special use mode. Then there will be targeted use, and there will be no tension. And since Kabmin has approved the use of funds and special accounts, it has also been determined that special current accounts with a special use regime are only open to the "Season Bank" or "State Savings Bank". It is also a guarantee that these funds will be saved and used for a purpose. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-22-m1.u13	Thank you very much. From the "Will of the People" group, Rybczynski Evgen Yuriovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-22-m1.u14	I ask you to pass the word to Litvina Volodymyr Mikhailovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-22-m1.u15	Please, Mr. Volodymyr.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-22-m1.u16	It is clear that this bill needs to be supported, Your Honourable Head. At the same time, with the opportunity, I will once again break the problem. First. It refers to the fact that the State budget benefits in the form of subsidies are completely underfunded, for example, in Novograd Wolinski, which I recall is a fully military town, so the amount is 50 percent of the needs. It's February. It's March. For January and February, more than 12 million dollars have already been owed. Repeated references to the Cabinet of Ministers have no reaction. I'm warning you, I'm asking you not to continue this game with the Cabinet of Ministers. I remind you, there's a brigade, a reconnaissance battalion, a separate regiment, a battalion of material and technical supplies, and so on. If they come out with all the guns, I think they're not going to be here anymore, that's the first. And secondly, I have to say that there is a threat of a gas cut-off altogether. Zitomirgaz said that in the absence of a planned natural gas limit for the month of April, Heatcommunergo should shut down gas consumers on its own and seal all enterprises. At the same time, Naftogaz of Ukraine reports that it cannot supply gas due to the continued operation of Cabinet of Ministers Order No.187 of 22.03.2017. And there's a closed circuit, there's no subsidies, there's no gas, and there's reform. I would ask you to consider this speech as a parliamentary address and to stop this game when the government stands to say that all the problems have been solved. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-22-m1.u17	Thank you. And the closing statement from the Self-Help faction is Danchenko Alexander Ivanovich. I'm asking everyone to come to the hall. Danchenko gives the floor. Babak Alona, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-22-m1.u18	Ladies and gentlemen, the Self-Help Union certainly supports this important legislative initiative. At the same time, we're paying attention to everyone in this room that this is about what we're now planning to do to protect ourselves from the seizure, from the arrest of the funds that are coming from the current investment accounts of water-based enterprises, from the heat supply of loans, from loans, from international financial institutions. Self-help thinks it's archiving and overly critical today that all investment costs for all investment programs of water-based enterprises be protected from contracting and arrest as well as the costs of international financial institutions. Why are we going to protect investment that comes from international financial institutions today, while the resource that we all as consumers pay in tariffs for investment programs, we don't protect ourselves from the tightening up of our nets every day, there are accidents in water-, heat-, and we only protect the funds that come in the form of loans from international financial institutions. Therefore, our proposal is to vote in the first reading and to prepare proposals for the second reading and to protect all investment programs of water -, heat -, and to channel the funds in a targeted way solely to invest in the absolutely emergency infrastructure of cities and populated areas. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-22-m1.u19	Thank you. So, colleagues, we've finished the discussion. All the factions came out. I very much ask the factions to invite all the deputies into the hall. Two minutes now, Deputy Prime Minister Hennaday Zubko, in two minutes' time. I'm asking for maximum mobilization in the hall. Please invite everyone into the hall. Please, Hennaday Zubko. He's giving up, isn't he? Teeth! Do you give up or do you give up? Then please listen to the Head of the Supreme Council and take the floor and speak. Two minutes. And I'd like everyone to come into the hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-22-m1.u20	Dear National Deputies! Dear Mr. Head! I'd like to encourage everyone to support this bill today because it opens up completely like this, you know, protection for those international financial organizations, the investors that are working today with our enterprises that provide heat, water and water. Unfortunately, many businesses today still have debt to suppliers or to electricity, or gas. You know, you took a very important step last year by voting on Law 1730, which opens the way to debt restructuring for five years. But, at the same time, we now have NAC Naftogaz's legal claim to pay off not only gas costs, but also investment costs that come into the currency accounts of these utilities directly. We now have situations in Lviv, in Žitomir, in other cities, when the funds that came in as an investment fund were written off by currency on demand, at the request of NAK Naftogaz to Savings. And we think that in this direction, when we say the country's energy efficiency, when we say we need to reduce energy consumption, it means that the housing sector needs to reduce the volume, we need to think about what happens to the utilities that directly provide these services. So allowing them to modernize, allowing them to invest in these funds, enabling them to be protected in these investments is very important. This bill -- unfortunately, I've been communicating with the MPs right now -- cannot be voted on as a whole right now, but I would like to support that it be voted on in the first reading, developed between the first and second readings, and so on.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-22-m1.u21	30 seconds, finish, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-22-m1.u22	I'd consider the kind of adjustments that would make it the most optimal. Today this bill is expected not only by utilities, but today this bill awaits our European banks, the world banks that are already operating in Ukraine. Today, all the investors who want to enter Ukraine and vote are waiting for this bill, as far as it will be voted on. and work in Ukraine. I am especially grateful to the people's deputies who introduced this bill: Mrs. Irina Lucenko, who.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-22-m1.u23	Thank you. So, colleagues, let's move on to making a decision. I'm asking everyone to come into the hall. I'd like to invite members and the budget committee. There are members of the budget committee in the room, can you give me a hint? They said the budget committee was getting tight. Colleagues, are there any members of the Budget Committee in the room? You're back now, aren't you? Come back, all right. I'm asking you to keep busy. And I would like to stress, after this vote, that I will propose to include three questions on UEFA today. And so I ask everyone to mobilize now, to maximize their mobility. We're moving on to making a decision. Take up jobs. And I am voting on a bill amending some of Ukraine's laws to prohibit the recruitment and detention of operators in the areas of heat, water and water supply, from international financial organizations, for the implementation of investment projects (wests) in Ukraine (No. 6578) on the basis of a committee proposal. If you'll excuse me, I'd like to vote for base 6578. Please vote. [[16:30:54]] For 238. Decision taken. Attention, colleagues! Let's go into the hall. Decision taken. Now I want to remind you that Pavelko Andry has spoken to me. Is he in the hall? And the head of the Tax Committee. That we need to adopt draft laws today that will give us the basis for the UEFA Championships League, including 7516, 7517. This is a project to make changes to chapter XX of the Tax Code of Ukraine in connection with the preparation and conduct of the final matches of the UEFA League in Ukraine, 7519. And I'm asking Nina Yuzanin to explain in a moment why these bills need to be adopted immediately. Turn on Nina Petrovney's microphone. And I ask everyone to come into the hall and prepare for the vote. Please, Eugene.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-22-m1.u24	Dear colleagues! We have just been given the number of three bills that relate to our obligations to UEFA. Thus, Andrew Pavelko is responsible for the adoption of these bills. We looked at it on the committee. They're only going to take five minutes because there's no significant change there. I gave the supplement now in the hall. Therefore, if possible, because we do not fulfill our obligations and keep on doing all the work, and we break the possibility of doing so altogether. Please put them on for consideration now if you please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-22-m1.u25	Thank you. So, colleagues, please take up jobs. Don't leave the hall. Don't come out of the hall when you vote. I ask you to vote. Now, I'm going to propose that we consider today the drafts of Laws 7516, 7517 and 7519 that are necessary for the worthy conduct of the final matches of the UEFA League in Ukraine. Please vote, and I would like to support who we are today to consider. Please vote. Please be supportive. [[16:33:15]] For 211 211. I'll do it again. Invite the deputies to the hall. I'll do it again. I was told that there was full support for these bills, so I doubtless put them up. Please. They weren't. I'll do it again. Colleagues, therefore, are three Bills 7516, 7517, 7519 that make brief changes that will ensure funding for the UEFA League finals in Ukraine. Please prepare for the vote and please support me, colleagues. Please be supportive. Please vote, and I would like to support who we are today to consider. Vote. Please be supportive. It's a question beyond politics, my friends. Please vote. Vote. [[16:34:30]] For 219 [[B in m in s a l in]] Okay, I'll do it again, but this will be the last time. This will be the last time I put it. So, please, when the initiators aren't in the hall themselves, I'm surprised. I'll do it the third time. Please, colleagues, mobilize, take up jobs, show the factions to know the situation. BP 90, NF 59, Opposition Block 0, Self-help 19, Radical Party 16, Fatherhood 9, People's Will 4, Rebirth Party 3. In fact, everyone is voting. We just need to mobilize. Colleagues, I'm the third and final voter to consider today the drafts of Laws 7516, 7517 and 7519, which are necessary to finance the final matches of the UEFA League in Ukraine. I ask everyone to mobilize, you see, every voice has a weight and it matters. I ask you to vote and I ask you to support my offer. Attention, colleagues, every voice. Please vote and please support. Come into the hall! Please be supportive. But you see, we gather every voice, and you sit in the beds. Please be supportive. Vote. Please vote. Vote. [[16:36:12]] For 237 237. Decision taken. Next thing I know, the colleague I was talking to at the beginning of the evening session. But I'm asking you, colleagues, to come into the hall and listen to me very carefully. Today we have two drafts of Laws 8120, 8121. They're all given to you. They're in the section "Inclusion in the Order of the Day Session." Guys, listen to me carefully. These bills postpone the submission of electronic declarations to many international experts who have come to Ukraine to help us in difficult times. Don't leave the hall! I'll call it who comes out. Colleagues, please understand, this is a question of the authority of the Ukrainian State, it's a question of the authority of those people who have come to support us from abroad. Please don't let your emotions control us. Let's support the group so that we can look at it today, colleagues. I ask everyone now unitedly to vote both of us to consider them today. And I urge you very much, someone pushes the button, and that's going to strike the state of Ukraine, and that's going to be unfair and wrong at such a responsible time. It's just a delay, colleagues. I ask you to support this position, we have enough votes in the room to be able to accept. I'm asking everyone to maximize their mobility. I'm asking you to support everyone, colleagues, this proposal. This is Gerasimov's bill, the head of the faction of Peter Prashenko's Block. Support your colleague. I'm asking for the People's Front, I'm asking for the Radical Party, I'm asking for the Fatherland, I'm asking for self-help, I'm asking for the Will of the People, I'm asking for the Rebirth. Colleagues, let's keep it together, non-fractional, let's mobilize. I'm begging you, colleagues. I'm putting a motion to vote today to review the drafts of Law 8120, 8121, and I'm asking for the general support of all factions, all groups, all non-fractional, "The Opposition Block." I ask you all to vote and support, colleagues. Please, every voice matters. Please vote and please support. Carefully, every vote, please vote, please support. Two 8120 and 8121, two, main and alternate. Colleagues, please, take it easy. This is one Lechchenka and the other Gerasimov. They're not listed, colleagues. I'm asking 8120, 8121 support, colleagues. I ask you to vote. I'm asking you to support me, colleagues. We vote every vote. Please be supportive. Vote. Please vote. Please vote. [[16:39:35]] For-163 Let me show you through the factions. Peter Poshenko's Block - 66, People's Front - 51, Opposition Block - 0, Self-Help - 21, Radical Party - 2, Fatherland - 3, Will of the People - 1, Rebirth Party - 0. I'll put the next one in. He's not an alternative to these. He's an alternative to another. I'm going to vote again. Colleagues, support and include. I'll put in yours after that. I'll put in yours after that. I ask, support and vote for the inclusion in the agenda of the 8120 and 8121 sessions for which it is the committee's decision to vote in general. For which the committee has been cohesive and united. Colleagues, mobilize. I'm asking you to back me up. Please vote. Please be supportive. Please vote. Involvement to be considered today. It's just getting into the agenda. [[16:40:45.]] For-167 Colleagues, after the next law, when the mobilisation takes place, I'm going to use my right to put it again. Now I'm making the following proposal that we consider today the draft law that made the morning dispute: 7403-1 and 7403-2. Draft Act on Amendments to the Ukrainian Tax Code on Certain Issues Tax Taxes on Added Costs of Export Transactions outside the Customs Territory of Ukraine Oil Cultures. Who wants us to consider this bill today? Please vote. Please be supportive. [[16:41:49]] For-174 It's a big stock. There's not a lot of voice. Colleagues, I'm going to put it back on the e-declaration when we get together, we're going to mobilize more when the consultations are over, and when we can realize the importance of this decision. And now we are moving on to the issues that have been included in the agenda of the day session for today, which are necessary to ensure that the UEFA Championship is held in Ukraine. Thus, the first draft of the Act amending Chapter VIII of the Act on the Finality and Transitional Positions of Ukraine on the Collection and Accounting of the Only Contribution to the General Compulsory State Social Insurance (7516). Please support the consideration of the reduced procedure. Please vote, please support. Maintain a reduced procedure, it gives us more chance. [[16:42:56]] For 165 I invite you to the report of the Secretary of State of Finance Capinus Eugenia Valeriyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-22-m1.u26	Good afternoon, distinguished national MPs! I propose bills to amend Chapter VIII of the Final and Transitional Provisions Act on the Collection and Accounting of the Single Contribution to the General Compulsory State Social Insurance in connection with the preparation of the final match of the UEFA Champions League in Ukraine and the UEFA Women's Championship League in 2017-2018 (registration number 7516). As part of the measures taken, Ukraine has made a commitment to pay individual taxes and taxes, and this bill does not allow for the sole social contribution of those jobs that will be paid in the form of wages for the implementation and preparation of the measure. People's deputies, please support, without this bill, we will not be able to take appropriate action.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-22-m1.u27	Thank you. The report invites the first deputy head of the Committee on Social Policy, Employment and Pension Insurance, Kaplin Sergey Mikolaiovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-22-m1.u28	Dear colleagues, in order to save time in the perspective of addressing the important issue of e-declaration of public organizations, I will briefly report on the bill. As already noted by the previous rapporteur, it is proposed to release temporarily by 1 June 2018 the payment of a single contribution to the mandatory national social insurance payments made for the performance of jobs or services in or outside Ukraine for the period of preparation and conduct of the UEFA championship finals in Ukraine and the UEFA championship league among women, the 2017 and 2018 seasons. The joint representative body of the trade union, the Ministry of Social Policy and our committee almost unanimously supported the legislative initiative. We will allow women to play football in Ukraine here and create conditions for the development of women's football in our native Ukraine. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-22-m1.u29	Colleagues, please record: two in, two in. Please. From Self-Help Opanasenko Alexander Valeriyovich, please, Mr. Alexander.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-22-m1.u30	Please pass the word to Danchenk Alexander.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-22-m1.u31	Dear colleagues, Ukraine has been given a unique opportunity in the form of the finals of the Champions League. This is a very remarkable event in our country. And of course, we have to do everything we can to make this happen at the highest level. This law enables all UEFA sponsors to carry all their equipment professionally into Ukraine. Bring in a huge number of souvenirs, balls that will remain in Ukraine for our children. So I ask you very much to support this bill, unfortunately, our sport has not shown such results, so let's do it. We have to do everything we can to make this UEFA event go to its highest level. We're backing it up.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-22-m1.u32	Thank you very much. From "Fatherland" Odarchenko gives John Krulka. Please, Mr. Ivan.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-22-m1.u33	Ivan Krulko, "The Fatherland" faction. This is the kind of bill that should unite the session hall. It's really a national project, when games that watch at the same time as millions of viewers around the world go through in Ukraine. And, of course, we have to create all the prerequisites in the session room for this game -- the finale of the League of Champions -- to take place in Kiev at the highest level. The Fatherland faction will vote and support this bill. And I am convinced that all the factions of Parliament will unite to bring together this important match when thousands of tourists from around the world arrive, when Kiev will be in the epicenter of the world's attention that night, so that it will take place at the highest level. And now, the Honourable Head of the Supreme Council, we need to move on to the issue of electronic declaration, because public activists are waiting for this decision. This decision is awaited by the international community and the Venice Commission, which has given a clear conclusion. Please vote on this bill and continue to address the issue of electronic declaration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-22-m1.u34	Thank you. From the Radical Party of Musiychuk Igor. Please, Mr. Igor.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-22-m1.u35	Igor Mosiyczuk, Oleg Lachka Radical Party Our faction will have to support this bill, which should unite the entire session hall, unite the entire Ukrainian people, because these games are crucial for our nation to demonstrate our attitude toward football as one of the most popular international sports. Given that there is to be a football championship in Russia next year, we need to demonstrate how Ukraine can refer to international matches, to international meetings, to demonstrate how Ukrainians can organize it. Therefore, we will definitely support this bill. As for the "Yaroslavna pay" on the e-declaration of public activists, everyone has to be equal before the law. In general, today I have received an answer to my parliamentary address from the NABA leadership, which clearly states that out of 14 employees in the press, attention, colleagues, press services, not detectives, not specialty, and press services receive between 60,000 and 30. What about the teachers and the doctors and the culture workers? Have you thought about them? So one law, one for all. And those who wear white T-shirts want to ask. In fact, the activists are not involved, and who are the targets for you or are you after Savechenko?
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-22-m1.u36	Colleagues, we're about to make a closing statement from Peter Dustenk's Block, and then we're going to the vote. And I'm asking everyone to come into the hall, prepare for the decision. In two minutes, we'll move on to the decision-making process. And now I'm asking you to turn on the microphone for Belkova Olga Valentine's Day. Please, Mrs. Ola.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-22-m1.u37	Thank you very much, Mr. Head. Well, really, I think in this room everyone would like to support the development of sports and similar events in Ukraine. I'd like to see them in every place a lot more. At the same time, I'd like to get a comment from Minfin. Can we also count on a similar approach to other events? I'm going back to the question of e-declaration, and I'd like to ask the room to review this question, and to understand that today, especially on this day, when there was so much hatred in the morning, so much misunderstanding between many people, I would like us all to come together in a balanced manner. And if we're talking about what a declaration should be for all citizens, it shouldn't be about civil society. This will greatly undermine our understanding of our country if we leave everything as it is today, in the eyes of our international partners, and only make society bitter. Let's support the idea that we should discuss this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-22-m1.u38	Thank you. So the discussion is over. We're moving on to making a decision. So, colleagues, please don't leave. Everyone, please step into the hall and prepare for the vote. So I'm voting on a draft law amending Chapter V of the Final and Transitional Positions Act of Ukraine on the collection and accounting of the only contribution to the general government social insurance in connection with the preparation and conduct of the final matches in Ukraine of the UEFA Champions League and the UEFA Champions League among women of the 2017-2018 season (registration number 7516) at the proposal of a committee on the basis and overall. Please vote. I'd like your support, colleagues. Vote. Please be supportive. And in general, of course. On the basis and in general. Please vote. Wait, wait. Everybody's here. Vote. [[16:53:05]] For 228 The law is passed. Guys, we're enough in the hall. I'm going to make another offer, as promised, 8120 and 8120-1. And now I'm asking you to exchange your thoughts on this. In a minute, I'll give all the factions. This, colleagues, is an overly responsible decision. Now, about the drafts of Law 8120, 8120-1, I'm going to give each faction one minute, and then I'm going to put it to the vote one more time. First. [[B in m in s a l in]] I know we'll set them up. It's gonna be okay. The important thing is to be calm. So Arthur Gerasimov. One minute. From the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-22-m1.u39	Dear Andrew Volodymyrovich! Dear colleagues! As you know, Bills 8120 and 8120-1 don't cancel the electronic declaration, they don't cancel the question, they cancel. In this regard, I would like to explain what Bill 8120-1 is all about. This was a compromise that was found during negotiations with representatives of different factions, during discussions with experts, during discussions with representatives of the parliamentary committee. And this bill carries a three-month extension of the electronic declaration. But when it comes to public councils in central executive bodies that affect the decision-making of personnel, the bill does not touch them. And they're going to, they're going to be subject to the electronic declaration of April 1. Request to be placed in the order of the day.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-22-m1.u40	30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-22-m1.u41	Dear colleagues, request to assemble, support the inclusion of both bills in the agenda and then support Bill 8120-1. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-22-m1.u42	Thank you. Before I give my word to the head of the People's Front faction, I want to make an announcement. According to the statement and in accordance with the third part of article 60 of the Supreme Council Rules, I report the entry of the Ukrainian National Deputy of the Foreign Affairs, Mikhail Aleksandrovitch, as part of the parliamentary faction of the political party "The People's Front". Welcome! [[Applause]] And I give the floor to Maxim Burbak, the head of the People's Front faction. Please, Mr. Maxim. Tell me what.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-22-m1.u43	Dear colleagues, I ask all of us to vote together and to include these bills in the agenda for the extension of the deadline for the submission of electronic declarations. Because we invited foreigners to the supervisory boards to help us build Ukraine's economy, to introduce reforms. And so once again, let's vote on the bill and Arthur Gerasimov so that our colleagues who help us build and implement reforms in Ukraine will not leave Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-22-m1.u44	Thank you. Is the opposition block going to act? After 1 minute, I'm giving all the factions an e-declaration. Debenkov, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-22-m1.u45	Honourable Ukrainian citizens, honourable colleagues, are now telling us that it is necessary to support the legislative initiative that protects the interests of public activists. On the one hand, the same public activists insist on transparency and transparency by government officials. And that's really true, that's what we have to do. On the other hand, they themselves do not want to be governed by the law. It doesn't make any sense. What about the equal rights of those who exercise control and those who exercise control? So here's the deal. As civil servants, as representatives of the Ukrainian people, we are filling out the stated electronic declarations. There's no problem. Yes, there is a great deal of information to be filled out. But it is a necessary provision, an obligation that needs to be fulfilled. Please, if you also control and more, if you're doing activities at the expense of international grants, you should be as transparent before society as we are. And so that the people may see how much and from whom you all receive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-22-m1.u46	Thank you. From the faction of the Radical Party of Igor Mosiychuk. One minute, please, Mr. Igor.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-22-m1.u47	Igor Mosiyczuk, Oleg Lachka Radical Party Dear colleagues, it's enough to cheat Ukrainians. It is enough for some to pretend to be saints, working at foreign expense, working on foreign grants. These activists, as you say, and including anti-corruption, are influencing Ukraine's state policies, affect them! That's why they have to declare. They grow up to be tenants who run around here in white football, working on Colomoysky's money. That's why it's enough to fool people! Stop fooling ordinary Ukrainians! If you want to rent, go. The Radical Party faction won't support it!
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-22-m1.u48	Mr. Igor, I'll give you the next word. I'll just say one thing. It also applies to a large number of foreigners who believed in Ukraine, Europeans. Which came up and came to us to join us, to reform our sectors of the economy. Igor, it's only about the delay. I'm not offended. I'm just calling you. We're just delaying to regulate the legislation. We all went that way. I'm asking you to support me. It's a delay, it's not a solution. Mr. Igor, I heard you talking to me today. Please, from Self-Help, Oleg Barresuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-22-m1.u49	The introduction of a declaration for public organisations fighting corruption is an attack, an invasion of power that has penetrated civil society. And that's why we just need to vote today on this bill that repeals this rule, because we need to develop civil society, not humiliate it with the power that has broken through.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-22-m1.u50	From the Fatherland faction, Sergey Sobolev. Please, Mr. Sergei.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-22-m1.u51	What happened before the law passed by the President of Ukraine is no different than the Putin bill on so-called foreign agents. And let's tell the truth: that you have a responsibility for not making declarations or giving them up for hundreds of thousands, and no one can check them, and you demand a declaration from those who don't get a penny from the state budget. We will not vote in favour of a bill that will be put on the hooks of public activists for another three months. There's a bill that's passed by the Venice Commission, which is fully supported, is the Timoshenko Bill and seven other national deputies from all factions. Put him to the vote and this is the only way out of this situation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-22-m1.u52	Thank you. I'll give you a line. Colleagues, I'm just going to say, the only way out is to run the bill that brought together the committee on which the committee decided. It's a compromise, it's not the best option, but listen to me -- only possible in this room right now. If every faction says we have our own, and we don't vote for it, we don't stand a chance of anything, colleagues. We have the only bill that gives us a chance that was supported by the committee. I'm begging you, colleagues, I'm asking you right now. And I'm addressing everyone: let's concentrate and vote on this delay. Only our hall can take it down. We've been settling this for three months. We do not undermine the authority of the country. I ask now of the "will of the people," "rebirth," are they willing to speak? None. Then from the non-faction replicas, Mustafa Nayem. I'm asking you very carefully, I'm asking very carefully that we have a chance to vote. After that vote I ask everyone to come into the hall, I ask you to hear and support me, colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-22-m1.u53	Dear colleagues! Dear colleagues, I will not react to my colleague, I have great respect for you. The way. If there's no brain in the head, it's okay, we're going to move what we have. It's a very simple thing. So do teachers, and so do all other types of the population. But just think, please, we are now obliged to declare activists and journalists here, but at the same time, Ahmethov, Firtash, Pinchuk, Ljowczyn -- all of these people will not declare. Similarly, all your relatives do not declare in the majority, because these people are not obliged. So I'm asking you to accept this law now. History has shown that civil society will bring you out anyway. Please do yourself a favor and vote for any version of the bill that will allow them to forgive you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-22-m1.u54	Come on, guys, let's go. Well, what I'm gonna do, guys, I don't review every performance. Colleagues, I ask you to unite. Do not react to emotional expressions, listen to your heart, not to your emotions, but listen to your mind. This is the question of the authority of our country, the question of the hundreds of people who came to us, who believed in the European Ukraine, who came after Maidan, to stand with us shoulder to shoulder, to build a new Ukraine. Today we can put their shoulders or, on the contrary, punch them in the back, colleagues. It's just a delay. I'm asking you, colleagues, to vote everyone responsible now. And I'm re-voting the proposal that we include draft Laws 8120 and 8121 Arthur Gerasimov in the agenda for decision-making today. I ask you to vote, my friends, I ask you to support everyone in spite of speeches and emotions. Please vote and please support. We vote carefully, each voice. Tanya, Sergei, vote every vote, please. Vote. Please be supportive. Vote. [[17:04:50]] For 175 175. More. More. I'd like the factions to show you the vote. "Block of Peter Poshenko" – 79, "National Front" – 48, "Resistance Block" – 0, "self-help" – 2, "radical Party" – 2, "Fathership" – 1, "will of the people" – 2. I'll do it again. We didn't get it. I'm talking to everybody, guys, back up, this is gonna be the right thing to do. Think, think, friends and support. Hold on, it'll be right, it's the only chance, it's the only chance. Please support me. So, colleagues, please come into the hall, please take your jobs, please concentrate. I ask you to prepare for the vote and to vote responsibly. It's the only chance, it's the only power today. Mr. Sergei, Ivan, Helen. I'll put yours next. This one has one chance. Support me. It won't be another chance. I'm asking you to support the inclusion in the agenda today, 8120 and 8121. Take your seats. I'll wait for you to take your seats, colleagues. Prepare for the vote and support, friends, support, listen to your heart. Support me. Please vote, please support. Let's vote, colleagues. We're voting in a voice-to-voice. If you'll excuse me, I'd like to vote. [[17:06:31]] For a hundred and And now for the third time, the last, and we won't stand a chance. Third, and last time, colleagues. I'm asking you to include the factions. Please, by the factions. But the dynamics are positive. There's potential, colleagues. The potential is strong, the dynamics are strong. We just need to convince someone who's sitting next to us. To convince and say, this is a chance for today. And I'm asking you very much, colleagues. The factions. The factions. And I'm going to say one last vote. "Peter Prashenko's Block" – 87, "The People's Front" – 52, "The Opposition Block" – 0, "The Self-Help" – 21, "The Fatherhood" – 6, "The Will of the People" – 1, "The Rebirth Party" – 1, "The Non-Factional – 23. Let's mobilize. Last time, colleagues. Last chance, last chance. I'm asking everyone to mobilize. You won't be ashamed of that vote. You'll be ashamed if we don't vote. I ask everyone to take part in the vote. I ask everyone to prepare and maintain inclusion in the agenda. And now we're looking at Bill 8120, 8120-1, which is supporting our brothers who are here to support Ukraine in a difficult time. Which will bring them back, and which will show our partnership, and the sincerity of our European choice. Please vote. Please be supportive. Every voice. I'd like everyone to vote. Keep it up, fellows. Support me. Keep it up, and it'll be the right thing to do. Please vote. Please be supportive. Please support me. [[17:08:21]] For-189 Show the factions, please. Peter Poshenko Block 82, People's Front 52, Opposition Block 0, Self-help 21. 1, 8, 3, 0. Colleagues, this was our chance. It was our duty, I'll say it. I'm ashamed of that vote. We move on to the next UEFA agenda issue. This is a draft law amending Chapter XX of the Tax Code for Ukraine in relation to preparation and implementation. I'm sorry, I have a motion for a break, then a question. A statement about a break from two factions: Self-help and Fatherland. Then we move on to two UEFA laws. Don't leave the hall after that, so a statement from two factions. Who will act? Who will perform? Two factions of Fatherland and Self-Help. Who will act? Hey, can you hear me or not? Who's going to be speaking, I ask? Who will act? Who will perform? Who's in charge? Yegor, right? Is Yegor speaking? No, colleagues, it's not possible for a minute and a half. Yegor Soboljel 3 minutes for the performance, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-22-m1.u55	This is a disgrace to the whole Parliament. People who don't press the button that laugh are actually laughing at themselves. In no country in the world, in any normal country in the world, parliamentarians cannot want to control citizens. In normal successful parliamentary countries, citizens are grateful when they are controlled. What is the point of looking at the electronic declaration of people who don't use taxpayers' money, who hunt for those who steal taxpayers' money? The time will pass, the name of every person who has not voted has not been in the hall, has been maintained, they will remain in history. And I have a request to most parliamentarians to find enough wisdom in themselves, to find enough intelligence in myself. There's a bill that cancels this disgraceful, Russian requirement to declare active citizens. Let's vote for him now.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-22-m1.u56	Bill 6271, signed by representatives of various factions, is the one to unite this hall. The disadvantages need to be corrected, and the disadvantages are that those who do not hold back from paying taxes should not make electronic declarations. You don't have to get civil society in this room. And who doesn't like to make an electronic declaration, put in a mandate, go to Parliament, and don't write electronic declarations. This is a very simple logic of the process. So, dear friends, let's stop playing, stop burying Ukraine as the most corrupt country. And this vote, and more specifically, does not vote in this room, once again confirms that corruption thrives, including in this room. Correct the inadequacies, 6271 must be voted on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-22-m1.u57	So, colleagues, we're moving on to the next question of order of the day. Thank you, colleagues, all right? Well, what am I supposed to do? Don't vote. Can I put it again? I'll put it again, I'll put it again. What's his number? 6271. Colleagues, I'm going to put no problem, I'm going to put a motion to vote so we can put it into the agenda and now we're going to consider 6271. I want us to move in with him now. Who wants us to go to the draft Law 6271 now, please vote. Please be supportive. Vote. Please be supportive. [[17:13:24]] For-153 153-yes. The decision is not made. Guys, can we try again? Now it's a statement from two factions, "Peter Prashenko's Block" and "The People's Front," who's going to act? Who's it gonna be? The statement, Arthur Gerasimov, to Arthur Gerasimov from two factions: "Peter Prashenko's Block" and "The People's Front". From the site or from the rostrum? From the rostrum. Please, Arthur Gerasimov.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-22-m1.u58	Dear colleagues! I have already spoken from this rostrum, but I would like to address once again sincerely every parliamentarian present in this room. A lot of you on TV talk shows tell us that this is a matter to be resolved. And today is the final day so that we can solve this issue. Regrettably, those bills that the President of Ukraine has introduced to Parliament, which cancel the electronic declaration, are not supported by part of the session room. But that's why, you know, the president's factions have registered two bills that concern, once again, the suspension of the deadlines for submitting these declarations in order to give us time for final decision-making. Dear colleagues, a great request to gather and support this. And now, as far as we're concerned, we've just started from this rostrum. I have great respect for my colleagues from the faction that is now in front of me. But, dear colleagues, I also expect that for any of these bills you will give more votes than you now have. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-22-m1.u59	So the four factions asked me to re-place them. I emphasize that of the three bills that were passed, 8120 and 8120-1 were the most supportive. And now, once again, I'm going to make a proposal to put it into the agenda for decision-making. I'm asking everyone to take up jobs. I ask everyone to come in and prepare for the vote. Colleagues, I wouldn't be so insistent if it weren't for the deadline. This is the deadline when we can vote on this. This is the bill that was able to unite, the opportunity that we have today. I ask everyone to prepare for the vote, go into the hall, and I'll make another offer. I hope you're voting the truth now? Sergei, you're voting now, aren't you? We voted yours. Now you support maybe we'll get it out. Friends, maybe we can pull it out. So, if you'd like to prepare for the vote, please take your seats. And I'm re-voting the motion for us to go to the vote and take decisions on the drafts of Laws 8120 and 8120-1, Arthur Gerasimov. I ask everyone to take part in the vote and I ask everyone to vote. Colleagues, I ask you to take responsibility. There's a big thing when a collective body: it's like no one's responsible, in fact everyone's responsible. Everyone who is in this room, everyone whom has been chosen, will report before Ukraine, before the electorate, before himself, before his heart. I'm asking you, colleagues, to vote. I'm asking you to support the inclusion in the agenda for review now 8120 and 8120-1. Please vote and please support. And during the vote, please take part in the vote. Vote, colleagues, please support everyone responsible. We vote, we vote, we vote, we vote, we vote, we vote, we vote, we vote, we vote, we vote, we vote, we vote, [[17:17:36]] For a hundred and By factions, show by factions. Peter Poshenko Block 81, People's Front 51, Opposition Block 0, Self-help 20, Radical Party 3, Fatherland 11, Will of the People 2, Rebirth Party 0. Let us turn to the next question of order of the day draft of the UEFA League Finals Act (7517). Please support the consideration of the reduced procedure. Please vote 7517, the reduced procedure please support, support the shortened procedure. [[17:18:26]] For-166 I invite you to report to the State Secretary of the Ministry of Finance, Captain Eugenia Valeriyovich, please. I'd like to have a word with you. Please be careful during the session.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-22-m1.u60	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like first of all to thank you for the previous project that was supported in the preparations for the finals of the Champions League. Please note the draft amendment to chapter XX of the Tax Code of Ukraine for the preparation and conduct of the final matches of the UEFA Champions League and the UEFA Champions League among women of the 2017/2018 season (No 8517). The bill is the fulfilment of Ukraine’s obligations under the taxation of individual work and services to be carried out in preparation, such as the bill to amend the Tax Code on Temporary Exemption from Taxation on the Income of Individuals and Military Communities, the non-resident’s income for work or services carried out in Ukraine during the preparation of appropriate measures. For the period of preparation of Ukraine's final part of the match, taxes on the added cost of the operation and services in preparation of the corresponding arrangements for the UEFA until 26 May 2018 are exempt from tax on income taxes on the import of the goods listed in paragraph 1.3, paragraph 43, of Sub-section 21 of the Customs Code of Ukraine and exemption from tax on the income of enterprises in the course of preparation and implementation of the relevant measures. The bill will allow for the implementation and preparation of appropriate measures, and we hope that Ukraine's image on the international stage will be greatly enhanced. Colleagues, please support the relevant bills.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-22-m1.u61	Thank you. I invite Nina Yuzanin, head of the Committee on Tax and Customs Policy, who is a co-reporter on this bill. Please, Mrs. Nina. Fellows, give it a little quiet, because it's been a hard day for everyone and it's hard to hear from each other.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-22-m1.u62	Dear colleagues, today at a committee meeting, we have discussed a draft law amending Chapter XX of the Tax Code of Ukraine in connection with the preparation and conduct in Ukraine of the final matches of the UEFA Champions League and the UEFA Champions League among women of the 2017-2018 season (registration number 7517), submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers. National committee deputies supported the purpose of the bill on the need to implement Ukraine's commitments to properly hold the final matches of the UEFA Champions League 2017-2018 in Ukraine, as well as the proposed amendments to the Ukrainian Tax Code. The main scientific and expert administration of the Supreme Council's apparatus in the general conclusion of the bill made observations and noted that the first reading of the bill could be based on comments made. But as a result of the draft bill, members of the committee decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine a draft law amending Chapter XX of the Code of Taxation of Ukraine, registration number 7517, submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers, to be adopted as a basis and as a whole. All the basic requirements that UEFA puts out for Ukraine for the final matches of the Champions League, you have already heard. They relate to changes in taxation, tax exemptions on the income of natural persons and the military community, non-resident income for work, services performed and provided in Ukraine, VAT exemptions and so on. But these are mandatory conditions that are set out for Ukraine to carry out this action. Thank you for your attention and for your support, as a matter of fact, as a matter of law.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-22-m1.u63	Thank you, Mrs. Nina. Colleagues therefore made a proposal for both the Cabinet of Ministers and the Committee of Profiles to vote on this law as a basis and as a whole. Is there a need to discuss? Yes. Please. Then they'll talk about breaking the Rules. I ask you to sign up for the discussion of those who wish, and we will vote. Please, Kostenko Ostracovy passes the word "self-help."
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-22-m1.u64	Honorable colleagues, UEFA, certainly have their own requirements for such a country when choosing a country to hold the finals of the Champions League. And in 2015, when UEFA was determined whether it would hold the final of the League of Champions in Ukraine, the Ministry of Finance of Ukraine provided appropriate guarantees for the exemption from taxation of income exclusively from non-residents who would be involved in UEFA's work or service here in Kiev during the final of the League of Champions. As well as the benefits of importing souvenirs: balls, scarfs, shirts, and so forth, not for sale, but exclusively for free distribution. There is also a need for transportation aids that will come here from the general sponsor of the Nissan League finals and will be served by football clubs, football teams, and so on. To date, benefits are granted exclusively by the laws of Ukraine. However, I would like to point out once again the rather negative work of the Ministry of Finance, which has reached the end of time. When, in fact, we can, if we don't support this law, break these guarantees and cancel the finals of the League of Champions in Kiev. Why did the Ministry of Finance, knowing that this question would come to an end? Today, colleagues, I urge you to support this bill and the amendments to the Customs Code as a whole. Because we have no choice. It's available by May 26th. Believe me, this bill was sent by a committee sent by the Ministry of Finance. And I ask him to support it as a foundation and as a whole as a law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-22-m1.u65	Please, National Deputy Krulko passes the word to Yvchenk. Please turn on the microphone to the National MP Yvchenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-22-m1.u66	Vadim Yvchenko, "The Fatherland" faction. Honorary colleagues, last year the Football Federation, addressed the Executive UEFA to recognize Kiev as the city where the 2018 Champions League will be held. I want to say that "Paternity" today will necessarily support both the whole and the changes to the Tax Code and the changes to the Customs Code. And I'd like to support my colleague that the Ministry of Finance had to start preparing before, because already an application for organizers, sponsors and all those who would have, let's say, such an opportunity to be participants and organizers of the League of Champions finals, they already have access to Ukraine, to Kiev with their equipment, together with their own teams. I would like us to support and show the world that we can unite around sports matches like the finale of the Champions League. And of course, I wanted it to be more often in Kiev. I also want to remind you of what happened in the 12th year of the Euro-2012, and today, this year, we're going to have the final. Sadly, for many years now, I feel that European football may not be available in Kiev. So let us do our utmost to be as united as possible and quickly as possible to adopt these laws, both on the basis and as a whole. "Paternity," of course, supports both bills. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-22-m1.u67	Please, Maxim Chicken, give me your word.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-22-m1.u68	Honorable colleagues, of course, delayed the consideration of this very important issue. And we have to save the situation with you. Minfin will not be able to prevent the victory of Ukraine. Ukraine has already won. For the first time in the history of Ukraine, we're going to host such a tournament, such a championship, such a high-level competition. And I'm convinced that we have a unique chance to show the world that we can accept this kind of competition. Of course, sport is out of politics, but you and I have a mission, a unique mission. I want to remind you that this competition, the final of the UEFA Champions League, will be held in Kiev just before the World Cup, which is supposed to be held in Russia. And we have to rub Putin's nose, run this race at the highest level, and let this regime then pour crocodile tears. We're gonna boycott Putin, and we're gonna have a party. Both this and the next bill are very important. I suggest we stop this discussion. I propose to proceed to the vote, to the vote, to the vote, and to the mobilization of each vote. No one can prevent the victory of Ukraine. Thank you. We vote yes.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-22-m1.u69	Final performance by the Radical Party of Igor Mosiychuk. And in two minutes, we're going to vote. Please invite everyone to the hall. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-22-m1.u70	The Radical Party has always supported and will support all the laws aimed at the development of national sport to support international sports tournaments in Ukraine, especially football. We're in pain for football, personally I'm in favour of Kiev's Dinamo, our leader Oleg Lazko for the Shakhtar, Andry Lozov for the Equinox Veres. And it is important for us that this bill be voted on. But I would also like to go back to the discussion that is going on in this room and, I'm sure, will continue until the end of the day. I repeat, you don't have to fool people, and you don't have to scare the audience, because when people who wear white T-shirts say that civil society is going to take us out, we can only be taken out by Ukrainian voters, not by representatives of the civil society who are on hold by the U.S. Embassy, who are going to hire oligarchs who are going to the Russians for money. So everyone has to declare. And the concept of foreign agents called financial agents is, including in the United States, to which you pray. And in general, in the United States, everyone, all the citizens, including the ones you're about to release from the declaration in this room. So don't fool people, don't cover up a foreign agency, don't cover up or hide from the Ukrainians.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-22-m1.u71	So, colleagues, we're moving on to making a decision. And let's not let football become a hostage of political debate. The Ukrainian Congregation, which brings together all the teams, is an example for us that when a challenge to Ukraine, we all have to unite regardless of who plays the team. Let's support those laws that are necessary for our congregation. And I am voting on the draft Act amending Chapter XX of the Tax Code of Ukraine in connection with the preparation and conduct in Ukraine of the final matches of the UEFA Champions League and the UEFA Champions League among women of the 2017-2018 season (7517). Please take your seats, please prepare for the vote, and please support me. Let's vote, colleagues. We're all in favor. Don't make football a hostage. Please vote. We'll support it. [[17:32:14]] For 223 We didn't make it. I can see we didn't make it. Colleagues, take up jobs, please. Take up jobs. So I put the first one on the way back, and then the law. First sentence: go back to voting for Bill 7517. Please vote, please support the return to 7517. Please be supportive. Vote. Please be supportive. We're voting for the return. Please be supportive. [[17:33:03]] For 226 We're back. Now, colleagues, I'm drafting Law 7517, a committee proposal, on the basis and in general. I ask everyone to vote carefully, each voice has a weight. Please vote and please support 7517 as a whole. Let's vote, colleagues. Please support each voice carefully. Please vote. Vote. Please be supportive. [[17:33:44]] For 236 236. The law is passed. And the final law of this chapter is 7519: the draft Law amending Chapter XXI, "The Final and Transitional Positions" of the Customs Code. Please support the consideration of the reduced procedure. Please vote short. If there's room will do, the reporter will do it, we'll vote. [[17:34:17]] For 185 And I invite you to the State Secretary's report, Captain Eugen Valeriovich. Please, briefly, gently very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-22-m1.u72	Distinguished People's Deputies! Thank you very much for supporting the previous drafts, and please support the draft amendments to the Transitional Regulations of the Customs Code of Ukraine in connection with the organization of the final part of the League of Champions No. 7519. Thank you very much. Please support
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-22-m1.u73	Colleagues, once a few people have gone into the hall, just return to the hall. There will be a vote. I invite you to report to the head of the Southern Committee, Nina Petrovna, please. It's laconic.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-22-m1.u74	Dear colleagues! I am just what we are about to submit to the bill in view of what we today consider to be a foundation and a whole. This is done by a subcommittee just in case. Therefore, after discussing the draft law at the meeting, the committee decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine that the draft Law amending Chapter XXI of the Customs Code of Ukraine should be adopted on the basis of the organization and conduct of the final matches of the UEFA Champions League and the UEFA Champions League, submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers (Registration No. 7519). Having provided for such clarifications in the text of the law, paragraph 4 prime. 3, which adds the bill to chapter XXI, "The Final and Transitional Positions". The first sentence of paragraph 4.3 of paragraph 2 reads as follows: "They are exempt from taxes on imported goods other than excise goods imported into the customs territory of Ukraine in the customs regime of imports by the Union of European Football Associations (hereinafter UEFA), authorized by UEFA, by individuals, football clubs and teams participating in the final matches of the UEFA Champions League and the UEFA Champions League among women in the 2017-2018 season (hereinafter the finals of the UEFA Champions League 2018), necessary to ensure the organization and conduct of the measures taken." In paragraph 4.3., after the numbers 8703, add the numbers 8704. Paragraph 4.3 of paragraph 8 reads: "The transport equipment temporarily imported into the customs territory of Ukraine is permitted to be used to meet the needs of UEFA, authorized UEFA persons, football clubs, including for internal transports for the purpose of providing organisations and conducting final arrangements for the UEFA 2018 Champions League." Please support the committee as a basis and as a whole as a law.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-22-m1.u75	Thank you. Colleagues, this is an identical third bill. Everyone has already expressed their thoughts, let's vote. So I ask everyone to take up their jobs, please come into the hall, because the next bill on construction is very important and I've been approached by many factions that we have to consider today. So, I'm asking everyone to take jobs, go into the hall, see who's not here, invite them. Did everyone say no? That's how I tell them to speak, and they say we won't. And I'm voting on a draft amendment to chapter XXI of the UEFA Championships and the UEFA Championships League among women of the 2017-2018 season (No. 7519) with the proposal of a committee on the basis and overall, taking into account the committee's proposals. Please vote, please support, colleagues, every vote, please support, vote, please vote, vote, vote. [[17:38:28]] For 222 Four. We'll be right back, we'll be back, but please vote and invite people into the hall. The government will now deploy. As in the old days, try it yourself. So, colleagues, now I'm going to put on a return, and then in general. I ask you to prepare for the vote. I'm voting first. Please take your seats. I'll bet the first vote: go back to the draft Law 7519. Please vote in favour of the return to draft Law 7519. Please vote, please support. Please vote. [[17:39:37]] For 233 233-yes. Decision taken. We're back. And now the bill of Law 7519 is based on and in general, taking into account the committee's proposals. Please don't walk around the hall so we don't come back. Please vote, please support. Let's vote, colleagues. Be careful, every voice, please. We vote 7519 on the basis and overall, taking into account the committee's proposals. Vote carefully. [[17:40:13]] For 229 229 — yes. Decision taken. The package of laws required to organise the UEFA Championship is supported by Parliament, colleagues. The next, very important bill. Colleagues, take your seats. The next one is the draft of the Basic Building Requirements Act, as well as the conditions for placing on the construction product market (No.7151). But he's asking very much for a vice-premier before he has to go in and do ratings for support. I ask you to take part in the vote, I ask you to take part in the vote. I'm betting on a rating vote to support a rating vote in support of draft Act 7151. Please vote, please support. Careful, colleagues, every voice. Voting rating, please support. Please be supportive. [[17:41:16]] For-149 149. You insisted, all of you. Colleagues, next draft of Law 7084. I'm putting the next draft of the law in order of the day - 7,084. This is a draft of the Law on Amendments to Certain Ukrainian Legislative Acts on Unfinished Construction and Future Real Estate Objects, 7,084. Ratings, yeah. 7084 - rating vote. Please vote, please support. Vote 7084. Please be supportive. [[17:42:15]] For-146 The decision is not taken. Colleagues, colleagues, yes. Then we have the next 7304, right, next? So, colleagues, I'm putting the next draft law on the rating vote. Who supports it -- 7304 and 7304-1 -- is a rating vote. who supports the vote, please support. Next bill 7304 and 7304-1 - rating, please support [[17:43:11]] For 190 Colleagues, next. Attention! There's a lot of concentration in the room. I ask you not to go, a unifying bill. The following bill: Amendments to certain Ukrainian laws to empower local authorities to impose restrictions on the sale of alcoholic beverages, 3149. The author is Igor Vasjunik. It's a bill that's important to all the mayors, to all the cities. The rating vote. I'm asking you to support his consideration of the 3149 rating vote. Please vote, please support. This is the next bill, please support. Let's support our colleague, let's vote. [[17:43:58]] For 207 I think there's potential, we can go in, right? Let's do it again, it's close, colleagues, I'll do it again. Colleagues, pay attention! This bill is completely social, it needs all the mayors and our citizens. It's a restriction on the sale of alcohol, which measures and so on, but we're going to provide legislative security. I'm asking you, colleagues, back up, let's unite. Guys, take your seats. I'm re-voting 3149. I'd like to support you, colleagues, and a vote, please. Support me, my friends, please vote. Let's finish today well with the social bill. Hold on, we're voting. Please support, we vote. [[17:44:51]] For 212 Can we come in, how do you feel? Author, come in? [[Noise Nodes]] Okay, I'll put the third time, I'll put the third time in, colleagues. Where are they going? Where will the deputies go during the working hours, please explain? Can the teacher leave in 15 minutes before the end of the class? Can the miner go? He can't leave. Then I have a question: where do the deputies go when there are 15 minutes of work? [[Noise Nodes]] So I'm asking everyone to take their jobs, come into the hall, call the national MPs. No one has the right to leave the workplace when the whole of Ukraine is looking at us. So I'm asking you to come into the hall and support me again. I'm putting friction once on the ratings vote of Law 3149, it's close to consensus, it's close to a general decision. I ask during the vote to vote and to support. Please support the 3149 votes. Please vote. Please be supportive. Please support me, Mr. Victor. Vote, please. No, stop. Please support, Mr. Victor, I'm asking you very much for your support. Please vote and please support, we vote. [[17:46:14]] For 211 We didn't make it. Attention! Please vote and please support. Everyone vote, please. Please be supportive. Vote, please. [[17:46:37]] For 221 We can go in. I ask you to support his consideration of the reduced procedure. Please support the consideration of the reduced procedure. Please vote. And I ask you to come into the hall, not to go out. Vote. Short-term procedure. [[17:47:02]] For-174 I invite you to report to the National Deputy of Ukraine, Vasjunik Igor Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-22-m1.u76	Dear colleagues, you have before you a bill of 3149 amending some Ukrainian laws on the authority to impose restrictions on the sale of beer (except non-alcoholic), alcoholic beverages, low-alcoholic beverages and table wine. Every year, more than 40,000 people die because of alcoholism and drunkenness in Ukraine. According to the World Health Organization, our state is 6th in the world at a level of alcohol consumption. More than 83 percent of adolescents experience alcohol use. During the survey, nearly 35 percent of the students indicated that it was easy or very easy for them to buy alcoholic beverages. So the fight against excessive alcohol consumption remains extremely relevant today. Restrictions and bans on the level of legislation in force are insufficient, and some local authorities have already imposed restrictions — banning the sale of alcohol during the night. This has been done in Lviv, Ivano-Frankivsk, Cherkas, Uzhgrad, Lutsk, Kiev, but due to legislative failures, the relevant decisions of local councils in court have often been annulled. What does the bill propose? Authorize the local government to prohibit the sale of alcoholic beverages other than restaurants, at an appointed time within the appropriate administrative territory, and to establish administrative responsibility for the sale of alcoholic beverages. I would like to point out that this law does not explicitly prohibit the sale of alcohol. He only gives local authorities the right to impose a ban on the sale of alcohol at night. It's a small one, but it's a step towards decentralization that you and I have declared throughout the country. So I'm asking the people's deputies very much, let's take care of our young people, our future and our Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-22-m1.u77	Thank you. The Bible is invited to the report. And I'm asking everyone, colleagues, Yuri Vasilovich, please speak in a concise manner. This is a law that unites all factions, very concisely, please. Mr. Yuri, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-22-m1.u78	The Committee on State Building, Regional Policy, and Local Self - Government reviewed the draft Law on Amendments to Certain Laws of Ukraine to Authorize Local Government Authorities to Set Restrictions on the Sale of Beers (except Alcohol), Alcoholic, Alcoholic, and Table Wines at Their Meeting on December 23, 15. Finally, this bill reached the session hall, it's urgent, it's important. And those who are touched in their lives, in their activities with local self - government authorities, will receive a great deal of gratitude, a great deal of gratitude from local self - government authorities if approved. No, child alcoholism, no, alcoholism of the Ukrainian nation. It is a great request for everyone to return to the hall and support, to vote on this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-22-m1.u79	Thank you. Please: Two in, two in the opposite. Very short, two for, two for, but very concise. Sergey Eutusek of Fatherland. If you'll excuse me, it's fine.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-22-m1.u80	Thank you, Mr. Head. Sergey Eutuszek, "The Fatherland" faction. In fact, we support the bill and point out that the role of local self - government authorities is increasing, as we often see that business operators abuse and start selling such alcoholic beverages at educational institutions. And then it's very difficult in the mesquiconomy to influence some processes that forbid it. Thus, the Association of Ukrainian Cities clearly supports the initiative and also tells us that it is necessary to allow local authorities — whether rural or city councils — to fine, simply to fine those who abuse and try to sell our young people alcohol at educational institutions. So the "Fatherland" faction will support this bill and ask the hall to consider it quickly and give its votes in favour. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-22-m1.u81	Thank you. From Peter Prashenko's Block, Musak Alexi Petrovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-22-m1.u82	Dear colleagues, good afternoon! Peter Dustenka's Block will support this bill. Now, I would like to give the floor to an expert in this case who can tell the former Rector of the University of Kuril Vitali Semenovich in detail.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-22-m1.u83	Turn on Kuril's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-22-m1.u84	Dear National Deputies! Dear citizens of Ukraine! Peter Dustenka's Block will support this bill for several reasons. First of all, this bill is one of the concrete ways that we hand over authority to local communities. And that's very important. And every day, we should step by step transfer as much authority as possible to the authorities of local self - government. And the second, very important moment. It is a ban on selling alcohol at night and late in the evening. Ukraine is on the verge that the nation is beginning to sleep quietly, to the great regret. Drinks were always used in Ukraine. But this did not mean that we had massive alcoholism. Now it's a scary phenomenon, it's increasing. So we have to take some restrictive measures to stop these processes. And these processes can be halted only by administrative means, as well as by educational work, explanatory work, and the work of medical authorities. Maybe this law, it won't stop all of these processes from being negative. But this is one of the small steps, the right steps that our Parliament needs to take. So I call on all deputies to support the data.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-22-m1.u85	Thank you. Colleagues, I'm the only one who calls for flexibility again. I'll give my word to everyone. The only thing I'm asking more concisely is that we may not be able to vote it out, and that's going to be a shame. So, from the Opposition Block, Sharma Igor Mikhailovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-22-m1.u86	Igor Shurma, Opposition Block. The opposition block will definitely support this legislative initiative. But, dear fellow Members, let us not deceive ourselves. You know perfectly well what a ban or a permit is. limiting us never to overcome the problem of alcoholism or other alcoholism, the more banning or closing, the more temptation there will be. What is more, the question of what must be prohibited at night. Then there is the question, What kind of family is it when underage children go out looking for alcohol at night? There's a difference between a megapolis city and a rural area. And it should be said that today, without education, without church employees, we never raise people’s attitude toward alcohol. All over the world, alcohol is an undeniable attribute. Alcohol is also used abroad, but unfortunately, there is no culture of alcohol use today. And, no doubt, if we want to solve this issue, we have to say that a long-term program should be developed. One day you won't decide. And to give a sense of what alcohol is going to do in the future, to show examples of what alcoholics who can't achieve anything in this life, not to achieve financial gains or family prospects, of course, there's no way that it's going to do any more good. But clearly how does the first step have to be done? And those bodies of local self-government that want to develop the program and want to have the right to do it, we have to give them a chance to do it, we vote in favour.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-22-m1.u87	Thank you. Mosiyczuk, the Radical Party gives the word. Oh, no, it doesn't. Please, Mr. Igor. Once again, I would like to invite you in in a brief fashion.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-22-m1.u88	Igor Mosiyczuk, Oleg Lachka Radical Party Of course, our faction will necessarily support the bill because it is designed to preserve the health of the Ukrainian nation. It is one that prejudices the diversion that is taking place against our nation, when, in fact, the nation tries to merge and turn into cattle to then use, the mother is said to be in all direct and indirect cases. And I fully agree with the previous statement that a comprehensive program to combat this phenomenon is really needed, and the Ministry of Health should have developed this program. But unfortunately, the "Doctor of Death," who is now in charge of this ministry, is more concerned with divinities than the health of the nation. The problem is how to close the rural hospital, the FAP shut down, do something in the area, and not worry about the health of the nation. Therefore, the factions of the Radical Party, taking advantage of the opportunity, insist and demand that the Cabinet of Ministers bring the matter of the appointment of a health minister to Parliament as soon as possible and that Ulya Suprun resign. Dear colleagues, there will be a vote in two minutes. All I have is a request for the heads of the factions, so help me, don't let the deputies out of the hall, please. Please invite everyone into the hall. In two minutes, the vote will take place. From Rebirth, one minute, Yatzenko, please. Come into the hall, please. Invite everyone into the hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-22-m1.u89	Dear colleagues, well, actually, today we do have besides the fact that selling alcohol at night decomposes young people who are very much in the streets today, and it forces them to go out into the street as mentally unstable. Secondly, today because they sell alcohol after, for example, 11 p.m., we have constant problems when people turn around, there are disturbances in calmness, bullying other negative consequences, robbery, it contributes to other crimes like, there's drug abuse and so on. I mean, really, this law, we think, needs to be supported.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-22-m1.u90	Don't leave the hall. Go back to the hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-22-m1.u91	And this could be a consolidation of the hall today. And it shows who of the local authorities is "breathing" things like that, and who's still hurting people if we accept it. So we really need to support him. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-03-22-m1.u92	Thank you. I wonder what is done in the heart of someone who comes out of the hall when we vote to limit alcohol for our children? So, colleagues, let's move on to making a decision. Everyone, please come into the hall. Please prepare for the vote. Please prepare for the vote. So I'm voting on the draft Act amending some of the laws of Ukraine to give local self-government authorities authority to impose restrictions on the sale of alcoholic, malalcoholic beverages on the basis of a committee proposal. We'll wait for the card, please. We'll wait until they get out of bed and take their seats. So 3149 as a base and as a whole. Please vote. Please be supportive. Vote. Please be supportive. Please vote. Vote. Please be supportive. [[18:00:45]] For 230 The law is passed, colleagues. I still have it. Attention, stand by! I'll continue for 15 minutes. One rating vote. One. This is a question that we've already voted on -- 6642. It's about tax evasion for religious organizations. We voted the other night, not all of us. I run a rating vote on it. Please take part. 6642. Who would like us to consider it, please vote. Please be supportive. [[18:01:28]] For 178. The decision is not made. Colleagues, we had, we ended up with a good social issue, our order of the day. We've had a very important day today, we've taken important steps, and, I'm sure, the steps are wrong, when we didn't support the e-declaration, it was an unworthy step. But at the same time, today we have voted on many important laws. And here I announce and close the evening session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Tomorrow at 10 a.m., I'm inviting everyone into the hall to continue our work. Thank you. Good-bye.
