ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-04-m1.u1	I'm asking you to come into the hall, get ready for registration. Invite the deputies to the hall. So, colleagues, please register and take part in the registration. Turn on the registration system. [[16:04:48]] There are 348 national deputies registered. I declare the evening plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine open. First of all, I want to read the announcement. According to the application and in accordance with the third part of article 60 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules, I report the entry of the People's Deputies of Ukraine, Kureny Vladimir Kostinović, as part of the party's parliamentary faction "Block of Petra Prashenka" in the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the eighth call. Let's welcome our colleague. [[Applause]] And I want to remind you of the short course of our morning session. We considered four laws from the disability protection unit: one law was passed in general, two laws were adopted as a basis, and we went to the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on Sanitary and Epidemic Welfare (8464). By noon we had heard a report, as well as statements from factions. Now we're going to start a discussion with the people's deputies, and then we're going to move on to the decision-making process. So I strongly ask all the factions to have the maximum mobilization in the room at 16:20 when we move on to the decision-making process and finish the discussion. Now we're going to continue the discussion. And I'm asking the National Deputies, who are going to take up the draft Law 8464, to record and sign up for the speech. 15 minutes, time for discussion, please. Melniczuk Sergey Petrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-04-m1.u2	Good afternoon, citizens of Ukraine, distinguished colleagues, chairman. This bill needs to be adopted. What was done is that both the sansaries were eliminated, and the chief health care officer was eliminated, we actually crossed out one corrupt scheme, but we didn't do the operating system, we didn't redistribute the duties of the sansaries. So this legislative act that was developed in the committee is the one that just places all the dots above the "and" and in the laws themselves, and in the offices it does the proper functions to make the system work. Let me give you an example of what is being done at the moment with medicines coming to Ukraine. The last violent case is because of diplomatic mail, there are drugs that are coming out, that are actually incomprehensible or they've been able to withstand the temperature regime, and then these vaccines or medicines are being used by people, and it's not clear what's going on with these people, whether they're going to benefit them, or whether it's going to be even worse for the patient. So it's this legislative act that we're interfering with, giving order in the system. Basically, yes, we're handing over basic functions to the Ministry of Health, and what else do we need to do? We need to remove our responsibilities from there. I'm not saying that we need a prime minister who worked in the field, who worked in his own specialty, who will carry out his duties for the benefit of the Ukrainian nation. Because it is the security of the country, and the Ministry of Health should be responsible for its actions, not for the responsibilities that tomorrow will gather suitcases of looted goods and flee abroad. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-04-m1.u3	Thank you. Musia's next speech, but I want to tell you right away that the next one is Konstanovic, he's giving the speech to Musia, and so turn on the six minutes for the performance right now. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-04-m1.u4	Thank you. Dear People's Deputies, Oleg Musei, 124 major constituency, Sokalstina, Red Town. In fact, in 15 minutes, I would really like this room to be at least 226 votes that are necessary for the adoption of this bill. The new edition of the Sanepid welfare law is one of those absolutely fundamental laws that long await not only the Ukrainian health system, but not only the adequate medicine that remains in the health system, but also the entire Ukrainian society. It is based and based, above all, on our desire for Euro-Association and Euro-Integration. It is fully compatible with the Treaty on European Association and Construction of Public Health. This is a system that has been in place for more than 30 years after the so - called Semashka system, after other medical systems, lives a world that lays the foundation for a person’s vitality in maintaining health and preserving life. And in this sense, the sanitary and epidemiological well-being and well-being of each of us, our families, our children in school, our environment, the dangerous risks facing mankind, from nuclear power plants to water stations, from the risks facing our children, who suffer from infectious diseases. And these are the vaccinations that need to be done. Finally, this publication takes full account of all the modern scientific achievements of Europe that the government and the Ministry of Health so love to talk about and do nothing. That's why the best scientific experts and the best scientific schools left in Ukraine are headed by the Institute. Toxicology, led by Professor Prodancechuk, has joined the adaptation of European legislation and the completion of this vacchanal and chaos, which has come after a completely thoughtless and groundless elimination of sanitation. I've heard a lot of questions here, especially from the Fatherland faction, about the creation of a new government body that will be there as a sanepid station. It doesn't really fit the reality. We liberalize, on the condition that we produce from food to all the things that surround us. And these are also technical tools, this is construction, this is the area of life, this is the area of leisure. Absolutely, he regulates all the areas we face in terms of the responsibility of the manufacturer or the provider. And that's exactly what we have today's forward world trend and the modern European, so to speak, the drive, the Euro-association that will actually be realized in reality. I am very surprised at the adoption of such a contribution, one might say, to the bill the position of the Ministry of Health and the position of the government. Look at the government's bed. If necessary, at least formally there is a representative of the Ministry of Health, who is to carry out further public policy in the field of epidemiology, even if it is played in cash. To date, there is no representative of the Ministry of Health. And you know, today at the Health Committee, we've been looking at the suspension and transposition of two bills a year, which the government tells us a lot about, and there's a lot of talk about factions that consider themselves reformative. When we adopt these laws that are finally going to be changed, a major reform will be done, so these great reformers have been reformed to the point that neither the government nor the Ministry of Health have developed any sublegal act. How can that be? And no one is responsible for that. Therefore, we certainly need a responsible person in the role of Ukrainian minister of health to implement the Sanepe welfare Act. And this is, you could say, such complex and interconnected things. So I urge everyone to call their friends and invite them to the hall, as our very often presiding officer does at the meeting, because until the second reading, all these little nuances that are always in the writing of a bill, and those fears that there will be another monster that can't be controlled, they can be destroyed virtually to nothing. I sincerely believe that these fundamental work over the last 3-5 years from professionals in the field of sanepide, as well as our committee, where most members of the committee are co-sponsors of the bill, will today find their positive decision in this room. Thank you all. And with the sincere hope that we will support what we all need and our peoples need, the Sanepid Goodness Act, which regulates at last what has long been destroyed in our country. Thank you all. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-04-m1.u5	Thank you. Please welcome the people’s representative, Bublik. Please give the floor to the national deputy Yuri Lewchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-04-m1.u6	Lewchenko, Freedom, 223 District, Kiev City. Now, now the Supreme Council is trying to, well, at least it's making an appearance that is trying to correct those terrible mistakes that have been made by this same calling, by this same Supreme Council and by the previous one in terms of the destruction of the state as well. Every day more and more Ukrainians feel that there is no, in fact, to whom to turn, when there is a certain degree of lawlessness, there is no sense of authority as such. The government, the state, in fact, disappears as such, the government. And so the decision that was made by a completely preposterous, foolish decision -- to destroy, to cancel, was one of those decisions that actually make people feel that way. Now, the logic is that if an organ is taking a beating, if a body is corrupt, let's just cancel this organ, whether it has useful functions or not -- that's an absurd logic. Obviously, the sanepidem station had useful functions. Obviously, what she was doing was needed and needed by society. Obviously, those things, when some so-called neoliberal reformers in the government say that the Ukrainian economy is very regulated and they talk about Western experience, it's an absolute lie because Western European countries, in particular most of the countries in the European Union, have much more government regulation than, even today, Ukraine has, have much more state-controlled, verification bodies. What difference does it make? These monitoring, testing bodies in Western Europe work for society, for they are governed by honest government officials who think about the interests of society. Instead, we have most of the controlling, checking bodies governed by truly corrupt personalities who, instead of checking the perpetrators, work for violators. And this logic of sanepidemstation was absurd. Instead of putting normal leaders instead of cleaning up corruption, they decided to cancel the body at all. Let's call it off. Well, I'm sorry, it makes sense that we have corrupt courts. Then let's call off all the courts. Why do we need a judicial system? Let the anarchy be, but the courts are corrupt! Or the police. It's the corruption police, isn't it? Let's do the private police. Well, it's true, you do it anyway, essentially de facto, private police, but you want to do it somewhere else. So this bill, unfortunately, he's taking some steps to solve this problem, some small steps, but he's still leaving a key asset to this neoliberalism. There should be no declarative principles in the sanepidem system, there should be a permissive principle, not a declarative principle. As it is, in fact, there are in most Western European countries. Stop this game in the wild market! Stop playing in the wild market. Most developed countries have been leaving the wild market in recent decades, and you are jumping into these jungles. Stop it!
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-04-m1.u7	Next performance. Please, People's Deputies. He conveys the word Mantis. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-04-m1.u8	Dear colleagues, dear Ukrainians! I want to stress that in this law it is about the safety of every one of you, every one of you in this room, every one of you who lives in Ukraine, every one of our children, every one of our businesses, every one of our supermarkets. Because the health-epidemic well-being is what keeps the state from mass epidemics, from mass infectious diseases, from poisoning. And today, Ukraine, unfortunately, is on this list at the very top, in top positions across Europe: that's in measles disease, which is after TB, for AIDS. Once again, I would like to return to the fact that the Ministry of Health is unable to perform the function of reforming the health system today and of introducing a compulsory national health insurance. First-line reform is far from reform, because people today do not have access to high-quality cost-effective aid. People today who have cancer, who have cardiovascular diseases, who have infectious diseases, have no access to treatment, they have no money, and the state doesn't finance it. This law, which I hope you will support today on a basis, this law does not regulate, does not regulate the system. It allows mechanisms to be created to control what is happening in the country today. And I absolutely agree with my colleague, National Deputy Lewchenk, that there is no way to destroy those organs that perform functions unless there is corruption inside. And what was done was done wrong, done with great danger to the Ukrainians. So I ask you to support this bill as a basis. All your suggestions, your comments, all the wishes of our experts, the ministries of profile, which I hope will be included in the work, will be taken into account for the preparation of this bill for second reading. And once again, in Ukraine today, the risk of an epidemic is extremely high. And today, the ministry is supposed to be screaming not about the crust epidemic, but yelling that if we have an epidemic of diphtheria or polio, we're going to get hundreds, thousands of people and children who are going to die because there's no quality work going on today. And I stress that this bill will be fully implemented.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-04-m1.u9	Please finish 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-04-m1.u10	That the implementation of both this bill and the transplant bill, and the bill on the autonomy of medical institutions, the reform that Parliament has initiated today has failed the Ministry of Health. But this does not mean that Parliament should not do its job and make laws that will improve the justice and security of Ukrainians. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-04-m1.u11	Dear colleagues, there will be a vote in three minutes. I ask you very much to return to the session room. The final speech, please, Igor Šurma, please. Colleagues, get back to the session room.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-04-m1.u12	Igor Shurma, Opposition Block. Dear colleagues, we are now witnessing what the destruction of the system is doing. In its time, not only was sanitation destroyed, but a system of sanitation for the well - being of our lives was destroyed. I'm going to give you literally some fresh examples of what this destruction has led to. Not long ago, however, there was a huge tragedy when a roof collapsed in the Vishnu Kyiv district in the gymnasium of a public school. You think that's the problem with builders? Maybe. But I think if there wasn't a disposal of sanitation and a precautionary supervision, all the projects would probably agree with the experts, and there would probably be a point to this project. Would we today talk about such an enormous number of sick and dead by botulism? This is a direct result of the lack of technology today in food production. Why did this happen? Because of the disposal of the authorities. Today, we should say that the lack of epidemiology in sanitation has consequences in the form of epidemics. But look at what happens in school: children’s and adolescents’ hospitalized doctors, children’s hygiene, and adolescents. What led to this? What is happening in schools today is totally not seen by any of those who are concerned about public health. This bill, it's not going to solve this problem, it's just going to help bring it down and improve it. Was it necessary to reorganize sanitation in due course? No doubt. Was it needed in this way? Probably not. But we need to understand that everything is done well when it is in time. Let me give you an example: Do you need sanitation at some point? If there is a five - star hotel and there is a restaurant, do they need a view? Absolutely not, because they know that any disruption in the technological process, any food poisoning will lead to the fact that this hotel will never be a five-star hotel, and there are important people who spend a lot of money on living, they won't go. This is about any of our spheres of life. And sadly, health institutions today face the same fate. We destroy what we have and offer nothing in return. The Ministry of Health, unfortunately, is merely hand - rearing. Do you remember a girl who was poisoned in a health camp? What did T.W.O. say? Minister? "It's all right, we just have to give her a little credit." What Did Anesthesiologists Say? "Woe great," and this kid walked out of the world, and no one apologized to his parents, all because of what? Because of being thrown away from medicine in a sanepidative function, this is absolute.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-04-m1.u13	30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-04-m1.u14	And it's an absolute mistake. And in these circumstances, today, as half a day, we are forced to go to vote on the bill in order to make our well-being, our population, even though there is little action in the form of those functions that were once performed by sanitation. Thank you. We support this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-04-m1.u15	Thank you. So, colleagues, the discussion is concluded by the deputies. And I'm asking everyone to come into the hall, and we're moving on to making a decision. I'm talking to factions' heads right now, factions, look who's not in the room. There have just been ten deputies out of the hall. Please inform the members of the Supreme Council Secretariat that we are now moving on to a decision. Now the final word is to the head of the committee, and in three minutes we're going to the vote. Once again, I persist in addressing the heads of factions, mobilizing factions to vote. To avoid complaining later, look who's not around, call me, call me from the towers in the hall. Please come into the hall, now the closing word of Oli the Mantis, and let's move on to the decision-making process. Please, three minutes, Ola the Mantis.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-04-m1.u16	Dear colleagues! In addition to tens of thousands of children and adults with infectious diseases, 9 to 10,000 people die of infectious diseases each year in Ukraine. All of these are diseases that can be prevented and cured in most cases. By voting for this bill, you will allow the creation in Ukraine of a fair food safety control system, the safety of our children in rest camps, in schools so that there is no risk, as I have already stressed, of industrial botulism. It is a disgrace that for the first time in years of independence in Ukraine, people die from the fish and meat they bought in supermarkets. The absence of this law and the lack of regulation of the health-epidemic welfare system poses a threat to all Ukrainian citizens, to all your families. So I'm now addressing you without any political preference, without any internal competition or population support for this bill as a basis. The Health Committee commits itself as quickly as possible to draft a bill with all the observations, to specify the functions that will be placed in executive power to ensure that Ukrainians feel protected from their authority, so that Ukrainians feel that Parliament and all national MPs are in the best position to protect their interests. And in the end, I very much hope that the Prime Minister will stop being afraid and introduce to Parliament a candidature of a minister of health who will be able to implement all the bills that Parliament adopts. And, of course, continuing to reform the health sector should become our joint vote for the National Health Insurance Act, which will allow the health care system to be made accessible, fair to all Ukrainian people. So I am addressing you on behalf of the Health Committee, the National Deputies, the 21 National Deputies, from all political forces to support the bill as a basis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-04-m1.u17	Thank you. So let's move on to making a decision. Colleagues, I ask everyone to return to the hall. Now. (Andria, come back, please) I'll be right back. There may be a few votes missing. I'm asking everyone to come into the hall and take jobs. Heads of factions, please invite all deputies to the Chamber. So, colleagues, please return from your beds to the hall. Please return to the voting room, Ira. We're moving on to making a decision. And I'm voting on the bill amending the Ukrainian Act on Sanitary and Epidemic Welfare (No. 8464) to propose a committee on a basis. I'm asking you, colleagues, to support our committee. Please all take part in the vote and please support 8464 as a basis. Let's vote, colleagues. We're backing up! Vote. [[16:31:57]] For 207 We didn't make it, colleagues. Come to the hall, fellows! Look at the factions, on the towers in the towers, and invite you to the hall. I'll be back in a minute. 30 seconds, colleagues, I'm asking you to help members of the committee and the heads of factions, see who's in the towers, invite them into the hall, and ask no one out of the hall. I'm going to read the factions. Please show by factions: "Block of Peter Poshenko" – 79, "National Front" – 46, "Block of Opposition" – 19, "Help Self", 11, Radical Party – 3, "Papačina" – 6, "Will of the People" – 1, "Party of Rebirth" – 11, non-fractional – 31. In fact, there is the general support of the law for all the halls, we just need to mobilize and participate in the vote. Please come into the hall, take your jobs. Colleagues, I'm going to put it back on the ground first, and then I'm going to put it back on the ground again. During that time, please take up all your jobs. And, colleagues, pay attention! I'll put the first vote on the return. So I would like to support the proposal to go back to the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on Sanitary and Epidemic Welfare (8464), and I ask everyone to participate carefully in the vote. Please vote and support the return. Vote, colleagues, please support, vote, support. Vote. [[16:33:56]] For 208 The MPs are on their way. I'm asking the factions to show us what's going on. Colleagues, come into the hall, please, take your seats. Block of Peter Poshenko – 82, National Front – 49, Opposition Block – 16, Self-help – 12, Radical Party – 3, Fatherland – 7, Will of the People – 3, Rebirth – 8, non-fractional – 28. Colleagues, a large number of votes are missing. I'll put it again, if there's no support, the bill will be rejected. That's why I'm now asking the committee members to mobilize the national deputies as much as possible. I'm asking everyone to take up jobs, everyone who's in the hall. And the chairman of the committee has repeatedly explained in very detail the importance of this bill, it's out of politics, it's out of discussion. Colleagues, I'm asking you to mobilize, and I'm asking you to support me. And I'm voting on the proposal to go back to draft Law 8464 and ask everyone to vote. Colleagues, please be at the workplace and vote. Please support the return, vote, support, vote, colleagues. Please support, we vote. [[16:35:45.]] For 206 The voices are getting smaller, not bigger. Tell me, colleagues, if there's a committee to work on, will you? Colleagues, would you support the committee for work? [[B in m in s a l in]] I'm putting it on the committee. Will you support the committee? [[B in m in s a l in]] Everybody backing up? Colleagues, I'm about to put you on the committee for work. But I ask this proposal to support all the halls. So, colleagues, take up jobs. Don't let the bill get lost. I ask everyone to be in the workplace, and I propose that the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Public Health Act (8464) be sent to the Committee for re-reading. Please vote and please support. Vote. The committee. We'll support it, colleagues. Please vote. We'll support it. [[16:37:05]] For 216 We didn't make it, I see. Hold on. I'll do it again, colleagues. And now we have to go back, and I'm going to put it on the committee. Colleagues, pay attention! We have to go back, and then I'll put it on the committee. A few votes. Stay put, colleagues, don't leave. So I'm proposing to go back to voting for the proposal to send draft Law 8464 to the committee for further work. The first vote is return, then I'll put it on the committee. Please vote. Please be supportive. Let's vote, colleagues. Vote. Everyone, please take part in the vote. Please be supportive. Vote. It's a compromise position, support it. [[16:37:59]] For 215 I won't. And the next, colleagues, the last is the subject of a legislative initiative for further development. I ask everyone to mobilize and support it so that the law is not rejected. It's not the adoption of the law, it's a compromise position. I'm asking you to support everyone in the hall. Colleagues, please mobilize. And I'm voting for a bill amending the Ukrainian Public Health Act (8464) to return the subject to the legislative initiative to work. Please vote, please support me, colleagues. I'm asking everyone to take a vote and please support. Vote! Support me, please vote. Support, vote. [[16:39:06]] For 224 2 votes, 2 votes. Take your seats, colleagues. Come into the hall, please. I want to emphasize once again, this is a compromising position. I'll do it again. Colleagues, don't leave the hall, please. Once again, for my return, and then I'll put it on the committee for further work. Two votes. Please come into the hall, don't leave the hall. First it's a return, then it's a committee. Two votes. First, I propose to return to draft Law 8464. Please vote, please support. Please support me, colleagues, for your return. Each voice, vote carefully and carefully. Let's vote! Support, vote. [[16:40:05]] For 233 We're back, colleagues. Now I'm putting Law 8464's draft on the committee for re-reading. Please vote and please support. Vote, colleagues, support, vote. It's a compromising position, and we're all going to support it together. Please be supportive. [[16:40:31]] For 233 Decision taken. Draft Law 8464 has been returned to the committee for further work. Colleagues, the next is the question of agrarian policy of a block. The first question is to bring the decision into the agenda and to make a decision – 9162 – the draft Law on the Basic Principles of State Agrarian Policy and State Policy for Rural Development. So, 9162, getting into the agenda of the day session for decision-making. Please vote and please support. Let's vote, colleagues, getting into the agenda of the day session for decision-making. Please be supportive. Please vote. Vote. Please be supportive. [[16:41:28]] For 178. The decision is not made. Colleagues, the head of the agrarian committee has asked me to move the block of agrarian politics, and I would like to report that three decisions have already been made and handed down in the hall to cancel decisions of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. I would like to remind you that I have the right to order a day session without placing the day session in order and without having to vote. This is the first draft of Decree 9260, the draft Decision repealing the decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to adopt, as a whole, a bill amending the Tax Code of Ukraine and some other legislative acts of Ukraine to improve the administration and review of individual taxes and taxes, as well as 9000 and 7279-d. Three decisions that we should consider. And I propose to start with the first one that concerns the Ukrainian State Budget Bill 2019. And I want to remind you that, as Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, I have no right to sign the budget until these rulings are considered in the sessional room of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. I would also like to remind you that the rulings are being considered for a reduced procedure and that there is no need to vote for it, which is the prescribed form of the Rules. And we are moving on to the draft Order repealing the decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine of 23.11.2018 on the adoption as a whole as a bill on the National Budget of Ukraine for 2019. We have two reporters. And I'm going to invite you to Lechchenk's report first, then Kaplin. So, I invite you to the report of the Ukrainian National Deputy Levchenka Yuri Volodymirovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-04-m1.u18	Lewchenko, Freedom, 223rd District, Kiev. This year, this year the Supreme Council of Ukraine dropped this call even lower than it had been before, as far as possible on a budget night, when it looked on the night of November 22 on November 23, the National Budget of Ukraine for 2019. The worst situation in the past was in December 2014. Then the state budget was approved at 4 a.m. Today, this time, the state budget was approved at 6 a.m. It was approved with total violation of the Ukrainian Act on Rules of Procedure of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. It was said that if that night was not approved, the dollar would collapse, the country would collapse, someone would attack and so on, and so on. What do we see now? It's almost been two weeks since the state budget was approved -- it's not signed, it's not valid, but there's been no disaster. That is, the Ukrainian people were lied to from these rostrums, lied from the Presidium in order to get it all approved at night, so that people would not see the truth about the budget! They did not see the truth about the fact that more than the Armed Forces of Ukraine were being deployed to a police apparatus during the war! So that people don't see the truth, that before the election, the President of Ukraine is given a hand billion that he can direct to the left. Not to be seen that there is more going on in executive power than there is in education and medicine. Don't let people see all this. A total violation of the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s Rules of Procedure violated 157 articles, the Constitution and the Constitution of Ukraine on Personal Voting was violated! It's totally buttoned up. Billions of dollars were illegally read from the paper at the last minute. And this is what this Supreme Council of Ukraine voted all night. So any normal national MP. Please give me 10 seconds, 10 seconds to finish. Any normal national MP.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-04-m1.u19	Please finish 15 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-04-m1.u20	Any normal national MP, if he is honest with himself and, above all, in front of his constituents, must now vote in favour of lifting that illegal vote, because it was totally illegal, unfair and against the interests of the people of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-04-m1.u21	Please welcome the author of the alternative decree, National Deputy Sergei Kaplin. Please, Mr. Sergei.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-04-m1.u22	First of all, I would like to address, not the national MPs, not the politicians, not the government, not the government, not the government, not the government, when a national economic strategy is being considered, but the Ukrainians. Dear fellow countrymen, on this night the Supreme Council of Ukraine has embarked on about a third of the budget out loud, tens of billions of dollars have actually been distributed by hand this night. And most of the national MPs, who represent the oligarchic clans who bought the parties and then led the factions to the Supreme Council of Ukraine, voted on the budget. I say this budget is antisocial! I say -- it contains unacceptable social standards for ordinary Ukrainians: low wages, lowest wages in Europe, world wide, lowest pensions, lowest social assistance, cut medical budgets, budget for the protection of ordinary Ukrainians. This budget is destroying the village! This budget does not create new jobs! Finally, this budget continues to legitimize the looting tariffs for the common people! We were talking to our colleague Sugonjako: make a real revolutionary reform -- clean up the rent, which is then translated into the cost of services and products, and then at the price paid to ordinary Ukrainians. Remove the looting VAT, which you then share on a budget night, by distributing among the oligarchik clans. Remove the OCHA and Naftogazu envelopes, which write multibillion dollars, not millions! - Billions of bonuses. And you're going to get the price, I'm going to say, four times lower than right now, for gas. The simple Ukrainians deserved it. The Lord God gave them the right and the opportunity to use a concessional price, and this is not the case in every country. You, an oligarchic asshole, represented here in the form of factions, you take it away from ordinary people, you twist their pockets, you don't let them breathe for 27 years.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-04-m1.u23	Please, 15 seconds. Just don't yell at me. Don't yell at me. Please don't yell at me. 15 seconds. 15 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-04-m1.u24	But you, the common people, have to know that there will be a political force in the next parliament that will cost you your salary, your pension, your grant entitlement, and that will give ordinary Ukrainians four times the cost of gas and gas.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-04-m1.u25	Thank you for the report. And the co-report invites the first deputy head of the Committee on Rules, the organization of the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Paul Pinzenik. Paul Pinzenik, we thank you very much, including for never yelling at you and feeling very well.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-04-m1.u26	Dear colleagues, the committee at its meeting on 4 December reviewed draft decrees repealing the decision of the Supreme Council of 23 November on the adoption as a whole of the bill on the National Budget of Ukraine for 19 years (registration number 9000/P, 9000/P1), introduced by the national deputies of Ukraine Lewchenk Yuri and Kaplin Sergey and, in accordance with part eight of article 48 of the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, adopted the conclusion. The committee noted this. The reasons for repealing the decision of the Supreme Council on the adoption of the entire draft State Budget Act of the 19th year, according to the authors of the draft decrees, should be, inter alia, a violation of the requirements of part seven and part ten of article 157 of article 158 of the Supreme Council's Rules of Procedure. The Committee noted that article 157 of the Rules dealt with the procedure for reviewing the draft State Budget Act for the following year in the first reading, article 158 of the Rules provided for the preparation and consideration of the draft State Budget Act of Ukraine for the following year in the second reading. In doing so, the author does not note the exact situation of this article during the consideration and adoption of the Ukrainian National Budget Act 2019. In accordance with article 48, part 8, of the Rules, the Committee has adopted the relevant conclusions and proposes that the Supreme Council of Ukraine decide whether to adopt or reject the aforementioned draft regulations by voting. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-04-m1.u27	Thank you. Colleagues, I very much ask that you sign up for two factions of factions at once. Please, National Deputy Igor Shurma, please have a word.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-04-m1.u28	Igor Shurma, Opposition Block. I want to address all of you people's deputies with such a thing. You know what international drug purchases are. The result of these international purchases today is an investigation into the criminal conduct of the crime of buying them. Today, the Court of Auditors is talking about a number of abuses in the area of purchases. And here all of a sudden at night, I'm talking to those two hundred and forty of the deputies who voted in favour, and I want you to put me in court, but I'll tell you that only the shulers, the machinators, the political rogues, the political thimbles of the last night, without any agreement, have made an offer for a year to continue international procurement. You're there, on that flank, don't raise your voice again, and don't open your mouth about what you've got warnings about international purchases! Thanks to you, you have continued this abuse for a year. You have done so knowingly because you know that today, according to article 158, paragraph 3, of the Ukrainian Law on the Rules, it is stipulated that the proposals made by national deputies, committees to the draft Law on the State Budget of Ukraine, prepared for the second reading, are not being considered. There was no first reading in the project, there was no second. The unacceptability of making such changes and other laws on the State budget are also evidenced by the repeated decisions of the Constitutional Court, which are binding on implementation. You, in favour of this draft budget, are violators of the Constitution. You're out of your mind. You're doing everything you can to keep spending money abroad on international purchases so there's no medicine. As a result, people will die, and you are fully responsible for what has been voted this fiscal year, which can generally be considered antinational. It needs to be canceled.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-04-m1.u29	Thank you. And please, this is a performance from the People's Front faction, Maxim Burbak the head of the faction. Please, Mr. Maxime.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-04-m1.u30	Dear colleagues! The People's Front faction will not support these two decrees, because these decrees block the adoption of the budget. With these orders, I want one reporter to tell me that nothing happened. But this budget comes into effect on January 1, so you must have confused something. Now the district councils, the local authorities, have time to prepare their budgets professionally for the following year. Not under the tree as it has been so far, but to work properly, thoroughly, so that everything is right and balanced. To the second, young Lenin, who announces a fourfold reduction in gas, I'd like to tell you that these calls he's making right now, we've been reading about, like, 100 years ago when we lost the state of Ukraine. These bastards came to power, apparently, and started giving everything to everyone, leading to communism. And then there was the famine, where 10 million people died, as a minimum. There were still Stalinic repressions. We were still being destroyed as a nation. We'll never get back to that. We have been behind this in Maidan, and now we are reforming our country, leading it back to the European family. And you'll have no place here, no matter how much you tease people's heads off your "run-ins," telling them about cheap gas. You're not going to come in here because you're a danger to Ukrainian national security and statehood. So, dear colleagues, don't stop the budget process. We break these decrees and sign this budget because it envisions a substantial increase in the wages of our soldiers. Because you called everyone back from the front 100 years ago, and then you lost the state. That's why we don't support it! And thank you all for the state's position. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-04-m1.u31	Please, from the Self-Help faction, Mrs. Romanov is invited to the floor. Excuse me, Mrs. Sisoyenko, Mrs. Irina Sisoyenko is invited. I'm sorry, Mrs. Irina.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-04-m1.u32	Irina Sisoyenko, Self-Help Unit. The Self-Help faction voted with red buttons for the State Budget project next year. After all, the State budget in a country where the mortality rate is increasing annually cannot be less than 50 percent in a country where the birth rate is declining each year. In the budget proposed by a very supportive coalition, the first-ever funded law enforcement agencies. So the state builds a police state, first of all, that thinks about how to punish citizens of the state. And how to preserve the lives and health of these citizens, no one thinks about it. Emergency medical care. Self-help every year, every day in this Parliamentary Hall, points out that the issue of health and life conservation is 100 percent of the medical and emergency care. Only five areas of Ukraine under this terrible budget will receive emergency health care, medical care, and ambulances generate only 47 percent of the cost. Similarly, there is absolutely no funding for education, for youth policy, in general, for cash, 27 million dollars, for health workers' salaries. The following year, once again in Ukraine, there will be the lowest level of pay for health - care workers, and again in our country there will be a third year of medical work abroad. What will happen next? Who will provide medical care not only for the citizens but also for those present in this room. I would like to point out one more time that this attitude towards medicine in budgetary matters makes it possible that some of you might also sometimes need medical assistance that just won't be given to anyone.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-04-m1.u33	Please, 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-04-m1.u34	And to our officials and deputies who are so supportive of this budget, I want to say that we may not be able to make it to the clinic in Switzerland or Germany. Therefore, medicine and funding must be put in place in our country for the next year in the Ukrainian budget. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-04-m1.u35	Welcome to the speech of the People's Deputy Kaplan of "Peter Prashenko's Block." National Deputy Kaplin, please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-04-m1.u36	Respectable compatriots! I would like to emphasize once again the individual screaming, killing, simply catastrophic norms that are foreseen in today's budget. In addition to the destruction of the health - care system, the health - care system, the entire system of social protection is completely destroyed. There are no funds to form a powerful, effective, quality network of social inspectors. As a result, millions of our fellow countrymen have now faced the challenge of receiving subsidies for the common people. There is no fully funded protection for our young people. Once again, propaganda in the form of festivals and various empty, money-free promises. Zero position to create new jobs. I was meeting today with an expert group of the Ministry of Social Policy, where we were looking at prospects for Ukrainian pensions. My dear fellow countrymen, middle-aged people, young people, 25 years from now, if we don't make a major difference in this system, the pension as a whole will disappear in our country. You're going to get about 700 or 800 dollars at today's prices, it's just a catastrophic situation. And it already needs a response from the State budget today, reform of the pension system, the creation of a second level of pension insurance and the overall modernization of social standards. But I want to assure everyone who can hear us today, who will read our speeches. In the next Parliament, we will do our utmost to provide our fellow countrymen with prices of gas four times lower than those of today. Wages, pensions in four, five times higher than those in operation today. You have to know that this power, this Parliament, the coalition is implementing a policy of genocide, they've gone into your pocket for 27 years and they're not getting their hands out of there, they're financing oligarchs and they're destroying.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-04-m1.u37	Thank you. Did they all come out of factions? Yes.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-04-m1.u38	Now we have a discussion from the National Deputies. People's deputies, please prepare for the recording. Please hold the recording. Oh, I'm sorry, I'm told it's a reduced procedure. You don't have to.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-04-m1.u39	Thank you. I'll do it then. Then we go to the vote. Dear colleagues, the draft Decree repealing the decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine of 23 November 2018 on adoption as a whole as a bill on the National Budget of Ukraine for 2019 (registration number 9000 of 15 September 2018). Please vote. [[17:02:06]] For-60 The decision is not taken. We move on to the next decision. This is a draft Decision repealing the decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine of 22 November 2018 on the adoption of the second reading and the whole draft Ukrainian Law on the amendment of certain Ukrainian legislation on the simplification of pre-trial investigation of individual categories of criminal offences. There have been two orders to reverse the vote, and I'm sorry, we have yet to vote on the ruling. author Sergey. People's Deputy Sergei Kaplin. That is why I am voting on the draft Decree repealing the decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine of 23 November 2018 on the adoption as a whole as a bill on the National Budget of Ukraine for 2019 (registration number 9000 of 15 September 2018), the registration number of Decree 9000/P1 by the People's Deputy Kaplin. Please vote. [[17:03:58]] For-61 The decision is not taken. And now we're going to the next draft of the Order -- this is registration number 7279-d-P -- the draft Decision repealing the decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine of 22 November 2018 on the adoption of the second reading and the entire draft of the Ukrainian Act on the amendment of certain Ukrainian legislative acts to simplify the judicial investigation of individual categories of criminal offences" by the National Deputy of Ukraine, Olena Sotnik. There's no reporter.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-04-m1.u40	Colleagues, as long as Helen Sotnik, the author of the next decision, may come along, we are now putting to the vote the draft decree. To be considered, yes! Draft Decision repealing the decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine of 23.11.2018 on the adoption as a whole of the bill on the amendment of the Tax Code of Ukraine and certain other legislative acts of Ukraine to improve administration and review of individual taxes and assemblies (No.9260-P and 9260-P1). There are also two commentators in this draft decree. First of all, I invite you to report to the National Deputy of Ukraine, Mr. Levchenk Yuri Volodymyrovich, and prepare yourself to be Mr. Kapplin Sergey Mikolaiovich. [[B in m in s a l in]] No, it's not. Now we're going to look at the budget.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-04-m1.u41	[[Unheard]]
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-04-m1.u42	Yes, yes, of course, he invited you to the report.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-04-m1.u43	Lewchenko, Freedom, 223rd District, Kiev. I will now read an article of the Ukrainian Act on the Rules of Procedure of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, and I will read and address the Chairman, Mr. Head of the Supreme Council of Andria of Paris tomorrow. Article 117 of the Law on the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine: "Parents for the People's Deputies to Bills Prepared for Second Reading. Part one. The draft, prepared for second or second reading, the conclusion of the Main Committee and other accompanying documents shall be made available to the National Deputies no later than 10 days before the day of the consideration of the bill at the plenary meeting of the Supreme Council." What about 400 pages of the table of amendments to the Ukrainian Tax Code? In the middle of the night, two minutes before the beginning of the review of the amendments to the Tax Code of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. And there's another way to work on your own amendments, and there's something else you can find and figure out whether they're approved or not. And how do we deal with all these oligarchic "hotels" that the oligarchic majority have been sticking in here? How can we try to pay attention to these terrible things? And, you know, the whole country, well, not the whole country, unfortunately, because you did it at night, but who was watching it and who wanted to see it later saw a live trade happening for an hour -- looking for a combination of amendments, which the combination of amendments would satisfy the ruling oligarhat. And they came up with a combination of 151 amendments, 152, 301, 303, 541 amendments, 550, 577. So I encourage every Ukrainian to ask: what about these amendments? And you'll see billions of diagrams! Controlling private firms over essentially state-owned electronic sites to register real estate documents. Please let me finish for 20 seconds. 20 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-04-m1.u44	30 seconds. All right, let's get
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-04-m1.u45	You'll see billions of losses from rent cancellations on uranium ore production. You will see the cancellation of the duty on imports of the relevant material of polyethylene terephthalate.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-04-m1.u46	You went on for 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-04-m1.u47	Later, they turned it on. What is it? Give me 10 seconds to finish the phrase.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-04-m1.u48	Ten seconds. Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-04-m1.u49	And you're going to see a lot more of these billion-dollar abuses. Sadly, there is not even time to count each one. Well, every normal MP should now vote in favour of repealing this criminal tax code. Follow the Act on Rules of Procedure of the Supreme Council of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-04-m1.u50	The report invites Ukrainian national deputy Kaplin Sergey Mikolayovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-04-m1.u51	The main principle of budgeting in our country and the adoption of the relevant other laws is not to comply with the Constitution, but rather to be more simple, more popular: they're going to stick. Norms that have absolutely nothing to do with the budget process are put into the budget that night, and then the oligarchy clans in Parliament are enriched. The fact that this law is inconvenient and in general the reform that you've carried out is inconvenient, confirms the fact that no car has been swept away in the Poltava region at all times. And that's your attitude towards the common people that you're depriving yourself of having your own car. It's in mine the day after tomorrow. My father's dead, nigger, would've had a birthday. I remember how he once borrowed a loan from the Savings and bought a car, and our whole family was destined to give up tens of years of that loan. He bought this car, the only one in his life, to feel human. You're depriving ordinary Ukrainians of doing this. Today in my grandmother, 83 years old, it's her birthday. She worked her whole life on a farm, and she took seven acres [7 ha] of peanuts a year to survive somehow. And her pension is now, pay attention! - 1 thousand 760 bucks. What kind of car could she have dreamed of? What kind of car can young people dream about now, where they can make that money? So I think today's coalition, today's parliament, today's power is absolutely illegal, anti-human, which violates all the constitutional rights of citizens who have appointed "dragon tariffs," which takes away a salary that takes away a pension that burns up on top of simple people like my grandmother and my father.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-04-m1.u52	Thank you. The report invites the first deputy head of the Committee on Rules and Organization of Work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Pinzenik Pavlovic.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-04-m1.u53	Dear Head, distinguished national MPs! Considered the drafts of the Supreme Council Decree repealing the decision of the Supreme Council of 23 November on adoption as a whole, as a bill amending the Tax Code 9260-P, 9260-P1, submitted by Ukraine's national deputies Lewchenk and Kaplin. And according to article 48, part eight, of the Rules, he concluded that the reasons for repealing the Supreme Council's decision to adopt an entire draft Law amending the Tax Code (registration – 9260), according to the authors of the draft regulations, would be to vote, inter alia, in a non-personal manner, on the basis of article 47 of the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, and to break the deadlines for the provision of materials to the national deputies of Ukraine, is article 117 of the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Yes, during his talk on the amendment 224, the national deputy Levchenko drew the attention of the chairman of the plenary to a violation of article 117 of the Supreme Council’s Rules of Procedure in preparing for consideration. The Committee noted that the draft articles for second reading provided for in Article 117 of the Rules of the Supreme Council referred to the preliminary preparation for the consideration of the bill and did not form part of the voting procedure, which could be the basis for the application of article 48 of the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. With regard to the non-personal vote, the Committee has repeatedly stressed that the issue of the establishment of a non-personal vote by the people's deputies should be violated and exhausted directly during the consideration of draft legislation in the plenary Hall in order provided for in article 47 of the Rules. The Committee, in accordance with part eight of article 48 of the Rules, proposes that the Supreme Council of Ukraine decide whether to adopt or reject draft Supreme Council regulations, registration numbers 9260-P and 9260-P1 by voting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-04-m1.u54	Thank you. So, colleagues, please record a statement from the factions. So, from Peter Dustenk's Block to the word, we're going to invite Julian Nina Petrovna. Please, Nina Petrovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-04-m1.u55	Dear colleagues, I hope that by speaking out of this high rostrum today, those who have submitted have registered a decision to annul the decision taken could become familiar with the rules of the adopted laws in the second reading and in general as laws. What I'm saying is that this bill, this law is, first of all, resourceful, it gives extra revenue to the budget of 6.8 billion dollars, that's the first. Secondly, you just said that this bill was filed in a timely manner. I'll repeat, you've had the opportunity to get to know all the standards for today. I ask you to pay attention, for the first time that there is a general tax system in Ukraine, we are really moving to electronic control services, and this is the only tool that will actually enable us to fight corruption and to avoid those criminal schemes that have been created in this country for years that exist. I want to remind you once again that the basis of this law, 60 percent is to streamline and introduce more stringent requirements into the electronic administration of fuel and ethyl alcohol. Note, however, that for the first time the industry has done all the necessary work, it has written down all the standards in order to remove the shadow sales of petroleum products from the market. According to the Court of Auditors, in the 18th year, the State budget lost nearly 25 billion dollars because of the unaccounted for fuel, which is still being implemented and has all the technical capabilities to do so. I also thank all the deputies that, no matter what, they have supported all of these amendments, which, in addition to the direct resources that are calculated in this law, we will get at least 15 billion from the introduction of the electronic system.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-04-m1.u56	Please finish 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-04-m1.u57	Fuel implementation. I'm not going to say that for the first time we've found an opportunity to sort out the tax on forest land. We made, we raised the rent for the woods, but we created a special forest fund. Finally, a compromise was found to be made on the basis of this fund to support woodchoppers that do not have the capacity to do so and do not have sufficient funding.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-04-m1.u58	Nina Petrovna, let's give you a chance to finish, shall we? Let's get this over with. Please, Nina Petrovna. 30 seconds, yeah, same thing.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-04-m1.u59	So if you talk about all the standards and tell you what the benefits of this law are, it's much greater than what you just said for failing to put the table in the room. I repeat, until today you have been able to get to know each other. No word from your speech has anything to do with the standards that are written and accepted by us in our second reading and in general. Please do not support this decision and declare everyone to be completely unprofessional, but exclusively political. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-04-m1.u60	Thank you. From "The Opposition Block" to the word, Germany's Vasil Ivanovich is invited.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-04-m1.u61	Dear colleagues, dear friends! Germano Vasil Ivanovich, "The Opposition Platform for Life" in the Opposition Block. We're talking about whether or not we're talking about the budget bill. Was it not clear that when it was included in this night, as the people say, "drunk night", it was the first to include the financial constitution – the Budget Code, the fiscal and financial constitution was incorporated. And who doesn't understand why it's necessary? Because it was already under these figures of the Tax Code that formed the income part of the 19th year. It's not even funny today, it's essentially direct action against the rules of the Constitution. And there's one more thing I want to say. This is Mrs. Jujanina speaking, and I really appreciate her as an expert, believe me, and we probably all understand that that's true. But let's see, when does the legislator oblige Parliament to form a budget as a matrix of revenue formation for the budget? Look, by July of this year. Where were we in July? Where were we in September? We just came here the night the budget came in. It is a shameful phenomenon, with which anecdotes are already running in the nation. This is unacceptable! And I'll tell you, the guys who spoke here, that's except that the political speech can't possibly be, they're in a stretch. But this decision that is now being voted on is essentially a violation of the possibility of bringing such a thing before the Constitutional Court, because the court has already come to the platform of fact, rather than a court of law. What are we gonna say?
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-04-m1.u62	Please finish 30 seconds. Finish up, 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-04-m1.u63	Thank you. Thank you. Yeah, I'm done. And that's why I'd like to talk about the colleagues here who said that there was no change, there was no change, and there's never going to be, on such grounds, any acts, much more laws. This is disgraceful for a parliament as it is. And that's why I'd like to call, people, that we're just wasting time, and that's all the political flickering and that's all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-04-m1.u64	Thank you. From the Self-Help faction, Tetjana Ostrkova is invited to the floor. Please, Mrs. Tetjana.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-04-m1.u65	Dear colleagues, Self-Help didn't vote in favour of amending the Tax Code, although there are really good standards, it's also a continuation of VAT for electricians, it's also a rise in the environmental tax for large enterprises and at the same time cancelling it, excluding it from its operations by small enterprises, it's also benefits, and simplification for winemakers, and what we've already talked about, an electronic administration system for retail fuel sales, which will deal with the "black" charges that are now trading for cash. Sadly, though, we could not afford to support these changes. Why? Well, first of all, there's no tax on the capital output that's been called off the corruption tax on profit and overturning the schemes that are now being used to raise billions of dollars abroad. And secondly, the way that the amendments to the Tax Code were approved, in which there was a general discussion of this bill, the culinary arrangements, the political auctions for any amendments to the vote, the 50-fold attitude towards the confirmation of the amendments. These things over the budget night -- gross violations of the Ukrainian Rules Act -- they just made it impossible for us to vote for the good things that are in this bill. And unfortunately, what I'm saying is that it was a budget for a black Friday with discounts and benefits for the chosen ones, and the good things that are there were really approved with numerous and gross violations of the Rules.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-04-m1.u66	Thank you. From the Radical Party to the word, Victor Halasyuk is invited. Then it's the People's Front. Who's going to be from Front? Please, Victor Halasyuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-04-m1.u67	Thank you. Victor Halasyuk, Oleg Lachka Radical Party. Dear Andriy Volodymyrovich, distinguished colleagues, distinguished people of Ukraine! The Radical Party faction did not vote in favour of these amendments to the Tax Code, nor did it vote in favour of the 19th. Because there is no social protection for Ukrainian citizens, and there is no incentive for developing the Ukrainian industry and changing the country's economic trajectory. In fact, the change in the economic trajectory is worse because it raises taxes for industry. Think about it, 75 times they've raised an environmental tax that washes billions of dollars out of the already weak, Ukrainian industry. And why these costs don't have a goal -- this isn't for modernization, this isn't for ecology -- this is going to go into the black hole of the budget. They're suppressed for the community and for the population. You know you've lowered the threshold of tax-free parcels for citizens and so on. So they're doing everything, instead of doing what the country needs to do. And the country needs incentives to develop and modernize the economy -- what the Radical Party team is offering. Adopt legislation in general on industrial parks that will allow Ukraine to win competition for investment in neighbouring countries, place new productions in Ukraine and develop existing factories. Finally, the law "Buy Ukrainians, Pay Ukrainians" required by Ukrainian producers all over Ukraine. And by the way, today's electron factory in Lviv is 100 years old. So in Ukraine they have to buy Ukrainian, Libyan trams and wagons, not Polish, as was done without the law "Buy Ukrainian". It needs to be accepted immediately and changed the country’s economic fate, as required by Ukrainian industry and Ukrainian citizens. Prosperity, not loans to the IMF!
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-04-m1.u68	Thank you. From the People's Front to the word, the leader of the Maksim Burbak faction is invited.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-04-m1.u69	Dear colleagues! What's interesting is the situation, we see, is now being reported by all the factions who are proud that they didn't vote for the budget. And the People's Front, as a responsible state power, voted in favour of the State Budget and all the laws to fill it. Because someone in this country needs to take responsibility and bear the burden. Responsibility for a country that is currently in a state of war with Russia. Who will fund the army? Who will fund national security and defence? That's not the first year we've done this. Let me remind you how difficult it would be in our economic situation, but Arsenius Yatsenuk's government has made a decision, and Groisman's government continues to fund national security and defence measures at least 5 percent of gross domestic product. Yes, this money could be set aside to raise pensions even more, to run social programs. But now the situation is that we must defend our nation and finance our armies. I want to remind you that anyone who doesn't feed his army will feed a foreign army. Someone forgets such plausible truths, or you forget in the hysteria of populism and the pre-election races that our nation needs to be preserved. And so, dear fellows, I call upon the responsible statesmen to fail this decree, not to vote for it. And open the way for the signing of a law that is being filled by the State Budget for the next year in order to finance the increase in salaries for our military to 21,000 dollars by those who are now fighting in the East. For our law enforcement officers and rescue workers from the DSS to get 9,000 and 9,000 200 dollars respectively. In order for them to finally be able to get compensation for renting apartments or to choose apartments at a mortgage, what they started.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-04-m1.u70	30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-04-m1.u71	asked Minister of Internal Affairs Arsen Avakov. This program is already in operation, but it needs 2 billion to work. These approaches need to be found and directed into the budget. Hence, the time has come for responsible governmental action by fellow believers. And we will continue them, the People's Front faction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-04-m1.u72	Thank you. There's no more wantons from factions, is there? I give the floor to Victor Pinzenik from the non-fractionals, two minutes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-04-m1.u73	Dear Head, dear colleagues, we are not discussing whether or not the correct amendments to the Tax Code are right now, they may be ideal, although I think that is not the case. But I would like to remind my colleagues that only the Tax Code can be amended. How, then, can you please tell us how the Codex Codex changed? How did the Tax Code change the Law on Courtship and the Status of Judges? How did the law come to be governed by rules that exempt non - first - reading electric cars from taxation? Dear colleagues, we want respect from citizens to laws, such respect will never be shown if MPs do not show respect for the law. The main violator of laws is the Ukrainian national MPs, because the MPs act on the principle of "the law is not written for them." I'm so sorry!
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-04-m1.u74	So, colleagues, we've finished the discussion. There's no more willing speakers, is there? Let's move on to the decision-making process, and I'll gradually make the first decision of Lechchenk, the second one of Caplina. So I am voting on the draft Decree repealing the decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine of 23.11.2018 on adoption as a whole, as a bill on amending the Tax Code of Ukraine and some other legislative acts of Ukraine on improving administration and reviewing the rates of individual taxes and assemblies (No. 9260-P). Whoever supports this decision, please vote. [[17:30:25]] For-55 The decree is rejected. I now put to the vote the draft Decree repealing the decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine of 23.11.2018 on the adoption as a whole of a bill amending the Tax Code of Ukraine and some other legislative acts of Ukraine to improve administration and review of taxes, individual taxes and assemblies (No9260-P1). For the authorship of Caplin. Whoever supports this decision, please vote. [[17:31:14]] For-59 The decision is not made. And the decision is rejected. So both of these are rejected -- this allows us to sign the Tax Code, but Nina Petrovna, I remember you on the Conciliation Council talking about clarification, on Thursday we'll find a moment to clarify this ability. I only have a big request to prepare, explain it to the factions, because there's no discussion, it's going to be one minute -- your report, and then the vote. About 11-12 hours, we'll set it up, but you'll do as much as you can. After clarification, we will be able to sign it and run it properly. And, colleagues, we consulted on the following decision, where we are the author of Captain Helen. Sadly, she is not there, but we can also consider her without her presence. And that's why I'm announcing the move to review the Ukraine Supreme Council Decision of 22 November 18 on the adoption of a second reading and the whole draft Ukrainian Act on the amendment of certain Ukrainian legislation on the simplification of pre-trial investigations into certain categories of criminal offences. (No.7279-d-P). And I invite you to report to the First Vice-President of the Committee on Rules and Organization of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Phinehas Pavel Vasilovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-04-m1.u75	So the draft Decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the annulment of the decision of 22 November 18 on the adoption of a second reading and the whole draft Act on the amendment of certain legislative acts on the simplification of the prior investigation of individual categories of criminal offences (registration number of Decree 7279-d-P) by the National Deputy of Ukraine, Helena Sotnik, and according to part of article 48 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Eighth Rule of Procedure, the Committee concluded this. The National MP, the author of the initiative, reasoned on the need to repeal the Supreme Council’s decision to adopt the entire draft law. By violating the deadlines for the submission of material to the Ukrainian National Deputies, which the chairman drew attention to in the plenary session during her presentation, particularly when discussing amendment 124. We have already noted on a number of occasions, when considering other draft regulations, that the question of the time limits for the submission of material to the second reading bill, which are provided for in article 117 of the Rules, relates to the preliminary preparation for the consideration of the bill and to the part of the procedure for consideration and voting for the bill, cannot, accordingly, be the basis for the application of article 48 of the Rules. The procedure for revoking decisions of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to define the 48th Rules, in particular by the provisions of part five, sixth of this article, provides for the request of the People's Chamber to the chairman, in the event of a violation of the Rules when considering and voting on the bill, the submission of a written statement to the Head of the Supreme Council and the simultaneous introduction of a corresponding draft decision by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The committee proposes to determine whether or not to accept or reject the project. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-04-m1.u76	Thank you. Please hold the recording. I recall discussing the Criminal Offences Act. Please record the factions: two in, two in, two in. From the People's Front to the word. The shore of Yuri gives the floor to Maxim Burbak. Please, head of the People's Front faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-04-m1.u77	Dear colleagues! The People's Front faction won't support these decisions, because their adoption is blocked, and the registration is blocked by the process of adopting such an important very important bill. So I propose not to support all factions. And let's not waste too much time on that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-04-m1.u78	Thank you. From the faction of the Radical Party, Halasyuk passes it on to Kuprienka. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-04-m1.u79	Oleg Kuprienko, faction of the Radical Party of Oleg Lašek. Dear colleagues, dear lord presiding, distinguished audiences, and listeners! It is very strange to hear the speeches of national deputies from the governing coalition who complain of violations of the Rules, who complain of failure to comply with laws, who complain of the inadequacy of laws and say that bad laws cannot be written, cannot be violated. What, then, should people be asked to do? So I don't understand who's in power in the country, and who's the opposition? If the pro-dominant national MPs speak, they tell us how badly they adopt the laws, how badly their authorities write them, so what have we come to? Can we mention recent battles regarding the Presidential Decree Approval Act on the introduction of a military state that did not limit the rights of Ukrainians? And each one of us on screen is just hearing that the President didn't limit the rights of Ukrainians. What about local elections? Is it not enshrined in the Constitution that electoral law is the sacred right of Ukrainian people to choose and to be elected? Did you or did you not? Or congregations or demonstrations? It's written in the Constitution. And article 19 of the War Status Act indicates that no demonstrations can be conducted, no strikes can be carried out. Is that how the rights were restricted or restricted? Yes, Your Honor, Mr. President, if we're doing something, let's not defraud people: if we restricted people's rights to local elections, we should have been in the decree and written down that we were restricting the right to vote. But then the UN must report that it has restricted electoral law and that there are other reasons why it has restricted it. And what about, besides limiting the rights to local elections, because I'm losing in all of these communities. Let us be honest with people, and then they will trust you. In the meantime, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-04-m1.u80	Thank you. From the opposition block faction, Gusak Vladimir Georgievovich is invited to the floor.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-04-m1.u81	Vladimir Gusak, Opposition Block. Regrettably, the Supreme Council of Ukraine is no longer allowed to speak about the violation of the Rules, so it seems that the Rules no longer exist and no one considers them. Andrew Volodymyrovich, for example, in all respect for the committee. To the agar committee, to you, but there's no such thing as a head procedure in the Rules. The chairman of the committee asked that the matter be postponed. Nevertheless, we are not discussing the issue of agaristic politics today. Next. What happened before that? Two hours after the full procedure, we considered the Health Committee bill just to send it to the committee for further work. Well, couldn't the committee have done a better job at once, and the leadership of the Supreme Council of Ukraine wouldn't have brought bills to the Supreme Council of Ukraine that just didn't make decisions and didn't use time very effectively? We have to set an example for the country as to how to work. Then, as we considered these decrees, one decree, when you presided, began to be considered in a reduced procedure, then somehow went to the full procedure. This is the cancellation procedure, which was considered in full procedure, and then went back to abbreviated. The following decree was simply voted on immediately. Well, you can't work like that, and how will the country work if we set that example? I call on the leadership of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to abide by Ukraine's laws, the Supreme Council of Ukraine regulations and to effectively organize the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-04-m1.u82	Thank you. Since I had a call, I'll give you an answer. I'm surprised at your complete incompetence, because everything you've said doesn't exactly fit the reality. First, indeed, the head of the Agrarian Policy Committee asked to move the block. But the block wasn't transferred, so I put in place a rejection order, which, according to the Rules, I have to put immediately after the ruling of the Regulatory Committee, without their inclusion in the agenda. So after we didn't put the first agrarian policy law into the agenda of the day session, according to the law and the Rules, I went over to the draft rejection decrees. Once again, as provided by law, I put it immediately after the ruling of the regulatory committee, and you can consult with a colleague who is a member of the regulatory committee. Next. The review of the derogation provisions is considered in the same procedure – the reduced procedure. And all three of the decisions that are currently under consideration, all three of the decisions -- find out, read the Rules; you're used to appealing to the Rules, and you'd do one wise thing: one day you'd take it, open it, and read it easily; and if you read it, you'd know better -- they're all looking at the same procedure: the report, the co-report, and the factions' two-for-two-against speech. I want to remind you that "two in, two in, against" is an exclusive form, but I allow all factions to speak on every issue, with respect for each faction. And your faction on every issue has the opportunity to come up with any question, and here I stand for the position of all factions. Therefore, I would like to point out that every action that has been taken today is in full conformity with all the articles of the Rules. Do you know when there was a violation of the Rules, really? When, indeed, the spirit of the Rules was not in this room at all, when your colleagues sitting on your right and left side voted with their hands in the hall. Do you remember that day, January 16? It will soon be the fifth anniversary. Do you remember him? That's when the House didn't even smell the Rules, and the killings were done by deputies when, in violation of any label, they voted with their hands in the Hall. Where and how is such a form foretold? Do you know when the breach occurred? When every day the plenary near the rostrum of the Supreme Council of Ukraine stood by the people's deputies, do you know the purpose for which they came to Parliament? The guards of your oligarchs, the fighters you brought to the Supreme Council of Ukraine, not the laws to create, but those who came to fight the opposition. And on the right hand side, there were fighters on the left, so that no one could enter the head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Then there was no Rules! Now I have an open door, and anyone can come to me. Anyone can talk to me. This is the open work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. There was no Rules here, when your colleagues entered the hall, and when the opposition blocked the rostrum, they crippled the opposition here, there was an attack on me twice, and a colleague of the Fatherland was mutilated and beaten and beaten with beatings, and the castes were beating on my head, and they broke into the Presence of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Then there was no Rules. And so when they ask you how the Supreme Council of Ukraine works, I'll tell you, two years, two years, remember when we had a fight in the hall, colleagues? When did a faction have no right to speak? When did the MP not have the right to stand? When there was a fight in this room, when there was a blockade of the rostrum even though there were hardly any, I stopped the session. That's how the Council is supposed to work. And you, remember that time when you blocked the Council for months while you were walking around with the balls, "NATO, no!"then you have abused the Rules, Parliament and Ukraine. And now that Parliament is operating under the law for the first time, as part of a civilized activity, you speak nonsense and lies from the rostrum. And I've told you in every situation what you've been told and how you've been told not to. So maintain ethics, respect the Supreme Council, and then Parliament will work effectively and effectively. Thank you. From the People's Front, from the People's Front to the word, the leader of the Maksim Burbak faction is invited. No, Palamarczuk, first Palamarczuk, yes, please. From the Peter Dust Block of Palamarczuk. Out of place, right? Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-04-m1.u83	Dear colleagues, friends, the Criminal Offence Act is the law that the entire legal system is waiting for. This law will enable, dispossess investigators, enable them to work for the result, work, expose more serious crimes: robbery, robbery, murder. This is a very necessary law for our legal system, for our entire legal system. The Criminal Offences Act, it's specifically aimed at the inadequacy of punishment, because these are offences of a small severity that allow for the swiftness of literally ten days to be brought to justice by those little crimes and to work for the investigators of the serious crimes committed in our country. So I ask you all not to vote in favour of this decree and to support the Criminal Offences Act. Thank you, colleagues. And I was approached by the committee, and by this law's reporter, Anton Heratchenko. I'm giving him two minutes to perform.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-04-m1.u84	Dear colleagues, the Honourable Head of the Ukrainian people, I have been a reporter for this law, and I reiterate that the Criminal Offences Act is a revolution in our criminal justice. Thanks to your support, thanks to the work of the working group, the experts who have been preparing this law for two years, we have today a revolution that will lead to all crimes that are not difficult, for which there will be no real deprivation of liberty, being dealt with in a simplified manner. This will result in 95 percent of the crimes currently being dealt with in our slums of the judicial system being dealt with quickly and effectively. First of all, such crimes as minor bodily harm, drug possession, are minor crimes that have never been committed by courts of actual willlessness. But today, when someone was beaten in the village, there are video recordings, there are 20 witnesses, this case is being considered for 1.5-2 years. This overheats the courts. After the adoption of the Criminal Offences Act and its entry into force on January 1, 2020, such a case will be dealt with very quickly in some cases, in a few weeks the court will be coming to a hearing, witnesses will be testifying in court, watching video recordings, and making decisions. Thus, in the police, prosecutors, security services, other law enforcement agencies, time will be allowed to deal more closely with complex crimes — murder, rape, robbery, and other crimes that take a long time. And for example, when someone steals a bottle of cognac or whiskey, they're looking at a year in court, it's just stupid. Such matters should be dealt with quickly, made objectively, and the person guilty of a crime of minor gravity should be held accountable quickly, and the next time no longer commits further crimes. Thank you, Your Honor, for voting against acceptance.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-12-04-m1.u85	Thank you. So the colleagues, all the factions that were going to come forward, came forward, didn't they? We're moving on to making a decision. So let me remind you, this is the Criminal Offences Act. And now the rejection of this decree will allow you to sign this law. And to him who submits to the law, he does not vote for the decree. Who thinks he should be unsigned, accordingly does not vote. And we're moving on to making a decision. I am voting on the draft Decision repealing the decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine of 22 November 2018 on the adoption of a second reading and the whole draft Ukrainian Law on the amendment of certain Ukrainian legislation on the simplification of the pre-trial investigation of individual categories of criminal offences (No. 7279-d-P). Whoever supports this decision, please determine how to vote, please. [[17:49:04]] For-34 It's not a decision, colleagues. This enables us to sign the law without delay. And I'm entrusting the apparatus with immediate preparation for the signature of the law so that I can send it to the President for signature. I know how long the committee's been working on drafting this bill. And I'm sure we've now overcome the last obstacle to signing it. Also, colleagues, I want to inform you that we have opened the way for both the Tax Code and the Budget. On Thursday, though, the tax committee requested that we clarify the Tax Code. Who wants to know the details and, in fact, the nuances of this clarification, contact the head of the committee. She is convinced that these are the clarifications that can unite the entire hall. I also have a request from the Committee on Budgets that we make a statement to the budget in the part about the financing of the Institute of National Memory. And I'd like everyone to hold consultations. And when everyone's good will is in the hall, we're on Thursday, when we're looking at security and defence, we're going to be able to take two minutes to clarify both the Tax Code and the budget, and so we can sign both documents, and they can go into effect. And about the warnings about why we were in a hurry to accept the budget. I would like to point out that all the international institutions, when we adopted the budget, had already signaled and made their decisions. Everyone understands that determination is more of a formality. We got a signal from both the European Parliament and our international financial partners. And the actual adoption of the budget has given us the opportunity, Ukraine, to get guarantees of macro-financial assistance, and we now see that the bracelet is being strengthened every day, not the other way around. And this is the result of our coordinated work of the entire Parliament, a colleague. And I think the budget committee and the tax committee have done a great job here, and I want to thank you from the leadership. And, colleagues, I'd like to ask. We have a question about getting into the agenda of the day session. Because we're not going to be able to get into any more questions, we're going to have nine minutes. And I have, colleagues, what's the point now that we're going to include in the agenda the questions that were planned? Let me propose if there are no votes. If there aren't any votes, we'll take those questions. Thus, the day - to - day session block provides for the first draft of the Regulations on Commemorative Dates and Jubilee in 2019. This is Project Order 9234. He is the first to be included in the agenda of the day’s session. But, colleagues, if we don't have votes, we won't go through any more. [[B in m in s a l in]] No, inclusion in the agenda of the day session is at any stage. The inclusion in the agenda of the day session raises any question. So, colleagues who support the inclusion in the agenda of the day session of the draft Order on Commemorative Dates and Jubilee in the 19th year (9234), please vote and please support. Vote! [[17:52:44]] For-72 The decision is not made. But it will be for the committee at least an indicator of the support of this bill. And so, colleagues, we can no longer enter into any bill, until the session is over, there are five minutes left. And I would also like to point out that today, in the Supreme Council of Ukraine, there were actions dedicated to the International Day of the White Tape. The White Tape is an international symbol of the fight against domestic violence against women and children. And this movement was initiated by men in Canada in 1991. And so today many national deputies during the session were with white ribbons to signify solidarity. White tape representations exist in more than 60 countries of the world, including Ukraine. The white tape symbolizes a personal oath, never to make, not to silence, or to justify violence against women. And, dear colleagues, I would like to thank everyone for taking part in this action and for the solidarity shown by the Ukrainian national deputies on this day and this event. Today was not a simple day, but we were able to adopt three laws and it is very important that by the Day of Protection of Persons with Disabilities we were able to adopt three laws: one, in general, two, on the basis of protection of persons with disabilities. Also, by rejecting the decrees, we opened the way for both the Tax Code and the budget, and a very large-scale draft of the Crimes Act. But now the time for the plenary meeting is running out. And that's why I call the evening meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine closed. Tomorrow at 10 a.m., I'm waiting for everyone in the hall to resume our work.
