ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-17-m0.u1	Good morning! Everyone, please come into the hall, get ready for registration. So, honorary colleagues, I'd like you to conduct a registration and please register. [[10:04:59]] There are 364 national deputies registered. The morning plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Dear friends, traditionally on the third Thursday of May in Ukraine, celebrate Embroidery Day. This is a very good and unifying tradition for all Ukrainians around the world. The embroidery is one of the symbols of our Ukrainian people. And I would like to welcome the embroidery day and all the Ukrainians in all parts of the world, and the distinguished national deputies of Ukraine, welcome the embroidery day! Thankfully, today’s hall is bright, colorful. I'm hoping we'll have work to do, too. Also today, Eastern Christians celebrate one of the greatest and most important festivals — the Ascension of the Lord. And I sincerely welcome all the Ukrainians with this great festival, and I wish God’s blessing and God’s care over all our people. So let's get to work, colleagues. I want to remind you that yesterday we finished our work by considering Law 2386a, and this morning we will complete our review of the rights and move on to the decision-making process. I also want to say that this is for the committee. Andrey Cosemyakin, the D.B.D.D. Bill, I'm going to put it right after the transplant, and we're going to see voices so that we don't put this important law at risk. If we do, we go right into it, it's in order daily, just so we don't put the risk, we're going to carry it after the second question special so that by transferring we can see the presence of voices and not put it at risk, and we don't put it at risk, as it was the previous time. I also want to say that after discussing the Transplant Act, I'm going to give all the factions a minute before the vote so that we can make a consolidated decision and hopefully a positive decision. And now I'm announcing the continuation of Law 2386a-1. And I would like to invite the head of the Health Committee, Bogopolitan Olga Vadimovna, to the rostrum. Please, Mrs. Ola. So my colleagues, I remind you, we've completed our consideration of the amendment of 154 people's deputies Musia. And that's why we're starting the discussion right now and I'm asking you to turn on Mr. Musia's microphone. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-17-m0.u2	Good afternoon, dear colleagues. Good afternoon, Ukrainians. With a double holiday: today and embroidery day, you know, too. Continuing yesterday's transplant discussion, Olga Vadimovna, that's exactly what this is about, understanding my license 154, which speaks of the possibility of interstate exchange during a transplant. You know that there are European network transplantology in Europe, where all countries have their transplant databases with a database of organ transplants that are integrated into a single network. And it's this article, well, part of my law is taken into account, but actually what's out of the question is that it actually relates to international participation in the international transplant database. So I'd like to comment first. And second of all, I want you to take fully into account what I'm doing, especially the division between the state relations of ferrotransplantology. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-17-m0.u3	Please, Mrs. Ola, comment.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-17-m0.u4	Dear Oleg Stepanovich, thank you for your kind attention. In fact, according to this law, Ukraine is planning to join an international network so that Ukrainian citizens who need transplants can also receive assistance from the international community. And in view of Amendment No. 153 of the Committee proposed by the final edition of Article 18 of the Law, your amendment is edited. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-17-m0.u5	Thank you. Let's move on to the repairs. I'm reminding you that I'm going to read the corrections that are rejected. Once again, I would like to remind those national deputies who approached me before the meeting. After the discussion, I'll give each faction a minute. And all those who asked to speak, especially Anton Heratchenko, would be able to speak in a minute. So 163 right. He insists. 160th. Please, Musius, 160th.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-17-m0.u6	Dear National Deputies! This is about protecting personal data in one of these registers: both the donor register and the register of what we can transplant. In fact, you know, there's an absolute vachanal going on right now with a related so-called family medicine campaign, where declarations are made completely into defenseless databases. And all of our personal data on our diseases will be available freely, of course. Both the Ministry and Kabin did nothing to protect personal data in family medicine. This is the case, in the form I have proposed, with the responsibility of the State for personal data on transplants, especially those who have agreed to transplant their organs and tissues as proposed, to protect them from possible abuse by some unkind person. Therefore, the protection of personal data is very important, as it were. And that's why I'm asking you to vote and put it down.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-17-m0.u7	Thank you. Mrs. Olya, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-17-m0.u8	Dear Oleg Stepanovich! I absolutely agree with your position on the invulnerability of personal data in family medicine, which is being transmitted today by Ukrainian citizens. And I want to point out that the Transplant Act, the Transplant Act, ensures that personal data is stored according to international standards. And your number 160 is edited in Amendments 97 and 168 of the Committee, in the final edition of articles 11 and 21 of the Act, proposed and supported by the Main Committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-17-m0.u9	Thank you. Do you insist on voting? You insist. I'm voting on amendment 160. It's edited, but Mr. Oleg insists that it be fully accounted for. Whoever supports this proposal, please vote. [[10:13:40]] For-68 The decision is not made. Let's move on. 163th. You insist. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-17-m0.u10	And also an important amendment, it applies essentially to banning organ and tissue transplant advertising, because we have a situation right now with completely inadequate advertising for medical devices. And I think that the article, which was ruled out and included in part there in other papers, should be separate in this law, where it would be absolutely clear and understand the prohibition that anything related to transplantation is prohibited for advertising in Ukraine. So I ask that this amendment be put to the vote as well.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-17-m0.u11	Mrs. Ola.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-17-m0.u12	Dear Oleg Stepanovich, I fully support your position on the need to ban advertising in the media that leads to self-medication and terrible consequences. And I would like to point out that your position is taken into account by the committee and in the light of amendment 164 of the committee in the final edition of article 20 of the law, that is, it has been transferred to another article, and that your position would be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-17-m0.u13	Mr. Oleg insists on voting. And so I'm betting on the 163 vote, and the committee rejected it, but the author of the amendment insists on voting. Whoever supports this, I ask you to vote. [[10:15:30.]] For-66 The decision is not made. Next, 169th. 166th. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-17-m0.u14	Ladies and gentlemen, this bill applies to the fact that, during transplantation and production of bioimplants, only accredited health care facilities and scientific institutions can be provided. And that's where this is left over: the word "scientific institutions." It's taken into account as part of it, but the scientific institutions in the paper that the committee has proposed have come out again. And I believe that the current state of the Academy of Medical Sciences, which has a third level health facility, where transplants are most likely to occur, should be reflected in the text of the law as long as there is an Academy of Medical Sciences. If we adopt the law, the transplant will be carried out only by health agencies of the Ministry of Health. So I would also like to vote on this amendment in its entirety, so that the scientific institutions remain in the paper. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-17-m0.u15	Thank you. Mrs. Olya, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-17-m0.u16	Dear Oleg Stepanovich, the transplant will be carried out by those health facilities that will be licensed for this type of activity. And the law does not provide for the listing of the names of health institutions, and this is provided for by another law that actually licenses this activity. And your amendment, your warnings were taken into account editorially in Amendment 161. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-17-m0.u17	Thank you. So the amendment, 166, is edited, but the author insists that it be taken fully into account. Whoever supports this proposal, please vote. [[10:17:37]] For-74. 74. The decision is not made. 169th. He insists. Please turn on Musai's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-17-m0.u18	Dear National Deputies! I want to use this moment to make it clear to the entire session room that the committee has been systematically drafting the bill over the past two years, that I would call for immediate support, of course, on the second reading of all the national MPs. This is a perfectly coherent position both of the Academy of Sciences, and of the Ministry of Internal Affairs, and of the Ukrainian Security Service, and of the Ukrainian Attorney General's Office. More than 20 fuses have been installed to dispel all these myths that someone will be dismembered into some kind of organ that will be able to do so. In fact, we've made a mechanism that's practically levelling completely and equally, and it's approaching zero potential for transplant abuse. That's why I'm not going to insist on voting for this amendment, but I want us all to finally support the saving of 5,000 lives every year by putting this bill into effect.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-17-m0.u19	Thank you. Then we move on, you don't insist on voting. So the next 176. The author does not insist. 181. The author does not insist. And, colleagues, I'd like to announce that we're approaching. There's only a few left. Please, and so I ask all the factions to invite the deputies into the hall we will conclude the discussion in a few minutes. 183 law. Oleg Musei, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-17-m0.u20	Ladies and gentlemen, this is also an amendment, although it appears to have been taken into account. But what is the point of this revision? It's about all the materials that are taken from a person, whether from a living donor or from someone who's dead, and taken for transplantation, they're supposed to undergo a special treatment. And this special treatment, which, with the introduction of the Ukrainian Law on Technical Regulations, is necessarily approved through technical regulations, which is equivalent to because those tissues that are going to be transplanted or transplanted to humans are going to have to go through this procedure of technical regulations and be quality. This only ensures that technical regulations are introduced, and in fact, where technical regulations are taken into account, they are not included. So I would ask that we understand and consider the word "technical regulations" as mandatory when using tissues that are made for transplantation. So I will ask.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-17-m0.u21	Mr. Oleg, 183 requisitions are taken into account. You insist that it be fully accounted for. And I'm voting on the proposal of the author of the amendment so that 183 amendments are fully taken into account. Whoever supports this proposal, please vote. [[10:21:06]] For-68 The decision is not taken. And, colleagues, I invite everyone into the hall. I ask the heads of factions: an extremely important bill, a long and systematic work was carried out, and important for life, for the lives of many people. So I'm asking for responsibilities, please see who's not in the factions in the hall, call them back, ask them to come into the hall. So, colleagues, 190th. 185th, okay. 185th, Musius.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-17-m0.u22	Ladies and gentlemen, 180 lashes. 185 revisions, which are edited, actually isolates a separate article on the rights of a living donor. This is the person who gives the living under this law consent to the removal of her organs and tissues when she has been diagnosed with brain death and does not have to ask her parents for permission or lack of such permission to take her organs or tissues. And in fact, in society, you know, there's ambiguous perception and fear is absolutely groundless that they can take someone into something. And if we left in the law a systematic article on this person's rights, which, as a refusal, renunciation of her prior consent and so on, and these rights would be written systematically in one article -- then it would be easier to understand people who consent to the removal of their organs and tissues and even the media, everyone would understand that such a person is completely protected. That's why I'm here.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-17-m0.u23	So it's a readjustment. [[B in m in s a l in]] And what does it look like when we mobilize? So 186 right. I'm betting on the vote to be taken fully into account. Whoever supports this, I ask you to vote. 185th, please. [[10:23:40]] For-78 The decision is not made. We'll get to the end. 186.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-17-m0.u24	186 revisions, it reveals the essence of this human right to take advantage, in writing. who claimed that a person consented to the removal of organs and tissues from his brain after finding the death of the brain just because a person could refuse at any time and it would be virtually impossible to carry out any organ and tissue collection without a fixed set-up into the database leaving traces of mandatory electronics that the database of those who made decisions on the removal of organs and tissues from that person had been made. And this is kind of another one of those tools and fuses that you can't take anything from anyone without a fixation. And the database will indicate whether this person has consented to the removal of organs and tissues, and this is kind of a protection against the unjustified removal of organs and tissues. That's why.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-17-m0.u25	So, colleagues, I propose to finish again. Mrs. Olga, comment, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-17-m0.u26	Dear Lezy Stepanovich! In accordance with the proposed model in law, any person who has agreed to become a donor will be able to give up at any time if he has changed his mind. Yes, it is according to this law that a transplant cannot be performed by a person who does not want it to happen. And I want to point out that our entire religious community, the Council of Churches, supports this bill and notes that they are willing to support as many voluntary donations as possible in Ukraine, where everyone can have a chance to save another life after their death. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-17-m0.u27	Thank you. So I'm voting on amendment 186, right? The committee counted it in part. The author wants to take it completely into account. Who supports the author's position, please vote. [[10:26:21]] For-73 The decision is not made. So, colleagues, it looks like we can move on to making a decision. There's a high mobilization in the hall, there's literally a few lines left, 190, another 190. Is this the last one or not? It's going to be a final amendment. 190th, please, Oleg Musei.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-17-m0.u28	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to ask you very carefully to respond to today's vote. It's because, let's say, even these two holidays that will accompany our vote today, and I sincerely believe that there will be more than 226 votes to adopt this bill, that will save 5,000 Ukrainian lives in two years. This is an extremely important and systemic law that helps build a civilized system of transplantology in Ukraine. And any innuendo is marked not only by the committee, but by these 20 safeguards that stand in this law. That's why I would ask everyone to take a very responsible view of saving people's lives, which will allow us to adopt this law. And that is why, even as the author of the alternative bill, I fully agree with this text, and I urge you also to support it fully. That's it.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-17-m0.u29	Please, Mrs. Ola.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-17-m0.u30	Dear colleagues, there are tens of people in front of Parliament today with banners calling for you to save the lives of others. These are the people who live in Ukraine today with transplanted kidneys, transplanted liver. They gathered before Parliament to see them, to see them, to see that there could be not dozens in Ukraine, but there could be thousands of people who would continue to work hard at the glory of Ukraine and who would trust their country, who would be protected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-17-m0.u31	Thank you. So, dear colleagues, we're done discussing the rights. But, as I promised, before the vote, I will give all factions a moment's notice. Mrs. Ola, thank you for your active, productive work. Thank you, right-wing authors. Now, who of the factions has a wish will be able to speak for a minute. First, Peter Dusty's Block. Berezenka, please, from the rostrum. Then the Front. Then, point it out to me, Shurma, yes, Andrew. All right, in this order, we will be sure. Please, Mr. Sergei.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-17-m0.u32	Dear Mr. Head, dear colleagues! I'm not going to talk about the structure of the law, that's what the committee head said. But I would like to point out that in Ukraine, 10 people die every day because of the absence of transplant organs. Only units get a chance to have a transplant. Do you know how from day to day to live with the hope that you can survive, and in the end, you realize that all the chances are lost? Doctors today are powerless, our professional professors, because their hands are tied legally. And the state must intervene in this process. In the developed world, transplantation is a standard of treatment for many kidney, heart, liver, lungs, and others. And Ukraine is now 20-25 years behind! Our doctors have shown, on more than one occasion, that they can and can perform heart or kidney transplants, or that organ is no worse off than abroad. So far, we've only made 8 heart transplants in 20.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-17-m0.u33	30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-17-m0.u34	If it takes a thousand a year. I will no longer talk about other needs. Dear colleagues! Let us forget about party membership, about future elections, about all that separates us. Let us unite around the lives of children. Peter Dustenka's Block supports this law and calls on all our colleagues to save Ukrainians who still stand a chance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-17-m0.u35	Thank you. From the People's Front, Anton Gerashchenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-17-m0.u36	Deputies! Dear Ukrainian people! Why do I not, as a co-author of this law, take a firm stand for it? In March of this year, I was approached by the family of this girl, the harpian woman, of the nine - year - old Polina Dubova. She waited four years for a heart transplant, but she did not wait until early in April. Why? Because eight of the Supreme Council’s callings did not adopt such a law that would allow a person in life to give consent so that he could make his or her announcements to others so that they could live. If we adopt this law, I, Anton Heratchenko, will be the first to sign under the fact that if I suddenly die, let my organs go so that other people can be saved and they live on. Please all factions, all parliamentary groups, support this law, throughout the world in normal countries, it works. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-17-m0.u37	Thank you. From the Opposition Block of Igorshurm.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-17-m0.u38	IgorShurma, the Opposition Block. I'd like all the people in this room to think about the root of the problem that exists today. Is there a problem today with changing the transplant situation? Yes. But I'm asking you, in which civilized country does the transplant bill start, when there's war, when there's fighting, and when people don't just die, they're gone. If you look at the market that operates in Europe, in the United States, there is an ever - increasing increase in transplant problems. We are today, regardless of this law. It's a playground. We firmly oppose the imposition of this law during wartime. This is the first one. And we demand that this law take effect after the war and war. We weren't understood or heard. That is why we will not support the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-17-m0.u39	Thank you. It's from the faction, from the Rebirth Group.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-17-m0.u40	Yes. Deputies! Dear Ukrainian people! First of all, I want to dispel all the gossip around this bill. After the adoption of the law, no one will trade and export the organs of the Ukrainians so that we will know. Because in the bill that we're going to adopt today, we're going to have a saved standard since 1999, a presumption of disagreement, if you don't agree, no one is going to make you a donor. Secondly, the bill prohibits the removal of organs and materials for transplantation to persons who have died as a result of an anti-terrorist operation and combat. So no Ukrainian, no military, no civilian who died can be a donor. Moreover, a donor cannot be a dead person who is not appointed. So I'd like to take a professional approach. Forget gossip and support Ukrainian medicine. Dear colleagues, because there is no regulatory framework without this law, we will continue to send millions of euros abroad. And thousands of our people, waiting for a kidney transplant or something.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-17-m0.u41	30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-17-m0.u42	And thousands of our people will die here. Dear colleagues, this is not yet the law as it is in Belarus, because Belarus is far ahead, but it is a European normal law. And I ask your support, because this bill has been negotiated with all organizations, both international and the Council of Churches. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-17-m0.u43	Thank you. From the Radical Party of Oleg Lazko. One minute. And I'm asking everyone to come into the hall, and we'll be done in a few minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-17-m0.u44	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Today, the key problem for millions of Ukrainians is unavailable medicine and unavailable medicines. Uljanu Suprun, temporary head of the Ministry of Health, is called "Doctor of Death". People associate the worst things in medicine with it. At all their meetings, wherever I am, people raise one question: How can we count our children? How can we heal ourselves? How for 1.5 thousand dollars can you buy a packet of pills that cost 700 or 1,000 dollars? So the Radical Party team is proposing a real plan that will allow people to get the drugs that are available. Not the propaganda that the authorities are currently doing, including by stretching out such laws, but the real concrete solutions that millions of people can buy drugs can heal and save their lives. Exclusion from VAT, pricing control, cost-effectiveness restrictions, criminal responsibility for falsifying drugs -- that's what Ukrainians need. Not the lie you're here.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-17-m0.u45	Thank you. Colleagues, there'll be two more speeches a minute and then there'll be a vote. That's why I'm asking everyone to come into the hall. Please, from Fatherland, Alexander Kugel, then Oleg Berezuk, and let's move on to the vote. Please, Mrs. Alexander.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-17-m0.u46	Dear colleagues! The Fatherland faction will support this bill. I mean, frankly, there were serious warnings, and you know that the Council of Churches didn't fully agree to support this bill until yesterday. And I thank all church leaders for deciding yesterday that human life is God’s most precious gift. But not only did we work with the Council of Churches but we worked with all hospitals. Thank you, Mr. Toduro. I thank all the surgeons of the Shalimov Institute and others who have worked very seriously on this bill. Do we have any comments about him? Yes. But these are normal work processes that I hope we'll work. We should give Ukraine’s surgeons a chance to stay, not go abroad, and open up normal processes. All those who say corruption in Ukraine and therefore cannot do a transplant, I apologize, are not related questions. Because for 18 years, we've been promising to have it.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-17-m0.u47	30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-17-m0.u48	a transparent system of control over these questions. I'm asking everyone to back me up. And in the part where I take off my post as Mrs. Suprun, I support my colleague, Oleg Laska. I don't think she has the right to lead medicine in Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-17-m0.u49	So, from the Self-Help faction, Oleg Barresuk, 1 minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-17-m0.u50	This may be the case with life’s weight on it. On the scale is the life of a sick person who suffers and waits for this vital organ. And on the scale is the life of a healthy person who can present this organ. And it's a very big responsibility, or this weight is going to weigh it. Is the weight of justice, justice, law enforcement in Ukraine capable of weighing this life? And today, there will be a decision in this room whether this weight is able to protect the lives of both of us, and today we will make this decision with you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-17-m0.u51	Thank you. So the factions ended. A closing statement to the committee's head, please, three minutes, Mrs. Ola. Please indicate clearly what your proposals will be for the final edition, so that the hall understands and knows how we vote. Mrs. Olya, three minutes, Mantis.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-17-m0.u52	Dear colleagues, I thank you all for your participation, for your comments, for the nearly 200 rights that have been considered by the committee, 80 percent of which have been taken into account. And I ask you to support and accept, prepared by the committee, a bill in second reading and generally as a law in the proposed editorial committee, taking into account the proposals made in the course of the discussion. Actually, yesterday Mr. Levechenko made a few warnings that were overworked, and now I'm going to read literally a few words. The first sentence of part two of article 15 of the law is to be completed after the words "on terms of monetary compensation" by the word "State." In the first sentence of part 11 of article 16 of the bill after the words "asked by a transplant coordinator personally in the second marriage or in one of the close relatives of that person (children, parents, siblings)" put a dot, and the words "which are available for such consent and written testimony of her giving" delete. The first sentence of part 12 of article 16 reads: “According to one of the persons mentioned in part 11 of this article, the body of the deceased person of the anatomical material for transplantation and/or the production of bioimplants is provided to him personally and in writing by the transplant coordinator of the health facility upon his oral request.” We add, "It's personal and it's written." And part three of article 17 should be supplemented by a second new paragraph: "The absence of written consent of its official representative, whose presence is the transplant coordinator in accordance with the data of the Single State Information System of Transplantation." Paragraph 4 of the third article 17 reads as paragraph 3 and reads as follows: "The absence of written consent of the second of the marriage or of one of the close relatives mentioned in part 11 of this law, or the arrival of a pre-transplant coordinator within one hour of receiving such written consent, written objections to the deletion of anatomical materials for transplantation and/or the production of bioimplants from the body of a deceased person, submitted by one or more individuals individually, as listed in part 11 of article 16 of this law, at the suggestion of the national deputy Lechenko, or the absence of written consent of a person who was obliged to bury a deceased person, a person under 18 years of age or other legal representatives for the removal of anatomic materials for transplantation."
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-17-m0.u53	Give me a minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-17-m0.u54	"and/or the production of bioimplants." And the last. Subparagraph 4 of paragraph 4 of the Final Provisions, which is commissioned by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine to establish the Single National Information System for Transplantation, should be supplemented by the words "by 1 October 2018, ensure the creation and functioning of the system.",--and on with the text. Please support the committee's proposals and adopt the law in the second reading and in general with sound rights and assign the committee, together with the Chief Legal Authority, to carry out its technical and legal work in preparation for the signing of the Supreme Council. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-17-m0.u55	Thank you. Thank you, Mrs. Ola. We're moving on to making a decision. I'm asking everyone to take up jobs. Back from bed, we move on to making a decision. Honorable colleagues are laws that apply to the lives and lives of many people. And so I'm convinced that he's going to be supported in the hall, and I'm just asking and asking for maximum mobilization. So I'm voting on the draft Act amending some Ukrainian legislation on health protection and transplantation of organs and other anatomical materials to human beings (No. 2386a-1) in the second reading and in general with the rights that the head of the Health Committee, Olga Vadimovna, has written under the transcript. Please vote, please support. Colleagues, every voice, please vote. We're backing it up. We vote yes. Let's vote, colleagues. Please be supportive. [[10:44:16]] For 255 The law is passed. Welcome to all the developers, all the authors. The law is passed. We're moving on to the next issue of the agenda -- this is the draft Law on Change to Some. I'm sorry, there's a statement to make. Excuse me, I have a statement from two factions, the Fatherland and Self-Help factions. They're ready to take a break from the rostrum. And that's why I'm giving the floor now. Who? Who will act? Sobolje, please, and then we go to the next law. Yegor Sobolev, three minutes. Please. Turn on Jehora Sobolev's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-17-m0.u56	All hail the Hangman's Day! And a call to all the people in this room. This national identity is not only our good, but also our commitment. We want to remind all the people, all the people who came to this Council by voting people, that one of our promises was to set new election rules. The rules of Parliament's election for open party lists when voters can vote for both a particular party and a specific person they want to see as a member of the party. And there will be a double responsibility: both parties and men. Now under the Supreme Council there are people again who expect us to fulfill this promise. We have a huge request to all the national MPs to mention what these colors and patterns mean. We suggest that the speaker invite the rallyers to his home, that we gather a meeting of representatives of the political forces and make this decision, which I recall was already approved by us on our first reading. One step remained to take and to be proud of this law.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-17-m0.u57	Thank you. So let's move on to the next issue of the agenda: this is the draft Act amending some of the Ukrainian legislation on the conduct of economic activity from cross-border employment (6275-d). And I'm asking you to support his consideration of the reduced procedure. Please vote, please support. [[10:47:30.]] For 121 Colleagues, we're not going to do the order of the day, if we're going to go into full discussion, it's a shortcut procedure. I ask you to vote and support. So 6275-d short procedure please vote and please support. Vote, colleagues, support. [[10:48:03]] For-140. I can see we didn't make it. I'm going to put on the third time, and I'm going to ask you to do all the voting. I'm asking you to support the consideration of draft Law 6275-d by a reduced procedure. Please vote carefully, and I ask for your support. Vote. Please support and please vote. Please be supportive. Vote. [[10:48:43]] For-146 Four votes. [[B in m in s a l in]] Colleagues, I see you haven't been able to vote. I ask you very much to be in the voting seat right now. Many deputies came out of the hall. I'm addressing factions' heads. We're just not going to be able to make a full financial day. So let's mobilize. Heads of factions, I ask you to support the proposal for a reduced procedure. Please be supportive. Please vote carefully. Let's vote, colleagues. Please be supportive. Please vote. Every voice! Vote. Please be supportive. [[10:49:46]] For-160. Decision taken. I invite you to report to the Wesley Natalia Vasilovna. Please. Please report.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-17-m0.u58	Good afternoon, dear fellows! The Committee on Social Policy, Employment and Pensions, pursuant to the Supreme Council of Ukraine Regulation of 7 November 2017 No. 2184, prepared for a re-reading of the draft Ukrainian Law amending certain Ukrainian legislative acts on the conduct of economic activity in employment abroad (registration No. 6275). In conjunction with the committee on drafting the bill, representatives of ministries worked: Ministry of Social Policy, Ministry of Health, Ministry of Economics and others, Ministry of Finance, National Police, Regulatory Service, International Organization of Migration and the OSCE, Human Rights Commissioner, social partners and public organizations. The committee worked on proposals by Ukrainian national deputies: Irina Lucenko, Roman Semenah, Alexander Drozdik, who came in accordance with the regulations of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. A comment was also made by the Chief Scientific and Expert Office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, ministries and public organizations. A total of 45 comments and suggestions, including 33 suggestions, are taken into account in part - 4, 8 suggestions are rejected. The committee supported the idea of a project developed by the Lucenko People’s Deputies and others, which was to create conditions in Ukraine that would prevent people from being caught in human trafficking situations. Therefore, at the legislative level, it is necessary to establish a position of control over the activities of operators providing services from overseas employment agencies, establishing responsibility for violating licensing requirements, or providing employment services abroad without proper license or registration. Enhanced powers of the Ministry of Social Policy, which will control the licensing of licensing requirements and the State Service.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-17-m0.u59	30 seconds, finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-17-m0.u60	and the Ukrainian State Service for Work, which will supervise the conduct of the subject of management and activity and without obtaining the appropriate licence. Please support the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-17-m0.u61	Thank you. I'd like to vote, two in favor, two in favor, against you, please. Opanasenko, turn on the microphone. Semenha, Roman Semenha.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-17-m0.u62	Semenha Roman, Self-Help Unit. Dear colleagues, Mr. Head, if a census had been conducted in Ukraine today, as required by the UN recommendation, I think the whole country would have shuddered at the real truth. It is understandable why the government does not want to hold such a census before the next parliamentary and presidential elections. In fact, the self-help faction in the person of Alexander Opanasenko registered the corresponding Law 4034a in 2016, requiring that every 10 years such a census be held. Because today in the country we've been experiencing since the 1990s, probably the worst labor migration. And today, the best are teachers, scientists, engineers, IT specialists. What is more, young people move in because they see no prospect for themselves or for their children. According to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, more than 5 million people are now abroad. And given what's registered every third, real labour figures and just migrations are much higher. The most fearsome of those Ukrainians who find themselves in such situations because of their own insolence are often victims of human trafficking. And here, statistics are also impressive. Because the number of crimes according to the corresponding articles registered with the National Police in the previous year is three times the same in 2016! During the previous review of Self-Help, she made a number of substantive remarks to this bill so that he would really protect those migrant workers who were leaving. Because those laws that are proposed are, excuse me, strictly declarant. Well, how can you estimate the maximum fine of 3,000 400 dollars?Oh, my God! It won't stop the violators. Moreover, there is no mechanism in place to check the ownership of the property. We also suggested that we clarify the content and provide the new essential conditions of the labour contract with the migrant: guaranteeing the level of wage at least below the minimum wage, professional requirements for the worker, job information, a number of other requirements that would satisfy this law with real meaning to protect migrant workers. That's why.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-17-m0.u63	30 seconds, please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-17-m0.u64	The Self-Help Group will support this legislative initiative, but only on the first reading. Because, unfortunately, there is once again a very low legislative initiative that has every chance of becoming just a declaration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-17-m0.u65	Thank you. Colleagues, the next talk will actually be final, because they are no longer enrolled in the discussion. That's why I'm asking everyone to come to the hall. In a few minutes, we'll go to the vote. And now I'd like to invite you to the floor, Sergey Sobolev, please. And please return to the hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-17-m0.u66	Dear colleagues, no doubt this bill is very important, but unfortunately it is just a struggle against the consequences. Why do millions of our citizens go abroad? Why do millions of our citizens go abroad illegally? And I think the key and the first question is the question that we should ask the government. Every decision we make in this session room should be analysed, including, and will it not lead to another increase in labour migration, with what is the most fearsome, illegal labour migration? What's happening today with teachers' salaries, doctors' salaries, is that not what's pushing these people to work abroad, not even their jobs, but, looking for a job, for a salary that's going to be 5 to 6 times more unskilled workers, and that's why our citizens are going abroad. So this bill only decides in part the consequences of what's going on. Unsettled minimum wage issues, the absolute irresponsibility of employers who receive profits, but do not want to pay the wages paid by the relevant workers abroad. Look at what happens in metallurgy, chemistry, energy, and income, see how low wages are paid by simple workers. So our proposal is to support it in the first reading, but to settle it in all directions, and only in the direction of illegal labour migration, when all illegal shadow mechanisms are used. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-17-m0.u67	Thank you. From. Two more shows, yeah, two minutes. From the Radical Party, Oleg Lazko, from the People's Front, Maximburbak. If anyone else wants to come forward, please let me know in advance so that I can calculate the time correctly. Please, 2 minutes, Oleg Lazko.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-17-m0.u68	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. I'm talking to the Ukrainians. Take a look at the agenda of the Supreme Council. The first law is about organ trafficking. The second law is about trade in labor abroad. That's the whole Supreme Council. This is your message of the day that you can offer to Ukrainians: trade in raw materials, trade in organs, and trade in labor. Which one of you can offer people a future in your home country besides us? Nobody. And you can't hear us. They adopt laws on, that is, fostering intermediation in employment abroad. Instead of enacting laws to enable Ukrainians to work, to earn a decent living in their home country, and to feed their children, you are putting forward laws on employment abroad in the first place. Two million people went to Poland last year to work. And though there's more pay than here, there's still ours on the market. Fifteen people live in a bribe. There are no social packages or labour rights protections, and they are illegal, like slaves on galleys. And you're taking laws to help them get there. As soon as the Germans echelons exported our people, you're legalizing all this labor migration. I'm proposing a completely different plan of action that will make it possible for a home country to make money. It's salary increases, pension increases, cheap credits for national production, banning the sale of raw materials, upgrading of core funds, and reduced energy costs. We have a government through the International Monetary Fund that imposes 11,000 dollars for 1,000 cubic metres of gas to make people beggars, and the industry is not competitive, and so that we can export raw materials and labor. Enough to turn Ukraine into a raw colony. Stop begging.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-17-m0.u69	Please, MaximBurbak of the People's Front.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-17-m0.u70	My fellow Members, I call on all deputies to vote today in the first reading for this bill, because there is a problem. According to recent sociological data, more than 10 percent of the working population in Ukraine have gone to Europe to earn money. It's not just a question of low wages or social protection in our country. This is a global issue because the globalization of our planet has opened up doors and opportunities for external labour migration. And people travel and leave consciously to get a better salary, a better job, and better living conditions. But we need to do everything we can to solve this problem. And that's why the People's Front faction came out with the initiative that we're creating an inter-fractional inter-parliamentary association called "External Labour Immigration" so that we can overcome three goals. First of all, this must be done to keep our workers in Ukraine. Secondly, it's to make contact with those who are now abroad to make appropriate protection of their rights and interests. And thirdly, we need to take care of the families that have stayed here and do everything we can to get our citizens who have gone to make a hard deposit abroad to return to Ukraine. Therefore, respectable colleagues, a valid framework law, are not fully operational and we need to create new legislation, and this will be done directly by an interfractional parliamentary union. So once again I am going to vote in favour of this bill, and this problem should not be silenced because it is in society. And I'm addressing the government, and I'm addressing the members of the Supreme Council, and I'm going to do everything I can to get this problem to a higher level, and so that we can finally start to take responsibility for it. We vote yes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-17-m0.u71	Thank you. Thank you, Your Honor. Please, Irina Lucenko, we invite you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-17-m0.u72	Dear colleagues! Dear voters! I want to personally address the leader of the Radical Party, Oleg Valeriovich Ljashka. If you may have misunderstood the substance of this bill, I would like to explain to you personally how to explain your faction, because I see the support of the hall. The essence of this bill. The Ministry of Social Policy issues licenses to entrepreneurs who do mediation activities, that is, they employ our Ukrainian citizens abroad if they try to leave. The responsibility of such mediators is that they should accompany our citizens, who are temporarily going to work abroad, not only to the Ukrainian border, but also to the place of employment. They have to check whether international agreements are mutually responsible, whether legal wages will be paid there. They need to see how the conditions of work are going to be for our citizens so that they don't live for 13 people, as you say, Mr. Valeria, squirrels. This is the responsibility of these mediators. What do we do with this law? We give this law the opportunity to inspect the work and the Ministry of Social Policy not only to issue licences but to develop methods and constantly control those intermediaries as they carry out their duties when they take money from our citizens. In addition, the Law on Diplomatic Service provides us with additional items, according to which consular officials should also have a list of citizens who have gone abroad to help them solve their domestic issues and issues of pay, not to have them take their passports and turn them into cattle, about what you're saying, Mr. Valeria. So, dear colleagues, this is a very serious problem. This law will not solve all the points that Ukrainians face.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-17-m0.u73	30 seconds to complete, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-17-m0.u74	He will not solve all the issues that Ukrainians are facing abroad, but he will provide an opportunity to protect Ukrainians and Ukrainian families who remain in Ukraine and are dependent on the wages that our citizens receive abroad. I very much ask you to come to the right vote and support this very necessary law for our citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-17-m0.u75	Thank you. So let's go to the vote, the discussion is over. I ask everyone to take their seats and I remind you that, as promised, after this law, I will propose that the DBR Act be brought to the table and therefore I ask the factions to be elected to the vote. And now I'm asking you to take up jobs. Colleagues, please return to the hall. Ready to vote? So I'm voting on the draft Act amending some of the Ukrainian legislation on the conduct of economic activity from intermediation in employment abroad (6275-d). Committee proposal: vote as a basis. I ask everyone to take up their jobs and take part in the vote. If you'll excuse me, I'd like to vote. Only on the basis that we will be able to work on the second reading, is now proposed only on the basis. Please vote, please support. Vote. [[11:06:43]] For 229 229 — yes. Decision taken. Now, colleagues, as I promised, I will propose to move the draft Act amending some Ukrainian legislation on improving the activities of the State Bureau of Investigation. He stood in order daily, but because there was a risk that there might be no votes for him, we agreed that by transferring we would see whether there were voices or not. If there are voices, we go right into it; if there are no votes to avoid putting it at risk, so as not to put it at risk, as this unfortunately has already been with the laws of the D.B.I. I ask you to take part in the vote now. And I'm putting to the vote the proposal that we move and consider the draft law amending some of the Ukrainian legislation on improving the activities of the State Bureau of Investigation (5395-d). There's a D.B.I. manager in the hall and he's asking everyone to support this proposal. Please vote and please support. Vote. [[11:08:03]] For 212 212. I won't make it. I'll put it back. Once again, who's in charge of passing Bill 5395-d and considering it now? Please vote, please support. Vote. Please be supportive. Please be supportive. [[11:08:41]] For 219 Six votes. I'll put the third time. Colleagues, give the committee's head. Colleagues, I'm asking you to get in the room as much as possible right now. We're missing literally six or seven votes. They're coming in. And, colleagues, I'm putting in a final, third-time proposal to transpose the draft Act amending some of the Ukrainian legislative acts to improve the activities of the State Bureau of Investigation (5395-d) for consideration now. Move and see now. Whoever supports this proposal, please vote, please support. Colleagues, we vote. Who supports the vote. Vote. [[11:09:50]] For 229 Decision taken. I ask you, colleagues, to support the consideration of the reduced procedure. Please support the consideration of the reduced procedure. Please vote, please support. [[11:10:15]] For-167 167th decision taken. And I invite you to the report from the Palamarchuk Committee. Colleagues, normal and so on and so forth. Two reports from you, yes. Two reports. Give you how much? Five minutes? 5 minutes, Andrew Cosemiakin. He and the author, he will be speaking from the committee. Please, Mr. Andrew.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-17-m0.u76	Good afternoon, dear fellows! Thank you, Andry Volodymyrovich, to you and to all those who today, after all, wanted to put a dot, perhaps a dot on the beginning of the work of that body of the European specimen, the State Bureau of Investigation. By the way, there's a D.B.R. Director Truba Roman Mikhailovich here. I think he'll say the same thing. Your point is to consider Bill 5395-d, drafted by the committee. What we did on the committee was already prepared on the basis of the three bills that were last time all failed in the Supreme Council. It is aimed at solving a set of legal, organizational, and personnel issues related to the work of the State Bureau of Investigation. The committee unanimously approved the decision to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine the outcome of the review of the first reading to adopt the draft as a basis, at the same time, if we take into account the individual appropriate proposals of the Committee and the Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. In addition, after consulting with the Peter Poroshenko faction and the President personally, after we have consulted with the People's Front and all the interested members of the legal sciences in Parliament, we can read this bill after reading some changes under the transcript, and adopt them as a whole as a law. Under the stenogram of the proposal. In section I, sub-paragraph 3, delete project 1. In this connection, sub-paragraph 4-10 is considered to be sub-paragraphs 3 to 9. In paragraph 3, paragraph 1, of the draft paragraph, the second paragraph, in such an edition, should read the first part: in paragraphs 6 and 7 the words "ten" and "five years" should be replaced by the words "seven years" and "three years". Paragraph 1 of the draft after paragraph 3 should be supplemented by a new sub-item: the third sentence of part three of article 14 should be replaced by two new sentences: “The appointment of posts at the State Bureau of Investigation other than those defined in part one of article 10, part one of article 13 and part one of the first article 24 of the Act shall be based on the results of an open competition conducted by a competition commission for the appointment of staff of the State Bureau of Investigation, as approved by the Director of the State Bureau of Investigation. The competition is held in order approved by the Director of the State Bureau of Investigation on the basis of the Standard Order for an open competition approved by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine." In this connection, sub-paragraph 4-9 is considered to be paragraphs 5-10. Paragraph 2 of paragraph 6 of the draft after the words "project international technical assistance" should be completed with the words "which are registered in the order specified." Paragraph 1, paragraph 8, of the draft should be amended as follows: in part 1 of article 24, in the second paragraph, delete the words "and employees". To complement the third sentence of paragraph 3: "Qualification requirements in professional territory. and the professional qualifications criteria for the appointment of the head of the internal control unit of the central apparatus and the central authorities of the State Bureau of Investigation are defined in paragraphs 7 to 12 of the first part of Article 13 of this Act." Subparagraph 9, paragraph 1, of the draft. In article 25, the name is given in the following wording: “Article 25. Disciplinary Commission of the State Bureau of Investigation." In the second paragraph of the first part, the word "on the basis of the Standard Position on the Disciplinary Commission of the Central Executive Authority approved by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine" should be deleted. All of it. In view of the suggestions I have made, I propose to adopt Project 5395 as a basis and generally as a law, taking into account the suggestions I have made under the stenogram, and with the Chief Legal Authority, as a matter of necessity, we deal with editorial and technical law. Please identify and enable us to work with this body that we have created with you, and we look forward to an effective fight against corruption and organized crime. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-17-m0.u77	Honorary colleagues, the head of the profile committee now, Andrew Kožemyakin, spoke from both the group of reporters, and expressed his position from the committee. Thank you for saving our time today. I'm asking you to sign up for a faction discussion right now. We won't have another report from co-reporters under this law, bill, but I'll give it to Mr. Truby later, I'll give the speech in the end, summarizing. Please state your position. Oh, Oleni Sotnik gives the word that represents the position of the Self-Help faction. Please, Mrs. Helena.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-17-m0.u78	Headmaster. It's actually an important technical bill. We have a situation today where the D.B.I. hasn't actually been created yet, we only have a director and a deputy. And we're at a very important stage in the selection of local heads and actually detectives who have to perform the key investigative function of the State Bureau of Investigation. This bill initially contained several articles, some of which we as a faction disagree with, particularly the payout for years. We think it's an anachronism to get rid of. We also believe that reading the amendments in this number of votes might be right, but not in Parliament. Unfortunately, it is only under the Rules that two weeks should be allowed to amend. And this should be discussed on the committee. I think that's the right thing to do, because, yes, it's our priority to create the State Bureau of Investigation, but it's going to be an unprecedented investigative body. I would like to remind him that it is not just the prosecutor’s office, but many other law enforcement agencies. He'll be handling corruption cases at the National Anti-Corruption Bureau and the Anti-Corruption Prosecutor's Office. So it's a very thin instrument, a surgical instrument that you can't ignore. So we actually support the idea of a bill. We understand that the technical changes that are being made now are necessary for the start of the set-up and the work of the State Bureau of Investigation in general. But I urge my colleagues to move away from the practice of reading the amendments to the vote, which, in fact, is not even possible to understand that the bill is being tabled. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-17-m0.u79	Dear Mrs. Olena, we thank you very much for the position presented by the Self-Help faction. And please, from the Radical Party of Oleg Láška, from the entire faction of Mr. Kuprienko will perform. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-17-m0.u80	Oleg Kuprienko, faction of the Radical Party of Oleg Lášk. The honourable colleagues of the bill, indeed, as the committee head said, are of a technical nature. When we passed the D.B.I. Act, the most important anti-corruption body in the country, well, it must have turned out that way, forgotten or overlooked, hadn't been reported to the D.B.I.'s Operations and Search Act. As a result, the D.B.I. is now starting to recruit. Many documents have already been submitted and the first selections have been made. But you can't select operatives because the law doesn't. And that's how we can slow this process down. It's a technical bill. The changes that Cosemakin read from the rostrum are very technical. Well, from ten to seven years, there's a drop in internship and actually everything. Therefore, it is a request to support this bill as a whole today. We don't have many plenary days left. And there are a lot of important issues that we have to solve that are far more important than the technical bill on the ability of the D.B.I. to select workers. If we accept this bill, the State Bureau of Investigation, it is likely that it will work as early as September 1st of this year. If we don't, the process will stall. And then both the director and the deputy, and the other employees that can be selected and appointed now, will receive a salary and do nothing. How can we explain to our voters where their money is spent? I therefore call for the bill to be supported on the basis of both the whole and the recruitment process. Thank you all so much for your future support. Oleg Lachka Radical Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-17-m0.u81	Thank you for your position of respectable faction. And I invite you to the words of the distinguished Mr. Yemeni, Leonid Hamtz, who represents the position of the People's Front faction. Please, Mr. Leonid.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-17-m0.u82	Leonid Yemeni, People's Front faction. Dear colleagues, in the Constitution of Ukraine it is stated that all citizens are equal to whatever job they are doing: whether it is a teacher, whether it is a locksmith, whether it is the head of a district or district government, even if it is the head of the President's Administration, these people have equal rights and are equally accountable to the law. In the event of a crime, each of them must be held responsible for the commission of an offence; he must be brought to justice, and there must be a verdict. Who's to investigate independently top-owner crimes? State Bureau of Investigation. We passed the law today, there's guidance, but unfortunately, the State Bureau of Investigation can't fully get to work, because either by understanding whether or not there's a bad reason in the bills that were passed, there are positions that don't allow the State Bureau of Investigation to fully launch the investigation in part of the detectives, their appointment and their functions. This bill corrects these mistakes. And to this day Parliament has to answer a very simple question whether it wants it, parliament, and every MP that is here, and the political parties that it represents to ensure equality of all citizens regardless of what kind of work they do before the law. "The People's Front" will vote in clear favour. And I urge all other deputies and political forces to join this position. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-17-m0.u83	Thank you for the position presented by the People's Front faction. We invite you to the word Yuri Miroshnicka and then you. Yes, please. Yuri Miroshnichenko presents the position of the Opposition Block. Mr. Yuri, please. Yes, now you have the word. And then you haven't been able to sign up for Fatherland, you'll get two minutes, necessarily, if you have any other factions or groups that want to join the discussion, please. Mr. Yuri, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-17-m0.u84	Thank you, Irina. Dear colleagues, in fact, we are now experiencing emotions in our hall, and of course, the law and the DBR as a very important institutional body in the law enforcement system is causing a lot of comments. But I want to make it clear that it makes sense for us to understand that this law actually makes it possible to complete this important body. Because today’s legal procedure provides for the election of more than 140 positions in the central apparatus alone by an external commission that has been able to select only one head and two deputies in a year, and imagine another 140 positions. How much work does this important investigative body have to do, including control and investigation, if there are violations, such as in the NABU and other law enforcement agencies? So, dear colleagues, I'd like to invite you to take a professional approach to this question so that we non-politicals can put ambitions on the top and we can understand that we have a single state and this state needs to develop. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-17-m0.u85	Thank you, Mr. Yuri. And we invite you to say Sergey Sobolev, who represents the position of the Fatherland faction, a distinguished colleague. And I'm reminding you that this is the remainder of the performance. And then we give the word to Mr. Roman. And I ask you to return to the session room. Please, Mr. Sergei.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-17-m0.u86	Dear colleagues, I think that today the head of the State Bureau of Investigation is present in this room, and if he were to be able to tell him how in these months instead of doing business already, including operational-search work, he'd have to deal solely with matters of the premises. I think that this is the abuse of this body, which, by the way, is one of the bodies by which we made our commitments to bring the crime - control system to the best examples of the world system. When there's a discussion today, should the D.B.I.D. be given the right to search and search -- people, think about it! – and what is the State Bureau of Investigation if it doesn't have the right to operate and search. This is the body that should be given all the powers, because these powers are finally taken away from the politicized bodies: the B.O.A., the D.A., the police, who have to stop doing the things that they don't have to do. And when we eventually give this body, including the right to listen, to investigate, it's really going to be an organ that will answer not only in the form of a name, but actually do a real investigation, so that we can understand clearly the position of this body within the law enforcement system. That's why in the paper where the committee prepared those minor technical regulations, we think this bill should be approved today. In order to complete the selection procedure in the next two months.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-17-m0.u87	Please finish 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-17-m0.u88	in regional administrations and provide a fully-fledged mechanism for investigation, investigation and operational search activities. Our "Fatherland" faction will vote in favour of this bill as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-17-m0.u89	My colleagues, thank you. One question or another. In principle, all the factions, except for Peter Prashenko's Block, have spoken. Is there a need? Roger the position on Peter Dustenk's Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-17-m0.u90	So, colleagues, we're done talking about factions. I'll give the Director of the D.B.I. two more minutes. And we're going to go to the vote in two minutes. I ask everyone to come into the hall and prepare for the vote. And turn on Mr. Roman's microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-17-m0.u91	Dear National Deputies! Please now vote in favour of Bill 5395, on which the full launch of the State Bureau of Investigation depends. We waited 20 years for the State Bureau of Investigation to launch, which was only possible in November 2015, when the DBR law was passed, it was a revolutionary long-awaited decision. It has already been established at the time of launch that there are some technical gaps in the law, we cannot wait another 20 years for Parliament to make the necessary changes. The bill allows for the selection of 140 management positions in the central apparatus and the selection of the operational block. We're going to have September 1st, and we're going to start the work with what resources this is going to depend on you. Today, the results of the vote are seen by civil institutions and international partners, waiting for your decision. I'm addressing every faction, I'm addressing every deputy, and it's up to you to decide whether to vote on the State Bureau of Investigation Act. I urge you to support the State Bureau of Investigation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-17-m0.u92	Thank you. So, colleagues, let's move on to making a decision. I'm asking everyone to take up jobs. I would like to call on all the deputies to support one of our young institutions -- the State Bureau of Investigation, which today cannot complete the formation due to technical rights. And that's why I'm asking very much, and I'm asking everyone to take part in the vote, and I'm asking you to support it. I'm going to lay the groundwork, and after I put it on the ground, I'm going to propose a shorter procedure for second reading so that we can accept it as a whole as soon as possible. Do we have a deal? So I'm voting on a bill amending some of the Ukrainian legislative acts to improve the activities of the State Bureau of Investigation (No. 5395-d) on the basis of, on the basis of, colleagues, taking into account the rights read by the head of the committee during the performance under the transcript. Please vote and please support. Vote, colleagues, please support! Let's vote yes! [[11:30:53]] For 265 265 – yes. Now I am proposing that we make preparations for the second reading. Colleagues, in general, can we set up? There is a denial that the head of the largest faction, Arthur Gerasimov, denies. When there's a denial, you know, I can't put it all together. When there's a denial in the hall, the head of the Petra Prashenko Block, the largest faction, denies. I'm voting on a proposal to prepare for a reduced procedure for second reading. Please vote, please support the shortened procedure for preparing for the second reading. Please vote. Please be supportive. [[11:32:21]] For 251 251 – yes. Decision taken. Congratulations, Mr. Roman, on the adoption of the law. So we stop the discussion, we vote for the basis, and we vote for the shorter procedure for the second reading. We'll be able to look at this in the near future until the second reading. So, colleagues, now we're moving on to the next block of questions: the inclusion in the agenda of the session. And I ask everyone to prepare for the vote. I remind you, this is going to go without talking about voting for inclusion in the agenda of the day session, the next block. Please mobilize as much as possible, colleagues, the first is the Act amending the Ukrainian Law on Public Procurement and some other legislative acts. I don't understand why he wasn't voted in yesterday. I don't understand, it's our practice, introduced by our Parliament, to extend the rights of competition commissions and ProZorro, and I'm sure we should continue this practice. So, colleagues, I ask everyone to support the inclusion in the agenda of the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Public Procurement Act and some other legislative acts of Ukraine, 8265. I'm asking everyone who supports the procurement competition to support this bill. Please vote for inclusion in the agenda of the day session. Please be supportive. Vote. [[11:35:15.]] For 212 I'll do it again. Colleagues, I'd like you to come into the hall and take your jobs. We didn't have enough votes. Very excited after the previous discussion, it's important that we mobilize. Please take up jobs. So I'm proposing once again the inclusion of the daily draft Act amending the Ukrainian Public Procurement Act and some other legislative acts of Ukraine (8265). I ask your support and ask you to vote carefully every vote, please support. We vote, this progressive anti-corruption law we vote, please support, please vote, we vote carefully. [[11:36:21]] For 217 I'll put a third closing, colleagues, and then we go to another law, 217. So I ask you to come into the hall and prepare for the vote. Colleagues, I'm asking everyone to maximize their mobility. And I'm putting the Public Procurement Act 8265 into the agenda of the day session. Colleagues, I'd like everyone to vote carefully and be there during the vote. Please, Andrew Volodymyrovich, please be seated, 8265 please vote, please support the inclusion in the agenda of the day session. Vote, colleagues, support, please vote, vote. [[11:37:21]] For 213 Next. The decision is not taken. Next is a bill amending some Ukrainian legislative acts to improve the functioning of the financial sector in Ukraine (8331). Colleagues, we're having a banking day today, I'm asking you very much, let's support the banking committee, it's an important bill, it's an order of the day session. I ask you to vote and please support 8331: inclusion in the agenda of the session. Please support, we vote. Please vote. [[11:38:07]] For 218. Six votes. I'll do it again. All right. Colleagues, don't leave the hall. Don't go out on such important votes, it's a few minutes. So once again, I'm putting draft Law 8331 into the agenda of the day session. I ask everyone to vote carefully, to support our Committee of Financial Policy and Banking. Please vote. I'd like your support, colleagues. Vote. Careful! Every voice. Please be supportive. Vote. [[11:38:54]] For 219 Third time, final. I'm the only one reporting a few times. [[B in m in s a l in]] You're in consultation at the time. Please take up jobs. That's my closing call, colleagues. If there are no votes, let's move on to the next bill. So I'm going to make a final proposal for the inclusion in the agenda of draft Law 8331. And I'm asking you to take up jobs. Colleagues in that corner, take up jobs! Thus, the inclusion of 8331 in the order of the day. Please vote and please support. Every voice. We're voting carefully. Please all take part in the vote and please support. Vote. Anton, we're voting! Please be supportive. [[11:39:59]] For 217 The decision is not made. Next. Draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine concerning the regulation of the activities of the Ukrainian Cultural Fund (8266). We were approached by the head of the Committee on Culture and Spirituality, Princess Nikola Leonidovich, with a request to support us very much. This is only about getting into the agenda of the day session! Colleagues, it's just not fair. This only allows you to consider it, this bill on the committee. Let's put it in the order of the day session and support the culture and our committee. I ask to vote in favour of the inclusion of draft Law 8266 in the agenda of the day session. If you'll excuse me, I'd like to vote. Vote, colleagues, please. [[11:40:53]] For 241 Decision taken. Next, the draft Act amending certain Ukrainian laws as a result of the entry into force of the Ukrainian Act on State Support for Cinematography in Ukraine (8251). Please vote for inclusion in the agenda of the day session. Vote. [[11:41:22]] For 238. Decision taken. The next 4521 is a draft Act amending the Civil Code of Ukraine (for the late age) (4521). Entry into the agenda of the day session, only the inclusion in the agenda of the day session. Please vote, please support. Voting, voting. [[11:41:53]] For-183 It's too big a breakup. Next. Draft Law on the Protection and Protection of Intellectual Property Rights of UEFA during the final UEFA Champions League 2018 (8335). Please vote, support the inclusion in the agenda of the session. Vote, colleagues, please. [[11:42:28]] For 239. Decision taken. Next. Draft Act amending certain Ukrainian legislative acts to improve the procedure for conducting expert studies (8249). Please support the inclusion in the agenda of the day session. Please vote. [[11:42:56]] For 185 184. It's too big a breakup. 185. And 8336: draft Act amending some Ukrainian legislation on strengthening the guarantees of the independence of the judicial expert and ensuring the proper conduct of judicial and expert activities. 8336. Please support the inclusion in the agenda of the day session. Please vote. Please be supportive. [[11:43:34]] For 224 Two votes. I'll put in some more. Thus, 8336 — two votes short. I am once again proposing draft Law 8336 to be included in the agenda of the day session. Everyone, please take your seats and vote, support. Please be supportive. Voting, voting. [[11:44:23]] For 214 There were fewer voices. The decision is not taken. My colleagues, I want to remind you that yesterday there were two bills: 8349 and 8350, which simply harmonize into legislation where, apart from ATO fighters, a new status of our fighters is being established so that they can get all the social benefits just like ATO fighters. Yesterday, not all of them were aware of this law, but not all of them were informed yesterday. It's just an order of the day session, a request from the Security and Defence Committee. So, colleagues, I'm asking you to support the inclusion in the agenda of the 8349, 8350. And I'm going to re-prosecute public procurement, as a promise, put your law back in place. So 8349 and 8350 are in the agenda of the day session. And I'll put yours next. Please support me. We vote, we vote, we vote, we vote, we vote, we vote, This is the support of our fighters on the front. Please vote. Vote. [[11:45:49]] For 237 237. Decision taken. What is your law? What law? Number? 8249 -- he's got a few votes, I'm going to put it up, and then I'm going to make public purchases. Colleagues, I know we have an important currency law right now, but two more votes. I'm asking everyone to support 8249 and public procurement. 8249. So I'm voting first on the draft Act amending some of the Ukrainian legislative acts to improve the procedure for conducting an expert study (8249). If you'll excuse me, I'd like to vote. Please be supportive. Please vote. We support you, colleagues. [[11:47:02]] For 218. 218. Colleagues. Colleagues, I hear you. The Radical Party proposes that their laws be laid down, and then they support these laws. I'm going to do 8249 again. 8249. [[B in m in s a l in]] So, 8249 please vote, please support. Please support 8249. Vote. Please be supportive. We're voting 8249. [[11:48:37]] For 216 Colleagues, public purchases now. I'm asking you to get all mobile. First, public purchases. And I want to tell you what the key is. When they did not see the law in advance, they would not vote for it.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-17-m0.u93	No, it's fine in the daytime. They were all in line for the day session. [[B in m in s a l in]] Then we will not be able to enter into the currency law, colleagues. Then we'll just crash. Let's work it out. Listen to me. We'll give that law, the MPs will study it, and I'll either set it up by noon or after lunch. That's what I can promise. The MPs have to see it, or we won't just come out. So now I'm putting the final vote. This is a draft of the Public Procurement Act (8265), a day-to-day session on public procurement. Please vote, please support me, colleagues. Vote. Please be supportive. Please be supportive. Vote. [[11:49:54]] For 219 All of it. We're done. Colleagues, I promise we'll study the laws that the Radical Party has passed, and we'll put it back in order of the day session. No, we won't make it into the law. Now we're entering the next block of financial activity, colleagues. I promise we'll make a proposal to the Radical Party. We are now entering the financial activity cluster. And we have the first law on the financial activity block of the currency bill (8152 and 8152-1). I ask you to support the consideration of the reduced procedure. Please vote. Please be supportive. Vote. Please be supportive. Please support the reduced procedure. Careful! Please vote. [[11:51:02]] For-195 This is the first question in the agenda. Someone may not have read it. First of all, I would like to invite Lucenko Irina Stepanovna. And I beg of you in a concise manner, for we do not have much time left. Mrs. Irina, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-17-m0.u94	Dear colleagues! Dear Mr. Head! The current monetary legislation, which is based on the 25-year Monetary Regulatory Decree, is outdated and does not correspond to the current practice of monetary regulation. That is why the President of Ukraine has introduced Parliament as an urgent draft of the Monetary Act (Registration No. 8152), which proposes to repeal the outdated decree. Instead, the principle is introduced: everything is permitted directly, which is not prohibited by law. The adoption of the bill will allow for the lifting of today’s ineffective and unintended restrictions. In particular, investing abroad within limits will no longer require individual licenses. Instead of currency control for transactions of more than 150,000 dollars, monetary supervision is provided, transactions of up to 150,000 dollars will not be subject to supervision at all. There will be no need to register loans from non-residents. One of the key novelties of the bill is the lifting of sanctions provided for in article 37 of the Foreign Economic Act. This is about cancelling such a sanction as halting external economic activity and losing a license. The existence of such a sanction is one of the causes of abuse by the controlling authorities in this field and in this area. By an association agreement with the European Union, Ukraine has undertaken to move to the monetary regulation standards applied in the European Union by introducing free movement of capital. Dear colleagues, in preparation for the first reading of the bill, we, together with the committee, have also worked hard on the alternative bill proposed by our colleagues from other factions, particularly the language, following the results of their work. We've come to a conclusion.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-17-m0.u95	30 seconds to complete.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-17-m0.u96	This is what we're talking about. Clarification of the principles of monetary regulation, expansion of the list of authorized institutions, identification of types of responsibility and measures of influence on violators. These are the beautiful standards that are provided for by the alternative bill and that are being implemented beautifully in the bill proposed by the President of Ukraine. The adoption of this new law is extremely important for our country, it will introduce free movement of capital, it will expand possibilities.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-17-m0.u97	Thank you. The National Deputy of Ukraine, Stotnik Olena Sergiyevna, is invited to the report. Please, Mrs. Olena.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-17-m0.u98	Thank you for the opportunity to speak. Have any of you actually counted what we need to restore the economy of Ukraine to the state of 2008? We need to increase, at least, twice as much GDP as we do now. And to get GDP by $1 billion in 10 years, we have to increase 13 to 15 percent of GDP. How can this be done? The only way is economic growth, is economic liberalisation. The whole world is competing for resources, for people, and for ideas. Startup, blockage, bitcoin is a completely normal terminology for our children now, and you and I are still here trying to repeal the 1991 Monetary Regulation Decree, which puts us at the same level as the highly underdeveloped African countries under monetary regulation. What does the Presidential Bill propose? It's very important. He suggests that this decree be repealed, but does he propose real monetary liberalisation? Sadly, no. Because the free movement of capital is meant to be fixed not only by general principles, it has to guarantee business, and now I'm turning to business, it's in your interests today to stand up for the maximum defined positions. So that you know what tomorrow will be with the currency regulation, what will tomorrow be with your exports? Will the possibilities of your monetary accounts be limited? The Presidential Bill does not determine anything, it gives discretion to the National Bank of Ukraine to determine all restrictive measures. Moreover, it contradicts the Basic Law, the Constitution. Because it does not spell out the responsibility of individuals at all. This means that Nazbank will punish some and give others the opportunity to work. That's why we find this unacceptable and have proposed an alternative bill that clearly identifies what is a free movement of capital, and we have clearly determined that the National Bank of Ukraine should analyse it.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-17-m0.u99	30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-17-m0.u100	Yes, it does. You gave me two minutes, the last one. Two minutes was given to the previous one. In fact, we determine that restrictive measures can only take six months once a year and no more. We don't limit the possibility of monetary accounts, and we only allow the National Bank to impose certain restrictions in case of financial instability. And, above all, we are imposing a clear responsibility on business to know what and to what extent it will pay the fines. So I urge the people's deputies to remember that we are in the parliamentary-presidential.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-17-m0.u101	He is invited to report to the committee’s first deputy head, Dovbenko Mikhailo Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-17-m0.u102	On May 15, 2018, both bills were considered at the meeting of the committee of profile: 8,152 — submitted by the President and 8,152 — submitted by a group of national deputies. What I'm saying is that, at the committee meeting, we found a unanimous position of all experts, of the banking environment, of the national MPs, of the fact that the legislation in force, by the way, is not 91st, but 93rd, that it should be substantially updated. So we've also taken into account that the Supreme Council's Chief Scientific and Experimental Authority in its conclusions, in general, by supporting the orientation of the bills, is expressing to them its observations and suggestions that we can work on in the context of the second reading. Also, the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine generally supports the need to amend legislation and notes in its letter that it does not support an alternative bill in view of the large number of comments. The National Bank of Ukraine supports Bill 8152 and notes that some of the provisions of Bill 8152-1 (alternative) can be supported. What I'm saying is that we made a compromise decision at the committee meeting, which is that we think we should support the presidential bill 8152 with the proposals of the committee to articles 1, 2, 4, 11 and the new edition of articles 14 and 15 of the President's Bill. We believe that this is a good compromise so that we can find understanding in the second reading among all the MPs and factions. So I would like to support this compromise decision, 8152, the bill, according to the committee's proposals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-17-m0.u103	Thank you. I'm continuing my work. And I'm asking you to do the recording now: two in, two in, two in. And, colleagues, as far as possible. Olena Sotnik, please. Obstructive Tetjana, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-17-m0.u104	Dear colleagues, first of all allow me to welcome you to Hangover Day. May your embroidery bring you prosperity and happiness. As far as the currency is concerned. The President's law declares, only declares the principles of monetary liberalisation, but does not offer specific positions and all. The resolution of specific issues is referred to the National Bank by decrees. But we still have the National Bank empowered today to resolve any issue of regulation of currency circulation. And we see today that these powers are used ineffectively, that monetary regulations are hard, outdated and over-regulated for entrepreneurs in their external economic activities. So we passed an alternative bill, which all of these things are prescribed at the level of the law. In particular, what is it? Now I'm being listened to by entrepreneurs, and I'm sure they'll understand that this is about protective measures that NBA can't set up for more than six months, and the Presidential Bill doesn't propose it. But what's more, we have in law a clear list of the criteria under which the National Bank has the right to set these measures. The limits of the calculation. We're also introducing a declaratory term for their extension, not as it is now, according to MERT, and how it stays with the President. It's also 180 days worth of monetary income. With regard to mandatory currency sales, we make it clear that this may not be more than 50 percent of the revenue, and it should not apply to the proceeds of foreign exchange less than $50,000. But most importantly, your colleagues, there can't be a free movement of the capital of non-anti-offshore regulation in the Tax Code, and unfortunately, there's no such bill in the package with this law on anti-offshore regulation by the President. So we need to look at this together. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-17-m0.u105	Thank you and thank you for coming in. I want to warn you, I won't give anyone 30 seconds, we just won't be able to make it any different. My job is to organize the job properly. So, from the Radical Party, please. Please, from the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-17-m0.u106	Dear Mr. Head, dear colleagues, do we need the Money Act? Yeah, it's really necessary, it's not a mature question, but as far as I'm concerned, it's over. We have two bills: Presidential and Alternative. We had very big discussions on the basis of our committee. My point of view is that, of course, when in a country of crisis, when the economy is weak, the NBA should have tools to stabilize the situation in crisis situations. But the clearer the criteria for applying the laws are, the better the NBA can work, and the more we clean up the corruption risks there. What do we propose in this bill? In the alternative bill, some issues were taken into account during the committee meeting, in the presidential bill, but the main thing is what we insist on, and what we believe should be included in the currency bill. Our project sets clear boundaries that give NBA opportunities. which do not allow the NBA to continue indefinitely. We suggest that we do this for a period of not more than six months a year. We also suggest that when restrictions are imposed, not only the term and the basis for their application, but also the list of individuals to whom they spread and the predictions of their impact. And after these restrictions have been lifted, we suggest that the NBA be able to draw its own conclusions as to how these restrictions or those sanctions have taken place today. Our approach is very simple. Small and medium-sized businesses have to work freely. Buy equipment, raw materials and materials, and people, our Ukrainians, get free money from their relatives from abroad. And it's in the interests of the economy that Ukraine is working today, and the economy is developing. So we're proposing to work on this bill. Actually, it's very useful. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-17-m0.u107	Thank you. I ask the proponents of the bill to speak more leniently. Thank you, Mr. Fish. And now Longzhank Alexander of the Opposition Block. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-17-m0.u108	Dear colleagues and respected citizens of Ukraine! I don't understand why such a system bill is being considered in a reduced procedure. This is the first time. The bill is important, it's non-trivial, but now we're in a hurry, for about 15 minutes, we're trying to squeeze in and talk about all the attraction or attraction, the negatives of this bill. Neither the presidential bill nor the alternative bill offer real monetary liberalisation, that's the first. The principle of "all things that are not prohibited" is not implemented in both the first and the second bills. Why? And because we need to consider and adopt a package of bills on taxation of controlled foreign companies, on the introduction of international financial monitoring on the exchange of financial information, on taxation of permanent representations, in order for these bills to work. We also need to consider a bill on the single declaration of the assets of natural persons. Where are these bills? The president defined the bill as urgent. What, then, is the proposal for liberalisation? In adopting this bill, the National Bank of Ukraine annuls its previous decisions, but the protection measures that are taken in accordance with article 12 of the bill are adopted by the National Bank of Ukraine. And they're valid until they're effective and they're effective and they're consistent with the stability of the financial system. What does that mean? The National Bank of Ukraine concentrates all the administrative nonmarket values of monetary regulation on a single-person basis. What does that mean? The idea of good, of course, but we have to work on the second reading anyway to reduce the autonomy and singleness of the National Bank.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-17-m0.u109	30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-17-m0.u110	the uniqueness of the National Bank of Ukraine in making decisions on the issue of payment balance pressures, when deciding on the arrangements for the establishment of appropriate safeguards, which are necessary preconditions for the application of measures, for the application of protection measures. This is not about protecting the payment system, it is about protecting the foreign exchange market’s limitations on their currency, and this is the first issue to ensure the country’s investment attractiveness.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-17-m0.u111	Thank you. And, colleagues, the closing statement, Sergey Sobolev of Fatherland. I ask everyone to attend the Hall and Secretariat of the Supreme Council, and all the heads of factions are requested to be invited to the Hall. Two minutes later, we move on to making a decision. Please, Mr. Sergei.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-17-m0.u112	Sobolje, Fatherland. Dear colleagues, let us remember when the Monetary Regulation Decree came into existence. These were the worst of times. It's been 15 years since then, and unfortunately, this bill, which was very important at the time, is still working with the non-market standards that it's actually going on for these 15 years and banging on the country's economy. Our faction has been analyzed by both the Presidential Bill and the Alternative. But first, what I want to start with, and using the opportunity, I'm addressing the Head of the National Bank. Please tell me, with the right of legislative initiative, why have you not so far made any proposals for anti-offshore regulation? We remain the only one, I emphasize, the only country that has not accepted all Panamanian and other scandals. And so far, we still have legislation in place that worked 15-20 years ago. Well, that's your direct duty. Because you, as no one else, are gathering information about how offshore offshore offshore jurisdictions avoid paying billions of dollars in taxes. And you're not bringing anything?Oh, my God! This bill therefore has the right to exist only if it is considered in a complex of zanti-offshore legislation. Secondly, can you not change anything by essentially calling the bill a new bill?Oh, my God! The Presidential Bill continues to be the only body that still regulates any currency exports, it's just the National Bank. It can't be like that.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-17-m0.u113	30 seconds, please add.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-17-m0.u114	The alternative bill at least defines the key parameters when it does not have to be done in order to avoid corruption risks. That's why our faction will support the MP's bill and vote for it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-17-m0.u115	Thank you. Colleagues, discussion over. Let's move on to making a decision. I ask everyone to come into the hall and prepare for the vote. I ask the factions to invite deputies to the workplace. And colleagues from beds, friends, so you can vote. Let's go back to the hall, and I'll tell you what the sequence of votes is going to be. There's a basic bill, there's an alternative. First it's going to be basic, and then, if it doesn't get votes, then it's going to be an alternative. I would like to emphasize once again: only as a basis do we accept, only as a basis. And that's why we can make all the adjustments. And, colleagues, one more thing to say technical. Since we moved from day to day to day, this law also stood there, I just didn't put it in the order of the day. And I'm going to put the first technical vote: inclusion in the agenda, and then two laws. It's just in thatsumathos we haven't been able to vote on it. I'm asking very carefully right now for everyone to take up their jobs, and I've told you what the sequence of voting will be, and I'm asking everyone to vote with care and responsibility. So the first vote -- and I ask you all to support me in this vote -- is the inclusion in the agenda of decision-making and law 8152, and alternative 8152-1. Please support, please vote, colleagues. Vote. Please be supportive. Vote. Keep it up, fellows. It's a formal inclusion, I didn't put it in the agenda. [[12:11:49]] For 276 276. I am now voting on the currency bill (8152) on the basis of the committee’s proposals. Please vote and please support. Let's vote, colleagues. Please be supportive. Please be supportive. Vote. [[12:12:17]] For 253 253-yes. Decision taken. We have been able to enter the Rules in due course, but we will now begin later accordingly. According to the Rules, I have to announce a break of 30 minutes. At 12:45, I invite everyone into the hall to continue our work.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-17-m0.u116	Colleagues, break time is over. I want to remind you that before the break, we started to consider the issues of the financial and banking policy cluster. An extremely responsible cluster of questions. There are five of them together. We passed the first one, the currency bill (8152). And now we have the next draft of the Act amending some of the Ukrainian legislation on the restoration of credit (6027-d). And I ask, colleagues, all to enter the hall and prepare for the continuation of our work. Please come into the hall. Heads of factions, invite the deputies to the hall. Please enter the hall, colleagues, and take up jobs. Colleagues, I would recommend that we consider 6027-d by a reduced procedure. Let the hall be determined. So that we could get through all the laws, we could get through them effectively. Think about my offer, maybe you can support it. So I'm announcing the beginning of a review of the draft Act amending some of the Ukrainian legislation on the restoration of credit (6027-d). And I'm asking a colleague in the room to support the proposal to consider it in a simplified manner. Please vote. Please be supportive. Vote. Please be supportive. [[12:52:31]] For-103 Fellows, I'll put it back up again, but if there's no votes, we'll go in full. It's 12:52, it's time to be at work, colleagues. So now I'm going to re-proposal a reduced procedure. If there are no votes, we'll go into full procedure. And I urge everyone to support this proposal so that we can consider the draft Law (6027-d) in a simplified way. Please vote. Please be supportive. Vote. Please be supportive. [[12:53:30]] For 114 The decision is not made. We're going into full procedure. And I invite you to the report of the First Vice-President of the Committee on Financial Policy and Banking, Dwobenko Mikhail Volodymirovich. Please, Mr. Mikhailo.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-17-m0.u117	Dear colleagues! Today, there is a huge systemic problem in the country’s economy that is linked to the lending sector. We realize that if we don't activate lending, we can't get into our country at the rate of economic growth that is needed today in order to improve the well-being of our people. That 2.5-3 percent, they're not enough today for us to be able to do this important social task in our country. I mean, in the lending sector, we have a problem with the fact that more than 55 percent of the entire loan portfolio in our country is problematic loans. What Is the Meaning of Problemic Loans? This means that for more than 90 days these loans are not serviced, the percentage is not extinguished, the liability is not paid, including the body’s payment of the loan. What I'm saying is that this leads to the fact that banks are losing money, the resources after these loans don't return, and that's what investors are suffering from, our Ukrainian citizens today, who can't be sure that they'll have a 100 percent guarantee of return on all their deposits after this situation. I mean, more than half of these debtors are debtors who are looking for any gaps in our legislation in order to avoid being responsible for defaulting on liabilities made to banks and financial institutions. I think it's pretty interesting information and it's important from banks, and it's important to guarantee the investments of individuals that in some cases the number of legal borrowers who have declared bankruptcy in banks is up to 80 percent. This means not taking responsibility for credit agreements, declaring themselves bankrupt, and thus believing that it would be possible to avoid taking into account the gaps in legislation that exist. What I'm saying is that this bill (6027-d) has already been discussed with you. There have been a number of comments from our main experts and therefore I have every reason to inform you that the National Bank of Ukraine, the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine as a whole and the Ministry of Finance support the adoption of the bill, taking into account the comments made. We had the opportunity on the committee to consider all of these comments and the vast majority of them are included. What I'm saying is that after we've taken them into account, the vast majority of the members of the committee, which is represented by all the parliamentary groups and factions, were signed under this bill of 6027-d, as finalized. And I hope that today they will convince their colleagues that once we have finalized this document, it can be supported. What I'm saying is that the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Chief Scientific and Experimental Authority has made a number of comments on the original registered project. But they are also more closely included by our committee in the revised text. And the rest, those that aren't included, we think that they can be considered in the second reading. What I'm saying is that the observations they made gave us the opportunity to make changes to the Banking and Banking Act, the changes to the Ukrainian Payment Systems and Transfer Act in Ukraine. Also, changes to the Act on Controversy, changes to the Civil Code of Ukraine. Amendments to Ukraine's Law on Mortgage, Amendments to Ukraine's Road Traffic and Notariat Act, Amendments to the Act on State Register of Real Estate Rights and Their Burdens, Amendments to Ukraine's Civil Status Registration Act. I want to say that I and the authors are confident that the adoption of the bill will allow for a serious boost in lending and business, and in the citizens of Ukraine. First of all, long-term housing improvement for our Ukrainian citizens. We therefore propose a draft Ukrainian Law amending some Ukrainian legislation on the restoration of credit (registration 6027-d) to be adopted on a basis, allowing its position to be balanced with the aim of avoiding the restriction of consumers' rights to financial services and in the second reading. I want to say that, in the end, the bill passed by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine has been passed on to the top priorities of our country's economic life. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-17-m0.u118	Thank you. I'm asking you to record a question to the reporter. Please, three minutes. Musei Oleg, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-17-m0.u119	Dear reporter, please tell me by this bill you said that the financial burden on the borrower is decreasing compared to today's conditions, that's a general phrase. Make it clear and clear to all of us how much the percentage of things today are going to reduce this financial burden on someone who wants to borrow money. Because today we know a lot of banks that hide payments are written zero, and in fact, they're going to come up 40 percent. How real after the adoption of the law will this financial burden on those who want to take credit be reduced in absolute numbers?
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-17-m0.u120	Thank you for asking. It is very important. But what I'm saying is that today every commercial bank is a non-state institution. And every commercial bank has its own notes when it's working with a creditor. I don't think we can say clearly today throughout the banking system. But I think it might be from 25 to 50 percent easier, so this burden that we want to lower by making these changes, additions, including those that we have already adopted in the advanced version. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-17-m0.u121	Thank you. We're continuing our work. And now, please, a question from the national deputy. I'm sorry, I'm out of my mind. Please, Mr. Hiccup.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-17-m0.u122	Don't be distracted, Madam Chairman. Sergeyevtushka, the "Fatherland" faction. We're working. Today's a big holiday, everybody with a holiday! And I have a question for the reporter next. We have, of course, analyzed all the provisions of the bill in question, given the legislative initiative. And I think the speaker from the Fatherland faction is going to sound our position on support or support. But I have another question for you. I've already said that we've analyzed the entire document in an article, and we understand that 90 percent of these articles correspond to the assessment of the legal responsibility of the lenders, that is, the receivables. Please tell me, would it not be wise for your committee not to consider this bill but for the Committee on Legal Policy? Well, it's very important when it comes to legal responsibility -- it's one story, if it's banking -- it's another. Please give me an answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-17-m0.u123	Thank you, Mr. Sergio, for a very correct question and a very timely one. I mean, you're right, a whole bunch of positions, they were discussed in those bills that the legal committee was preparing. But there are nuances that have to do with, in particular, the Law on Hostages, which applies exclusively to, let's say, terms that can be taken into account by specific banks, and that's why we changed the Law on Banking and Banking in that part that concerns that aspect. I mean, we're in agreement with the Legal Department on the changes to the Mortgage Act, the Notariat Act. Although it seems that these are laws that fall within the jurisdiction of that committee, in part of the work of financial credit institutions, we thought there might be an initiative from our committee. And that's why experts and the banking environment are still around.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-17-m0.u124	30 seconds to complete, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-17-m0.u125	And that's why both the expert environment and the banking environment support this initiative. We have positive approval, and so today we have every reason to ask you to support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-17-m0.u126	Thank you. I'm not distracted anymore. I'm keeping an eye on the rules. Please, a question of the National MP. We're all out of questions now. Please, Mr. Drowbenka, go to your place of work. Colleagues, we don't have a reporter to report on this bill. MikhailDovbenko presented the position of both the copyright team and the profile committee, which is why we are now under the Rules to be discussed. And first there will be speeches from the MP factions. I very much ask all who wish to participate in this discussion to sign up. Thank you. Please, Mr. Semenach, present the self-help position. He's giving the word to his colleague.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-17-m0.u127	Oleg Lavrick, yes.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-17-m0.u128	I'm sorry, Oleg Lavrick. I'm sorry. Please, Mr. Lavrick.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-17-m0.u129	Oleg Lavrick, Self Help Union. We're actually adopting a loan recovery bill today, but let's look a little bit deeper. Why is there no trust in the banking sector right now? Why is there no trust in credit? Why is there no trust in banks, and why are so many lenders today in situations where they cannot repay bank loans, cannot repay the commitments they have made since then? How can we trust the banking system when we have a large number of banking institutions that have taken possession of assets that have been mortgaged to people’s apartments after paying off such liabilities from a point of view? on the part of the borrowers, are they not able to release the mortgage property when the mortgage institution has not released the mortgage for months? How can we trust banking institutions when people who have received property have mortgaged their property, their apartments, and without the ability to pay off their liabilities, apartments are sold through executive services for 10, 15, 20 percent of their real value? All of this creates a lack of confidence in the banking sector. These things create a lack of confidence in the lending system at all, both in the banking system and in the state system, in government institutions in Ukraine as a whole. So first, we need to restore confidence in government institutions in the country, eliminate political corruption in the state. Let us adopt the Open List Elections Act, the Electoral Codex, and then we will say the promacative things related to bank financing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-17-m0.u130	Thank you. And please take the position of the Opposition Block to represent the People's Deputy Volodymyr Gusak. Please come to the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-17-m0.u131	Dear Ukrainians, dear colleagues, the honorable presiding officer! This bill used to be called: To increase trust between banks and their customers. And in Ukraine, there is no trust at all: there is no trust between the President and the Prime Minister, there is no trust between the factions of the Parliament who seem to be part of the coalition, and, above all, there is no confidence in the Ukrainian people in the present Ukrainian authorities. More than ninety percent of Ukrainians now do not trust the Supreme Council. Perhaps it would be wise to adopt the Law on Building Trust in the Supreme Council of Ukraine, or simply to work better. Now this bill has the title: about restoring credit. Indeed, in the last few years, there has been a real collapse of the banking system in Ukraine. And one of the consequences of this destruction was a sharp reduction, and in many cases a simple cessation of credit. And without proper credit, there will be no economic growth, and there will be no improvement in the welfare of the Ukrainians. There are several positive norms in this bill that can actually help expand lending and, most importantly, protect Ukrainian rights. In particular, the requirement for mandatory notarial certification of collateral contracts for vehicles, vehicles, and vehicles is repealed. This should simplify and cost the process of obtaining credit for car purchases and then encourage the sale of cars in Ukraine. It's good for the Ukrainians. There's also a rule that when we apply a modified interest rate, if the bank wants to increase this interest rate, and that's what banks always do, I don't know if banks want to reduce this interest rate, then the borrower has the right to pay off the loan in 30 days. There was no such right before. Given these small but positive changes, our faction will support this bill in the first reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-17-m0.u132	Thank you for your position. Please, from Peter Dustenka's Block, National Deputy Demczak. He'll be out of town. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-17-m0.u133	Dear colleagues! I'll be more thorough. And I want to say that we have at this point what are the problems in the banking sector to restore credit. It's an inefficient and formal bonding institution, a complex and risky mechanism for determining a modified interest rate, the inadequacy of out-of-court settlement tools, the inefficient determination of the value of a mortgage item, the existence of legislation rules that allow the mortgage to be terminated and thus not to repay the loan. The gaps in legislation that allow debtors to be deprived of their property without the consent of the detainee. In order to restore lending, this process has to be bilateral. And if we can avoid abuse, the market will be transparent, the relationship between those who lend, and those who are consumers of these financial services, they will be projected, and there will be stability, and stability creates growth, the growth of credit that will give in the future and the growth of the economy. We understand that in order to give impetus to the growth of the economy, we need to restore credit. This law has a very practical application. We gathered the banking community and listened. And it's all these positions that I've just heard, they've been bugged by the banking community, and they've pointed out that this is exactly the kind of deterrence element for the recovery of credit. So I'm asking you to support this bill, allow you to restore the transparent relationship between financial institutions and lenders, and to restore credit accordingly.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-17-m0.u134	Thank you for your position from the Peter Dusty Block. Please, traditionally, the Radical Party gives the floor to its leader. No, it's not. He gives the word to Andrew Lozov, and the faction all supports him, such a friendly shoulder. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-17-m0.u135	I give the word to the leader of the Radical Party, whose voice awaits millions of people.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-17-m0.u136	I've made a beautiful announcement to your leader, too. Okay. Please, Mr. Liege.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-17-m0.u137	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. My late grandmother said, "Call it a pot, but don't plant it in the stove." I don't care how you represent me. For me, it will be more important for Ukrainians to have jobs in their home country or to have national businesses with available credit resources and what we will trade for: labor, raw materials, organs, turning the country into a colony or a decent country on a European continent where every Ukrainian will have a decent place in their home country. Now the authorities want another loan from the International Monetary Fund to raise gas prices to 11,000 dollars per thousand cubes. Who among the Ukrainians can pay for such money? At the same time, the IMF requires that wages not be raised, pensions not be raised. Instead, it raises prices for gas and sells land. This is a policy that leads to raw dependence, poverty, and colonization. We're proposing a different policy. Economic policy, a strong country, a worthy country. One of the important tools in this policy is available credit resources. Here in the south is the Head of the National Bank of Jacob Smolius, for whom our team did not vote when he was elected Head of the National Bank. Mr. Jacob, do you have a tongue? Why don't you just shut up and sit here in the south? Why don't you go to the rostrum? I'm sure both business and national manufacturers wanted to hear from you about the policy of the National Bank. When will you lower your bill? When will you make our national manufacturers competitive? When our industrial, agricultural, any other manufacturer will be able to borrow at least as much as in Poland, so that our product is competitive. So that, rather than cheap labor, they can trade ready - to - produce. But you sit silent in the south instead of going out and telling business honestly when the National Bank will change this policy. Without a reduction in interest rates, it is impossible to develop the economy. There is no need to follow the International Monetary Fund’s loans. You don't have to pick up any gas prices, no utilities, no land sales. If the National Bank lends cheap loans, if we trade raw materials instead, if instead of selling cheap labour, you give available loans to young people, to buy housing, to start your own business. We're asking you to change monetary policy. Allowing the national economy to develop. Stop being the branch of the International Monetary Fund.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-17-m0.u138	Dear colleagues, I must point out that, according to the Rules, as Chairman, I am going under the Rules, according to the Rules, we are currently having a discussion with the Ukrainian National Deputies. I request respect for both the guests of the Supreme Council and the Rules, which do not yet allow our distinguished Head of the National Bank of Ukraine to speak. But, of course, if the Head of the National Bank of Ukraine has the strength and desire to sum up our violent discussion, correct, I hope, further, then we will gladly and with great honor give him the right to speak. Thank you. And please, now, from the reverend faction of Fatherland, the word is given to Yuri Odarchenk. Please, Mr. Yuri.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-17-m0.u139	Dear colleagues! This law clearly discriminates against the rights of borrowers. We have the impression that it's not the banking system for Ukraine's development, it's the development of customers who want to borrow and develop this economy, but it's the customers that want the economy of Ukraine to develop banks. The proposed project is highly controversial. There are, indeed, some points that improve the quality of legal regulation of credit relations. But the other part greatly increases the ability of banks and reduces creditors' rights. I'm going to stop at the disadvantages of this project. First of all, with regard to the issue of a payment facility, such a proposal is contrary to the rules of all international payment systems. It is forbidden to use another person’s payment card regardless of the availability of trust. It's like issuing trust in using another person's passport. For the time being, several cards may be released on different people, thus allowing someone to access their funds to another person. But it's not because of trust. It's proposed -- attention, here, dear fellows! - Remove limits on the cost of credit from banks. So the bank can at any time change the loan rate to absolutely any amount. The creditor will have only 30 days to pay off the outstanding dues, or he will have to pay at a new rate. The economy of Ukraine and the state budget spent a great deal of money on refinancing. We have all the time just some scandals that are in the press that banks, bank management, are inopportune. And here's the crazy pressure on the borrowers. The trustee cannot now give up his commission in the event that the bank increases interest on the loan, which has increased the amount of responsibility. Yes, the sponsor remains responsible within the framework of the original contract, but this is not relevant at this time when a person is in charge of another person, and he analyzes the likelihood of default. One job is to charge 10,000 dollars, and another for the payment of a million dollars, even if the level of responsibility of the sponsor remains the same, the sponsor realizes that the probability of repayment of a larger loan is much lower. In addition, there has been a significant increase in the deadline for the submission of claims to creditors, from six months to three years, so the deadline for submitting claims to heirs has increased: one year from the day the creditor learned of the death of his debtor. So this could happen in a very long time and prove that when the creditor found out about the date of death, it would be extremely difficult.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-17-m0.u140	30 seconds, please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-17-m0.u141	Now, I ask you again carefully: it is much easier to collect property at a mortgage, and more Ukrainians can become homeless. Dear colleagues, I don't understand this system at all, a unilateral change in the value of credit. For some reason, a single-party investor cannot demand that he be paid more per cent of the deposit, but the bank that uses this money is entitled to do so. Similar measures should be banned by law at all, and we are here trying to make life banks easier. I propose that this bill be returned to work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-17-m0.u142	You've got the position of your faction. My colleagues, I think all the factions had the opportunity to speak. The MPs, they don't want anyone, they don't want to join? I would like you to sign up for the speeches by the Ukrainian National Deputies at this time, please. Please, National Deputy Lensky, give me your word. The National Deputy Lensky gives the Fisherman his word. Please turn on Mr. Fisher's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-17-m0.u143	Good afternoon, colleagues, we think this is a very necessary bill and a long-awaited one. We've been looking at this a lot on our committee, and we think that we need to take out all the latrines in order, I would stress, the unkind, unkind legal and physical persons who today take out credits to the bank and then don't return, clean up these loopholes for them. Why? Because when a bank gets toxic, so-called asset loans. And what I'm saying is that in government banks, for example, 60 even 70 percent, all these assets, all these negatives, they're relying on our ordinary citizens, on citizens who are taking loans today to buy housing, maybe the only ones. And the second question is, when we're having a crisis, it's our economically weak situation today. All this interest and all this toxic credit is the reason for the bank to be closed, the bank was sent to the Deposit Guarantee Fund. The last crisis we saw in 2014 is the currency borrowers, the people who borrowed the mortgage, took the loan, the only housing, I'm stressing again. And we all saw them under the walls of the Supreme Council. Of course, this bill needs to be worked out, but we think that today is the only way we can do countermeasures to lower those toxic credits and make it impossible to remove corrupt loopholes in order to prevent proper physical, legal persons from taking and returning loans. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-17-m0.u144	Thank you. And, please, Mrs. Zarzko's next speech will be delivered, Valeria. Welcome, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-17-m0.u145	ValeriaZarenko, Oleg Lachka Radical Party. Dear citizens of Ukraine! First of all, I'd like to welcome you to Hangover Day. This is a very important celebration for every Ukrainian who shows our national unity and shows our loyalty to Ukrainian traditions. And secondly, I want to give you something very important that a few million Ukrainians, unfortunately, cannot celebrate this holiday with us today. I'm talking about the few million Ukrainians left in the occupied territory that are now forced to live, not in Ukraine, but in the so-called artificial new formations of artificially created states. I want to say today that almost 2 million Ukrainians were forced to leave these territories because the state was unable to protect them. I couldn't, first of all, protect them, and second of all, give them real support: support for housing. For example, what a small state such as Georgia could do, not a great country like Ukraine. Because today these people need real help, they need extended housing loans. But what do we see? They've been with us for four years and no one's noticed them. Can't you see why? Because these people have even been deprived of their constitutional right to participate in elections, and this is a terrible injustice. We see this terrible injustice when we see pensioners who don't get, unfortunately, a timely pension, who are forced to undergo shameful verification procedures. These are the people who have spent their whole lives building our country's economy, and today they are forced to stand with their hands out and wait for the state to give them the opportunity to get their legitimate pensions. Today, we demand that the State take some very specific steps to give credit to every refugee, so that people can finally get housing because they have left that part, that occupied territory with young children and older parents. These elderly parents today, victims of the regime who do not receive a timely pension, do not receive adequate medical care: they cannot obtain available medicines. They are people who need the attention of the State very and very much, attention from each one of you. Let's not pretend that these people don't exist between us on embroidery day. They're among us and they're Ukrainians like you and me. So I really want my voice to be heard in this room today, and I want people to finally give them the help they need. Thank you very much for your attention. Once again with the holiday!
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-17-m0.u146	Please, Yuri Solovay, let me give you my word,
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-17-m0.u147	Yuri Solovay, 89th constituency, Gutzulščina and Poksi. Dear colleagues, when we talk about lending, we should clearly understand that if the Ukrainian economy does not resume lending to the real economy, we have nothing to talk about, the development of the Ukrainian economy and the growth of the gross domestic product. What's more, what's most important is that today the Ukrainian economy cannot be competitive compared to European economies. Because if you want to build a manufacturing facility in Europe, in the same Poland, you get a loan of 3 percent by 10 years with a credit term. If you want to buy equipment in the same Hungary, you'll get a loan of 1.5 percent with a maturity of at least 15 years. If you want to buy the same truck in the same Europe, you get a 20-year loan under 3 percent credit. Is it possible to restore credit in Ukraine today? So let's say, in the end, honestly, this bill, although it needs to be explicitly accepted, we're not going to start a full-scale loan because it's impossible today. Is it possible to give available credit at a two-digit level of inflation? No, it's not. Can a long - term loan be granted when the deposit date today is one year? No, it's not. Is there any answer to the question, What can be done to restore credit in the shortest possible time? The answer to that question is, and I'm saying repeatedly from this rostrum that we need to adopt global laws, strategic laws. And the answer to the question of what might be the restoration of credit in Ukraine is the introduction of a mandatory accrual pension system. I want to remind you that since January 1, 2019, this system should work in Ukraine. But unfortunately, I have to say that Bill 6677, which regulates the procedure for the introduction and operation of the accumulated pension system, unfortunately, is always put at the top of the Council in an impenetrable part. That's why I'm calling from this rostrum. As far as the bill is concerned, I am talking about that we should consider Bill 6677 as soon as possible on the introduction of a mandatory cumulative pension system, as this bill will allow the long-term and real lending of the Ukrainian economy to be restored as soon as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-17-m0.u148	Please make the last statement on this block. Andrew Lozov, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-17-m0.u149	Andrey Lozovy, Radical Party of Lazka. Our team policy is available credit because it's one of the conditions for Ukraine's normal development. For a young family to be able to borrow housing so that a person who wants to set up his own business can take up an affordable loan, not the way it is now; and individual special programs for those who especially deserve the support of the State, for example, for doctors. What is happening today? Today, I was informed of the disgraceful situation. A well - known physician at our home level at the Children’s Hospital, traumatologist Viktor IvanovichYousepchuk, who was on the front, willingly left as a field doctor, is unable to obtain information for six months that he is in the area of conducting an anti-terrorist operation. The ATO headquarters should give due, absolutely timely submission of these documents to the Ministry of Health, but "Doctor of Death" Uljana Suprun, and her deputy, Mr. Linchevsky's right hand, who is directly responsible for this, has proved that after six months our doctors and medical personnel, who have heroically protected the health of our fighters on the front, have not been able to receive them. they can't get this help after six months. This is a disgraceful situation. I urge the Prime Minister to intervene. The government has to work for people and appreciate their feat, not abuse them, as Ulyana Suprun's "Doctor of Death" is being abused by the field doctors today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-17-m0.u150	Colleagues, we've finished discussing this bill essentially. There is a request from the People's Deputy Drowbenko as the author of the bill and a representative of the committee of profile to make a closing statement. The distinguished head of the National Bank of Ukraine, James Smolius, likewise asks for words. We are happy to give him this opportunity, even though the Rules do not provide for it. And I would just ask a colleague, if there's a wish for guests in the government to join the discussion, let's just talk about it right. And, of course, we will always find the opportunity to give a word and to listen to and position and to explain a particular bill. Please, Mr. Dovebenko, and then Mr. Smolius. Please. Two minutes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-17-m0.u151	Yes, thank you. My colleagues, in fact, we have heard from this rostrum a wide variety of perspectives about a particular situation that is enshrined in the bill. So what I'm saying is, colleagues, when you speak, you have to read the bill. And then there will be no double reading, and it will be clear. I don't want to appeal to everyone right now, but the law is pretty clear. I want to make one point that not only the national MPs but also those who listen to today’s meeting understand. The position here was that the bill did not seem to protect the borrowers. So I want to send some clear positions that are set out in this bill. Well, let's say reduced deadlines for submitting heir claims to creditors from 1 to 6 months. This protects borrowers from possible bank abuse? It protects. The other one. It is proposed that the mortgage holder be obliged to exempt from the liabilities imposed on him no later than 14 days after the full repayment of the debt by the mortgage holder again in order to protect the rights of creditors who have fulfilled their obligations. It's just that. Let's move on. I mean, it's changed the sharpest for borrowers -- the rule of non-conviction. And if, in the case of the borrower of the contract before, there was still partial credit, there is no such thing today. So, colleagues, please. Today, we have managed to settle the vast majority of things in the committee that have ambiguity or ambiguity. So I ask you to support this bill, to support all the colleagues of our committee working on this document. Thank you. 6027 votes in favour.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-17-m0.u152	So, colleagues, in two minutes we're going to vote. That's why I'm asking all the factions to invite MPs into the hall. I would also like to ask the Secretary of the Supreme Council to invite representatives to the Hall. Now the closing word is James Smolius. And then we go to the vote. I urge everyone to enter the hall. Please, James Smolius. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-17-m0.u153	Thank you, Mr. Head! Dear national deputies, dear colleagues! The National Bank is requesting support for Bill 6027-d amending some Ukrainian legislative acts to restore credit. The draft law is one of the government's priorities for 2018 and is supported by both the Ministry of Finance and the Cabinet of Ministers. It is fully supported by the National Bank. The full restoration of credit is blocked by a number of gaps in the current legislation of Ukraine, which reduce the efficiency of banking sector activities and, in particular, the report by MikhaylaDowbenko. An ineffective institution of trust, including the existence of a widely applied scheme of avoidance of the performance of its obligation under a contract of engagement through the liquidation of the principal debtor-juridical person. A complex and risky mechanism for determining the change in interest rate, the imperfection of non-derogable settlement instruments, which in practice undermines the application of this method of debt settlement. Unobjective definition of the value of a mortgage. There are laws that allow the mortgage to be terminated in court. The gaps in legislation that allow debtors to be deprived of their property without the consent of the detainee. There is no possibility for a bank to verify civil status, information that affects the ability to carry out its own obligations, and so on. The adoption of draft Ukrainian Law No. 6027-d will address the problematic issues that create systemic obstacles to restoring credit to the national economy and create additional risks for the activities of national and foreign investors. Under the protection of creditors’ rights, banks will be able to impose more loyal requirements on potential lenders. This will certainly contribute to the active use of credit as a financial tool, a reduction in the cost of credits, and a corresponding relief in the access of operators and individuals to the use of banking products. So, colleagues, I'm asking for your support. If we really want to launch large-scale and affordable lending for citizens and businesses, this bill needs to be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-17-m0.u154	Thank you. So, colleagues, let's move on to making a decision. Please take up your jobs. I urge young deputies to return to their seats. Mr. Alexei! So whoever's in bed, I'm asking you to go back to work. Please prepare for the vote. We're moving on to making a decision. And I'm voting on a bill amending some of Ukraine's legislative acts to restore credit (6027-d) as a basis. All adjustments can be made to the second reading. Please support me, colleagues, we will support the National Bank and please vote. Vote. We vote in favour. Please be supportive. Vote. [[13:38:32]] For 209 I see they're not all there. I'll put you back in, and in turn I'll ask you to invite the deputies into the hall. Please show by factions. "Peter Prashenko's Block" – 85, "The People's Front" – 49, "The Opposition Block" – 16, "The Self-Help" – 16, "The Radical Party – 19, "The Fatherland" – 0, "The Will of the People" – 4, "The Rebirth Party" – 3. So almost all factions support. All we have to do is mobilize and go into the hall. Invite MPs into the hall, heads of factions. Look who's gone, and invite me to the hall. Another request is to be in places during the vote. To be on the spot during the vote. So now I'm going to put it back on and I'm asking everyone to go back to work so I don't make any remarks or name names. I ask you to return to your quarters, including your bed. Colleagues, do you have time to vote, out of bed? So I'm proposing to go back to voting. And I ask everyone to take an active part in the vote. Please be prepared. I am voting on the proposal to go back to the draft Act amending some Ukrainian legislative acts to restore credit (6027-d) to return to the committee's proposal. Please vote and please, I strongly ask for your support. Let's vote, colleagues. Vote. Every voice. Please, I'll ask you then. Vote. Careful, every voice. Vote. [[13:40:58]] For 232 232. We're back. And now I'm putting the bill 6027d on the ground. Please all take part in the vote and vote carefully as a basis. Let's vote, colleagues. Please be supportive. We're voting on the basis. Vote. [[13:41:25]] For 237 237th. Decision taken. Let's move on to the next law. Colleagues, let's move on to the next law of the day. I was asked to transpose the law to mobilize voices, but this is what the head of the Doubenko committee has to say. If he agrees. So next is your Credit Associations Act. But there's a proposal by the faction's head to move us to 8226, and after lunch, we moved to the credit unions. Colleagues, please, political factions and committee, identify yourself and tell me your decision. [[B in m in s a l in]] Okay, I'm going to put this motion to a vote. I want to emphasize that we have five laws that are in the financial and banking sector. The proposal of factions and committees is that by lunchtime, we have little time to move 8226, and we continue the banking laws after lunch. A committee against transfer? So the committee made its decision, the committee against the transfer. And we're going to draft Law 6405 on Credit Associations. Colleagues, we've got 15 minutes. I ask you to support the consideration of the reduced procedure. Please vote. Please be supportive. Vote. Please be supportive. [[13:44:15]] For 132 Once again, I ask you to support the reduced procedure, because we will not be able to vote on it by noon, pass. So I'm going to re-voting that draft Law 6405 was discussed in a simplified procedure. Please vote, please support. [[13:44:56]] For-136 Colleagues, we have a problem in this room, I'm telling you frankly, we're just about to break an important banking law. Two factions require us to move 8226 and then continue banking. Colleagues, I'm going to put this situation on the table. I'm afraid we're going to be overstepping banking laws. Committee head Dovbenko, come to me, please come to me. So the committee agreed not to put the important banking laws at risk, now to transpose 8226, and the banking laws after lunch. But you tell me, under this condition, you will uphold banking laws, under this condition? I'm talking to you, will you support the banking laws if we move now? You support, so well, it's an arrangement in the hall, but I'll still put it on the court's mind. Who wants us to move and consider before lunch the draft law you spoke about, 8226? He's standing in two. Who wants us to move it and consider it now, please vote. Please support me, vote on who we're looking at right now. Please vote and please support, vote, please support. [[13:46:57]] For-174 Not everyone's getting their bearings. I'll do it again. So I'm going to put the vote again, if there are no votes, we're going to go to the next law. I'm re-voting the proposal to transfer 8226 so that we can consolidate the votes under banking law. Whoever supports this vote, please vote. Anyone supporting the transfer, please vote. [[13:47:53]] For-195 195. We didn't, colleagues. And that's why we are. I'm going to re-establish the next Law of Credit Associations, I'm asking for a shorter procedure, support, colleagues. support, because 8226. Listen to me carefully, colleagues, he stands. He's standing by three laws. If we go in full, we're going to get to it too late, keep the credit lines short, it's wise. Keep the abbreviated. So please support the 6,405 reduced procedure. Please vote, please support. Vote. Please support the abbreviated. [[13:48:42]] For 190 190-yes. Decision taken. I'd like to invite you to the report, please, Dr. Mikhail Volodymirovich. Is the fish going to report? Please, Mr. Fish. And I'd like everyone to be in position, colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-17-m0.u155	Dear colleagues! Of course, all of us in this room want to have a strong, economically developed country. What is a strong, economically developed country? It's new jobs, it's an opportunity to make and open new businesses, make their own products. We need to get rid of the country of the raw material supplement. Yet one reason for a weak economy is that small and medium-sized businesses are underdeveloped. For example, the countries of the European Union and the Americas where we want to go so badly, and they are for us as an example, 60 percent is a small and medium-sized business, for example, we have 15. Small businesses have experienced crises similar to those of the banking sector. Banks are often not interested in lending small businesses. In the world, lending through mutuals is an effective institution. What's a union? They are people who are united and who can give small loans to buy either seeds or small loans. So we propose to vote in favour of this bill, for an important bill on credit unions. They are already working in Ukraine, but just a year ago, we met with representatives of credit unions at a foreign exchange meeting in Lviv. They asked that we discuss and register the bill and take it to the hall. I very much ask you to support small and medium-sized businesses, to support farmers today. By the way, we've achieved that farmers can be the founders of these credit unions and give credits that are not interesting to banks today. The National Bank, the government, supports this bill. I propose to vote on it in the first reading. Then, on the committee basis, create a working group to make this bill more perfect. Thank you for your attention. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-17-m0.u156	Thank you. So now it's from the committee, Dupenko. Please, just for a little while.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-17-m0.u157	Dear colleagues, I am convinced that in this room, just before lunch, we voted in favour of all the constructive bills, and after lunch we will vote in favour of all the constructive bills, including the ones that. Because I'm the co-author there, so are we. Now, what I want to say is that another constructive bill is 6405, which we are now looking at, which Mr. Fishing reported. I want to say that over the last two months, thousands of appeals have been received from Ukrainian citizens, credit unions, public organizations, farmers who are asking for this bill. We've been looking at him in our profile committee for a long time. Our committee supports him. I'm glad there's the unanimity of our fellow national MPs. What I'm saying is that today there are circumstances that have affected the banking crisis really far too seriously the entire area of lending. And so it turns out that in some areas, we don't have any credit from a banking institution, and only the credit unions are providing consumer credit, farms, religious communities to support us, including very important areas that need support today, namely housing. repair jobs for people's homes. And I think today's bill allows us to solve these issues. What I'm saying is that we have the support of the Cabinet of Ministers and the National Bank, who are proposing to support this bill. The main scientific and expert management notes that it is appropriate to work on it, taking into account the comments and suggestions. We realize that we have good reason to take these comments into account before we read the second reading. That's why I'm asking for a bill, colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-17-m0.u158	Thank you. We have limited time, so let's give it a little bit of time. Please, two for, two for, no, make an entry. It's a good thing there aren't many written down. Please, Alexandra Kugel. From Fatherland, Alexander Kugel.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-17-m0.u159	Crime is when laws are passed without understanding regulatory policy. Regulatory policy predicts how much disadvantages or disadvantages there are for the state, for business and for consumers. You passed a law on banks, which is 100 percent negative for the consumer and the business. Because when Rozkova and Hontareva destroyed the banks, they destroyed all the entrepreneurs who invested there and didn't return the money. And the credits of the individuals to these banks that they destroyed, they sold through the Guarantee Fund for -- listen! – one percent of the value to collectors. Now the second bill is for credit unions. Please tell me, should the State be responsible for issuing licences to credit associations? She should. Because she betrayed them, people trusted them, and they went with the money. During the period of Mr. Suslov, who was then in charge of controlling credit unions, they destroyed the entire system of credit unions. What's in this bill? Nothing! You write, Mr. Fisherman, that this will be guaranteed by the Credit Association Guarantee Fund. Your Honor, you continue to write, "at the adoption of the bill." And the bill is not yet in the draft and there is no mandate for the Cabinet of Ministers. And this distraction, this is an obligation that is not guaranteed. But there are fundamental questions. For example, the main issues regarding deposit are not settled. The project does not contain provisions for the protection of the rights of consumers of credit unions, nor does it detail the responsibility for violating the requirements of the law. There is no obligation to repay a loan if I decide to withdraw from the credit union. There is no possibility of external audit. And besides.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-17-m0.u160	30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-17-m0.u161	Let's face it, this law stretches for the sake of one norm: that it is possible to create cooperative banks that are going to be new MMFs. Fatherland won't vote in favour of this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-17-m0.u162	Thank you. From Self-Help, Lavrick Oleg Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-17-m0.u163	Oleg Lavrick, Self Help Union. In this room, we've really adopted a lot of bills that involved restoring credit, restoring confidence in the banking sector. And let us now ask ourselves: Did they restore that trust? Oh, no. What are the real ways of the State to restore it? We have the largest bank in Ukraine today -- the Savings Bank -- when it's in small villages, in rural areas, it's closing down its offices for one reason -- for profit. How should people live in those villages without any access to financial services at all? We have been in this room for several years making decisions about the state's position on the land market. And how can we talk about the land market when we don't have a middle class formed in the country? Who can redeem that land — once again the great oligarchs who will come there, or the poor peasants who do not have enough to spend? The restoration of credit cooperation, the enlightenment in the countryside through credit cooperation, through credit unions -- this is today the task of the state. No laws of trust will lead to another, not the end result, but the self - organization of people. So today I urge the Hall to support the Credit Associations Act, to vote, and to settle all the issues that are still debated in the second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-17-m0.u164	Thank you. So, colleagues, now there's going to be two more speeches: from the Radical Party, the Fisherman, then the final from the Peter Poshenko Block, Demczak. In four minutes, we're going to vote. I continue to work until this law is completed for 15 minutes. And I'm asking very nicely, because we're just going to lose the voices in the hall. Please, Fish, 1 minute. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-17-m0.u165	I'd like to answer to an honorary colleague from the Fatherland faction. First. I'd like very much, yes, I'd like the Fatherland representatives to really be on the financial-banking committee and work. Because saying "Baby Yaga vs." and not offering anything, it didn't design it. Because I think it's necessary for the Fatherland to take part in this, in these bills. That's the first one. And secondly, you go to a small, medium-sized business, tell the owners that you don't need to borrow small and medium-sized business today, and they can't buy seeds in the season. So go and tell us how we heard this at a meeting in Lviv. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-17-m0.u166	Thank you. Replica, Alexander Kugel. The "fatherland" was named, the faction was named.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-17-m0.u167	I want to answer our position from the Fatherland faction. First of all, we've been doing credit unions since 2009, when there was a crisis and all the credit unions were destroyed. And that's when people come to us. We're going to the government, to Mr.Cubby. And no one in the government wants to stand up for the government's responsibility to credit card companies. Does this law meet the needs of people? No, it's not. It is common. Nothing will change from his acceptance. He doesn't decide anything. In the second reading, it is impossible to correct it because it has an incorrect concept.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-17-m0.u168	So, colleagues, the closing statement. In a minute, we're going to vote. I ask the heads of factions, invite the deputies to the hall. I ask the Secretary of the Supreme Council to inform all the deputies who are in the towers to enter the hall and take up jobs. One minute, Demczak, and we'll go to the vote. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-17-m0.u169	Dear colleagues, the law is given neither to Gontareve nor to Rozkov, nor to banks. I'm asking you to support the babies, the credit unions. That's exactly what Bill 6405 is about. On the basis of our committee, we gathered more than one working group, including a round table in Lviv, and we studied the practice of working. This bill, it's designed to supportUSAID. And we've also used Poland's practical experience on this issue. So this law, in fact, puts the activities of credit companies into new modern conditions and proposes to define organizational, legal, economic principles for the operation of credit unions. In addition, changes are being made to a number of legislative acts that now hinder the development of credit. It allows the bill, apart from natural persons, to be part of credit unions to farmers, cooperatives, professional associations, and religious organizations that do.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-17-m0.u170	30 seconds, complete.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-17-m0.u171	which are located locally at the place where the credit union is located. And most importantly, attention, the ability of credit unions to join the Deposit Guarantee Fund. So taking all these rules into account, by adopting this law, we will bring the activity of credit unions and their ability to work to modern standards. Please support Bill 6405.
ParlaMint-UA_2018-05-17-m0.u172	Thank you. The discussion is over. Let's move on to making a decision. But, colleagues, I'm looking, there aren't enough deputies in the hall, so invite me to the hall, see who's not here. I just saw a few deputies come out of the hall. Return the deputies to the hall. So I'm voting on the draft Credit Associations Act (heading 6405) as a basis, just as a basis. We will be able to complete the law with the second reading of the law and the proposal. I urge everyone to support and vote. So we vote, we support 6405 as a base. Vote. [[14:03:04]] For-198 198. I'll be back. But please show the factions. "Block of Peter Poshenko" – 77, "National Front" – 47, "Resistance Block" – 12, "self-help" – 20, Radical Party – 15, "Fatherhood" – 0, "will of the people" – 3, "Resurrection" – 4. Almost everyone supports factions. Get out of here, fellows! Take your jobs, now I'll make an offer to come back. It'll be unfair if we don't uphold this law. Please, I'll give you 30 seconds. Please inform the secretariat once again that the deputies will enter the hall and take up jobs. Please don't leave the hall. Okay. I'll make an offer to go back to the law. So I'm voting on the proposal to go back to the proposal and the committee's conclusion on the draft Credit Associations Act (6405). And I'm asking everyone to prepare for the vote, and I'm asking everyone to support this proposal. Please vote and please support. Vote. Please be supportive. [[14:04:52]] For 202 I'll do it again, colleagues. We need to mobilize, even if we can get to the committee. Don't leave the hall. I'm telling you again. I repeat my offer to return to consideration. Please vote, please support. Please vote return to consideration. Please support the 6,405 return to review. [[14:05:24]] For 201 Next thing you know, a committee to work on. Colleagues, stay put so we don't lose the bill as a whole. I'm asking everyone to support the proposal to the committee for further work. I think this proposal can be supported by everyone. Colleagues, support this proposal: the committee for further work is a compromise proposal. I'm asking you to support the proposal of the draft Credit Associations Act (6405) to the Committee on Reprocessing, please vote, please support. Vote. Please be supportive. [[14:06:12]] For 201 Final proposal: the subject of the legislative initiative for pre-processing. So I am voting on a final proposal: the subject of a legislative initiative for further work. Please vote. Please be supportive. [[14:06:43]] For 203 The decision is not supported. Draft Law 6405 has been rejected. Colleagues, the time for the morning meeting is over. After lunch, we'll move on to the next draft of the financial block law -- 6027. So I'm asking everyone to come to the hall at 4:00. And now the morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is closed.
